GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
Madagascar
Second Environment Program
Project Document
November 1996
THEWORLDBANK                i



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of internationai waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Goordination Division
Environment Department
Wortd Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 16133-MAG
Madagascar
Second Environment Program
Project Document
November 1996
Envimnment Group and
Cdg8 Central Afr 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                          Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$ 1.00                                               FMG 4,200
SDR I                                                  US$ 1.45851
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
MALAGASY FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AGIR         Appui a la Gestion de l'environnement A travers des Instruments Regionalises et
l'approche locale (Regional and Local Environment Management Support
Component)
ANAE         Association Nationale d'Actions Environnementales (National Association for
Environmental Actions)
ANGAP        Association Nationale pour  la Gestion des Aires Protegees (National
Association for the Management of Protected Areas)
APPP         Annual Participatory Programming Process
CAPE         Composante Aires Protegees et Ecotourisme
CFSIGE       Centre de Formation pour les Sciences de l'Information Geographique et
Environnementale (Environment Information Training Center)
COS          Comite d'Orientation et de Suivi (Steering Committee of the Environment
Program)
DD           Direction des Domaines (Land Titling Directorate)
DEF          Direction des Eaux et Forets (Water and Forests Directorate)
EPI, EP2, EP3 Environment Program Phase 1, Phase 2, Phase 3
ESFUM        Eco-Systemes Forestiers A Usage Multiple (Multiple-Use Forest Ecosystems)
FORAGE       Fonds Regional d'Appui a la Gestion de l'Environnement (Regional Fund for
Environment Management)
FTM          National Geographic Institute
GEF          Global Environment Facility
ICDP         Integrated Conservation and Development Project
IFAD         International Fund for Agriculture Development
NTFP         Non-Timber Forestry Products
ONE          Office National de l'Environnement (National Environment Office)
PPDOP        Participatory Process for the Definition of Options and Priorities
PRIF         Pre-Investment Financing
RPC          Regional Programming Committee
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WWF          World Wide Fund for Nature
Vice President:     Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director:   Mr. Michael Sarris
Technical Manager:   Ms. Cynthia Cook
Task Team Leader:    Mr. Michel Simeon



MADAGASCAR SECOND ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
PROGRAM SUMMARY
PART I: PROJECT SUMMARY
I. INTRODUCTION - THE PROGRAM APPROACH                                         1
II. BACKGROUND                                                                 2
A. Economic and Social Background                                              2
B. The Environment                                                             2
C. Agricultural Strategy and Related IDA- and IFAD-Funded Operations           4
III. THE FIRST ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM                                             5
A. Objectives                                                                  5
B. Components                                                                  5
C. Lessons                                                                     6
(1) Environmental management strategy                                      8
(2) Institutions                                                           9
(3) Program scope                                                          9
(4) Sustainability                                                         9
(5) Community involvement                                                 10
IV. THE SECOND ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM                                            10
A. Concept, Rationale and Objectives                                          10
B. Status of Program preparation                                              15
C. Summary description                                                        16
D. Detailed description                                                       17
E. Cost estimates                                                             23
F. Financing                                                                  24
G. Procurement                                                                25
H. Disbursement                                                               27
V. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION                                                     29
A. Organization and management                                                29
B. The Annual Participatory Programming Process                               30
C. Monitoring, evaluation and beneficiary assessment                          32
D. Procurement and Disbursement Procedures                                    32



E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements                              33
F. Supervision of program implementation                                        34
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                           35
A. Overall justification                                                        35
B. Cost-benefit analysis                                                        35
C. Financial sustainability and cost recovery                                   37
D. Environmental sustainability                                                  39
E. Risks                                                                        39
VII. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                  40
A. Assurances obtained at negotiations                                           40
B. Conditions of Board Presentation                                              41
C. Conditions of effectiveness                                                   41
E. Conditions of disbursement                                                    41
F. Recommendation                                                                41
PART II: TECHNICAL ANNEXES
1.    Lessons from the First Environment Program
I bis  Participation and Consultation
2.    Composition of the multi-donor Program Appraisal team
3.    Cost Tables and financing plan
4.    Outline of Manual of Procedures for Environmental Management (coordination and
inter-institutional relationships)
5.    The Annual Financial Programming Process
6.    Terms-of-Reference for multi-donor supervision staff
7.    Monitoring and Evaluation
8.    Disbursement Schedule
9.    Economic analysis
10.   Documents in program files
11.   Letter of Environmental Management Policy
A. I   Protected Areas listed according to Priorities
A2    Protected Areas Qualifying for GEF Assistance (Listed According to Priorities)
A.3   Madagascar: Map of Protected Areas category classifications (A, B, & C)
A.4   Biographical Features of Protected Areas Qualifying for GEF Assistance
B.    Gazetted forests of biological significance
C.    Calculation of GEF Incremental Costs



MADAGASCAR SECOND ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
Program Summary
Executing Agencies        Ministry of Environment - National Environment Office
ANGAP (Parks management organization)
DEF (Water and Forests Directorate)
DD - Direction des Domaines (Land Titling Directorate)
ANAE (National Association for Environmental Actions)
FTM (National Geographic Institute)
CFSIGE (Environment Information Training Center)
Probable Cost:             US$155 million
Proposed IDAJITF Credit:    US$30 million - Standard IDA terms
IDA Lending Program:       FY 97 L
Proposed GEF grant:        US$ 20.8 million
GEF Focal Area             Biodiversity
GEF Country Eligibility    Convention ratified as of March 4, 1996
GEF Implementing Agencies UNDP, World Bank
GEF Preparation Costs:     PRIF US$ 0.5 million
Associated UNDP Projects   Spatial Approach to
Natural Resources Management - US$ 0.58 million
Marine Resources Management - US$ 1.5 million
Environmental Policy and Training - US$ 0.5 million
Proposed IFAD Credit       US$ 8.1 million
Government Financing       US$ 31.0 million
Financing Plan:            contributions agreed during negotiations: GEF, UNDP, IFAD,
USAID, Germany, France, European Union, WWF
to be firmed up with other donors: Switzerland, Norway, Japan
Program Appraisal Date:    November 1995 and April 1996 (multi-donor)
Appraisal Date (WB):       June 1996
Negotiations Date:         September 1996
Estimated Starting Date:   February 1997
Program Duration:          5 years
Environment Category:      C



- ii -
Program description         The credits and grant would help finance the cost of:
(i) improving the management of natural resources,
including soil, water, forest, coastal zones and biodiversity, and
start addressing urban problems;
(ii) implementing generic mechanisms at regional and
local level to support regionalization of programming and local
management of natural resources;
(iii) developing environmental management tools that
are  required in terms of drawing an inventory of natural
resources, creating effective monitoring systems to track their
evolution, formulating environmental strategies and policies,
and  undertaking  necessary  environmental  analysis  and
management.
Program cost and financing:   The cost of the programs estimated at US$ 155 million,
including US$ 13.7 million of contingencies and US$ 23.3
million of taxes. ITF would finance US$ 30 million, GEF is
expected to finance US$ 20.8 million (GEF financing would be
managed jointly by UNDP and the Bank), IFAD US$ 8.1 million
(managed by the Bank) and other donors US$ 65.1 million.
Government would finance about US$ 31.0 million (4.0 million
taxes, 7.7 million tax-exempt financing, and 19.3 million
through tax exemption against external grants).
Program benefits:           Long term sustainable growth of the country cannot be achieved
in the absence of proper management of its natural resources,
and the cost of inaction would be higher than the cost of the
program. The program would combine concrete actions which
have short term measurable benefits with long term
undertakings (e.g. policies, education) to ensure sustainability.
Direct beneficiaries would include communities affected by the
soil conservation schemes and the development activities of the
conservation projects (protected areas, forest management,
coastal management). Most beneficiaries would be within the
poorest segments of the population. Induced benefits would
come from the introduction of improved environmental impact
analysis and mitigation measures for public investment, as well
as from private investments in ecotourism facilities and services
that would be induced by the program. Models have been
developed that demonstrate that key activities can be
economically justified under a fairly wide range of initial
conditions.
Program sustainability      The long-term financial sustainability of protected areas would
be ensured by a combination of income from ecotourism with
the revenue from capital investment (e.g. through a trust fund or
foundation such as the one recently established in the country).



- iii -
Financial sustainability of forestry operations would come from
a decrease in the need for Government intervention together
with an improvement in recovery of stumpage fees and other
levies. In order to ensure long-term sustainability of ANAE
mini-projects and FORAGE, cost recovery would be
progressively introduced. The level of cost recovery would
depend on the importance of direct benefits versus externalities.
Fifty per cent of recovered funds would remain with ANAE, and
thus contribute to the financial viability of the institution. The
other fifty per cent would be managed at village community
level to finance expansion and/or maintenance of mini-project
investments.
Risks:                      Policy  risks.  There  is  a  strong  relationship  between
environmental degradation, population increase and economic
stagnation, including the decline of agriculture, so that the
impact of the environment program would be limited in the
absence of significant progress on the other fronts. In particular,
policies that discriminate against agriculture and tourism would
affect the program negatively. Such issues are being addressed
under the on-going structural adjustment dialogue. Institutional
risks are related to potential political instability that would affect
the institutional set-up. Other risks are related to weak
implementation capacity. ONE and other implementing agencies
are subjected to formal implementation capacity to help them
clarify their mandate, streamline their organizational structure
and procedures, assess their human resources and program their
training requirements. Finally, integrating Madagascar's present
governmental agencies into the regional approach to natural
resource management will be a challenge. Fortunately, the
ongoing decentralization process is fully compatible with this
objective.






PART I: Project Summary






MADAGASCAR SECOND ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
I.    INTRODUCTION - THE PROGRAM APPROACH
1.1.   Faced with the many severe environmental problems facing the country, the Government
prepared a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in 1988, with the support of a group of
donors, international agencies and NGOs, led by the Bank. The fifteen year program foresees
the first five-year phase aimed at creating a proper policy, regulatory and institutional
framework, a second phase aimed at the consolidation of the programs initiated under the first
phase, and a third phase that would achieve the mainstreaming of environment into
macroeconomic management and sector programs.
1.2.   The First Phase Program (EPI) is under implementation  and will end in December
1996. An analysis of achievements and lessons learned is presented in chapter III, and further
detailed in Annex 1. Program implementation is coordinated by ONE, the National Environment
Office, and by an annual meeting of a steering committee (COS: Comit6 d'Orientation et de
Suivi) composed of representatives of Government Agencies, NGOs, the civil society and
donors, but the EPI is made up of a number of separate projects. Efforts to manage the annual
budgetary process in a consolidated way are under way and a common monitoring system is
being put in place.
1.3.   At the time of the formulation of the NEAP and the EP I, the country did not have the
necessary institutional framework to deal with environmental issues and programs, and as a
result the work was developed with a large external input. In contrast, the Second Phase Program
(EP2) was prepared by national institutions, in a country-driven participatory process that has
developed since mid-1994 (see also Chapter IV - B), with interaction with donors taking place in
meetings of the COS and through multi-donor missions.
1.4.   Although the Environment cannot be considered a sector (it is rather a dimension of
problems that spans across all sectors), the Program described in this report is part of a new
generation of investment operations that follow an integrated sector approach, i.e. the SIPs
(Sector Investment Programs). This approach, which aims at improving the effectiveness of
public expenditures, has the following main characteristics:
= It covers all or most priority activities related to the environment
=g It is prepared by local stakeholders
=> It is supported by all donors active in the environment in Madagascar
z> It minimizes reliance on international long-term consultants
=> It involves common implementation arrangements



-2 -
II.    BACKGROUND
A. Economic and Social Background
2.1.   Madagascar's per capita income has plummeted by 40 per cent over the past two decades
and stands now at US$230. According to the 1996 Poverty Assessment, about 75 percent of
Madagascar's population now lives in poverty compared to 43 percent in the 1960s. Ninety per
cent of the poor live in rural areas. In other words, 68 per cent of the total population are poor
and live in rural areas The population's sense of impoverishment is accentuated by poor health
conditions and a decline in education standards.
2.2.   The recent years have been characterized by policy advances and reversals. Some
positive steps toward economic reform have been taken: floating the exchange rate, lowering
import tariffs, sharp price increases for energy, eliminating the commodity subsidies (which
were introduced in 1994), official abrogation of "parallel financing", passage of a new banking
law, and the appointment of expatriate administrators for the two state-owned banks, whose
operations were threatening to derail macroeconomic stability. In addition, the composition of
the public investment program has improved, and there have been significant sectoral
achievements, including: an improved rice harvest in 1994/95, suggesting a supply response to
price and exchange rate liberalization and stronger extension efforts; establishment of a private,
non-profit drug procurement unit; rational pricing policies in energy; and liberalization of the
petroleum sector. More recently, backwards steps were taken towards reactivating controls on
private sector activity and stalling liberalization. However, agreement has now been reached
with the IMF and IDA on a policy framework that opens the way to structural adjustement, thus
giving hope again that improvement will materialize.
2.3.   The Malagasy economy is natural resource based. Agriculture (including livestock,
fisheries and forests) determines the global economic performance and is itself affected by
national economic policies. The agricultural sector accounts for 31 per cent of GDP, provides
raw materials for more than half of the industrial and services sectors, and employs over 70 per
cent of the work force. Agricultural exports account for 60 per cent of foreign currency earnings.
Exports of agricultural products will be key in determining growth. Although the number of
foreign tourists is currently low (50,000 per year), tourism in general and ecotourism in
particular are expected to fuel growth. Gems represent another revenue-generating sector.
2.4.   In this context, the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for Madagascar aims at
helping the government promote private sector-export-led growth, attack poverty, improve
natural resource management, build local capacity, and improve project implementation.
B. The Environment
2.5.   Biodiversity Significance.  Madagascar has been called the single highest major
biodiversity conservation priority in the world owing to its combination of high diversity,
endemism, and degree of threat. Although Madagascar occupies only about 1.9% of the land
area of the African region, it has more orchids than the entire African mainland, and is home to
about 25% of all African plants. Overall, about 80% of Madagascar's plant species are endemic,
and for animals the proportion is usually even higher, the best example being the lemurs, close to
100% of which occur naturally only in Madagascar. In addition, 95% of the country's 265
reptiles and 99% of its 120 amphibians are endemic, and figures for other groups of organisms



are comparable. Higher-order endemism is also extremely high in Madagascar, making even
less diverse Malagasy taxa exceptionally valuable. For instance, although there are only eight
genera of endemic Malagasy fish, the genetic information in these species has been compared to
the entire very rich cichlid fish fauna of the African rift lakes. Madagascar has also recently
been selected as a critical site for marine conservation worldwide.
2.6.   Madagascar is known for its high degree of environmental degradation. According to
available information, almost eighty per cent of the country's original forest cover has
disappeared, or has been severely degraded. The area covered with primary natural forest has
declined from about 25 per cent of total surface in 1950 to 20 per cent in 1972 and less than 15
per cent today. Forest cover would disappear within 25 years if current trends continue. This
results in the loss of topsoil (up to 150-200 tons per hectare per year on bare land). Poverty and
the low level of agricultural technology (e.g. slash-and-bum agriculture) compounded by a rapid
population increase (over 12 million rising at 3 per cent a year) are the main causes of natural
resources degradation, including deforestation, vegetation fires, soil erosion and loss of fertility.
The threats of deforestation, bush fires, and extensive cropping of marginal lands are removing
the ground cover necessary to keep the highly erodible soils in place. Wilderness destruction is
eliminating viable habitat critical to innumerable plants and animals not yet known to science,
the same plants and animals which may hold the key to the discovery of a cure for some major
diseases and provide alternative sources of income such as fruits, nuts, honey and other
nontimber forest products. This degradation threatens not only biological diversity, but also
watershed and soil stability vital to the agrarian economy. Poverty continues to threaten the
sustainability of the natural resource base and rural poor need more options in order to utilize
available natural resources in a sustainable manner. Reversing the downward spiral of
environmental degradation would thus mostly benefit the poor, while maintaining exceptional
biodiversity.
2.7.   The negative impact of environmental degradation on the economy remains very high.
The economic cost of lower agricultural productivity due to soil loss and siltation, damaged
infrastructure, and the need to build new infrastructure to higher standards was estimated to
equal between 5 and 15 per cent of Madagascar's GNP annually in 1990. Furthermore, as
mentioned above, the country is losing largely endemic species and essential ecosystems of
environmental, genetic, and medical importance, thereby making Madagascar one of the world's
top priorities in terms of environment and conservation.
2.8.   Environmental Action Program. Aware of these problems, the Government prepared
a National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in 1988, with the support of a group of donors,
international agencies and NGOs, led by the Bank. The NEAP, together with the National
Environmental Policy and the Environmental Charter, clearly recognized the link between
environmental protection and economic development. The NEAP consisted of the following six
programs to be implemented over a period of 15 years:
(a) protecting and managing the national heritage of biodiversity, with a special
emphasis on parks, reserves and gazetted natural forests, in conjunction with the
sustainable development of their surrounding areas;
(b) improving the living conditions of the population. This would be done in rural areas
by improving the protection and management of natural resources. Particular
attention would be paid to watershed protection, reforestation, and agroforestry. In



- 4 -
urban areas, this would involve improving water supply and sanitation, waste
management and pollution control in general;
(c) promoting environmental education, training, and communication;
(d) developing mapping and remote sensing tools to meet the demand for natural
resources and land management;
(e) developing environmental research on terrestrial, coastal and marine ecosystems;
and
(f) establishing mechanisms for managing and monitoring the environment.
In 1990, the NEAP was given legal power by the adoption of the National Environment
Charter and the National Environmental Policy (Law 90-033, December 21, 1990).
C. Agricultural Strategy and Related IDA- and IFAD-Funded Operations
2.9.   The World Bank Agricultural Strategy for Madagascar released on February 23, 1994
aims at promoting market-oriented policies, improving agricultural services, improving the
management of natural resources, rehabilitating and expanding rural infrastructure, and
streamlining the sector's public expenditures.
2.10.  All the IDA-funded operations in the agricultural sector, and other operations in other
sectors, have logical and/or operational linkages with the environment. Malagasy and Bank staff
are currently developing these linkages.
2.11.  The Forests Management and Protection Project (Cr. I 878-MAG), deemed unsatisfactory
for too long, was closed one year early in 1995. However, the component consisting of three
large-scope contracts designed to reinforce DEF's capacity were carried out further under the
EPI. This offered the advantage for both the country and the Bank to integrate related
operations.
2.12.  EP I institutions such as ANAE and ANGAP have developed operational partnerships
with the National Extension Service operating under the Second Agricultural Services Program
(Cr.2729-MAG).
2.13.  ANAE, DD and DEF are also coordinating activities with the Rural Engineering Service
funded by the Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Cr.2644-MAG).
2.14.  ANAE uses the services and advice of the National Agricultural Research Institute
(FOFIFA) in helping peasants choose better seeds and agricultural techniques, and in drawing a
balance sheet of soil conservation efforts in Madagascar since 1950. FOFIFA is supported by
the National Agricultural Research Project (Cr.2042-MAG).
2.15.  Operators supported by ANGAP around protected areas and by ANAE in watersheds,
have established cooperation agreements with rural finance operators supported by ADMMEC
under the Rural Finance Pilot Project (Cr.2459-MAG).



2.16.  Although formal collaboration still hasn't been established with the Livestock Sector
Project (Cr.2433-MAG), there is a logical interaction that needs to be encouraged in the
improvement of pasture land and the reduction of bush fires.
2.17.  Finally, ONE and DEF have established links with the Second Energy Project, recently
approved, to promote the sustainable use of fuelwood and sustainable development of the energy
industry.
2.18.   IFAD-funded operations. Since 1979, IFAD has participated in financing six projects:
the Mangoky Agricultural Development Project (Loan No. 011 -MG), the Second Village Livestock
and Rural Development Project (Loan No. 091-MG), two successive projects in the Highlands
(Loans No. 119-MG and No.231-MG), the Midwest Development Support Project, (Loan No.286-
MG) and the Upper Mandrare Basin Development Project (Loans No.376-MG and SRS-045-MG).
The first three loans are closed and the other three scheduled to close in 1996, 1999 and 2001
respectively. The experience acquired shows the significant capacity that can be generated by
actively involving beneficiaries and their organizations in a contractual relationship with a project.
Experience also highlights the weakness of the institutions involved and the chronic lack of
counterpart funds. The design of the proposed program takes these lessons into account.
III.   THE FIRST ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
A. Objectives
3.1.   EPI had two main objectives: (i) to establish the foundations for environmental
management through institution building, studies, and human resource development; and (ii) to
develop operations of an urgent nature, namely: (a) protecting the heritage of biodiversity in the
parks, reserves and gazetted forests, in conjunction with the development of the surrounding
communities; and (b) fighting deforestation and erosion in priority watersheds where the
negative economic impact was the highest.
B. Components
3.2.   EPI consists of six components, all partly funded by IDA: (i) protecting and managing
biodiversity at the level of fifty Protected Areas and a number of gazetted forests; (ii) developing
community-based soil conservation and watershed management mini-projects; (iii) developing
land management tools through mapping and remote sensing; (iv) improving land security
through cadastral operations; (v) promoting environmental sensitization, education and training,
and developing environmental policies and procedures; and (vi) developing a support program
including institution building, reinforcement of the environmental data base, marine and
environmental research, monitoring and evaluation.
3.3.   Program implementation has been to a large extent through local and international
NGOs. Despite the fact that progress on many components has been slower than anticipated
initially, most of the project's objectives are being met. Some 42,000 families are benefiting
from over 1,100 mini-projects for soil conservation work by ANAE (Association Nationale
d'Actions Environnementales); twenty one national parks and other protected areas are being
established and managed to the extent that ANGAP's (Association Nationale pour la Gestion
des Aires Protegees) current funding allows; with nearly 840,000 ha surveyed, land titling has



- 6 -
begun to have an impact in and around protected areas; FTM (National Geographic Institute) has
significantly improved its mapping capacity and produced aerials photographs and other
geographic instruments over 80,000 km2 of protected and surrounding areas, and ONE (National
Environment Office) has developed activities in promotion, video production, training, policy
formulation and regulatory framework improvement. New legislation has been established
allowing the creation of Foundations and Trust Funds, and a National Environment Foundation
(Tany Meva) has been established. A new forest policy has been formulated and is being
translated into new legislation, providing for decentralization of forest management and
rationalization of management plans and logging permits, and the reactivation of the existing
National Forestry Fund. New legislation is also providing for the possibility of giving
responsibility for natural resource management to local communities, under a negotiated
contractual arrangements that will spell out the management system and the distribution of
revenues.
3.4.   A  Forests Management and Protection  Project (Credit 1 878-MAG) was also
implemented to: (i) help the FANALAMANGA parastatal develop the Mangoro industrial
plantation to a production level which would allow profitable exploitation. This component
represented the third phase of the Bank's involvement in the forestry sector in Madagascar; and
(ii) assist DEF (the Waters and Forests Directorate) in programming, forest exploitation control,
assistance to villagers for reforestation, and expansion and protection of natural reserves. The
implementation of the FANALAMANGA component was satisfactory during the Project but the
timber sales levels were insufficient to compensate for the poor results recorded during the first
two phases and the ERR calculated was close to zero. DEF, for its part, experienced great
difficulty in implementing the project, because of both management and technical deficiencies,
and lack of a sector strategy. The situation improved significantly since the Project's mid-term
review in 1992 with the reformulation of the Project focusing on forest inventory, the
formulation of a new human resource policy and a new forestry policy. All activities initiated by
the mid-term review and some new ones (the creation of new protected areas and the
management of natural gazetted forests) were transferred in 1994 to the umbrella of the
Environment Project, and  are currently  proceeding  satisfactorily.   The  support to
FANALAMANGA was terminated with the end of Credit 1878-MAG. Because of the time it
took to carry out the consultation process to produce new forestry policies, forest management
activities have been limited to a pilot scale, and thus had a limited impact in changing farmers'
practices.
C. Lessons
3.5.   Fulfillment of the program's objectives is generally satisfactory, although it varies from
one component to another. After four years, the first phase of the Environment Program (EP I),
can be evaluated according to the criteria presented in Box 1. A detailed discussion of how the
EPI has fared on each of these criteria is presented in Annex I



Box 1 - Lessons of EP1 at a Glance
Criteria                  Strengths                       Weaknesses
Capacity         *Groundwork for program approach     * Policies formulated without
Building and     * Spatial and regional approach adopted   enough capacity to implement
Policy           *3 institutions created              * EP I slow to reach cruising
Framework        +3 institutions reinforced           speed
*Creation of environmental units in  * Institutional feud
sectoral Ministries                 * Overlapping responsibilities
*Environmentally sustainable sectoral    *No arbitration mechanisms
policies
*New forestry policy, Forest Code bill
* Local management of renewable
natural resources Law bill
*MECIE Decree
*Evaluation of the land tenure policy
and cadastral system forthcoming
Link between     * 1,000 demand-driven miniprojects   * Limited scope and resources
Conservation     * Management in 21 protected areas   of miniprojects
and Development  *Creation of 5 new protected areas   *Too little done in too many
underway                            areas
*Land titling pilot operations around 4    *Inadequate synergy with
protected areas                     other development operations
*Natural forest management in 4 forests  (reforms in tourism, agriculture,
industry)
*Sensitization slow and
underfunded
*Belated evaluation of
cadastral work
Sustainability   * Evidence of significant field impact for  * Costly ICDPs
ANAE and ANGAP (monetary benefits   *Economic analysis only
and adoption rates)                 nascent
*Increased public awareness         *Education, sensitization,
* Community-based movements         training underfunded
* GEF mobilized for biodiversity
* Tany Meva Foundation established
*Ownership in EP2 design
Participation and  *Beneficiary assessment            *Most participative ICDPs also
Decentralization   *Participative forest policy formulation   slower to produce hard data,
*Workshop on Participation in ICDPs    donors' impatience
* Symposium on Human Occupation in
Protected Areas, Mahajanga Declaration
*Antsirabe Symposium on local
management of resources
_3 regional priority-setting workshops
Implementation    *Computerized financial management    * Monitoring and evaluation
operational                         system ineffective
*Computerized project management    *Cumbersome procurement
introduced                          and administration



- 8 -
3.6.   Main strengths include the effective development of institutions and partnerships, high
visibility and a substantial demonstration effect, both domestically and internationally, and
effective field results (see above). Weaknesses were a slow and uneven take-off, insufficient
program integration, consolidated monitoring not yet operational, and an as yet insufficient role
given to environmental concerns when formulating policies that require hard choices, whether at
the national or local level. The most important lessons which can be drawn from the first phase
of the Environment Program, including the results of beneficiary assessment and other
participatory processes that were carried out as part of EP2 formulation, concern the importance
of impact evaluation, the overall environmental strategy, institutions, program scope and
sustainability, and the importance of community involvement:
3.7.   Impact evaluation. There has been no effort thus far at evaluating the impact of the
policy framework on the environment-such as taxation of agricultural exports, the composition
of public spending, or the investment regime. At the level of the operations, inadequate attention
has been given to evaluating costs and benefits associated with environmental protection
activities. For example, it is only very recently that ANAE started collecting the biophysical
data necessary for evaluating on-site benefits associated with the introduction of more
environment-friendly agricultural practices. However, systems to collect and evaluate data for
estimating off-site benefits are yet to be developed. Similarly, not enough analysis has been
carried out to evaluate benefits from proper exploitation of non-timber forestry products (e.g.
medicinal plants, screening of plants for genetic engineering purpose), as well as the potential
impact of ecotourism development. Developing this knowledge is critical not only to orient and
prioritize environmental initiatives, but also to help formulate policies and examine the extent to
which farmers should be subsidized to shift towards more environment-friendly agricultural
practices.
(1) Environmental management strategy
3.8.   Depletion of Madagascar's natural resource base can be reduced by changing the
enabling policies, institutions, incentives, and other conditions so that resource users have the
authority to manage their own resources, and the responsibility and incentives to do so in a
sustainable manner. Environmental outcomes are the by-product of land use management and
production decisions. In the absence of a land management and agricultural production policy,
there is no viable resource conservation policy, because the method by which people manage
land and production options determines their use of the forest. In particular, the realization that
biodiversity cannot be isolated from other environmental concerns has led to the development of
a regional/local approach to biodiversity conservation under EP2 that would be complemented
by agricultural and other income generating activities that also aim at improving the
management of natural resources at the local level. Therefore, the environmental strategy needs
to increase the emphasis on rural development and smallholder land management on farmland
and open access lands, especially in the areas where population pressure is the greatest, which
are often far from the protected forests and parks. This approach would be implemented within a
context which fosters better integration and sectoral links with the ongoing decentralization
process, rural development efforts and regional growth pole activities with a spatial definition
beyond the narrowly defined peripheral zones of the protected areas. The design of the program
takes into account the outcome of all this work. The EP2 would complement the activities
undertaken under several agricultural programs (extension, research, irrigation, livestock) that
are also aimed at improving the management of natural resources at the farm level; more
generally, it would be a key part of a global development strategy that combines macro-



-9-
economic stabilization, structural reform and the promotion of private sector investment and
export-led growth.
(2) Institutions
3.9.   The first phase of the environment program involved the establishment of several new
institutions. Building capacity within these new institutions has taken time - even more time
than initially anticipated - and has absorbed much of the efforts of this program. Although the
impact of this work is difficult to measure, it is clear that key results have been achieved: ONE
(National Environment Office) is well established in its role as both a coordinating and policy
formulation agency; ANGAP and ANAE have developed a clear vision of their mission and their
business is growing. Now that the various agencies have reached their cruising speed, clarifying
their roles and mandates vis-a-vis other Central Government agencies is essential; this has been
spelled out in detail in a recently produced Manual of Inter-institutional Relationships (the
outline of the manual is presented in annex 4).
(3) Program scope
3.10.  One central idea behind the design of the first Environment Program was to integrate all
activities which support the environment into a single program - particularly those activities
concerning biodiversity conservation, soil conservation and policy development.    This
integration helped foster priority-setting on a national scale and coordination of donor funding,
as well as creating synergy between closely linked programs (e.g. improved land security as a
means to improve soil, water and biodiversity conservation). However, another result of
integrating all of these issues into the EPI was the creation of an operation that was relatively
complex for new institutions to manage. In the second phase, the rationale for maintaining such
an integration is still the same. In addition, there are further environmental concerns which the
Malagasy would like to address (e.g. improvement of marine and coastal environment, and
improvement of environmental policies and standards in urban areas), as a follow-up to research
and policy formulation under EPI. It will be essential to keep improving the existing
management mechanisms in order to maintain the Environment Program within the limits of the
Government's ability to implement it. As sectoral programs increasingly take the environment
into account, another challenge will be to determine which are the environment-related activities
that would be better carried out within the context of sector programs and thus be left out of the
Second Phase Program (EP2).
(4) Sustainability
3.11.  Inadequate attention has been paid to the financial sustainability of the country's
environmental efforts. At present, about 90 percent of the costs of environmental management
are financed by foreign development agencies. More specifically, the long term financial
sustainability of some of the activities initiated under the EPI is not clear. This is particularly
true for the Integrated Conservation and Development Projects, which have been started in some
of the Protected Areas. Under its current economic situation, Madagascar cannot afford to
protect its biodiversity patrimony alone. The expected global benefits lead to necessary cost-
sharing with the international community, hence the opportunity to use GEF resources.



- 10-
(5) Community involvement
3.12.  Another very clear lesson learned in the course of the first phase, is the importance of
working with the communities affected in the preparation and implementation of any activity.
There has been insufficient recognition that environmental outcomes are the result of farmers'
land use management and production decisions and that they hold the future of Madagascar's
environment. Working with communities is the key. The ownership created when communities
are involved increases the pace of implementation, the positive impact on the environment and
the sustainability of this impact. This is now widely recognized in the country, and it is
anticipated that all future programs will rely heavily on local participation, including beneficiary
assessment.
IV. THE SECOND ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
A. Concept, Rationale and Objectives
4.1.   The Roots of Madagascar's Environmental Problems. At the root of Madagascar's
environmental problems is the economy's failure to take off. Since Independence in 1960,
misguided development policies have led per-capita GDP to decline by about half, the incidence
of poverty to double, and most socio-economic indicators to decline. Madagascar is one of the
few countries in the world where children will be less well educated than their parents. This
situation is all the more tragic that Madagascar shares many of the characteristics of neighboring
Mauritius or more distant Indonesia where effective development policies have been so
successful at dramatically reducing poverty in less than a generation. Following the country's
peaceful transition to a democratic regime in the early 1990s, there were great expectations that
the country would adopt more growth-oriented economic policies and start reversing several
decades of economic decline. This breakthrough has not yet materialized and the conditions
necessary to stop poverty from spreading have yet to be established. Therefore, the vast majority
(seventy-percent) of Madagascar's population (growing at over 3 percent per year) will continue
to depend for its livelihood on low-productivity extensive subsistence agriculture-the main and
most severe source of environmental degradation.
4.2.   Root Causes of Biodiversity Loss. The GEF PRIF process clarified both the immediate
and the root causes of terrestrial biodiversity loss in Madagascar which are essentially the same
as those driving the overall spiral of environmental degradation. Expanding human populations
using inappropriate agricultural technologies, including slash and burn, with little security of
land tenure and few opportunities besides subsistence agriculture, are overexploiting existing
agricultural and marginal lands and directly encroaching on forest areas in search of new land.
Contributing to this is a breakdown in traditional regulatory mechanisms caused by increasing
human migration within the country. These effects are further compounded by poorly regulated
commercial exploitation of forests for timber due to weaknesses in central policies and
institutions, and a failure to invoke the cooperation of all stakeholders, particularly those at local
and regional levels. While existing protected areas are continually threatened by inadequate
management, the major part of the country's biodiversity still lies outside statutory protected
areas. Hence biodiversity loss is a direct consequence of forest loss. While coastal and marine
sedimentation resulting from soil erosion is widespread, the impact of this on marine biodiversity
is unknown. Currently the distribution, importance, status and threats to marine biodiversity as a
whole are little known and understood.



- 11 -
4.3.   The objectives of the program are to reverse current environmental degradation trends
and to promote sustainable use of natural resources, including soil, water, forest cover and
biodiversity. Another key objective is to create the conditions for environmental considerations
to become an integral part of macroeconomic and sectoral management of the country. The
program would be the second phase of implementation of the NEAP. It would continue and
strengthen activities already launched under the first phase and initiate work in new areas where
environment problems are important, as described below. The global environment objective of
the GEF support to the Program is to curb the loss of globally significant biodiversity by slowing
current environmental degradation trends, promoting the sustainable use of natural resources,
and creating the conditions for environmental considerations to become an integral part of
macroeconomic and sectoral management of the country.
4.4.   The environmental program proposed in this document has to be understood as one that
will endow the country with the capacity to manage its environmental resources more effectively
and reduce the rate at which its natural resources are being depleted. It will not be able to stop
environmental degradation altogether or to reverse it. This can only be achieved through an
improvement in Madagascar's development performance. As in many other developing
countries, the ultimate battle for Madagascar's environment will depend upon the economy's
ability to intensify the use of land and develop non-agricultural sources of incomes.
4.5.   The overall development hypothesis of the program is that depletion of Madagascar's
natural resource base can be reduced by changing the enabling policies, institutions, incentives,
and other conditions so that resource users have the authority to manage their own resources, and
the responsibility and incentives to do so in a sustainable manner. The parallel hypothesis is that
only through such an approach can the country's biodiversity and other natural resources be
protected, in the context of rural poverty, political volatility and uncertain economic growth.
4.6.   Resource sustainability requires changing behavior on the part of millions of Malagasy,
including the way people perceive and manage resources - incorporating long term objectives
into the short term calculus of resource users. It has been shown both here and elsewhere in
Africa that this is possible to do, but it requires focusing on those enabling conditions that affect
user behavior, and requires the flexibility to address the differences faced over the diversity of
economic practices and ecosystems found in Madagascar. The battle to protect Madagascar's
biodiversity will be won or lost on agricultural land away from the forest, because the battle in
which rural populations are engaged is about production and land use, not about the
environment.
4.7.   In this battle, environmental outcomes are the by-product of land use management and
production decisions. In the absence of a land management and agricultural production policy,
there is no viable resource conservation policy, because how people manage land and production
options determines what they do with the forest. Therefore, increased emphasis on rural
development is required. This also requires patience, coordination among partners and a
willingness to change as evolving circumstances merit. For that reason, the manner in which the
environment program is planned and implemented - which emphasizes the building of
sustainable institutional capacity among small businesses, local associations/NGOs and local
officials through partnership programs - is a key element of the overall hypothesis. The EAP
process itself becomes a key element of the success of the program.
Some assumptions related to the development hypothesis include:



- 12 -
=> There is a strong link between choices on natural resources use, and between
different stakeholders.
=> Getting enabling conditions in place will lead to improved natural resources
management (NRM) use, and reduced depletion of NR.
=> A key risk is whether that will in fact protect endemic species sufficiently, given
variables beyond the control of the efforts of donors and their partners, including
the threat of unintended internal migration?
=> Two parallel tracks are evident:
*  Putting in place national-level enabling conditions, with emphasis on
policies, analytic capability, financial sustainability, and economic growth
incentives.
*  Testing local/regional multi-resource partnership strategy with emphasis on
growth poles in target regions which is aimed at reducing pressure on
regional protected and environmental sensitive areas.
4.8.   Biodiversity Areas and Conservation Priorities. Madagascar possesses a network of
39 protected areas, with 5 more in the process of classification. These 44 protected areas,
covering a total area of around 1.4 million ha or 2.3% of the total land area, are divided into 9
national parks (5 existing ones and 4 under creation), 11 integral natural reserves and 23 special
reserves (some protected areas are made of two parts with different status), all of them terrestrial
(see Annex A and Map). The Government also intends to classify a small number of marine
areas into national parks.  In addition, around 15%  of the territory is still covered by
biodiversity-rich natural forests. To fully elaborate the conservation lessons learned in EPI, a
GEF PRIF financed a participatory process for the design of the biodiversity elements of the
Second Environment Program Support Project (EP2). The GEF preparatory activity involved
two stages. The first stage was a scientific priority-setting workshop followed by the second
stage, a participatory priority-setting process which integrated both scientific findings and local
stakeholder priorities. The scientific workshop followed a methodology established for the
Amazon and other key biodiversity areas. It assembled over one hundred of the foremost
authorities on the biodiversity of Madagascar. These specialists defined priority areas for eight
species groups and identified historical patterns of habitat loss and current human pressures.
Through a participatory process, the workshop elaborated an integrated set of geographic
priorities for biodiversity conservation and research. Through a so-called Participatory Process to
Define Options and Priorities (PPDOP) in natural resource conservation, this scientific output
was then taken to the stakeholder level to evaluate possible solutions, institutional needs, and
conservation approaches. The scientific priority-setting process found that over half of the
highest priority research and conservation areas lay outside of parks and reserves (see Annex B
on gazetted forests). The stakeholder consultations revealed the need to work with communities
to manage forests and to develop a more decentralized approach to solving environmental
problems.
4.9.   Anticipated Global Environmental Benefits. EP2, and particularly the GEF supported
components, will help conserve Nliad1ga.'car' S minique biological diversity. Madagascar has
higher numbers of endemic species, more higlher-order endemism and more genetic information
per unit area than perhaps anywhere on earth. This fact more than any other pushes Madagascar
to the top of the global conservation priority list. A hectare of forest lost in Madagascar has a
greater negative impact on global biodiversity than a hectare of forest lost virtually anywhere
else on the planet.



- 13 -
4.10.  GEF Operational Programs. Given the national scope of the EP2 and the range of
ecological conditions in the country, the GEF project covers all four groups of focal ecosystems
identified in the GEF Operational Strategy for Biodiversity. Due to the global biodiversity
importance and extent of forest ecosystems in Madagascar the GEF project has a particular
emphasis on these. Its second emphasis is on the relatively little known biodiversity of the
coastal and marine systems. The GEF project will also address the unique semi-arid ecosystems
of south-west Madagascar and, in that Madagascar's mountains are forest covered, Madagascar's
mountain ecosystems. The activities to be carried out under the GEF project cover the full range
of activities for both in-situ conservation and sustainable use that are suggested in the GEF
Operational Strategy including protected areas, land use and resource management regimes,
policy and institutional strengthening, stakeholder involvement, and inventory where the nature
of biodiversity is currently unknown.
4.11.  Specific GEF Project Objectives. The GEF funding will support a well-defined subset
of activities within the overall EP2. Specifically the GEF objective is to extend the EP2 program
to ensure that the root causes of the loss of globally important biodiversity are fully addressed.
To meet this objective, GEF will support activities which contribute clearly to reducing the loss,
and improving the sustainable use, of globally significant biodiversity, and which are beyond the
resources of Government and other donors. These will fall under the following categories: (i)
management of multiple-use forest ecosystems; (ii) management of protected areas including
ecotourism;  (iii) management of the coastal and marine environment;  (iv) regional
programming and local resource management;  (v) formulation and communication of
environmental policies, strategies and instruments; and (vi) biodiversity inventory and training
in biodiversity management.
4.12.  Environmental management strategy. Depletion of Madagascar's natural resource are
the by-product of land use management and production decisions. In particular, the realization
that biodiversity cannot be isolated from other environmental concerns has led to the
development of a regional/local approach to biodiversity and other natural resources
conservation under EP2 that would be complemented by agricultural and other income
generating activities that also aim at improving the management of natural resources at the local
level. Therefore, the environmental strategy needs to increase the emphasis on rural development
and smallholder land management on farmland and open access lands, especially in the areas
where population pressure is the greatest, which are often far from the protected forests and
parks, requiring strong sectoral links from the protected areas to the regional growth poles. This
approach would be implemented within a context which fosters better integration with the
ongoing decentralization process, rural development efforts and regional growth pole activities
with a spatial definition beyond the narrowly defined peripheral zones of the protected areas. The
design of the program takes into account the outcome of all this work. The EP2 would
complement the activities undertaken under several agricultural programs (extension, research,
irrigation, livestock) that also aim at improving the management of natural resources at farm
level; more generally, it would be a key part of a global development strategy that combines
macro-economic stabilization, structural reform and the promotion of private sector investment
and export-led growth.
4.13.  Beneficiaries and target group. The main beneficiaries of the programme would be
mostly households chronically food insecure, landless households, and stock-less households.
Particular attention would be paid to farm and non-farm households generating their livelihood
from local resources, which socio-economic studies have indicated are a rising percentage of the
local population (including landless households exploiting local labour markets and production



- 14 -
opportunities in non-agricultural activities -- including processing and trading). This particular
segment of the population has been fully identified and quantified under existing and ongoing
IFAD projects. It is understood, therefore, that the current project which does not lend itself to
traditional IFAD targeting would rely mostly on existing IFAD activities. These existing projects
would be mainstreamed into EP2 which has a national coverage and therefore aim at the same
population.
4.14.  Program design. The program was initially focused on sub-sector objectives, resulting
in a set of sixteen relatively independent "vertical" components. In parallel, a process of problem
analysis with a regional and local perspective was developed (PPDOP - see above), together with
work on the formulation of a number of key policies, namely decentralization and local
management of natural resources, as well as on the need for mechanisms to promote synergy -
both between EP2 activities and more generally with other development programs. The synthesis
of all these elements led to some restructuring of the initial proposals and to the introduction of
some new components at regional level, as well as to the formulation of detailed proposals for
the annual programming process. Significant adjustments to the scope of the program and to the
size of some components were introduced as a result: the scale of the watershed management and
of the forest management components was significantly reduced on the basis of less ambitious
targets; the scope and cost of the urban component and of the proposal on prevention of natural
catastrophes were cut down; most support activities were also scaled down; the marine
component was broadened up, and a Regional Fund was introduced. A key conclusion is that
biodiversity conservation is not a component, but cuts across all activities. Proposals for Bank
and GEF participation to the Program were defined during the process.
4.15. Gender issues. Men and women play a different role in the way people manage their
natural resource base. Although all the components of the EPI include activities that are
specifically benefiting women, the analysis carried out as part of appraisal indicates that a more
pro-active approach was warranted. A working group has been set up, that has identified four
areas of focus, and corresponding objectives and monitoring indicators are under development.
They are: (i) the importance of women in the staff of the various implementing agencies; (ii) the
need to carry out a specific analysis of the role of women when formulating many of the
activities of the Program (e.g. ANAE's mini-projects, forest management plans); (iii) the need to
promote active female participation to the formulation of all program activities and to improve
their access to education opportunities; and (iv) the need to actively promote the development of
women's organizations, both in rural and urban areas.
4.16. The IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Madagascar was discussed by the
Executive Directors on July 12, 1994. The Bank Group's overarching objectives in Madagascar
are to help the government promote private sector-export-led growth, attack poverty, improve
natural resource management, build local capacity and improve project implementation. The
proposed project is consistent with the country strategy and contributes to meeting most of the
foregoing objectives. The Bank has played a leading role since 1987 in the formulation and
implementation of the NEAP. Continued involvement is essential to sustain the Government's
commitment to difficult and critical changes in its public investment program, including by
promoting the transition from projects to programs, and to mobilize the support of other donors.
The Bank has also a key role to play in helping the country to mobilize GEF financing in relation
with the global nature of the benefits that are expected from improved biodiversity protection.
4.17.  The involvement of IFAD would help the program to capitalize upon experience gained
under IFAD-funded agricultural development projects, and contribute to strenghten a poverty-



- 15 -
focused, client-led approach to conservation into both the national policy and institutional
framework. Hence, IFAD participation comes as a suitable instrument for poverty alleviation and
improvement of the welfare of the rural poor. Finally, the programme's strong emphasis on
beneficiary participation in design as well as implementation is well in line with the Fund's basic
strategic approach in Madagascar. Poverty alleviation would be more effective if approached
within the broader context of a national integrated programrne aiming at long-term sustainable
growth through proper and effective management of natural resources, and the present program
constitutes an appropriate entry point for IFAD to move gradually away from area based projects
towards national programmes, in coordination with other donors mainly the World Bank.
4.18. Rationale For GEF Financing. Madagascar is without doubt one of the world's most
important biodiversity countries. Although not as species-rich as some other countries in the
Afro-tropical Realm, its exceptional levels of plant and animal endemism make Madagascar the
country with sole responsibility for safeguarding some of the world's most interesting
biodiversity. The discrepancy in Madagascar between threats to globally-significant biodiversity
and government capacity to address them is unparalleled. Six years of concerted government
and donor effort has made significant progress, but major support is still needed.  Full
implementation of these initiatives will only be possible with GEF funding.
4.19.  The GEF contribution to EP2 is eligible for GEF funding in line with all four operational
programs under the Operational Strategy for Biodiversity. In accordance with article 8 of the
Convention on Biological Diversity the GEF project will address in situ conservation through
support to protected areas and sustainable use across four major ecosystems: coastal, marine and
wetlands; forests; mountains; and arid and semi-arid lands. The GEF project is a national priority
as identified in the NEAP and conforms with COP guidance to support conservation and
sustainable use of ecosystems and habitats and endemic species. It will promote sustainability
through demonstration projects and innovative measures to strengthen local community
involvement and integrate conservation and sustainable use with regional development
programs. GEF funding is incremental and requested for only a small part of a holistic national
plan that will address a comprehensive Madagascar-wide program, supported by all major
donors, to protect the environment and promote sustainable development
4.20.  The GEF contribution to EP2 will lay the groundwork for new approaches addressing
root causes of biodiversity loss in the country. It will build integral components of biodiversity
conservation into revitalized forestry institutions and strengthen the administration of protected
areas. Finally and most importantly, it will build consideration of biodiversity into on-going
national programs aimed at decentralizing the management of natural resources. GEF inputs are
essential in overcoming the transaction costs of putting these new systems in place while
maintaining ongoing conservation efforts.
B. Status of Program preparation
4.21.  Participatory approach to Project Processing. The process of formulating the second
phase program is being carried out entirely by Malagasy agencies. The initial participatory
process, during the period June-December 1994, resulted in the preparation of an identification
report that was discussed at the December 94 meeting of the program's Steering Committee
(COS: Comite d'Orientation et de Suivi). Detailed preparation work was completed in November
1995, resulting in a report for each of the proposed sixteen components, plus a two volume



- 16-
synthesis. In addition, four other groups of reports were made available to the multi-donor
appraisal team, covering: (i) the outcome of the recently carried out Beneficiary Assessment of
all EPI activities; (ii) the results of the international scientific workshop on biodiversity; (iii) the
results of the Participatory Process (PPDOP); and (iv) the outcome of three regional priority
setting workshops carried out in November 95 in Toamasina, Antsiranana and Toliara. Finally, a
formalized institutional capacity analysis of ONE was carried out in March-April 1996, and
similar ones for ANGAP, ANAE and DEF are scheduled to take place before end- 1996.
4.22.  The appraisal process. A multi-donor pre-appraisal mission took place in June-July
1995, and full program appraisal took place end-November 1995, involving ten donors, four
international NGOs and all Malagasy agencies (mission composition is given in annex 2. The
team was structured in four groups, each one led by a different donor and two national
counterparts. The work was structured into thirty two tasks (components or specific themes), and
for each one a group of national and external experts has been assembled. Overall, some highly
motivated 150 people have been working full time for three weeks. Everybody acknowledged
that an exceptionally good team spirit developed during the process, which has allowed to reach
a consensus on the priorities, strategies, scope and content of the EP2. Two follow-up multi-
donor missions took place in March-April and June-July 1996, formal IDA appraisal being
carried out as part of the latter. Strong emphasis is being put on participatory preparation and
appraisal, integration of activities into one single program to ensure proper balance between
components, and compatibility with the country's overall PIP.
C. Summary description
4.23.  The program will essentially pursue, improve and expand the priority activities that were
initiated under EPI by incorporating the lessons learned and adding selected new components.
As stated in the Government Policy Statement presented in annex I 1, the program emphasizes
decentralization and local management of natural resources, particularly forests, as well as
mechanisms to promote synergy - both between EP2 activities and more generally with other
development programs. The program has three sets of components: field operations; strategic
activities; and support activities, as described in the diagram below.
4.24.  Implementation will be carried out by the various line agencies that were set-up during
the first phase. High level policy guidance will be entrusted to a National Environment Council,
under the Presidency of the Republic. Policy level coordination will be the responsibility of an
Interministerial Environment Committee. Operational level coordination will be carried out by
ONE. At field level, all activities would be managed with strong local participation.
4.25.  Total program cost is currently estimated at US$ 155 million (including taxes and
contingencies). Such a cost is comparable to the cost of EPI (US$ 150 million, most of it net of
taxes). The level of pledges made by the different donors is US$ 108.5 million, in addition to
US$ 15.5 already financed. Assuming that Government would finance about US$ 31 million (4
million taxes, 8 million net-of-tax financing, and 19 million through tax exemption against
external grants), the financing gap stands at US$ 5 million. It would be covered either by
additional financing expected from some donors (e.g. Japan, Norway) or by scaling down the
program. The country's commitment to such a large program would need formal confirmation, in
the form of a "program-law". The law would be presented to the Parliament during its Autumn
96 session.



- 17 -
EP2: Program structure
Field Operations                             Strategic
Forest   Protected    Soil &       Marine /           Activities
Manag.nt   Areas         Water      Coastal
Ecotourism  Manag.nt   Urban                  Strategies
Policies
Capacity building                        Instruments
Regional programming and local managemen                Environmental
Regional        Regional      Support to                 Impact
Support          Fu nd       Local Manag.             Assessment
Support activities
EP2 Multi-donor Appraisal Team
D. Detailed description
4.26.  The program is defined as three sets of components, corresponding respectively to field
operations, strategic activities and support activities, as follows:
-. Field Operations would fall under two categories:
1. Specialized Sub-sector Activities:
4.27.  Corresponding to about eighty per cent of program cost, these activities would be geared
towards improved management of natural resources, including soil, water, forest and
biodiversity, and would include:
*  Sustainable Soil and Water Management; US$ 43.5 million (ANAE: 30.5;
Ankarafantsika: 7.3, already financed; other watersheds: 5.7): Following the
model developed under the EPI, ANAE would continue its decentralization
process, expand its regional coverage and implement about 4,000 mini-
projects under EP2. ANAE would keep expanding its current role, acting
both as a funding and contracting channel responding to locally felt needs in
matters of soil conservation and erosion control and as a soil conservation
and rural development diagnostician. In addition to direct interventions
based on the current demand-driven approach, ANAE would also design and
develop the coordination linkages between the many villages concerned so
as to resolve watershed-wide issues. The focus would be on demand-driven,



- 18 -
low-cost and locally adapted intervention that can contribute to spontaneous
adoption of improved practices by other farmers (multiplier effect).
In addition, specific watershed management operations would be developed,
either in cases where major investments need to be protected
(Ankarafantsika and the Marovoay Plain; Mantasoa and Tsiazompaniry and
the Antananarivo Plain; Taheza and the Ambahinakoho dam; Lokoho and
the Andapa Plain) or on a small scale pilot basis (continuation of the work
undertaken with FAO support on four watersheds in the Antananarivo
Region).
No GEF funds will be allocated to this component. IFAD will contribute
US$7.1 million to the financing of ANAE's mini-projects.
Multiple-use Forest Ecosystem Management; US$ 29.9 million: New
forestry policies have been formulated under the EP I, through a
decentralized and highly participatory consultation process. The resulting
strategy is to give back responsibility to local communities for the
management of natural resources. Under EP2, a number of gazetted forests
and community forests would be put under sustainable management. The
process would include the following steps: (i) completion of the national
ecological forestry inventory, and reconnaissance survey in the various
regions in order to firm up the original list of forest blocks, as well as to
identify new protected areas (300,000 ha); (ii) completion of on-going pilot
forest management schemes (180,000 ha); (iii) participatory formulation of
management plans, involving neighboring communities and the Forest
Service (400,000 ha); and (iv) implementation phase, i.e. management of the
forest for multiple use, in accordance with the management plan (150,000 ha
under EP2, continuation under EP3). The total of 580,000 ha would
correspond to about 8% of the forest cover of the country of about 8 million
hectares, of which about four million hectares of gazetted forests. In order to
ease pressure on the natural forest, the program would also encourage
farmers and private enterprises to plant more trees, through land use
planning and technical advise. Implementing such a program would also
require reorganization as well as significant capacity building of the Forestry
Service.
In this framework, GEF funding of US$ 5 million will support the expansion
of current government programs to empower sustainable community
management of biodiversity rich forests outside the existing park and reserve
system. Specifically, GEF will contribute to: (i) System wide planning and
the identification and zoning of new protected areas, on the basis of the
results of on-going inventory work; this will help ensure the appropriate
definition of forest functions as either primarily production, watershed
protection, or biodiversity protection. This will be achieved through long-
term technical assistance in biology and land use planning and short-term
technical assistance in the identification of new protected areas. (ii)
Planning and implementation of sustainable community-based forestry
management schemes in regions of key biodiversity importance (Annex B).
(iii) Training offorest service staff and other human resources development,



- 19-
to meet the challenge of incorporating biodiversity concerns into community
forest management. Government human resources to work with
communities will be strengthened, based on a review of human resources
needs. And (iv) Development of sustainable use and harvesting regimes for
non timber forestry products, including ecotourism and marketing of NTFPs,
to give communities greater incentives to conserve standing forest.
* National Parks and Ecotourism (CAPE); US$ 43.1 million (including the
continuation of several ICDPs - Integrated Conservation and Development
Projects - already under implementation): In continuation of the work
already developed under EPI, the objectives during the EP2 would be to: (i)
complete the establishment of the network of protected areas (39 areas, 21 of
which are already well advanced under EPI), through survey work, proper
delimitation and legal action; (ii) provide infrastructure, equipment and staff
to ensure effective conservation; (iii) promote ecotourism development; (iv)
carry out applied conservation research programs in order to establish and
monitor proper ecological indicators; (v) promote environmental awareness
and strengthen environmental education. The network would be made of
eleven National Parks or Integral National Reserves, and twenty eight other
protected areas, for a total of 1.4 million hectares. The ICDP approach
would be progressively replaced by the generic regional support mechanisms
presented below. ANGAP would progressively take over direct management
of the network from ICDPs operators. This would require a change in the
formal mandate of ANGAP.
Under CAPE, GEF funding of US$ 7.8 million will support management
planning, equipment and operations at a number of parks and reserves which
harbor globally significant biodiversity and which would otherwise receive
no management because of resource scarcity and low ecotourism potential.
Other donors will support transfer of field management to ANGAP for all 11
level-A areas' and the establishment of management at 4 of the 19 level-B
and 5 of the 8 level-C reserves. GEF will support management plans for the
remaining 15 level-B areas and 3 of the 8 level-C areas (See Annex A),
through: (i) Management plans for 8 currently unmanaged or partially
managed protected areas. Model management plans will be prepared, based
on a review of existing management plans for areas under similar pressure;
(ii) Management Assistance. Equipment, infrastructure, human resources
development and technical support will be supplied for the implementation
of management plans in 19 protected areas; (iii) Operating and
Administrative Costs. (iv) Analytical work to support policy reform on
tourism taxation: the government currently has no policy on tourism
concessions that would allow concession revenues from tourism services
near protected areas to return for protected area operating costs (it has been
proposed that tourism services within a certain distance radius of a protected
Level-A areas have been selected because of their high ecotourism potential; level-B areas face high
pressures but have little ecotourism potential; level-C areas face lower short-termn pressures and have
little ecotourism potential, but are of equally high biodiversity significance.



- 20 -
area would be subject to concession fees which would return to the protected
area to help defray management costs).
*  Marine and Coastal Environment; US$ 6.6 million: work would proceed
in parallel at two levels: (i) national level: formulation of coastal zone
management policies, legal framework and master plan; and (ii) design and
implementation of management plans at local level, initially in the Nosy Be
and Toliara areas, and formulation of recommendations for a new generation
of marine parks in Madagascar. Defining long term institutional
arrangements would be one of the outcomes of this component. In the mean
time, the activities would be coordinated by a steering committee
(ECOMAR) and managed by a small unit within ONE.
GEF funding of US$ 2 million will support a field inventory of coral reef
ecosystems, concentrating on the rich reefs of the western and southern
coasts, the identification of critical sites, the establishment of local level
management at additional sites (the most threatened, highest diversity ones),
and the formulation of recommendations for a new generation of marine
parks in Madagascar.
*  Urban Environment;  (cost included in other components - no GEF
funding required): the urban environment activities included in the program
are presented here for clarity, but are actually included under other
components described below. The activities would include: (i) the
integration of environmental concerns into urban development policies,
including the updating of the Urban Code; this activity would be carried out
as part of the Strategic Activities component (Policies-Strategies-
Instruments); (ii) support to urban management activities by communities
and local Governments, included as part of the AGIR component. A Steering
Committee would be established to pilot urban-related activities; its
secretariat would be within ONE.
2. Regional Programming and Local Management (AGIR).
4.28.  Generic mechanisms at regional and local level would support regionalization of
programming and local management of natural resources, through the following three
components:
* Support to Local Natural Resource Management and Land Tenure
Security: US$ 6.9 million from non-GEF sources: the two objectives are (i)
to enable transfer of management rights on public land, on a voluntary basis,
from the state to village communities and to clarify the various land tenure
rights in these villages; and (ii) redefine land management policies for the
longer term. The first objective would be met by: (i) setting-up the
appropriate legal and regulatory framework; (ii) creating a body of
environmental mediators to facilitate the dialogue between state
representatives and villages; (iii) training environmental mediators; (iv)
building the capacity of the land-tenure administration (Direction des
Domaines); and (v) implementing the scheme at the level of 150-200
villages, by mobilizing operational teams which include a mediator,



- 21 -
technical specialists and surveyors. During the initial phase (two or three
years), ONE will directly manage the entire process. Beyond this initial
phase, the operational teams will be contracted directly by sub-sector
components in answer to villages request. To meet the second objective, the
country would carry out a comprehensive participatory process (at national
and decentralized levels) aiming at reassessing land use right policies and
developing consensus on the necessary evolution of public land management
(particularly in relation with decentralization). The expected outcome of this
last process would be a revised Land Law (Code foncier).
*  Support to Regional Programming and Spatial Analysis; US$ 4.3
million, of which US$ 3.0 million would be provided by GEF: six small
regional technical units would be established to provide support to EP2
Regional Programming Committees (RPCs), in the form of visiting experts
and full-time secretariat, for program management, for technical analytical
work (e.g. watershed management, ecological corridors, urban environment
problems) and for the formulation of local environmental strategies and sub-
projects for financing by the Regional Fund presented below. AGIR
essentially establishes a new mode of addressing the root causes of
biodiversity loss and other natural resources degradation in Madagascar,
which grew out of the participatory design of the program.
  Regional Fund for Environmental Management (FORAGE); US$ 3.3
million, with no GEF funding: such a fund would offer a mechanism to
finance environment management activities on a demand-driven basis; sub-
projects sponsored by local governments or private organizations would
have to fall within the priorities of the RPCs, and to match pre-defined
eligibility criteria. Some of the activities that were initially proposed as sub-
sector components (i.e. watershed management, urban environment) would
fall under the generic mechanism of the Fund. Given the novel nature of the
proposal, only limited financing has been allocated, further allocation would
be contingent on the outcome of the mid-term review of the program (i.e.
year 5 is not covered, although sub-projects prepared during year 3 could
still be funded in year 4).
II. Strategic Activities
4.29.  Strategic activities would require funding of US$ 4.2 million, of which US$ I million
from GEF, and would include the following:
=> Upgrading of the Legal Framework and Formulation of Environmental
Policies; including:
*  Upgrading the Legal and Regulatory Framework: inventory of existing
texts, harmonization and updating, drafting of an Environment Code.
*  Formulation of environmental policies, strategies and instruments:
along with the concerned ministries and agencies seven sectoral or
transversal environmental policies and strategies will have been formulated
during EPI: Mining, Energy, Industry, Tourism, Roads, Fishing, and



- 22 -
Aquaculture. During EP2 these policies would be finalized and five more
policies would be formulated: Urban, Macro-economy, Biodiversity and
Bioprospecting, Agriculture (e.g. use of agro-chemical inputs), and
Mitigation of Unexpected Disasters. Instruments for policy and strategy
implementation would also be developed. GEF will support the review of
opportunities for increasing financial returns to Madagascar through the
export and sale of NTFPs.
=> Assisting Sector Ministries in Implementing Policies and Making
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Operational: This component will
be handled by the existing PSI/MECIE division within ONE. In order to handle
the urban sector environmental issues, however, a specialized unit will be set up
within ONE in order to assist the concerned ministries and agencies for this
sector of special importance. For the twelve policies mentioned above, this
component will consist of the following activities:
*  Environment Procedures: completion of EIA regulations (by-laws for the
application of the MECIE decree); formulation of EIA norms as well as of
other norms and regulations; guidelines and procedures.
*  Implementation:  setting up of environmental units within the sector
ministries; inventory of enterprises requiring an environmental audit; staff
training; monitoring and evaluation of implementation.
MI. Support Activities
4.30.  Such activities would take the form of free-standing components only to the extent that
they cannot be incorporated into the main components listed above. This set would include five
components:
=> Research; US$ 2.5 million: a research committee including the main actors in
the sector would be set up. It would be responsible for (i) coordinating the
identification and priority setting of research proposals; and (ii) commissioning
research activities of common interest. A small unit would be established within
ONE (CAREE: Cellule d'Appui aux Recherches et aux Etudes
Environnementales) and would be responsible for (i) preparing the committee
meetings; (ii) ensuring operational coordination and monitoring of the various
operations; and (iii) ensuring proper dissemination of research results.
> Education-Training; US$ 2.0 million: improvement of environmental content
in general education (schools, universities) as well as in vocational training (pre-
employment and on-the-job) through teacher training and curricula upgrading;
national information campaigns. The CFSIGE (Centre de Formation aux
Sciences de l'Information Geographique et de l'Environnement) would be
responsible for the component. It would make sure that the various agencies
already involved in training during EPI such as WWF or ANGAP would
continue to strengthen local capacity in a coordinate way in using their
respective competitive advantage.



- 23 -
=> Geographic Instruments; US$ 1.2 million: capacity building of FTM, to
complement major investments that were made under the EP 1; and production of
key geographic information (e.g. numeric maps on land use).
=> Environmental Information System; US$ 1.7 million: Monitoring systems are
being put in place under EPI, including a consolidated "dashboard" that would
provide key indicators on the status of environmental resources and on the
impact of the program; the systems are expected to be fully operational before
the beginning of the EP2. Under this component, the capacity of the participating
agencies to produce and exchange information would be further strengthened,
new agencies would become part of the network, more synthetic indicators
would be produced, and the diffusion of this information to other potential users
would be developed (see also annex 7).
= Communication, Monitoring, Evaluation, Program Coordination and
Management; US$ 5.8 million. The program would finance the operation of
ONE and of the various coordinating bodies described in Chapter V (National
Environment Council, Interministerial Committee, Steering Committee),
including limited equipment and operations costs. This includes communication
campaigns, the operation of a consolidated monitoring and evaluation system, as
well as systematic beneficiary assessment and mid-term review of the program.
4.31.  GEF would contribute US$2 million to the above components. GEF will support a
comprehensive assessment of biodiversity outside existing protected areas to determine real
biodiversity values. Results will inform the process of protected area management phasing under
CAPE, zoning of classified forests under ESFUM, and prioritizing regional conservation
problems under Regional Programming and Local Management. GEF will also support applied
research and training activities related to biodiversity management.
E. Cost estimates
4.32.  Detailed cost estimates over five years are included in each component preparation
report. At US$ 155 million (including taxes and contingencies), the cost is similar to the actual
cost of the First Phase Program (about US$ 150 million, most of it net of taxes), but it might
exceed financial availability (see section on financing). In order for the final size of the program
to be compatible with the country's PIP (Public Investment Program), it will be decided by the
National Assembly, in the form of a "program-law". The law would be presented to the
Parliament during its Autumn 96 session. Current estimate is as follows:
US$ million
Sustainable soil and water management
ANAE:                                                            27.2
Ankarafantsika:                                                   7.3
Other watersheds:                                                 5.2
Multiple-use Forest Ecosystem Management                                27.1
National Parks and Ecotourism                                           29.5
ICDPs and post-ICDP transition                                          10.2
Marine and coastal environment                                           6.1
Total sub-sector components                                      112.6



- 24 -
Regional Programming and Local Management
Local resource management and land tenure                       6.3
Regional programming and spatial analysis                       3.8
Regional Fund (FORAGE)                                          3.0
Sub-total                                                       13.1
Strategic activities
Formulation and transfer of environmental
policies, strategies and instruments                             2.4
Making EIA operational                                           1.4
Sub-total                                                        3.8
Support activities
Research                                                         2.2
Education-training                                               1.8
Geographic instruments                                           1.1
Environmental Information System                                 1.5
Coordination and management                                      5.2
Sub-total                                                       11.8
Total Base Cost                                                       141.3
Physical contingencies                                          6.4
Price contingencies                                              7.3
Grand-total                                                           155.0
F. Financing
4.33.  A tentative financing plan has been prepared (see detailed table in annex 3); it was
discussed as part of the multi-donor negotiations hold in September 96. In addition to the Bank,
the following donors are expected to participate to the financing of the program: IFAD, GEF,
European Union, France, Germany, Holland, Japan, Norway, Switzerland, UNDP, USAID.
International NGOs such as WWF, who contributed to the financing of the EPI (including
through direct mobilization of funds from bilateral donors) are also expected to participate. The
level of pledges made by the different donors who participated to the pre-appraisal missions -
including IDA - is US$ 103.5 million, in addition to US$ 15.5 already financed. Assuming that
Government would finance about US$ 31.0 million (4.0 million taxes, 7.7 million net-of-tax
financing, and 19.3 million through tax exemption against external grants), the financing gap
stands at about US$ 5 million. It is expected to be covered by additional financing expected from
some donors (e.g. Japan, Norway).
4.34.  IDA would act as the lender of last resort, with the supervision process focusing on the
program as a whole and the use of IDA resources being defined through the annual programming
process on the basis of the coverage and availability of other donor financing. Nevertheless, IDA
funding would be initially focused on specific components. The current proposal (subject to
finalization of financing plan) is to concentrate IDA funding on the following: sustainable soil
and water management (ANAE US$ 12.5 million; other watersheds: US$ 2 million); protected
areas (US$ 5.5 million); local NR management (US$ 3 million); Regional Fund, also managed



- 25 -
by ANAE (US$ 3 million); marine/coastal environment (US$ I million); and support activities
(US$ 3 million). The Bank is also to act as administrator for expected contributions from IFAD
(US$ 8.1 million, focused on soil and water conservation mini-projects, US$ 7.1 million, and
program coordination and management, US$ I million) as well as from GEF (US$ 12.8 million,
focused on forest inventories and pilot management, and on selected protected areas - proposals
for GEF funding would also include about US$ 8 million administered by UNDP and focused on
biological inventories, marine parks, strategic studies on trade of biodiversity products and
support to regional programming and spatial analysis - incremental cost calculations for GEF
funding are presentted in annex C). The following list shows other donors interests for the
various components:
Sustainable soil and water management:      France, Germany, Japan, Norway,
Switzerland
Multiple-use Forest Ecosystem Management:    France, Germany, Switzerland, USAID,
WWF
National Parks and Ecotourism                EU, France, Holland, USAID, WWF
Marine and coastal environment              UNDP, WWF
Regional and Local Management, FORAGE:      France, UJNDP, USAID
Strategic activities                        France, UNDP, USAID
Support activities                          France, USAID, WWF
Estimated financing plan
(million of US dollars)
Source of financin2z              Local         Foreign       Total
IDA                               20.0          10.0          30.0
GEF                               12.5          08.3          20.8
IFAD                               3.0           5.1           8.1
Other donors                      35.0          14.6          49.6
On-going donor-supported projects  3.0          12.5           15.5
Government 1/                     31.0          -             31.0
Total                             104.5         50.5          155.0
1/ including US$ 19.3 million of tax exemptions, 4.0 million of budgeted taxes and 7.7 million of
net-of-tax financing
4.35.  Because some of the funding is already in place, and in order to maintain maximum
flexibility, it is neither necessary nor desirable to introduce cross-conditionalities on the
effectiveness of the IDA financing. The effectiveness of IFAD financing would nevertheless be
dependent upon the effectiveness of the IDA Credit, in line with IFAD's standard practice
regarding their cooperating institutions.
G. Procurement
4.36.  The provisions presented in this section will apply to all goods, works and services funded
under the IDA Credit, the IFAD Loan and the part of the GEF Grant to be managed by the Bank.
All goods, works and services would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. All ICB and
consultant contracts would follow the Bank standard bidding documents or sample form of
contracts. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:



- 26 -
Procurement Method
Procurement                International   National
Arrangements               Competitive  Competitive
('000 US$)                   Bidding       Bidding     Other   N.B.F.   Total
A. Operating Costs                   -           -    24,108  20,473    44,581
(9,183)           (9,183)
(6,487)           (6,487)
B. Grants for Sub-Projects           -           -    25,067    1,945    27,013
(12,294)          (12,294)
(0)               (0)
(7,100)           (7,100)
C. Consultant Services,              -           -    12,950  22,094    35,044
Studies, Training                                   (4,215)           (4,215)
(3,202)           (3,202)
(1,000)           (1,000)
D. Goods and Vehicles            2,844         769       615   13,952    18,180
(1,848)       (500)     (400)            (2,748)
(1,060)       (400)     (200)            (1,660)
E. Civil Works                       -       4,689          -   7,856    12,545
(1,596)                      (1,596)
(1,452)                      (1,452)
F. Unspecified                                   -             17,643    17,643
Total                              2,844        5,458    62,741   83,964   155,007
(1,848)     (2,096)  (26,093)        -  (30,037)
(1,060)     (1,852)   (9,889)           (12,801)
(8,100)           (8,100)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts fiianced by International Development
Association (Ist line), WB-managed GEF (2nd line), and IFAD (3rd line, where applicable)
4.37. Construction contracts mobilized by Government services would be limited to an aggregate
of US$ 12.5 million, of which the IDA Credit is expected to finance about US$ 1.6 million and
GEF about US$ 1.5 million, and would be of limited size, not exceeding US$ 500,000 per contract,
and spread all over the country; foreign firms are not likely to bid for such contracts; they would
therefore be procured using local competitive bidding (NCB). All vehicles as well as equipment
and supplies contracts exceeding US$ 100,000 would be procured through ICB and would be
bulked to the extent possible. Under ICB procurement of goods, locally manufactured goods would
be allowed a preference of 15 per cent or the import duty, whichever is lower. For goods contracts
amounting to less than US$ 100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 0.5 million of
IDA funds and US$ 0.4 million of GEF funds, national competitive procedures acceptable to the
Bank would be used. For goods contracts amounting to less than US$ 30,000 per contract prudent
shopping (international or local - up to US$ 0.2 million and US$ 0.1 million each for IDA and GEF
respectively) would be used. All goods purchased under "operating costs"category will follow as
far as practically possible the above procurement methods. Procurement under the "Grants for Sub-
Projects" category which includes small scale works, goods and services involving community
participation will be carried out in accordance with the corresponding provisions of the Bank
guidelines.
4.38. All technical assistance, studies and training contracts funded under the IDA Credit, the
IFAD Loan and the GEF Grant would be procured in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the



- 27 -
selection of consultants; technical assistance would be primarily in the form of individual short-
term consultants, that could be either self-employed or supplied by a consulting firm; consulting
firms would be used when a team is required (e.g. mid-term evaluation).
4.39. Requirementsfor Bank review of procurementoperationswould be as follows:
(i.) Procurement of goods and construction contracts: proposals for advertising, draft
tender documents, bid evaluation, and award proposals for all contracts for goods
exceeding US$ 100,000 and for all contracts for works exceeding US$ 200,000 would
be subject to review by the Bank prior to their execution.
(ii.) Contracts with consulting firms and with individual consultants: prior review would be
required only for contracts exceeding US$100,000 in the case of consulting firms and
US$50,000 in the case of individual consultants, and for all sole source contracts; it
would cover draft letter of invitation, including terms of reference and short list of pre-
selected firms, bid evaluation and award of contracts.
(iii.) Contracts below the prior review thresholds under (i) and (ii) would be subject to an
ex-post review by the Bank on a selected basis (about one in five contracts).
H. Disbursement
4.40.  The Credit Agreement for EPI provided for 26 disbursement categories, corresponding
to six different parts of the program. The Credit Agreement was used as a arbitration mechanism
for budgetary allocation, and proceeds of the credit had to be reallocated several times. In the
EP2, the number of categories would be minimized, ideally to the standard five categories of
civil works, goods and equipment, consultants and training, operating costs, and unallocated.
Additional categories were added only for activities that would not fit such breakdown (i. e.
ANAE's mini-projects and FORAGE projects). The disbursement percentages have been
calculated in order to exclude taxes on the whole of the program.
4.41.  Financing and disbursement arrangements would be determined each year in accordance
with the annual work program and funding requirements prepared by ONE and agreed on with
all donors. A new special account in the name of ONE would be established to expedite
disbursements of the IDA funds. The maximum deposit would be US$ 2 million, corresponding
to four months of expenditures on IDA supported components. An initial amount of US$ I
million would be withdrawn from the credit at the time of credit effectiveness to constitute the
initial deposit. The remaining funds would be provided when ONE has established that the full
amount is required. Special accounts in the name of ONE would also be opened in the same
commercial bank for the IFAD Loan and the GEF Grant. The maximum deposit would be US$
0.6 million for the IFAD account. An initial amount of US$ 0.3 million would be withdrawn
from the IFAD Loan at the time of loan effectiveness to constitute the initial deposit. The
maximum deposit would be US$ 0.4 million for the GEF account. An initial amount of US$ 0.3
million would be withdrawn from the grant at the time of grant effectiveness to constitute the
initial deposit. The special accounts would be replenished on a monthly basis, or sooner, as
needed. Disbursements requests by participating implementing agencies would be handled as
under the EPI. Replenishment requests would be fully documented except for contracts of less
than (i) $ 200,000 for works; (ii) $100,000 for goods and consultant services (firms); (iii)
$50,000 for consultant services (individuals); (iv) all operating costs and training costs which



- 28 -
may be claimed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation of SOEs
would be made available for review by Bank supervision missions. Special accounts will be
"decentralized" through advance of funds (in local currency) for periods up to 90 days to field
offices; the system will be monitored by supervision staff and subjected to audit. The account in
local currency already open under EPI, operated by ONE, would continue to be used to disburse
Government's contribution to program's expenditures. It would receive an initial deposit of US$
200,000 equivalent. It would be replenished on a monthly basis, or when reduced to one third of
the original amount, whichever comes first. Evidence of the initial deposit would be a condition
of credit effectiveness.
Disbursement of IDA, GEF and IFAD funds, by categories
Category                     Amount (US$ million)       Share of financing
IDA     GEF   IFAD
Civil works                     1.4     1.3           85%
Goods                           2.4     1.5           100% of foreign expenditure
85% of local expenditure
Consultant services, training   4.5     3.0    0.9   100%
and audits
ANAE's Mini-projects            9.0             6.4   100%
FORAGE's projects               2.0                   100%
Operating costs                 6.7     5.6           90% in year I and 2 and
70% thereafter
Unallocated                     4.0     1.4    0.8
Estimated IDA, GEF and IFAD disbursement is based on detailed COSTAB tables and
would be as follows:
Estimated IDA, IFAD and GEF disbursement (US$ million)
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
IDA
Annual        3.3   6.2   6.0   6.3   5.7   2.5
Cumulative    3.3   9.5   15.5  21.8  27.5  30.0
IFAD
Annual        0.8   1.8   1.6   1.8    1.5   0.6
Cumulative    0.8   2.6   4.2   6.0    7.5   8.1
GEF
Annual        1.4   2.7   2.5   2.7    2.4    0.9
Cumulative    1.4   4.1   6.6   9.3    11.7  12.8
Percentage    11    32    52    73    92    100



- 29 -
V. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and management
5.1.   The first phase program worked primarily as a set of coordinated but independent
projects. Under the second phase, program integration would leap forward through the
consolidation and strengthening of the annual programming and budgeting process, as well as the
consolidation of the monitoring system. On the other hand, there would be no attempt at this
stage to consolidate disbursement or procurement procedure between donors.
5.2.  Implementation will be carried out by the various line agencies (AGEX) that were set-up
during the first phase and coordinated at the operational level by ONE. The annual programming
and budgeting process is described in section B below. At field level, all activities would be
managed with strong local participation.
5.3.   High level policy guidance will be entrusted to an independant consultative National
Environment Council (CNE), which is to be created. Policy level coordination will be the
responsibility of an Interministerial Environment Committee (CIM), also under creation; the
Minister in charge of the Environment will chair the Committee on behalf of the Prime Minister.
Operational level coordination will be carried out by ONE. The definition of the respective roles
and responsibilities of central Government services and ONE - which has been an issue in the
past - has been spelled out in detail in a manual (see Outline in annex 4). Draft decrees for the
establishment of CNE and CIM are already available, and were reviewed during negotiations.
The actual creation of these two entities would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.4.  Implementation arrangements would be further refined on the basis of EPI experience,
of the newly defined components (e.g. the Regional Environment Management Fund), of the new
developments outlined above, and of the programming mechanisms outlined in section B below.
They would be spelled out in an implementation manual. The manual will include an
Implementation Agreement between Government and ONE, as well as subsidiary agreements
between ONE and all implementing agencies. Key monitoring indicators will also be part of the
Manual and Agreements. Achievement of objectives will be taken into account for resource
allocation during the annual budgetary process. The manual was reviewed and agreed upon
during negotiations. The formal adoption of the manual by all implementing agencies would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.5.   The Regional Fund for Environmental Management (FORAGE) would work on a
demand-driven basis, as part of the regional process described below. The Fund would be
administratively managed by ANAE; the management mechanisms would be identical to the one
already in place for ANAE's mini-projects, but the actors would be different: broader range of
beneficiaries (i.e. village communities, local Governments, NGOs, projects). The funding
decisions would be entrusted to an independent committee (separate from ANAE), against a set
of pre-established criteria. A key criteria would be the level of priority given to the sub-project
by the Regional Programming Committee (see below), meaning that the decision would be de
facto taken at the regional level. A manual specifying the eligibility criteria (beneficiaries, types
of sub-projects, conditions of eligibility for financing from the Fund, financing rules,
implementation of sub-projects, monitoring and evaluation) was reviewed and agreed upon
during negotiations. The formal adoption of the manual by ANAE and other agencies would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.



- 30 -
EP2: Institutional setup
Plnig of policies and
Stratog/c vision               A l   i oftIn programs
(     Mlg eoflV   Q  . Vimpl metation
I -$ 000 0- ONE      atbionai nol:mWfle S  0$X  
B~~~ ~~                             tota      S
5.6.   The overall institutional setup is presented in the diagram above. It illustrates that the
various agencies would eventually work with the various levels of decentralized Governments, in
line with the new Constitution of the country. In anticipation, a regionalized process would be
established (see B below), at the level of the future Regions. The implementing agencies
(AGEX) would work initially on an ad hoc basis with the regional representatives of the various
ministries, as well as with other relevant local entities (e.g. projects).
B. The Annual Participatory Programming Process
5.7.   The integration of the annual programming process, and its decentralization at regional
level, are the key new features that would represent a major evolution towards a program
structure. The overall process is described in annex 5 and illustrated by the diagram below, as
well as by the flow-chart presented in annex 5.
5.8.   The Region (i.e. the administrative entity defined under the new constitutions, but not
yet in place) would be the level where annual work plans would be detailed, within the limits of
resources assigned from the center. It is at this level that coordination and synergy would take
place, both between components of the EP2 and with other programs in the area. It is also at this
level that the various ecological, social and economic dimensions of the problems would be cast
into the boundaries of the management units, i.e. the Regions. Waiting for regional governments
to be put in place, the EP2 would establish ad hoc "Regional Programming Committees" (RPCs),
where all key stake holders would be represented. The RPC would set priorities for the various
activities to be funded under the program.



- 31 -
EP2: Annual Programming Process
PIP - POLICIES  STRATEGIC PLANNING
Central lev   /         Regional leve            Ec-.  Olcal dimensions
| Initialspecifications  |   Regional I           ^.i r Trans-regional
Glbl   -leg                Programming
Process                   Watershed
r  rat     |  Con ;otidaon so  I   ,\        <     Protected Area  _
Corridors
Reinal
Fun or       Urban
Enviomn
Draft Regional Specifications           MnemtMcaNR
~r~ m     :    ' \           .       management
rFinalized Program  I          r     t< Mediators 
|    -Implementation - Monitoring - Impact Evaluation - Feed-back
EP2 MufdoorAppaal Teem                1,tg,96                                  20
5.9.   When fully operational, the yearly budget cycle would work as follows: the initial
specification would be prepared in global terms (i.e. national scale) by the Ministry in charge of
the program, based on the strategic plan and on instructions from the Finance and Planning
Ministries. An initial arbitration procedure would then take place, in order to break down the
program into regional specifications. The arbitration procedure would be based on a formalized
multi-criteria notation system, on the pattern of the one being already in place in the Ministry of
Agriculture (this was developed with the support of several donors, including a Bank IDF grant).
After the detailed work at regional level, the regional proposals would be aggregated at national
level in order to check for consistency with the initial specifications and potential problems (e.g.
duplications, overlaps, etc.). If need be, the arbitration procedure would be applied again,
resulting in a new iteration between the Center and the Regions.
5.10.  Part of the process at regional level would be to analyse problems according to their
specific ecological dimension (see diagram above), and to formulate multi-local environment
management strategies through participatory processes ("concerted strategies"); one of the
outcome would be the identification of sub-projects for funding by the FORAGE (para 5.5). A
key task of the RPC - with the support of the technical units established under the AGIR
component - would be to integrate such proposals into their regional program, i.e. to cast them
within the administrative boundaries of the region. The methodology for regional programming
would be initially developed by actually applying it - on a pilot basis - to a limited number of
Regions during the 2nd half of FY 96, as part of the programming and budgetary process for the
first year of implementation of the EP2 (i.e. year 1997).



- 32 -
C. Monitoring, evaluation and beneficiary assessment
5.11. Consolidation of M&E. The program approach requires that the M&E function be
consolidated at the program and no longer at the project/agency level. The program approach
creates a need for global information on the financial situation of the program and its various
components, the rate of completion of work, the impact achieved, etc. Consolidating the
information and information flows does, however, not mean information retention. Since ONE
would be central to the consolidated M&E system, a management audit has been undertaken
which made recommendations as to ONE's capacity to manage such a system in light of the
experience garnered during EP I.
5.12.  The overall M&E system would consist of four sub-systems or components, namely (i)
the technical, (ii) financial, (iii) Environmental Information System (EIS), and (iv) beneficiary
assessment components, as detailed in annex 7. During EP1, the financial and accounting
modules became operational. The project implementation module is also operational, but it is too
complex and it is being simplified. The first beneficiary assessment was carried out in 1995. In
addition, a pilot was undertaken for the third component (EIS) and produced promising results,
and the system is now under full-scale implementation.
5.13. M&E Plan. Procedures and indicators for the M&E of program components would be
spelled out in an M&E Plan to be included in the Implementation Manual. This M&E Plan
would describe the M&E system for EP2, including its objectives, indicators, structure,
managing institutions, inputs, interfaces, outputs and standards. (Refer to Annex 7 for details).
5.14.  Beneficiary Assessment. In addition to making the system an operational and efficient
management and reporting tool, EP2 will make client consultation, in particular beneficiary
assessment, an annual exercise.  EP 1 agencies carried out a comprehensive beneficiary
assessment for the IDA-funded components of EPI between July and November 1995. The
value of collecting clients' reactions and ideas justifies that the exercise be conducted on a yearly
basis to cover all the EP2 components, regardless of the identity of the donor. Among the very
first to be held in Madagascar, the beneficiary assessment executed under EP I has contributed to
building local capacity to organize and lead such systematic client consultation.  Future
beneficiary assessments would tap into and reinforce this capacity. A summary of the findings
of the beneficiary assessment of EPI and specific proposals for EP2 can be found in Annex 7-C.
5.15. Mid-term Review. The M&E setup would include a multidonor mission to assess the
performance and impact of the program at mid-term. Specific attention would be given to the
operation of the components in the AGIR category (Regional Programming, regional Fund,
Local Resource Management) as well as to the progress in the introduction of cost recovery.
D. Procurement and Disbursement Procedures
5.16.  Two main problems have been encountered during EPI. First, due to the existence of six
implementing agencies handling procurement and disbursement matters independently, the
program has generated a large amount of paperwork. Administration and differences in
interpretation have burdened and sometimes delayed the implementation of the work programs.
In 1994, the problem was came to a head and the Bank had to reinforce its own capacity by
assigning a Task Manager to the field on a permanent basis to deal with the flow of no-objection



- 33 -
requests and reduce its turn-around time for decisions. EP2 will address these deficiencies by
introducing or reinforcing the measures detailed below.
5.17.  Autonomy. EP2 implementing agencies have in many instances been too rigorous in
applying procedures and not used the autonomy provided for in the Credit Agreement and other
legal documents. During EP2, implementing agencies must apply the rules and procedures set
out in Development Credit Agreements and other IDA documents more accurately and use the
freedom margin they are entitled to. For instance, below certain thresholds, IDA no-objections
should be limited to specifications or terms of reference.
5.18.  In addition, current thresholds and methods for procurement and disbursement purposes
(e.g. for International Competitive Bidding, disbursements through the special account, etc.)
would be reviewed and adapted if need be.
5.19.  Controls by IDA. However, more leeway ex ante will also mean more systematic
controls expost. Audit procedures and standards must therefore be met and punctual controls in
the form of random samples must be increased. In particular, this would require Bank missions
to carry out a more systematic control of statements of expenditures.
5.20.  Procurement Literacy. Before the launch of EP2, specific refreshment courses would
be organized to reinforce the capacity of the program managers in charge of procurement and
disbursements and address the specific problems they encountered during EPI.
5.21.  Grouped Procurement. If Program implementing agencies were to group purchases at
the beginning of a fiscal year after carefully planning their work, the number of procurement
procedures would be cut dramatically, the margin of error would be reduced, costs would
diminish, and donors' responses would be swifter. EP2 would therefore systematize collective
planning and arrive at Program-wide procurement plans.
5.22.  Management of Special Accounts. EP2 would maintain the centralized management of
Special Accounts which, after it was introduced in 1994, proved helpftfl in smoothening contacts
between the Program and the Bank.
E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements
5.23.  Accounting. In the course of EP2, each participating agency would maintain adequate
accounting records to allow accurate and timely recording of its operations and would prepare
annual financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These
annual financial statements would be consolidated by ONE. Annual financial statements
prepared for audit would consist of the cumulative accounts since Credit effectiveness, a
summary of each special account, and a summary of reimbursements and replenishments
claimed under the statement of expenditure (SOE) procedures.
5.24. Computerized Accounting and Financial Management System. ONE's computerized
financial management and accounting system - which has been operational since 1994 -
would be reviewed and validated by professional auditors within the first year of EP2 to ensure
that it meets the standards and expectations of accounting, financial and budgetary management.
5.25. Auditing. Annual financial statements of IDA-, IFAD- and GEF-financed components
would be prepared and audited in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA).



- 34 -
In addition, the audits would be performed by or in association with a member of the
International Federation of Accountants acceptable to IDA. By June 30 of each year, ONE
would submit to IDA audited financial statements for the preceding financial year. In addition to
separate audit opinions on the Credit accounts, the auditor's report would include: (i) the
statement of expenditure, (ii) all special accounts, and (iii) a long-form report or management
letter commenting on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls.
5.26.  Furthermore, ONE and participating agencies, in association with EP2 donors, will
explore the possibility and implications of harmonizing auditing standards and procedures
regardless of the origin of funds. It may not be feasible to reach such a degree of integration
before the end of EP2. Nevertheless, contingent upon the successful development of the
program approach, the harmonization of accounting, auditing, and reporting requirements among
donors would be considered for EP3.
5.27.  Reporting. On the basis of information gathered from the implementing agencies and
units, ONE would prepare semiannual and annual reports on progress, problems, and issues
covering every program component. Copies of the reports would be submitted to IDA and other
donors within two months after the end of the reporting period.
5.28.  Evaluation of EP1. In addition to these periodic reports and the mid-term review, ONE
would produce a comprehensive report on the achievements of EPI, i.e. its performance, impact
and the main lessons learned. This comprehensive report would be available before the end of
the first year of EP2.
F. Supervision of program implementation
5.29.  Program implementation would be supervised jointly by donors twice a year, one in
spring focusing on implementation, and once in autumn focusing on programming for the
following year. As much as possible, this would take the form of joint missions; but the spring
supervision could also be achieved through separate coordinated missions, different donors
taking the lead for different components (e.g. Swiss and German Cooperation could take the lead
for the forestry activities).
5.30.  On the basis of the annual programming process presented in V-B above, the annual
joint review of the program of work and budget by donors becomes a more significant step than
in the past. This would be handled through a joint multi-donor mission that would take place on a
yearly basis. The COS would continue to exist, but more as an open discussion forum than an
approval body. Its date would be advanced to May or June in order to fit the timing of the
budgetary process.
5.31.  In the third year of implementation, the fall joint mission would carry out a mid-term
review of the program, as a starting point for the formulation of the EP3.
5.32.  The full time presence of a staff member at the Resident Mission has proven to be a key
factor in smooth program implementation. For the EP2, it is proposed to maintain a similar
arrangement, with the difference that two donors (i.e. USAID, France) confirmed during
negotiations that they would participate to the financing.
5.33.  Bank supervision effort for the EP2, covering IDA, GEF and IFAD funding, is estimated
to require about 40 staff-week per year, including 20 staff-week from the multi-donor resident



- 35 -
staff and 20 staff-week for two missions a year from headquarters (one around May-June, to
assess implementation progress during the previous year and participate to the COS, and the
participation to the multi-donor annual review around October-November).
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Overall justification
6.1.   Long term sustainable growth of the country cannot be achieved in the absence of proper
management of its natural resources. The proposed program was entirely prepared by the
Borrower, with a high level of participation (cf. section IV-B), and thus fully consistent with the
country's priorities. It is also consistent with the CAS (section IV-A), and considered by the
Country Team to be part of the core lending program.
6.2.   Program design and sizing are based on the experience of the First Phase Program
(EPI), and are the result of a comprehensive preparation and appraisal process, involving all
national environmental institutions, many of the country's stake holders at national, regional and
local level, local and international NGOs, and all interested donors. In many instances this has
resulted in significant evolution or departure from the EPI design (e.g. phasing out of the ICDP
model for protected areas, introduction of regional level mechanisms to ensure synergy and
complementarity between program components and between the EP2 and other programs or
projects, priority given to decentralization and local management of natural resources). In all
cases, the main concern was cost-effectiveness and long-term sustainability.
6.3.   The lessons of EPI have also been incorporated into the institutional arrangements of
the program, as presented in section V-A. The emphasis on participation and the systematic use
of beneficiary assessment techniques should guarantee that the program would remain on track.
Institutional uncertainty and rivalry that were a problem during EPI would ease up now that
clear arrangements have been defined (annex 4).
6.4.   The program has been subjected to economic analysis, as presented in section B below.
Fiscal impact and financial sustainability are discussed in section C. Environment impact is
discussed in section D, and risks in section E.
6.5.   The program would combine concrete actions with short term measurable benefits with
long term undertakings (e.g. policies, education) to ensure sustainability. Direct beneficiaries
would include communities affected by the soil conservation schemes and the development
activities of the conservation projects (protected areas, forest management, coastal management).
Most beneficiaries would be within the poorest segments of the population. Indirect benefits
would come from private investments in ecotourism facilities that would be induced by the
program. Benefits of global significance would come from improved protection of biodiversity
resources of the country (protected areas, forest management, marine and coastal management).
B. Cost-benefit analysis
6.6.   A comprehensive analysis of expected benefits has been undertaken by ONE and the
implementing agencies as part of program formulation, and complemented during the December
95 and April 96 missions. Given the program approach and the fact that most field activities
would be demand-driven, it is not possible to forecast the exact nature of the various



- 36 -
interventions. Instead, several models have been developed that demonstrate that key activities
(ANAE mini-projects, forest management and protected areas) can be economically justified
under a fairly wide range of initial conditions. This analysis is summarized below, and detailed
in annex 9. The implication is that the various agencies would need to closely monitor costs as
well as to performn economic modeling on an on-going basis in order to ensure that their work
results in the greatest possible impact. This is further discussed in section V-C and in annex 7 on
monitoring and evaluation.
6.7.   The specific conclusions for the three major components of the program that were
analyzed are as follows:
* Sustainable soil and water management: Individual mini-projects typically consist of
a range of measures which combine shorter-term productivity gains, such as
rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation infrastructure or the introduction of vegetable
cash crops, with soil conservation techniques which yield longer-term productivity
gains, such as alley-cropping or planting of Eucalyptus trees on hill slopes. In the
longer term, the gradual spread of mini-projects in a region, combined with some
spontaneous adoption of techniques by other farmers, is expected to reduce the
gravity and incidence of environmental problems including uncontrolled brush fires,
degradation of soil structure and fertility, and sedimentation of irrigation reservoirs
and canals. Many mini-projects include associated assistance at marginal cost for
rural development such as provision of potable drinking water, and literacy or health
training.
Economic NPV and IRR of ANAE-financed activities.
NPV*
12%          20%         IRR        Comments:
1. Improved Hillside Management I   820          465           61%     Ten year horizon
2. Improved Hillside Management II    672        297           34%     Ten year horizon
3. Diversion dam for irrigation I    587         343           57%     Ten year horizon
4. Diversion dam for irrigation 11   102           6           21%     Ten year horizon
5. Improved vegetable gardens      10,866        6,715         75%     Ten year horizon
6. Eucalyptus reforestation in the Lake Alaotra region
Economic analysis  -387         -3136         11%      25 year horizon
Financial analysis  2482       -518          18%      25 year horizon
7. Improved Woodstoves / Charcoal   34,084      20,538        149%      16 year horizon
*AII net present values are per hectare except #7 which does not have an area equivalent
A number of illustrative models corresponding to the most common conditions
encountered under EPI are presented in annex 9. The results of this analysis are
summarized in the table above. Indirect benefits on reduced downstream siltation
have not been quantified, and this explains in particular the low returns shown by
model 6 on Eucalyptus plantation for watershed protection purpose; downstream
benefits are considered substantial, so that total return would be in fact higher.
* National Parks and Ecotourism: Protected areas in Madagascar are primarily
justified from the global biodiversity benefits. A study by Kramer et al. of
willingness to pay for rainforest protection concludes to levels of US$ I billion.
Furthermore, a study of foreign tourists to Mantadia Park found their expressed



-37 -
benefit (willingness to pay) from the Park to be in the range of US$ 1-2.5 million
(NPV at 10%). Given Madagascar exceptional biodiversity, it is safe to state that
global benefits much exceed the cost of the program, and that the issue is only one of
cost-effectiveness and financial sustainability; this is discussed in section C below.
Multiple-use Forest Ecosystem Management: The benefits of management stem
from ensuring the continuing flow of values from biodiversity, non-timber forest
products, protection of off-site benefits, sawnwood, and charcoal. In a without
project scenario, the sawnwood and charcoal benefits would be lower, and the other
benefits would be expected to continue declining at an inestimable cost. It is not
possible at this point in time to calculate and project the full economic costs of forest
degradation and conversion.  For the with project scenario, the benefits from
sawnwood and charcoal are estimated.  It is assumed that the same area is
consistently viable for producing both benefits since the different grades of wood are
used for the production of each benefit. Based on the detailed assumptions presented
in annex 9, an analysis of the with-project situation alone shows that direct costs of
forest management are largely compensated by direct timber and charcoal benefits
(net present value of US$16 million and internal rate of return of 22% for the
management of 580,000 ha over the EP2 and EP3 period). Benefits from conversion
of forest to agriculture or costs from deforestation have not been estimated, on the
other hand, but a major conclusion of the scientific workshop on biodiversity carried
out as part of program preparation is that improved management of forest out of the
protected areas is of key importance in Madagascar. The large global benefits
mentioned in the previous paragraph also contribute to the justification of the forest
component, and it is intended that - on this argument - GEF would be asked to
contribute to its cost.
C. Financial sustainability and cost recovery
6.8.   Given the constrained fiscal situation of Madagascar, financial implication of the EP2
proposal are a major concern. It has been addressed in various ways, as presented below.
6.9.   At about US$ 31 million per year, the size of the EP2 is similar to the size of the EP1
(US$ 150 million over five years, mostly net of taxes). Fiscal constraints are reflected in
insufficient allocation of counterpart funding in the Public Investment Budget. Most resources
are assigned as counterpart funding to externally financed operations. The key issue is therefore
the financial viability of the Program after the cessation of external support (i.e. at the end of
EP3). The analysis presented below focuses on the three main field operations: ANAE's mini-
projects, forest management, and Protected Areas, as well as on the Regional Fund (FORAGE).
6.10.  ANAE's mini-projects. The interventions supported by ANAE are designed to be
limited in time (two years), and to generate enough additional income at village level to ensure
that farmers would maintain the investments and continue to apply sustainable resource
management practices. The sustainability of the ANAE actions rests in part on the system of
preparing mini-projects. Communities prepare written requests for assistance from ANAE.
ANAE works with those communities identifying production-enhancing actions, conservation-
related actions, and parallel rural development actions (e.g., health or education) all of which
opens the door to potential collaboration with more communities in the same region. Thus the
program is very demand-oriented although ANAE has clear criteria on what constitutes an



- 38 -
eligible request for assistance. The focus on local level involvement means that actions tend to
mesh well with the local agricultural calendar, thus avoiding problems of labor availability. The
cost-sharing arrangements common to all mini-projects further endow the participants with a
strong sense of ownership of any investments.
6.11.  Cost effectiveness would be improved under EP2 as compared to EPI, because
institutional overhead costs would be spread over a larger program and because the size of mini-
projects would increase. Reducing the size of the component, or even closing it down all
together, would therefore prevent ANAE to reach new beneficiaries, but would not affect long
term benefits from passed operations. In addition, given ANAE's success and increasing
visibility, it is likely to continue to attract funding for the foreseeable future. Another issue is the
one of replicability of the use of subsidy (ANAE mini-projects and FORAGE). Subsidies are
considered justified in the short term to offset the risks of change and promote sustainable
natural resource management.
6.12.  In order to ensure long-term sustainability of the schemes, cost recovery would be
progressively introduced. The level of cost recovery would depend on the importance of direct
benefits versus externalities, it would be determined on the basis of typical models ("modeles
normatifs") being developed for all possible activities. Waiting for the analysis to be complete
and the approach to be validated in the field during the 1997 cropping season, the expectation is
that cost recovery would apply to about half of the costs of mini-projects. Fifty per cent of
recovered funds would remain with ANAE, and thus contribute to the financial viability of the
institution; the objective would be that recovered funds would eventually finance one hundred
per cent of the overhead costs of ANAE, and that continuing financing would be required only
for the direct cost of new mini-projects. Through the creation of locally managed revolving
funds, the other fifty per cent would be used at village community level to finance expansion
and/or maintenance of investments.
6.13.  Forest management. The transfer of management responsibility to local communities,
within the specifications of the management contract, would in the long run decrease the work
load of the Forest Administration (DEF), potentially resulting in budgetary savings. In addition,
recovery of stumpage fees and other levies should improve. Such levies are managed through the
existing National Forestry Fund (NFF). Recovery already increased from FMG 178 million in
1993 to FMG to about FMG 1.7 billion in 1995 (US$ 420,000 equivalent). The improvement of
recovery and the revision of fee levels is part of the Forest Component of EP2. It is well within
possibilities to reach a level of FMG 7-10 billion a year by the end of EP2. This would ensure
financing of the operations of the entire forest service, including recurrent costs from the
program (with the exception of civil servants salaries).
6.14.  Protected areas. Reaching self-financing is one of ANGAP's main goals. The first
avenue is to contain costs, by phasing out the costly ICDP approach. The other one is to raise
revenue; a number of instruments would be combined for that purpose: (i) within the limits of
what the tourism market can support, entrance fees would be increased (50% go to neighboring
communities and 50% remain with ANGAP); (ii) ANGAP would develop various commercial
activities (visitor centers, sale of posters, calendars, tee-shirts, etc.) and levy copyright for certain
activities within the protected areas (e.g. film making); and (iii) ANGAP is discussing with
private operators in the hotel and tourism sector possible mechanisms for channeling to ANGAP
a fair share of the benefits of ecotourism development (royalties, green tax, etc.). Two sets of
assumptions have been worked out by ANGAP, a low case corresponding to a continuation of
current restrictive policies and a high case corresponding to improve policies and faster tourism



- 39 -
development. By the end of EP3, ANGAP's income would reach US$ 2.7 million per year in the
low case and US$ 4.4 million in the high case. This compares favorably with and estimated
annual financing requirement of US$ 4 to 5 million. In addition, a legal framework and umbrella
organization (called Tany Meva) have been put in place under the EPI, with USAID support, in
order to set-up trust fund or foundations that would allow ANGAP to attract private donations.
Experience elsewhere suggests that all the above mechanisms are likely to allow ANGAP to
become self-sustainable financially in the long run. In the short and medium run, and given the
global nature of benefits related to biodiversity management, GEF and other grant funds would
be require to sustain the network of protected areas.
6.15. FORAGE. Following the pattern presented above for ANAE's mini-projects, cost
recovery would also be introduced for FORAGE sub-projects, at a level that would depend on
the importance of direct benefits versus externalities. Fifty per cent of recovered funds would
remain with FORAGE, and thus contribute to the financing of the fund, and the other fifty per
cent would be used at village community level to finance expansion and/or maintenance of
investments.
6.16.  A pre-requisite would be for Government to review subsidy and/or cost recovery policies
of other operations (e.g. the Bank-financed Social Fund) in order to ensure consistency.
D. Environmental sustainability
6.17.  The whole program is geared towards the improvement of natural resource management
and other environmental concerns. There is no requirement for environmental impact
assessment as such; the expected impact of the program is summarized in section VI-A above
and detailed in annex 9.
E. Risks
6.18.  Policy risks. There are strong interactions between environment degradation, population
increase and economic stagnation, including the stagnation of agriculture, so that the impact of
the environment program would be limited in the absence of significant progress on the other
fronts. Madagascar's future can be seen within two extremes. First, with continued "muddling
through", the prognosis is devastating - net capital inflows will shrink rapidly, import capacity
will be impaired, GDP per capita will continue to fall and poverty will rise rapidly creating the
real possibility of social explosion. The second scenario for Madagascar's future could
materialize if the government can overcome internal differences and reticence toward
comprehensive reform, and formulate and implement a transparent and credible economic
reform program that would lead to a foreign investment rebound and lay the basis for export-led
growth. Based on experience in other countries, adoption and maintenance of a credible reform
program from 1996 onward could elicit major new flows of foreign investment by about 1999,
with growth accelerating toward the levels of fast-growing developing economies within about a
decade.
6.19.  Policies that discriminate against agriculture have a direct impact on incentives for
deforestation and shifting cultivation; more generally speaking, the incentive framework for
agriculture development (e.g. rural infrastructure and access to markets, availability of social and
financial services) determines land use intensification and thus has a direct influence on natural
resources management practices; such issues are being addressed under the on-going structural



- 40 -
adjustment dialogue as well as under various sector projects. Policies that discriminate against
tourism development (e.g. visa regime, air transport monopoly) would also affect the program
negatively, because ecotourism is a major potential source of income from protected areas.
6.20.  Institutional risks are related to potential political instability, resulting in particular into
policies that would affect the institutional set-up and promote inter-institutional competition.
Such a situation would compromise program implementation, as it happened in 1994 with the
creation of a separate ministry for the environment. The proposed institutional arrangements
(para. 11) would address these issues by providing for more stability.
6.21.  Other risks are related to weak implementation capacity. Formal implementation
capacity analysis has already been carried out for ONE, and is on-going for ANGAP, DEF and
ANAE. DD is scheduled to follow in early 1997. Such reviews are designed to formulate
recommendations on how best to address this latter risk by helping the institutions clarify their
mandate, streamline their organigram and working procedures, assess their human resources and
program their training requirements.
6.22.  Finally, integrating Madagascar's present govemmental agencies into the regional
approach to natural resource management will be a challenge. As the APPP is a new approach in
Madagascar, careful design and adaptive implementation will be required to ensure that its full
potential is realized. Fortunately, the on-going decentralization process is fully compatible with
this integration. Under decentralization, annual work plans will be defined at the regional level,
and regions will coordinate EP2 components with other programs, as well as focus on various
social and economic aspects of environmental problems.  It is well understood that
decentralization will take some time. Therefore, temporary Regional Programming Committees
(RPCs) will be established until the regional govemments are fully prepared to assume their new
roles. RPCs will be comprised of all key stakeholders will be established to set priorities for the
activities that are to be funded under EP2.
VII. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Assurances obtained at negotiations
Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the following:
(i.) The institutional setup of the Environment Program would not be significantly
modified without prior consultation with donors.
(ii.)Adequate auditing procedures would be applied (para 5.25).
(iii.)The Directors General of ONE, ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, the Deputy
Director General of ONE and the Directors of DEF and DD would be acceptable to
IDA at all time during Program implementation.
(iv.) Govemment would carry out, in collaboration with donors, a mid-term evaluation
of the Program (para 5.15).
(v.) Govemment would conduct a review of all major donor-financed operations in rural
areas, for which the Govemment is responsible, to determine to what extent cost



- 41 -
recovery mechanisms can be introduced or strengthened, and harmonized with one
another. Based on such review, adequate cost recovery mechanisms would be
introduced in the Program (para 6.12 and 6.15).
(vi.) The review of the institutional capacity of ONE, DEF, DD, ANAE and ANGAP
would be completed and Government would ensure that the Agencies would take the
measures that may be needed to strengthen the capacity of these institutions (para
6.21).
B. Conditions of Board Presentation
There are no conditions for Board Presentation.
C. Conditions of effectiveness
(i.) The National Environment Council and the Interministerial Environment Committee
would have been officially created (para 5.3).
(ii.) The Implementation Manual of the Program, including the Monitoring and
Evaluation Plan, would have been formally adopted by all implementing agencies
(para 5.4).
(iii.)The Manual of Procedures of the Regional Fund (FORAGE) would have been
formally adopted by all implementing agencies (para 5.5).
(iv.)An initial deposit of the equivalent of US$ 200,000 would have been into the project
account (para 4.41).
E. Conditions of disbursement
There are no conditions of disbursement.
F. Recommendation
6.23.  On the basis of the above actions, conditions and agreements, the proposed Program
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$ 30.0 million equivalent and a GEF Grant of US$ 20.8
million equivalent.






PART II: Technical Annexes






Annex 1
Page 1 of 17
MADAGASCAR
SECOND ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
Lessons from the First Environment Program
A. Institutional Setup of EPI
1. The Malagasy NEAP came first in Africa (1989).  Before the NEAP, no national
environmental institutions existed in Madagascar. Institution building therefore became the top
priority of EPI, namely through the creation of three new institutions (ONE, ANGAP and
ANAE) and reinforcement of three existing ones in the public sector (DD, DEF, FTM).
2. The Office national de /'Environnement (ONE) was created as a small but powerful public
environmental agency to coordinate environmental policy and actions. Its mandates would
include: (i) environmental policy; (ii) environmental impact assessments; (iii) accounting,
procurement and disbursement; (iv) coordination of training, education and awareness
campaigns; (v) coordination of environmental studies; and (vi) environmental data management.
3. The Association nationale pouir la Gestion des Aires protegees (ANGAP), a private
association, coordinates the biodiversity component of EPI under the responsibility of the
Ministry in charge of Agriculture. It is in charge of setting up Integrated Conservation and
Development Projects in protected areas. ANGAP contracts out the actual management of
protected areas to field operators, with the possibility of becoming the direct manager in the
medium term. Specifically, ANGAP would: (i) help the Ministry of Agriculture in biodiversity
policy and planning; (ii) administer funds for the management of protected areas; (iii) train staff
in biodiversity management; (iv) launch communication campaigns; (v) monitor and evaluate
actions in biodiversity management; (vi) set up a national biodiversity data system.
4. The Agence nationale d'Actions environnemrentales (ANAE), a private association, would
finance the preparation, appraisal and implementation of community-level miniprojects for
watershed management, reforestation and other rural development activities in five priority
regions. Minigrants would be channeled and managed through the field operators assisting rural
communities, thereby developing the private sector and creating links between the GOM and a
number of NGOs.
5. The Direction des Domaines (DD, formerly DPRA), the Land Department in the Ministry of
Agriculture, would be in charge of: (i) carrying out cadastral surveys; (ii) creating the conditions
for the privatization of the surveyors' profession; and (iii) launching a pilot operation for titling
private land.
6. The Direction des Eau.x el Fore1s (DEF), the Waters and Forests Department of the Ministry
of Agriculture, would: (i) improve its field management on gazetted natural forests; (ii) prepare a
new forest legislation; and (iii) refine the national biodiversity policy.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 17
7. Finally, the national geographic institute, Foiben-Taosarintanin'i Madagasikara (FTM), a
public entreprise under the purview of the Ministry of Public Works, would be in charge of
producing maps and geographic information required by the other components.
8. All the above made for an ambitious program, endowed with a multifarious, decentralized,
structure to address complex problems but underlied by a single logic. The implementing
agencies have been slow in reaching their cruising speed due to general problems -- mainly the
political instability through which the country went in the early 1990s -- or management
problems such as delayed procurement procedures and delayed fund allocations. All agencies
have now been established and endowed with the appropriate resources and are pursuing their
activities at an accelerated rhythm. They should be able to continue to fulfill their mandates
until the end of the 15-year environment program and beyond. However, due to delays in the
first two years of the Project and to ensure a smooth transition between EP I and EP2, the closing
date of EPI was postponed by six months till December 31, 1996.
B. Physical Achievements of EPI
9. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). M&E suffered from several shortfalls in the course of
EPI. Consequently, indicators on physical achievements have not been centralized even after
the introduction of the SOMAGI system. Some implementing agencies lack proper financial
information on some projects officially placed under their responsibility but over which they
actually have little oversight. Finally, few impact indicators exist, either because it is still early
to measure the long-term impact of the actions undertaken since the beginning of EP I or because
they simply haven't been defined. It is therefore key to define operational indicators to measure
the performance and impact of EP2 before the start scheduled for early 1997.
10. The reasons for the M&E shortfalls include the following: (i) pioneering nature of the
program which could not rely on similar programs in other countries at the time; (ii) confusion
between internal and external M&E: ONE, through the installation of the SOMAGI system
attempted to capture too high a level of detail on physical achievements thereby creating an
unwieldy and of EPI.eventually useless tool; (iii) the central M&E tool came too late in the
game after several agencies had already introduced a more simple tool to address their own
M&E needs; (iv) insufficient consulting among agencies on M&E concepts, processes and tools;
(v) inadequate support from the donor community.
11. Key indicators tables 1-4 and paras 12-21 hereafter summarize the physical achievements.
12. Table 1: Physical Achievements of ANAE. ANAE will be fulfilling most of its objectives
by the end of EPI. Between 40% and 50% of the number of participating families and physical
targets have been reached already as of April 1996. It is reasonable to expect final achievements
in the order of 75% given that the miniprojects for the 1995-1996 campaign involve much larger
numbers than in previous years. (Please note that 1995-1996 targets are included in these figures
while 1995-1996 results won't be available until April 1997.)



Annex 1
Page 3 of 17
13. Table 2: Physical Achievements of ANGAP. ANGAP's achievements in the course of EPI
have included contracting out the management for 22 out of the 38 existing protected areas and
ensuring own management of another four, to reach a total of 26. Although this is lower than the
initial target, one can legitimately argue that the target itself was set too high. The cost of setting
up an operational structure of the ICDP type turned out to be more costly than expected (over
US$ 500,000 on average per year). Even with significant foreign assistance (see Table ???),
ANGAP was not able to contract out the management of all of the protected areas. Therefore, in
order to cut costs and build up its in-house capacity, ANGAP decided to take over the
management of four areas. This development had not been envisioned at the beginning of EP I
but should set the trend for EP2, thereby reducing the costs of operational structures in and
around protected areas. An additional six protected areas will have been added to the existing
network by the end of EP I instead of the eight projected initially.
14. Table 3: Physical Achievements of DEF. The achievements of DEF during EPI can be
broken down into three categories: (i) those which were carried forth from the closed Forests
Protection and Management Project (Credit 1878-MAG) numbered 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7; (ii) those
which were initiated under the first phase of the National Environmental Action Plan (EPI)
numbered 1, 6 and 8; and (iii) those started in the framework of specific cooperation projects
under the purview of DEF numbered 9-13. The major activities started after the mid-term
review of Cr. 1878-MAG, i.e. the preparation of a new forest legislation, of an ecological forest
inventory and of a human resource policy for DEF, are developing at a very satisfactory rate.
The new forest legislation bill will be submitted to the May 1996 National Assembly session. It
results from an intensive effort to involve the regions and field forestry actors in the drafting
process through a number of workshops and conferences.  The forest inventory will be
completed by the end of EPI albeit with some delays. It will give a reliable state of the
Malagasy forests and allow to verify the degradation percentages commonly used but never
verified. It will also serve as baseline data for future similar surveys and be used by forest
planners in the allocation of forest concessions. The implementation of the new human resource
policy has started and all targets will be reached. For reasons similar to those invoked under
para 13 on ANGAP, DEF will not have been able to add eight but four new protected areas to
the existing network. In addition, six protected areas will have seen their status change in the
course of EPI to reflect the reality more accurately or, in certain cases, allow better planning of
biodiversity usage. Finally, the research program has produced very mixed results: only the
eucalyptus trimming module has advanced practical knowledge. Prominent among the activities
launched since the beginning of EPI is the management of gazetted forests designed to adopt
more rational forest exploitation techniques. Currently in use on a pilot mode in four forests, this
new orientation in forestry should become central during EP2. The Debt for Nature Swap
Program operated by WWF has proved instrumental in creating 321 nature protection agent
positions, fixed-term employees hired to strengthen the regional and local offices of the Waters
and Forests administration.  Little information is available at DEF on the performance of
bilateral cooperation projects, which in itself is an indicator of the insufficient integration of
these activities in DEF's core business.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 17
15. Table 4: Physical Achievements of DD. Targets for this component were adjusted
downwards considerably after it appeared that the procedure leading to the titling was technically
complex and quite controversial. Sequencing the various steps of the operation - mainly carrying
out the aerial reconnaissance, sensitizing beneficiaries to the benefits of titling and drawing up
the cadastral plans - has proven a difficult task to coordinate. Several sites therefore had to be
postponed or canceled because the proposed work was meeting with too much criticism.
Another important drawback is that the land registration and titling activities were to be pilot
ones, whose continuation would depend on successful the results of evaluations around mid-term
review. However, these evaluations were not undertaken until the beginning of the fifth year of
the Project and no conclusions have therefore been drawn as to the environmental benefits of
titling. This was taken into account in the design of EP2: the importance of land security as an
objective continues to be emphasized but the means to attain the objective will be left open, in
accordance with the general trend toward the devolition of the management of renewable natural
resources to communities. Titling would only be used if the beneficiaries express the wish to
receive a title on the resources (land, forest, water, ...) entrusted to their stewardship. In addition,
an international symposium on land tenure and cadaster has been scheduled for June 1996, which
will review the conclusions of the studies, address once again the fundamental question of the
benefits of land titling for the environment, and suggest possible reorientations for EP2. Finally,
the development of the private surveyor profession has by and large been overlooked during
EPl .
16. Physical Achievements of FTM. Among the targets, half were set at appraisal and half In
the course of EPI when FTM's remote-sensing equipment became operational to meet new
orders. Delivery of this equipment was delayed by two years due to a flaws in the bidding
process and technical problems with the color laboratory. Yet, by the end of EPI, FTM will
have been able to supply the updated national forest map coverage requested by DEF in its forest
inventory work. The targets set at the beginning of EPI were generally revised downwards
because FTM's main client, DD, itself scaled down its titling activities in the conditions
described above. In addition, due to financial constraints at DD, products executed by FTM
were never sold to DD. Institutionally, FTM is currently going through a dramatic cultural
change from a inward-looking parastatal to a market-oriented mixed enterprise. Financial and
human resource management are being professionalized and the notion of profitability has been
adopted by the direction committee. Talks have been initiated with the Ministry of Public Works
to contemplate opening FTM's capital to the private sector.
17. Physical Achievements of ONE. ONE was mandated to fulfill tasks in a number of areas
ranging from mainstreaming the environment in national development policies to the financial
coordination of EP I.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 17
1 8. As the leader of the movement to mainstream the environment, ONE has started the
formulation of sectoral policies that better integrate environmental concerns. Typically, the
process consists of three phases: the diagnostic, the proposal, and the validation in a national
workshop. So far, the process has been completed for tourism, industry, mines and energy. An
ecologically sustainable road sector policy should also be completed by the end of EP I. Each
time, a group of international and national experts is selected to carry out the first two phases and
lead the debates and formulate clear recommendations in the third phase. It is then up to the
legislative and executive branches of Government to adopt or amend the recommendations.
According to needs, the process may also include in-depth training for beneficiaries, as in the
case of the "ecologically sustainable industrial policy" formulation exercise. ONE has also
sponsored a decree titled Mise en comnpatibilite des investissernents avec 1'environnement
(MECIE), introducing standards to be met by all investments, notably the obligation to hold an
environmental impact assessment. Although the Decree has been published it still needs a
number of "Arretes" to make it fully operational. This work is proceeding and will assume more
importance in EP2.  ONE, with its in-house capacity, has started evaluating such impact
assessments to advise the authority responsible for granting the investment permit.
Environmental units are being established in sectoral ministries (so far one unit has been created
in the Ministry of Industry while the Ministry of Agriculture has created a unit in its civil
engineering directorate). Last but not least, ONE, under the cover of the Minister of Agriculture,
has sponsored a bill on the local management of renewable natural resources, the adoption of
which by the National Assembly in the form of a law will lay the ground for major innovations
under EP2.
19. The Research component suffered from a lack of focus and link to operations. However, not
all the research programs were placed under ONE's responsibility. In fact, the institutional
context featuring several organizations invested with similar mandates (CNRE, IHSM, CNRO,
Universities) but funded from different sources (World Bank, COI, ORSTOM, ...) partly explains
why coordination has been lacking. 1995 saw the streamlining of the research programs funded
by the World Bank to make them more useful to operations. Need-based research is the trend set
for EP2, this time based on a national program scale and regardless of the source of funds.
20. Information, Education, Sensitization and Training achieved only little compared to its
objectives essentially due to the decision of the African Development Bank, the main donor for
this component, to cancel its Credit given that Madagascar was not paying its debt arrears.
WWF was therefore left as the only organization with the means and the program to undertake
significant actions in this area.
21. Coordination is the last major function entrusted to ONE. ONE partially fulfilled its
mandate: it skillfully organized the annual mid-year and end-year sessions of the CFE and the
COS and has met the annual financial and accounting audit requirements. In addition, ONE has
represented the environment in the budgetary dialogue with the Ministry of Plan for several
years and has managed to secure adequate resources for the implementation of EP 1. One of the
weakness in this component was the M&E function, as explained above. A special paragraph in
the section on the impact of EPI will address the institutional capacity issues at ONE.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 17
Table 1: EPI Physical Achievements - SOIL CONSERVATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT MINIPROJECTS (ANAE)
Activitics I/         Nb of     IParticipating Families               Physical Datai                   Costs (in curreint 1000 F ig)           Remarks
activities
Target nb  Actual    % of Iarget ha  'I'arget nb  Actual 2/    % of      Grant   Community Related
nb 2/   target                                 target                Participation Overhead 3/
I  Refbrestation                      775   25,502  16,531       65%     8,945                4,445     50%     2,475,084      1,323,399    235,367
2   Ravine stabilization               48       926     424      46%                   71        42     59%       230,887        29,453      25,770
3   Hillslope development             662    17,873   8,235      46%     4,090                 1,701    42%      1,147,337      806,381     113,808
4   Perennial crops on hillslopes     362    10,013   5,269      53%              355,834    163,291    46%       416,475        181,978     27,418                 Fruit trees
5  Annual crops on hillslopes          65    2,167       62       3%       489                    11     2%       100,208        155,897      6,042
6   Forest valley bottom development     5      431     169      39%       430                   72      17%      180,883         83,275      8,328
7   riibanikimicit protection            5      678     250      37%       650                   100     15%       74,747         3,070       5,002             Area protected
8   Bridges built                        I    2,000   2,000    100%                     I          I   100%        39,786          5,000      2,547
9   Dams built                           5      326     305      94%       458                  370      81%      128,135         20,702       8,779             Area irrigated
10 Dams rehabilitated                   9       702     442      63%       613                  450     73%        78,569         12,261     10,857                      ibid.
II Intensive riziculture              142    3,405      697      20%       245                  101    41%        133,696       183,579       8,439
12 OIl-season crops                    79    1,865      306      16%        97                    16    16%        54,934        39,036         478
13  Vegctable growing                 320    9,059   2,303       25%              144,721     80,561    56%       315,660        37,976      12,198          Vegetable gardens
14 Fruit tree growing                 228    7,325      811      11%              318,604     15,371     5%       319,988        119,698     20,871
15 Schools rehabilitated                 I       40      40    100%                     I          I   100%           891           186          99
16 Rural libraries created               I       17     146    859%                     3         3    100%           800            40          99
17  Drinkiig water adduction             I       32      65    203%                     i          1   100%        20,498         4,763        1,312
18 Drinlkinig water well               53    2,229      380      17%                   69         17    25%       277,494         13,654     36,542
19  Improved stoves                    44    3,430      145       4%                7,060       378      5%       216,145        61,368       17,704
20 Alternative fuel schemes             43    3,450      66       2%                3,450         50      1%      369,150        145,935           -           Production uniits
21  Biogas sclictiles                    i       80      80    100%                     I          I   100%         4,140           300         593                      Units
22  Small livestock                     44      873      80       9%                5,681        550     10%       54,440          4,364       5,214    Rabbits, chickiens, ducks
23  ilisciculture                       63      973      78       8%              115,867      7,864      7%       43,798         54,071       3,824
24  ApiCtltLirc                         29      643      43       7%                  629         19      3%       26,082          3,858       1,677
25  Mianuire stablcs                     2       45       19     42%                    2          1    50%          1,185         1,615         76
26  Village granary                      3      104                 -                   3          -                10,500         8,441           -                     Units
27  Rural track                          i      500     500    100%                     5          5    100%       83,348         10,631                   Length in kilomcters
28 Teaching to read and write            2      540        -        -                 540          -               23,350         10,704                  '[rained rural families
TOIAL                        ]   2,992j  95,228  39,446      41% J                                           6,828,210     3,321,635     553,044
|  |   _         ,                   ,~~~~~~~i    64%                          31%          5
ANAE's l'ayroll and Ileadcount
1990      1991       1992        1993         1994        1995 
I'ayroll(1,81G) 4/             634,900 33,584,000  67,590,000  195,786,000 289,083,000 656,442,000|
IlleadcoLunt 5/                  4         9           13         19           25          46 
L   Averagecsalary 4/               158,725  3,731,556   5.199,231   10,304,526   11,563.320   14,270,478
1/ Calculated on 1,088 iniii-projects launichied since 1991 and till 08/31/96 in partncrshiip withi 86 operators (minii-projets for the 96/97 campaign are ineludcd, but only in part, as the objectives for
the 96/97 campaign 96/97 are not yet completely recorded
2/ Realizations recorded till the date 08/31/96. Note that data on achievements corresponding to the on-going 95/96 campaign is not complete, this explains the gap betwcen objectives and
achievements.
3/' i;CillC i \pCIISCs i inl rUC AN/AL Stall S ie[t] visits and researcih costs  4/ Curreint I-MU   5/ Inicludiig I IQ anid regional aniteininas siice 1995



Annex I
Page 7 of 17
Table 2: EPI Physical Achievements - BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION (ANGAP)
Activities                Unit       'I'arget      Revised        Actual      % Achieved                        Remarks
target
I Field operations
=Managt of protected areas (PAs)
Contracted out (COPAs)               nb                    40                           29          72% Including I I'A under creation - Initial target set too higl
Contracted out                       ha              1,150,000                     984,910          86%
Average annual budget per COPA       $                                            S577,389               Based on the 6 major P.A.in 1995
% of expcnses for conservation (COPA) %                                               20%
% of expenses for development (COPA) %                                                16%
Own-managed (OMPAs)                  nb                     3              3             4         133%
Own-managed (OMPAs)                  ha               101,599        101,599       101,599         100%
Average annual budget per OMPA       S                                            $258,104
Coordination in PA management        nb of l'As            45                           28          62%
IProtected areas added to network    nb                     8                            0           0% Submitted by D1'l' to Government. Expected to be
finalized belore the end of El' I
2 Institutional development
Establishment of regional antennas   nb                                    I             I         100%
Construction of ecomusea             nb                                    2             2         100%
Construction of interpretation centers    nb                               4             0           0% All 4 centers will be completed by the end of EP
(bidding in process)
Construction of HQ building          nb                      I                           0           0% Purchase of existing building refused by Bank, SBD for
constrtuction received Blank no-objection
ANGAP's Payroll and Headcount
1991        1992          1993           1994          1995
Payroll (FMG) 1/                         n.a.      44,151,606   274,205,020   359,402,689   755,689,118
l leadcount 2/                           10           21            28            41            65
Average salary 1/                        n.a.        2,102,457     9,793,036     8,765,919    11,625,986
I/ Current FMG
2/ Including one regional antenna since 1995



Annex 1
Page 8 of 17
Table 3 - EPI Physical Achievements - FOREST MANAGEMENT (DEF)
Activities               Unit        Target   Revised   Aclual  % o        Costs    Durat ion           Remarks
target          revised                since
target            beginning
I Gazetted forest management
Management plans established    ha                          169,300 133,500    79%    S172,470           New activity since 1994 in 4
gazetted  forests  (COEFOF.
Project:        Ankeniheny,
Bongolava,      Andavakoera,
Fierenana)
Management plans established    ha                           2,885       0      0%    $563,118    12   ibid. since 1995 in 2 gazetted
months  forests  (DEF/GTZ   Project:
Ambatolampy)
Management plans executed      ha                           26,500   9,275    35%    $146,463   1 year  ibid. in I gazetted forest. Costs
exclude  technical assistance
Total average cost expected a.
$30/ha
Training in social forestry    nb of trainees                          357      n.a.       n.a           DEF/GTZ Project
New activity since mid-tem
2 Forest inventory                                    n.a.                            $2,112,500            review of Forestry Project
Forest cover maps 1/200,000    nb of maps                       45       0      0%  $2,736,233    18    Technical problems at FTN'
months  will delay delivery of maps bu:
all maps to be delivered by en(
of EP I
Forest statistics              nb of sampling  parcels         800     728    91%               9 months ibid.
Forest species handbook        nb of species                   200      123    61%              6 months 184  text  sections  and  6k
photographs
3 Forest policy                                       n.a.                            $1,125,000    15
months
Formulation of a new policy    policy adopted                     I       I   100"/0
Establishment of a national master plan adopted                   I       I   100%
plan
Formulation of a new forest law   bill      in                    I       I   100%
Parliament
Study of regional master plans    nb  of regional                6       6   100%                        Added to original contract
schemes
4 Protected Area Network                              n.a.
Creation of new protected areas   nbofPA              8                  2    23%    $462,427    15    4 new  PA will be added tc
months network by end EPI
Modification  of protected  area nb of PA                        6        5    82%                       6  PA  will see  their statu
status                                                                                                   change by end EPI
5 Human resources development                         n.a.                              S744,351           New activity since mid-term
review of Forestry Project
Training of executives abroad  nb   of  man-                    26      26   100%
months
Training of trainers locally   nb   of  man-                     I I     I I   100%
months
Establishment of local training nb of niodulcs                 100      38    38%
modules
Training of forestry agents locally nb   of  man-               132     53    40%
months
Training in  forest management nb of man-years                   2  '   0       0%                       To bcgin in September 1996
abroad
6 Monitoring and evaluation                           n.a.                                                 Decided in 1995
Building DEF's M&E wing        building opened                    1      0    40%      $56,250
Computerizing   DEF's   M&E system in place                               I I   60%     $4,981
system



Annex 1
Page 9 of 17
Computerizing forest statistics    system in place              I       1   60%       $4,981
Computerizing DEF's accounting  system in place                 I      I  100%       $10,840
7 Applied research                                                                   $217,118
Eucalyptus growth             nb of species        15                  5   33%                4 years
Soil conservation alternatives  ha                 20                  0     0%               4 years
Adapted species for 2 regions  nb of species      n.a.                63    n.a.              4 years
Inventory of new species in 2 nb of species       n.a.               138    n.a.              4 years
areas
8 Debt for Nature Swap program                                                      $2,500,000  5 years
Reforestation                 ha                  n.a.           2,516,2     n.a.
46
Nurseries                     nb                  n.a.              1,750    n.a.
Sensitization                 nb sensitized       n.a.           273,232     n.a.
Village association creation  nb                  n.a.               941     n.a.
9 Social forestry project (1995)                                                    $ I,189.500  3 years
Reforestation                 ha                                      65    n.a.
Updating forest maps          nb of maps            3                  2    67%                                                  l
Communal   maintenance   of ha                     35                 35   100%
plantations
10 Forest seed improvement                                                            $240,250  7 years
Seed production               kg                 7,786            23,827   306%
Seedling production           nb               58,500             60,000   103%
Seed saies                    US$              61.250             108,250   177%
11 NRM project in Menabe 1/                                                           $655,750  2 years
Reinforcement of credit groups   nb of groups     162                162   100%
Protection    contracts    with nb of contracts     2                  I   50%
communities
12 Support to CIREF in Morondava                                                      $135,300    n.a.
1/
Control and repression        nb of fines         n.a.                18    n.a.
13 Highland watershed managt 1/                                                       $200,500  4 years
Land surveyance               ha                  706                521    74%
Reforestation                 ha                  995                737    74%
Creation of peasant organizations nb of organiz.   33                 33   100%
Creation of village committces    nb       of                         14    n.a.
committees
I/ Cost for 1995 only



Annex 1
Page 10 of 17
Table 4: EP1 Physical Achievements - LAND TENURE SECURITY (Direction des Domaines)
Activities             Unit   'I'arget   Revised    Actual     % of'      Duration            Cost                         Remarks
target               target
Cadastral operations own-manlaged
Area surveyed and                    ha    2,000,000  823,000    823,000      100%                 FMG 101,000/parcel Revision after start-up delays and coordination
delimited                                                                                          I-MG 6,000/ha       problems having led to criticism  by field
operators in protected areas
Titles issued                        nb      100,000   40,000      12,003      30%  56 man-montihs FMG 28,000/titie    No  operation   completed   due  to  thle
uniavailability of cadastral plans
Parcels judged                      nb       100,000     1,250       670      54%  1 00 man-months FMG 27,000/parcel
IMG 2,300/ha
Parcels under litigation             nb          n.a.     n.a.      1,822      n.a.
I'arcels subject to appeal I/       nb           n.a.     na.         n.a.     n.a.
2  Cadastral operations contracted out to
private surveyors
Area surveyed and redelimited        ha      200,000    15,000          0       0%                                     Only one site programmed for 1996
l'itles isstied                      nb       10,000    10,000          0       (0/%
I'arcels judged                     nb        10,000    10,000          0       0%
Parcels under litigationi           nb           n.a.      n.a.         0      n.a.
Parcels subject to appeal           nb           n.a.      n.a.         0      n.a.
3  Studies and workshiops
Land lease                           nb            1                          80%      30 weeks               $140,708 Under way, results expected May 96
Land taxation                       nb             i                          90%      21 weeks                $43,667 ibid.
Comimtunal tenure zones              nb            1                           80%     22 wecks                $68,85 I ibid.
Internatioial  symposium   on1  land   nb                    i                20%       3 days             na..        Sympositumii to be hield last week ol'Julie 96
tenure and cadaster
Project Managenment Unit Statis      nb            I                    I    100%        n.a.                   $4,250 Study  recommended  privatizing  the  un1it.
Ministry reluctant to agree, lest all the projects
under its supervisoion followed the same route.
4  Computerizing  cadastral records in  nb             I                          10%     6 monitlis           $1,100,000 ICB under way
rural areas
1/ Appeal to Court of Appeal aller the Land T'ribunal's decision



Annex 1
Page 11 of 17
Table 5. First Environment Program  1991-1996 I/
Financing Plan: Allocations and Uses (in US$)
Componient      World [ank   USAII)    France      U.N.    WWI 2/  Switzerland  Norway   Germiany       Europe   Netherland Governmilenlt    aotal
(IDA,    (KEIPEM,              (UNDI',                       (NORAD) (GTZ, KIW)                   s          4/
Norwegian  SAVEM)              FAO, GEF)                           3/
& Swiss
grants)
Environmental policies,    $6.200,000 S22,000,000  $800,000 S1,400,000 $1,700,000                                                  $3,778,051  $35,878,051
Program coordination,
Mlonitoring & Evaluation,
Environmental Education
(ONE)
13iodiversity lProtection  $3,000,000 $40,000,000  $300,000 $2,400,000 $2,800,000  -     $800,000  $7,400,000     -     $1,600,000   $779,513  S59,079,513
(DIJF/ANGAP)
:orest Department (DEF7)   S7.000,000 $22,500,000  -   $2,950,000 $1,000,000 $10,900,000           $8,100,000               S- 775,720  $53,225,720
Reinforcemcnt
Soil conscrvation (ANAE)  $3,300,000             -         -                   $750,000    -                                         $444,784   $4,494,784
Cartography             $7,600,000     -     $2,700,000                                            $3,100,000     -                  $634,863  $14,034,863
(FlI/CFSIGI-)
Land security (DD)       5,700,000                                                                                -          -      $2,812,275   $8,512,275
Environmental Rescarch    $1,000,000           $400,000     -                                                                                   $1,400,000
(ONE/CNRI/CNRO/ORST
ONI)
Mklarine Environment (COI)                                            -          -         *                  $3,000,000     -         -         $3,000,000
TOTAL ALLOCATED   $33,800,000 $84,500,000 $4,200,000 $6,750,000 $5,500,000 $11,650,000  $800,000 $18,600,000  $3,000,000 $1,600,000  $5,447,154 $187,309,148
$7,683,943
of%% lhich:    Grants $7,800,000 $74,200,000 S4,200,000 $6,750,000 $5,500,000 S11,650,000  $800,000 $18,600,000  $3,000,000 $1,600,000  $5,447,154 $139,547,154
ILoans $26,000,000 S 10,300,000  -        -         -          -                     -          -          -                  $36,300,000
lax exempt $7,800,000 S84,500,000 $4,200,000 $6,750,000 $5,500,000 $11,650,000  $800,000 $18,600,000  $3,000,000 $1,600,000  -    $144,400,000
or 80% of       Total
TOTAL USED (end of  S27,300,000 S67,600.000 $4,200,000 S6,750,000 $5,300,000 $11,650,000  $800,000 $12,400,000    $500,000 $1,600,000  $3,651,645 $149,435,588  Allocated
EPI)
$7,683,943
o0fshich: laxcxcmpt $7.800,000 $67,600,000 $4,200,000 $6,750,000 $5,300,000 $11,650,000  $800,000 $12,400,000    $500,000 $1,600,000      $118,600,000
I/ Understood as includinig all environimental projects in Madagascar between 1991 and 1996
2/ Including $700,000 fromil British ODA and $200,000 fronm Deutscle Bank
3/ Funding fromii the Norwegian Forcign NMinistry is channelled through the World Bank
4/ lcfore 1995, taxes (-rT L and DII) were paid out ofan intermninisterial budget item and are thercfore not captured here.
Ilased on the breakdown of Government counterpart for 1995, counterpart funds stricto sensu (1l'l or Governmienit funds for net-of-tax expenses) represent only 30%.
70% oftcounterpart funds representing TL and DTI tbr 1991-1994 amounts to over $7,000,000, which should be added to the $5,447,154 allocated and $3,651,645 used during EPI.



Annex 1
Page 12 of 17
C.    Field Impact of EP1
22. The overall development impact of the program is still not clear. The primary reason is that
the central objective of the first phase was the creation and reinforcement of national institutions
aimed at answering the needs of the environment. Institutional building takes a long time to
translate into material and quantifiable benefits. Furthermore, the overall development impact of
EPI is limited given that field activities have so far been limited in scope. ANAE, in particular,
suffered from insufficient funding to launch miniprojects in the first two years of the EPI. The
shortfalls described above in the realm of M&E also explain why indications of impact are
scarce.
23. However, ad hoc evaluations of field activities undertaken in soil conservation miniprojects,
the management of protected areas and the management of gazetted forests reveal encouraging
results.
24. Table 6.A: ANAE. On the basis of a very limited sample of miniproject sites for which
data series are available between 1992 and 1996, the impact of the ANAE-funded activities is
very positive.  These four sites were located in the highlands and contained the usual
conservation-development mix of ANAE packages (reforestation, hillslope development, soil
improvement, together with vegetable growing, fruit tree growing, and dam  rehabilitation).
Thanks to ANAE's support during four consecutive agricultural campaigns, yields have risen
significantly, new and more intensive techniques have been adopted, and crops have been
diversified. Some land that previously was let fallow to allow for crop interspacing has been
recovered and put under cultivation thanks to new crop mixes which allow soil regeneration. In
four years annual family income increased betveen 20 and 85 per cent in real terms. Adoption
rates of the new techniques by non-beneficiary farmers range between 48 and 246 per cent,
which proves that the benefit of adopting the techniques is patent to many who have come in
contact with the miniprojects without directly benefiting from them. Finally, the frequency of
bush fires has been greatly reduced, in one case even eliminated, and on-site soil loss estimates
suggest that conservation measures do have a real impact if the current estimated rates are
compared to the national average (0.5 ton per hectare per year compared to 200 tons per hectare
per year).
25. Some additional evidence that ANAE is having some real impact on the ground is included
in Table 6.B. This table reflects the data from 5 sites in the Toliara province where ANAE
financed energy-efficiency miniprojects. Activities consisted of the dissemination of energy
efficient woodstoves and techniques to make charcoal out of bozaka, the typical savanna grass
which grows on grazing land in the south of Madagascar. As a result of ANAE's intervention,
considerable savings were recorded in the time spent by a household to collect wood and to cook
and in the quantity of wood and charcoal used by a household for cooking and heating purposes.



Annex 1
Page 13 of 17
26. Table 7: ANGAP. The most visible impact of ANGAP's work has taken the form of entry
fees collected in protected areas. Between 1992 and 1995, the number of visits to protected areas
has recorded very important annual increases due principally to improvements in the collection
of fees (the number of incoming tourists rises by less than 10% annually). In 1995 only, the total
revenues from all parks exceeded $100,000, producing significant revenues that will cover part
of the parks' operating costs and also generate investments into community development
projects through the 50 per cent entry fee retrocession mechanism. Few systematic indicators are
available as of yet to assess the impact of ANGAP's actions on biological conservation in
Madagascar.  Monitoring systems have been put in place in most protected areas under
management. Although time series are still insufficient to identify real trends, there are
indications that land clearing is decreasing in most areas.
27. Link between Conservation and Development. The view has now come to prevail that the
protection of Madagascar's environment won't be won in the forests, let alone the protected
areas. It is more likely that without appropriate measures to address such problems as low
agricultural productivity, and land and resource insecurity, the spiral of degradation will not stop.
In a nutshell, development still suffers from inadequate resources. Obviously, the NEAP cannot
remedy this situation alone.
28. The first phase of the NEAP focused mainly on biodiversity protection in protected areas
while promoting development work around them.  The link between conservation and
development was expressed by schemes called Integrated Conservation and Development
Projects (ICDPs) in and around protected areas (see Annex A). In addition to these ICDPs,
protection agents in 12 protected areas benefit from educational training provided by WWF.
29. Experience with ICDPs is mixed. While some of them have undoubtedly managed to curb
reduction in forest cover, sensitization to the long-term link between conservation and
development among the local population has been slow and underfunded. Responses to the
needs of local populations are often inadequate: a participatory approach is adopted by more and
more ICDPs but fundamental discrepancies remain between the objectives of the ICDP (mostly
conservation) and those pursued by the population (mostly development). An ICDP is desigiled
primarily for conservation and uses development as a means of compensation. Even if there was
an effort to balance conservation and development, a high percentage of the resources provided
by bilateral and multilateral donors is allocated to conservation, and development activities
remain unsufficient in relation to the needs of the population around the protected areas.
30. It is still too early to draw a balance sheet of how ICDPs have fared in Madagascar. Many of
them have not been operational for more than a couple of years. While lessons must be learnt
from past experience, it is necessary to test the methodology more with more variants to it,
particularly on the degree to which the population should be involved in design, execution and
monitoring. However, it is clear that only limited impact should be expected without massive
infusions of financial and human resources, making the whole scheme unsustainable in the long
run.



Annex 1
Page 14 of 17
31. It is therefore EP2's responsibility to do more for environmental protection outside of
protected areas, in particular in other forests and agricultural areas. In the latter, synergy with
other operators from the private and public sectors must be encouraged (e.g. public and private
extension, research, credit, tourism).  The regional approach adopted in EP2 to address
environmental problems should help establish those links. In addition, EP2 will do more in the
areas of soil conservation and the management of forest ecosystems, including by promoting
sustainable forest exploitation.
32. DEF. However early it still is for the new forest management techniques to produce
significant impacts, it is clear that new revenues can be generated. In the gazetted forest of
Ankeniheny where the first management plan is being implemented with DEF's support, a newly
created association of over 100 lumber jacks benefits from 25%-higher-than-normal prices for
products of higher quality. The supply of such higher-quality products will only increase with
the mechanization of felling and sawing and the training of traditional exploitants. Side benefits
include the advanced knowledge in the regeneration of valued timber species like palissander.
No field impact can be noticed to date for the activities designed to build up DEF's capacity
(forest and human resource policy and forest inventory).  However, these measures were
indispendable as revealed by the completion report for the Forests Protection and Management
Project.  The direct benefits of these activities can be measured in terms of the accrued
knowledge and methods which will be used in the future. It is no understatement to say that
DEF has come out of its lethargy and undergone a metamorphosis in the course of EPI, which
will make it a real partner in the implementation of more rational methods to use renewable
natural resources. Nevertheless, a comprehensive reform of DEF to make it service-oriented will
not be possible without a general overhaul of the public administration and its systems of
incentives.
33. Short of being able to detect a positive impact of titling on environmental conservation, one
can at least state that DD's activities helped solve numerous land conflicts between neighbors.
The public inquiry and the following legal procedure generally allows to clarify the tenure
situation of a given plot of land which may be claimed by various parties and formalize this
through the attribution of a right and a title.
34. FTM. As a support component of EPI, mapping and remote sensing does not have a
directly monitorable field impact but enables the execution of other activities such as forest
inventories, redelimitation of protected areas, titling, etc. Nevertheless, impact indicators related
to FTM's long-term development have been designed for EP2 (see Annex 7).



Annex 1
Page 15 of 17
35. ONE. Given its mandates, ONE does not have direct field impact. The impact of ONE's
actions will be measured through the implementation of improved sectoral policies, the
enforcement of environmental impact assessements for industrial investments or the even the
acts of better informed individuals. In other words, the impact will be indirect and take a long
time to materialize. Of all the institutions created or strengthened to implement EPI, ONE has
faced the most challenging tasks. Unfortunately, its in-house capacity is still low respective to
these tasks. It would therefore be tempting to reinforce ONE's internal capacity. However, it
has always been the intention to keep ONE small confined within a non-operational role similar
to that of a consulting firm. As an outcome of the beneficiary assessment held in 1995 (see
paras ???-???), ONE  underwent a capacity audit in March-April 1996.   Among the
recommendations of the audit, the scope of activities currently assigned to ONE should be
narrowed, its role should be recentered on the advising/consulting function, the position of
Director General should be reinforced, staffing and training plans should be reviewed and staff
should be evaluated according to their performance in meeting preassigned objectives.
36. General Public Awareness. Without being attributable to any institution in particular,
another achievement of EPI is the degree to which it has helped raise public awareness for the
environment. Environmental awareness has risen in the Malagasy population since the launch of
the NEAP. Guides' associations trained and equiped by ANGAP help fight against deforestation
in and around protected areas;  lumber jacks' associations supported by DEF improve the
management of gazetted forests by reducing waste; peasants' groupings helped by ANAE
protect their watersheds against erosion; fokontany organize themselves for trash collection
campaigns in some cities.
37. International Visibility. Moreover, EPI has helped increase the international visibility of
Madagascar in the outside world. The international community is doing a lot to help preserve
Madagascar's species and their habitats. The Global Environment Facility (GEF) is ready to
support incremental costs linked to biodiversity conservation under EP2. In addition, ecotourism
holds potential for increasing revenues for biodiversity protection, while at the same tine
generating income for local populations.  EPI has supported some actions in promoting
ecoutourism. EP2 will continue and increase this support. A national foundation, Tally Meva,
was set up to serve as recipient of donations of many origins -- public or private, local or
international -- and shelter for smaller foundations. The funds invested in it will bear interest to
be used for sustainable activities in natural resource management. Without the polarization of
the international community on the protection of the country's natural riches, the plight of the
Malagasy population would not even be known as well as it is today. Being a little provocative,
one can argue that having emphasized the need for conserving Madagascar's unique biodiversity
and concentrated aid on protected areas during EPI has helped trigger off more international
concern and actions for sectors such as agriculture, health and education. In light of this, the
"lemurs vs. men" fallacy may finally help men more than they expected.



Annex 1
Page 16 of 17
Table 6. A - Field Impact of ANAE 1/
Tsimahabeomby     Miandrarivo    Amboasary Nord   Amparafarabe
Indicators              Before   After   Before   After    Before   After   Before  After
Yields (T/ha)
Irrigated Rice
*   Traditional                         1.8      2.4            -             -       -     1.8   2.1
- Broadcast                           -        -      1.0        -      1.0     1.5       -      -
- Replanting                          -        -     2.0       2.5      2.0     2.5       -      -
*   Line Planting                         -      3.6     3.0      4.0         -     3.0     2.2    4.0
*   Intensive                             -      5.5        -      6.0        -     4.0       -    7.5
Rain-fed Crops
*   Cassava                            10.0    60.0    10.0    20.0        10.0    10.0     7.0  42.0
*   Yams                               10.0     18.0    10.0    10.0       10.0    10.0     5.0  20.0
*   Taro                               50.0     50.0    40.0    40.0          -       -       -      -
*   Potatoes                           10.0     10.0    10.0    20.0          -       -    10.0   15.0
*   Beans                                 -        -     0.8       1.0      0.8     1.0       -      -
*   Groundnuts                            -        -        -        -      2.0     2.5       -      -
*   Garlic                                -        -        -        -        -    10.0       -      -
*   Onions                                -        -        -        -        -    12.0       -      -
*   Cabbage                               -        -        -        -        -   20.0        -       -
*   Cauliflower                           -        -        -        -     10.0   20.0        -      -
Income ('000 of 1992 FMG)
*   Ag. Income per Family/year          599    1,108   2,968    3,591      860   1,548        -      -
Dissemination
*   Nb.  families  outside  project
adopting conservation techniques       85%              120%             48%             246%
/Nb. families in project
Conservation
*   Frequency of bush fires             2 y        0     2 y       4 y      2 y     4 y   1.2 m    6 m
*   Soil loss (T/ha/year) 2/                 -   0.4        -      0.5        -   - 0.5                l
1/ On the basis of 4 miniproject sites located on the highlands between 1992 and 1996
2/  Data before miniprojects not available.  The average figure for Madagascar is estimated at 200
Tlha/year on degraded land without conservation measures.



Annex 1
Page 17 of 17
Table 6. B - Field Impact of ANAE 1/
Before          After
Miniproject    Miniproject
Wood Collection Time / family 2/
*  Duration of consumption per collection      6.0 days       45.0 days
*  Time spent on collection per year          60.8 days         8.1 days
Cooking Time / family 3/
*  Cooking time spent by woman per day        5.0 hours       1.25 hours
*  Cooking time spent by woman per year    1825.0 hours    456.25 hours
Fuelwood Consumption / family 3/
*  Consumption per family per day                5.7 kg           1.5 kg
*  Annual wood consumption                    2.08 tons         0.55 ton
Charcoal Consumption / family 3/
*  Consumption per family per day               2.76 kg         0.75 kg
*  Annual charcoal consumption                   1.0 ton        0.27 ton
1/ On the basis of 2 miniprojects at 5 sites promoting more efficient energy consumption and benefiting
116 families in the area of Ranohira (Toliara province).
2/ Improved woodstoves.
3/ Improved woodstoves and bozaka charcoal bricks.
Table 7 - Field Impact of ANGAP
Initial    Revised
Unit    Target    Target    Actual                 Remarks
Visits to protected    nb. of                -         74,371 Significant yearly increase (155%-
areas                  visits           _16%-/o86% between 1992 and 1995)
|Annual income  from     $                  $70,000    $90,437 Figures for the 4  most visited
entry fees                                                    Protected Areas in 1995 only
Average       tourist    $                   -            $10 Daily spending in addition to the cost
spending in peripheral                                        of lodging and entry fee, per tourist
area
Funds  available  for    $                           $118,129
micro-projects
Number  of  micro-                                        102
projects
lPopulation reached                                      3570



Annex Ibis
Page 1 of 12
MADAGASCAR
SECOND ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
Participation and Consultation
A.    Beneficiary Assessment
1. Participatory evaluation has been gaining more ground since the beginning of EPI. A
notable development was the beneficiary assessment conducted in 1995 for all of the EPI
activities. The design or redesign of EP2 took several of the beneficiary assessment findings into
account. In addition, EP2 will systematize the beneficiary assessment approach and explore
ways of introducing the principles into the various monitoring and evaluation systems already in
place. Following are the principal findings of the beneficiary assessment conducted for EPI.
2. The following paragraphs synthesize five regional reports authored by the following research
groups: CAST, Cabinet Colin Rabenitany (CCR), Groupe de Recherche pour la Connaissance du
Sud (GReCS), MIARA MITA and Office Statistique et Informatique pour la Programmation du
D[veloppement (OSIPD).   These reports evaluated the impact of the first five year
environmental program (EPI) financed by the World Bank, USAID and various other donors.
The first objective for this "user evaluation", better known as a Beneficiary Assessment (BA),
was to have the different levels of beneficiaries assess for themselves the impact of EPI and its
success in attaining defined goals. The second objective was then to identify problems and make
recommendations in preparation for the second five year program (EP2).
3. This evaluation took place between July and November 1995 and included interviews with
1,746 beneficiaries and numerous key informants. The five research groups covered distinct
geographical zones. CAST covered the east of Madagascar, CCR the north, and GRECS worked
in the south. The highlands in central Madagascar were covered by MIARA MITA and OSIPD.
MIARA MITA also did the administrative part of the evaluation, which was conducted in
Antananarivo and covered inter-agency collaboration and benefits. This Beneficiary Assessment
was coordinated and financed by ONE and supervised by Catherine Reid.
4. This annex presents the outcome of the Beneficiary Assessment, s presented by the various
consultants, it does not necessarily reflects the opinion of the EP2 appraisal team. Beneficiary
Assessments are a tool for managers to improve program services through a better understanding
of participants and their perceptions. They are not an objective measurement of actual
achievements, this is the role of the monitoring and evaluation system.



Annex ibis
Page 2 of 12
Beneficiary Assessment Highlights and Consequences
Component         Positive Aspects           Negative Aspects           Recommendations         Influence on EP2 Design
or Agency
* First comprehensive poll  * Fear of sanctions       *  Make  exercise  more   * Some AGEX  will use
General    of rural perceptions of the   *   Time   horizon   of  systematic and insist on its   BA  reports as  training
Environment Program        Program  too  short  to  constructive intent           tools
* AGEX found it useful     change  attitudes  in  a
lasting manner
* AGEX poorly known
* Mistrust of"outsiders"
ANAE       *   Success   of  many   * Bad projects covered up   * Decentralize               *   EP2   will  increase
miniprojects         and                              * Be more open about  support for ANAE
generated enthusiasm                                  failures                    * First field impact studies
* Capacity building: more                                                        executed
field operators than before                                                       *  5  regional  antennas
planned for EP2
Protected    *   Concept linking        * Conflicts on boundaries   * Include participation in    * Regional approach to
Areas      conservation and           * Protected area operators   planning stages           development and
development                act as "in conquered land"   * Uphold traditional      conservation rather than
*    50 % of entrance      * Promises made to         values as much as possible  ICDP exclusively
fees to Pas are funding    populations late in        * Accelerate disburse-
micro-projects for         materializing              ments of 50% of park
neighbouring communities   * Uneven distribution of    entry fee revenues
*   Job creation (e.g.     benefits                   * Improve communication
tour guides)                                          and information
DD        *   Titles  solve   land   * No sign of link between   *  Improve  information   *  Assessment  of land
conflicts                 titling   and   enhanced   and sensitization            tenure policy and cadaster
* Local staff known to the   conservation                                         under way
communities                * Social implications of                               * EP2 will foster titling
titling overlooked                                    only when requested by
the communities
DEF       *  Positive  reforestation   * Salary differences with   * Improve communication   *   EP2   will  include
activities                 ANGAP   hinder   good   with ANGAP at the field  participatory            forest
cooperation                level                      management activities
Actions to  be taken
against inetficient field
I ____________                           ___________________________  agents
FTM                                                              '   Conduct   intensive   ' FTM is opening up
marketing
* Improve service quality
ONE                                   *   Lack   of   human   ' Improve communication   * Institutional audit held
resources                  with private sector        * EP2 will relieve ONE of
*           Cumbersome   '    Encourage    better  unnecessary activities
administration             coordination      among
*   Unclear  link   with  donors
Ministry  in  charge  of
environment
4. Two important caveats are in order at this juncture. First, many of the efforts of EPI
focused on capacity building at the institutional level.  New  agencies were created, contracts
were awarded  and  guidelines established.  An  impressive amount of work was accomplished
building institutions for the futuire.  But a Beneficiary Assessment does not measure institution
building, it measures impact in the eyes of the communily. At that level, the finding are not as
impressive, although laudatory for the scope of activities attempted. Second, this assessment
was to be a constructive tool in the continuing effort to improve services on the ground. This
document should not be used to give sanctions, but rather to fuel reflection and discussion on
efforts to attain environmentally sustainable development.



Annex Ibis
Page 3 of 12
5. General Findings and Conclusions
* The population views the environment as a resource to be used and profited from.
* There are no shortcuts on the investment of time: It requires years of consistent work to
begin to see behavior changes.
* The inclusion of the population in all prioritizing and planning activities is necessary for
long term impact.
* Better communication between the various actors is direly needed.
* Traditional values need to be explored and reinforced.
* There is a general mistrust of activities which require a large number of outsiders, especially
expatriates.
* Migration has a strong negative impact on the environment. The population feels loyalty to
the land where their family is buried.
* Almost nowhere does the population know the name or the function of the executing agency
(ANGAP, ANAE) which funds and supervises the various NGO operators. In one case, even
the name of the operator was unknown. This hinders the population in cases where they
need to communicate grievances, abnormalities or successes to a higher level. It also hinders
the executing agencies in providing oversight.
- In many of the areas visited, the population asked for intensive reforestation programs and
seedling nurseries. They are willing to participate in the work and care for trees, especially
in areas experiencing severe deforestation and erosion such as Bezaha Taheza and
Andranovory. But the population expressed the need for adapted trees which should be
distributed for planting in the correct season. "We are convinced of the need to protect the
environment. We have seen successful reforestation and our surroundings are becoming
green again. " Villager near protected area.
* In areas where traditional structures no longer exist, the new community management groups
(Comite de Gestion Villageois: COGES or CGV) are more effective. Where more traditional
decision making bodies are evident, it is recommended to use them and not superimpose an
outside structure.
6. The Protected Areas: Creation and Management. The overwhelming majority of the
population recognizes the importance of their surroundings for their survival. The environment
is viewed through the optic of its utility for providing the population's needs. The forest is
described as providing items necessary for daily life; food, firewood, water, medicine and animal
pastures. It also protects the soil, brings rain and provides shelter for the family tomb. The
forest and the environment have direct, immediate benefits for the surrounding population.
Rational use of environmental resources has been encouraged to protect the benefits for all.
7. Using this perspective, the new contracts now envisaged between villagers and the
government for the controlled use of resources fit an already accepted logic. National parks and
protected areas, in which natural resources cannot by used by the population are much less easily
accepted. This is especially true when people from the outside (researchers, tourists, NGO
agents) have access to these areas. Compensation for loss of various forest uses with other items
deemed important by the community, such as schools and health clinics, has been seen as a way
to balance the needs of community and national or international concern for the Malagasy
environment. The community views compensation as a long term commitment to provide for
needs of the population which are no longer being met by the forest.



Annex Ibis
Page 4 of 12
8. The rural population's opinions of EPI activities are very conflicted. Almost everywhere,
the number of satisfied beneficiaries is equal to those who are dissatisfied with the same
programs. Naturally, those that directly benefit from the program (by employment, tourism, etc.)
are somewhat more favorable to program returns than others. The benefits of environmental
activities has been unevenly distributed between community members and even between
different villages. This has exacerbated an already tense situation. Because dissatified people
tend to be outspoken that satified ones, negative comments tend to outweight the positive ones in
the following paragraphs.
9. Unfortunately, in every region, in every project, there are people who are dissatisfied with
the results of compensation agreements. Many of these promises have not been kept, leaving the
population feeling betrayed. In one area, the population has transformed the acronym of the
project into the expression 'people who speak wvith empty mouths. " The negative impact of this
perception (and reality) will hinder future activities. Dissatisfaction also comes from programs
which don't fulfill expectations, i.e. schools without tables or teachers, health clinics without
nurses or medicine, half completed water canals and wells.
10. All the evaluators involved in this assessment are convinced that the only way to have
sustainable conservation is to actively involve the communities. Local participation will only
happen if the communities become central actors in setting priorities and planning activities.
And this, in turn, will only happen if the communities truly believe that their livelihoods are
intrinsically important to outsiders, not just as part of a conservation strategy. This process of
trust and engagement is one that takes time anywhere, but even more so in remote areas with
little contact with those beyond their neighborhood.
l1. This presents a dilemma for the NGO operators working on environmental protection.
NGOs know the importance of community participation and involvement but they realize the
time it takes to build such coalitions. They are constrained from taking a long term participatory
approach by the urgency of the environmental degradation which they observe. It might require
too much time to truly educate and engage the population in a environmentally sustainable plan.
By the time this process is completed there might not be anything left to preserve. This leaves
communities and EPI actors in a difficult and tense relationship, positioned in opposite camps.
12. The destruction of the environment is evident. Wild fires ravage the countryside in what
most programs attribute to "traditional" ways. During the course of this evaluation, beneficiaries
consistently noted that the current trend of extensive uncontrolled fires are not in accordance
with customs and are sometimes criminal in nature.  Drought, migration and political
discordance are contributing factors.  Many beneficiaries note that the traditional burning
methods are controlled and therefore less dangerous. Some community members would like to
encourage these traditional methods rather then completely forbidding fires which they see as
having many benefits.
13. At the same time that the environment is being destroyed so are people's lives. EP I had been
called a "povertization program" by those that see the negative impact of conservation efforts
which are overwhelming concentrated on interdictions. In some areas, the boundaries of a
protected area have been badly defined by the Administration, and the population is experiencing
famine-like conditions because of limited access to what they consider "their" resources.
"People are hungry and NGOs block their access to food " Frequent meetings and lectures about



Annex Ibis
Page 5 of 12
the importance of the environment alone will not motivate the population, who perceive the
program's objectives as contrary to their well being.
14. The need to improve communication at almost all levels is evident here. Even when
beneficiaries appreciate an activity, too often they do not see any link to environmental
conservation (land titling, education, etc.). The population is often displeased because of the
lack of contact or communication with the program operators, who are essentially outsiders.
15. The population distrusts the program implicitly because there are so many outsiders
involved. Rumors abound in which agents or foreigners are involved in the illegal smuggling of
plant and animal species by outsiders. The fact that program staff are not from the community,
whether they are Malagasy or not, makes integration more difficult but all the more essential.
16. Many of EPI activities have inordinately benefited the richer, more educated population
within the rural areas. Many of the pilot activities require inputs which are not accessible to
everyone (land, capital, surplus labor). At Montagne d'Ambre, for instance, the pilot animal
husbandry activities limited itself to a population which is educated and has extra financial
resources to follow care instructions for improved breed animals.  Because of this, the
participants are all civil servants, who have a regular outside income. Is this the population
applying the most pressure on the protected area? If not, perhaps program resources should be
used to reach other groups.
17. The evaluators observed that it is often the poorest population which use the most primary
resources out of the forest for their survival. Ironically, this marginal population has been little
influenced by the environment program. It is essential to reach the marginalized population who
currently oppose the environment program's activities. If not, those left out will continue to
thwart or even sabotage program efforts.
18. There are other social tensions as well. Those involved in the tourist industry around the
parks make considerably more money than other members of the community. In Isalo, the
behavior of tourist guides preoccupies the population. The guides reportedly spend much of
their free time drinking, taking drugs and playing cards. They not longer work in the rice fields
and seldom visit their families. The breakdown of traditional values and customs creates stress
within the community and adds to other problems already discussed.
19. There remain numerous conflicts and negative feelings about the protected areas'
geographical limits. In many of the protected areas, over three quarters of the population does
not know its exact limits. As already mentioned, as the protected areas were being set up,
various guarantees were given about future activities to compensate the community for their loss
of forest resources. Discussions of development programs, such as schools, health clinics and
irrigation canals were considered promises by the population, even if they took place before the
EPI even started. The fact that many of these schemes have not been realized has led to
resentment and disillusionment. "We are waiting for the wvater canal that was promised ten
years ago, yet the program has given vs nothing. In addition, they measulred our grazing land
and then forbade uis to enter; they put up signs and transformed our land into a forbidden forest
(protectedforest)." Beneficiary at Beza Mahafaly.



Annex ibis
Page 6 of 12
20. There exists a fundamental conflict betveen the long term planning strategies of the
operators and the short term needs of the population, which has not been adequately addressed.
As long as the forest is more economically advantageous than alternatives offered by the
program there will continue to be considerable infractions and tensions. "We are like rats caught
in a trap, we're imprisoned here and are not allowed to use our resources. " Traditional chief.
21. A majority of beneficiaries highlight the importance of their environment and the extent of
degradation is perceived by over half of those interviewed. Nevertheless, in some protected
areas, up to 80% of the population is critical of conservation efforts. Most beneficiaries accept
that conservation is necessary, although they point out that is shouldn't entail their becoming
poorer. "We have two choices, either we will stay and starve, or we will have to move
elsewhere. " reported a villager in area where they are no longer allowed to use some of their rice
fields.
22. The population vastly prefers development activities (schools, clinics, agricultural
techniques) to conservation activities (reforestation, contour lines). It is the promise of this type
of activity which motivate them to participate in the program. 82% of the population at
Andringitra said that they want the project to stay and "continue helping Us to develop on all
fronts: infrastructure, the economy, food security, and socio-cultural projects. "
23. ANGAP. Fifty per cent of the park ticket revenue is reserved for the surrounding population.
It is to be used for development programs determined by the community themselves. This
system - an initiative of ANGAP - is appreciated by the population who had never benefited
from such fallout before the EPI. On the negative side, it appears that the system is extremely
difficult to balance. There are more demands that can be met with the available funds and
equitable distribution becomes a serious limitation. The development committee is supposed to
decide on program funding, but in Isalo they are having difficulties doing this without alienating
different villages.
24. ANGAP has undergone considerable institutional development and is capable and
enthusiastic. Coordination with their operators and with other agencies still needs to be
improved.
25. Recommendations:
* It is essential that the economic returns to the people living is the peripheral zones be more
significant than at the present time. This need should be considered with each new program.
Programs should analyze short term impact and clearly state the impact on poorer,
marginalized populations.
* Collaboration should exist between regional programs, private actors and ANGAP to help
identify vulnerable populations and exchange information about activities.
* ANGAP could accelerate disbursement of the 50 % of park entrance fees earmarked for the
local population. This money should be more accessible to the communities and perhaps be
kept at a local level. These funds have also lost a substantial percentage of their value due to
inflation. This reinforces the need to disburse funds quickly.
* There should be a rationalization of the protected areas and other program sites, i.e. where
there is no longer any forest the limits should be redrawn to reflect that reality. For example,
at Ankarafantsika, there is an bustling town and a national road which runs through the



Annex Ibis
Page 7 of 12
"protected area" encouraging illicit trade in precious woods by outsiders. And at the DEF
site in Andranovory a beneficiary noted that, "No one practices slash and burn any more
because there is not longer any forest". In situations like this activities should focus on
reforestation.
26. ANAE. There currently exists little to no coordination and collaboration between ANAE
and ANGAP, although it was foreseen in the original design. A strong argument can be made
that villages in the park periphery hold an ideal target population for ANAE. Once again the
lack of coordination between executing agencies leads to a limiting of possibilities.
27. ANAE funding and activities have encouraged local NGOs and encouraged the creation of
others. While there were few NGOs with whom to collaborate with in the beginning stages,
there now exists more NGOs and, therefore, more of a choice. This should encourage a more
rigorous selection process.
28. In Marovoay, the NGO representing ANAE is not known to the population. Activities are
seen as the personal initiative of a DEF engineer, who gives them inputs (seeds, hoes, etc.) and
training. The lack of transparency worried evaluators, who imagined that the population would
demand more participation if they knew the extent of outside support and funding.
29. There exist some differences of priorities between ANAE and their operators. While ANAE
focuses on soil conservation, many of its funded NGOs are more concerned with general
development.
30. Success and enthusiasm in some of the ANAE sub-projects is striking. This should be
encouraged and expanded upon. As one woman remarked "Before, we would run out of rice and
begin purchasing it from others by August. But now, we have enough rice to eat for an extra
three to four months. All of this is due to improved rice growing techniques."
31. Recommendations:
*  ANAE is highly centralized, even after forming its regional centers. Much decision making
needs to be devolved to the centers, although ANAE should continue to actively supervise.
*  ANAE's success should allow it to be more open about other sites where activities are less
successful. Mistakes in the field can teach lessons instead of meaning sanctions.
32. Direction des Eaux et Forets (DEF). While DEF is called upon to represent the
government and ensure that the Malagasy patrimony is protected, agents often feel inferior to the
"private" agencies (ANGAP, ANAE, ONE) and NGOs due to large pay discrepancies. At
Montagne d'Ambre, regional agents of DEF (SPEF) did not participate in EPI because of
conflicts over the different salary scales. In addition, agents hired by "Debt-for-Nature" to
supplement DEF are paid much more than the DEF agents. This has created conflicts and
resulted in the demotivation of some DEF agents. Different pay scales has also encouraged
corruption in some areas, such as along the Route National 7. In this area DEF agents have
illegally sold cutting permits despite large scale deforestation.
33. Regardless of its constraints, there have been some very positive reforestation activities
(notably in Fandriana); creation of dams in two other sites are also viewed positively. "We are
convinced of the need to protect the environment. We have seen successful reforestation and our



Annex Ibis
Page 8 of 12
surroundings are becoming green again. " In other areas, 22% of the population notes that fires
and erosion are diminishing. 15% have increased incomes because of agroforestry activities and
20% no longer buy fertilizer because they have learned composting techniques.
34. Delayed payments from ONE are cited as a major constraint to DEF in carrying out planning
and implementation.
35. There is currently insufficient staff for the present work load and this is exacerbated by the
governmental freeze on hiring.
36. Recommendations:
*  The roles of different DEF staff should be clarified and there should be a more coherent
order to activities, purchases and training.
*  Coordination is needed between organizations which work in the same areas. While there
are less problems at a central level, there exist many misunderstandings in the field between
ANGAP and DEF agents.
*  DEF needs to identify those decentralized services that are perforning well and those that
are not. Sanctions should be administered to those that are not performing their tasks
properly. There also needs to be more follow-up of decentralized agents and services.
37. Direction des Domaines (DD). Land titling is viewed favorably by beneficiaries because it
is free and gives them legal rights to their land: "Legal titling to the land has encouraged us to
work and has especially given a clearer understanding of the limits that separate our land and
the protected area. " However, the connection to conservation is often missing. Only 3 % of the
population in Ankarafantsika cited preservation of the protected area and environmental
conservation as a reason for land titling. Beneficiaries believe that the government gave them
titles to their land for several reasons: (i) to avoid conflicts; (ii) to increase tax revenues; and (iii)
to allow them to sell the land.
38. Staff to this component have not looked at the many social implications of their work. In
some cases, DD has given title to community land in the sole name of the traditional chief rather
than in the names of the community inhabitants, even though DD agents knew that the
population was against the idea. There are also instances of wealthier people getting title to
larger parcels at the expense of their neighbors' land. One elderly woman remarked that she
watched the land marker move closer to her house during each DD agent visit. The population
has many concerns about paying land taxes and other possible fiscal responsibilities, which are
not addressed during the sensitization.
39. In some areas, land titling has increased pressure on the protected area. Young people, who
would normally have to wait for their land inheritance, began cutting down forest under the
assumption that they would then get a title to it. And others that did not receive titles also enter
to forest to find cultivable land.
40. Dramatically lower salary scales for DD agents, compared with the NGOs and "private"
agencies has led to some negative consequences, including demotivation and indifference. This
encourages corruption and abuse of power by some agents which, in turn, negatively affects the
whole program.



Annex lbis
Page 9 of 12
41. DD was rated favorably is many areas because they and their local staff are known by the
beneficiaries. The local community leaders (CLS) also facilitated communication with the
beneficiaries.
42. Recommendation: DD needs to improve its information - sensitization component at all
levels, especially concerning the free services which it provides.
43. Office National de l'Environnement (ONE). A major constraint for ONE is the lack of a
clear institutional link or home within the government.
44. Lack of communication and cooperation between executing agencies and ONE has
effectively negated ONE's role as a central coordinating body.
45. More communication with the private sector is also needed.  Those private sector
representatives interviewed were not aware of new environmental policies (Developpement
industriel ecologiquement durable - Developpement energetique ecologiquement durable) or
legislation (e.g. Decree # 95-377 concerning the compatibility of investments with the
environment). Therefore, these policy efforts have had little effect.
46. There is a serious lack of human resources within ONE which was remarked upon by every
interviewee and confirmed during the evaluation team's dealings with ONE.
47. Recommendations:
*  identify a government structure which can guarantee and acknowledge the autonomous role
of ONE in its decision making.
* Encourage better coordination and coherence in the financing and accounting requirements
of the different donors.
* An institutional capacity audit should be conducted to highlight weaknesses in ONE's
structure and collaboration efforts and make recommendations for positive change.
50. The National Cartography Agency (FTM). Funding and activities for FTM have changed
drastically. Originally, grants were to fund most of FTM's equipment. These became loans, and
it was decided that services should be paid for, without adequate financial analysis.
5 1. Beneficiaries are critical of FTM at all levels. It will need to conduct intensive marketing
and provide better services to recapture the confidence of its clients.
52. While serious technological problems and institutional culture constraints exist, the
evaluation team felt that FTM was making large efforts the deal more effectively with its public.
53. Problems Encountered during the Evaluation. First, the idea of a constructive assessment
to improve ongoing work was unfamiliar to program level participants. This led to retention of
information and documents.
54. The coordinating agency (ONE), the executing agencies, and the operators were all
uncomfortable with the idea of being evaluated by their clients and suspicious of evaluators'
motivations and political tendencies.



Annex Ibis
Page 10 of 12
55. The fact that the evaluation would be used as a tool to plan PE.2 raised fears of reprisals and
reprimands.
56. Coordination and communication among executing agencies, operators, and the evaluation
team proved difficult. Different representatives were present at every meeting and information
shared did not necessarily make it back to their organization.
57. Certain operators are quite possessive of "their" protected area and reticent about external,
independent evaluations.
B.    Forestry Policy
58. The forestry policy of 1985 based on the "Protect and Produce, Develop and Don't Destroy"
motto has become obsolete in the context of economic liberalization, disengagement of the state
from the productive sector and political decentralization. The new forest policy formulation
process resulted from the mid-term review of the Forests Protection and Management Project in
1992 but only started mid-1994.
59. The process, followed in partnership by DEF and the Swiss NGO Intercoop&ration suisse,
consisted of an 18-month long series of regional and national workshops in which
representatives of the national and regional administrations, private operators, NGOs,
development projects, informal associations and peasants' organizations participated in the
formulation of this new forestry policy. This participatory exercise resulted in the validation of a
forest policy at the national level and the drafting, in December 1995, of a forest code to be
submitted to the National Assembly.
60. The four new orientations of this policy - i.e. (i) curbing forest degradation; (ii) improving
the management of forest resources; (iii) increasing the forests' coverage and potential; and (iv)
enhancing the economic performance of the sector - and the resulting Forest Master Plan have
set the course of action to be followed by DEF and its partners in the forestry sector throughout
EP2.
C.    Local Management of Renewable Natural Resources
61. In order to address the pressures exerted on the environment by the situations of free access,
in which natural resources are perceived as belonging to nobody and are consequently overused,
Madagascar has launched a long-haul movement to reconcile human occupation and the
environment.
62. Under the leadership of ONE, ANGAP and DEF, two major symposia were held in
Mahajanga (November 1994) and Antsirabe (May 1995) which regrouped all walks of life:
ministers, members of parliament, farmers, operators, various associations, etc. Both symposia
examined ways of solving free-access problems by devolving the management of renewable
natural resources to users. Typically, the users of a specific resource would, through a contract
signed with the administration, be entitled to using - not owning - the resource and extract value
from this right.



Annex ibis
Page 11 of 12
63. The Mahajanga Declaration was drafted on November 26, 1994 (see hereafter) and as a
follow-up, a bill was drafted to be submitted to the National Assembly. In addition, EP2 has
integrated the dimension of decentralized management through several components, notably
ESFUM and GELOSE.
D.    Participation in ICDPs
64. ANGAP, in partnership with PACT/GMU, also organized a wvorkshop in May 1995 on
participation and responsibilities in three USAID-funded protected areas (Ranomafana,
Zahamena and Andohahela). One of the major findings of the workshop which brought together
ICDP representatives, technical advisers and farmers, was the importance of the time factor in
participation: the most participative ICDPs were also the slowest to produce concrete results but
donors are mostly interested in results. Participation takes a long time and consensual decision-
making. It should therefore be expected to start slowly but be more sustainable in the long run
than top-down decisions.
65. The link between conservation and development was also discussed from the point of view of
participation. Participation, as a preliminary condition for a mix between conservation and
development, not just as a confidence-building device to rally local populations to the cause of
conservation, was found to foster success in ICDPs. Real participation and mutual compromises
seem indispensable ingredients to escape the stalemate too often caused by the divergence
between objectives pursued by ICDP operators, i.e. conservation, and those pursued by the
populations, i.e. development.
E.    GEF-Funded Scientific and Participatory Workshops
66. A Global Environment Facility PRIF financed a participatory process for the design of the
biodiversity elements of EP2. The GEF preparatory activity involved two stages. The first stage
was a scientific priority-setting workshop followed by the second stage, a participatory priority-
setting process which integrated both scientific findings and local stakeholder priorities. The
scientific workshop followed a methodology established for the Amazon and other key
biodiversity areas. It assembled over one hundred of the foremost authorities on the biodiversity
of Madagascar. These specialists defined priority areas for eight species groups and identified
historical pattems of habitat loss and current human pressures. Through a participatory process
the workshop elaborated an integrated set of geographic priorities for biodiversity conservation
and research (see Table ???). This scientific output was then taken to the stakeholder level to
evaluate possible solutions, institutional needs, and conservation approaches. Through a series
of local, multi-local, regional, and national consultations, national biodiversity conservation
priorities were developed for EP2 (see Tables in annexes A and B).
67. The technical key findings of the participatory process were that the high-priority reserve
approach was inadequate to address the full needs of biodiversity conservation in Madagascar
and that approaches which better addressed the root causes of biodiversity degradation were



Annex ibis
Page 12 of 12
needed. The process also found a strong need for decentralization and an emphasis on reserves
and forests which had not been targeted in the first five years of the NEAP. The scientific
priority-setting process found that over half of the highest priority research and conservation
areas lay outside of parks and reserves. The stakeholder consultations revealed the need to work
with communities to manage forests and to develop a more decentralized approach to solving
environmental problems.
68. As a direct consequence of the GEF PRIF funded exercises, the AGERAS and FORAGE
components were introduced into EP2 design to address the regional and spatial dimensions of
environmental problems.
F.    Regional Priority-Setting Workshops
69. To complete the consultative process before the launch of EP2, three priority-setting
exercises were carried out at the regional level, which served as a rapid evaluation of the
activities undertaken in EPI and gave the implementing agencies and the donors a better idea as
to the expectations of the regions for EP2. 89 people including 22 farmers or breeders, 36
members of the regional administration and 32 operators (private businesses, NGOs, church
groups, etc.) participated in three different two-day workshops. Across the three workshops held
in Toamasina, Antsiranana and Toliara, the participants were asked to express their quantified
preferences on the EP2 proposal.
70. The results were the following: the ESFUM component received the most points in all three,
followed by ANAE's microprojects in two instances and ANGAP's management of protected
areas in the third one.  The improvement of living conditions, regional socio-economic
development and the conservation of natural resources came out as the priority goals of the
environment program.
71. These findings comforted the donors in their views that more needed to be done during EP2
to (i) promote the management of natural forests; (ii) reinforce environmental education and
information; and (iii) multiply ANAE's miniprojects. Interestingly, all three components were
largely underfunded during EP 1.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
MADAGASCAR
MISSION MULTIBAILLEURS D'EVALUATION DU PE2, MULTIDONOR EP2 APPRAISAL MISSION
(Chef de mission - Mission leader: Sim6on, Banque mondiale)
Groupe               Groupe I                             Groupe 2                                       Groupe 3                                        Groupe 4                   Groupe 5             .
Chefs de file      Labrousse, Finoana,      Gaylord, Andriamampianina, Rakotonindrina                  Rantrua, Rakotoary                       Weber, Rakotovao, Randrianarison        Wolff
Rabemananjara
Theme          ESFUM           GCES           APET         MARIN        URBAIN          IGB-SIE-          GEST LOC,        Recherche,      ECO           INST           LEGAL        FACIL      DIVERS    Tot
CADASTRE          DECENTR.,           SIEF
FONCIER
Allemagne          Sepp-C                                                                                                                                  Fischer-B                    Wolff-C                  3
Banque                   Wong-B                Cilment-C       Gabrie-C                     Rantrua-B                                        %osquet-B      Reid-C        Clement-C    Bosquet-B   Falloux-B     9
mondiale                                                                                                                                      Keck-B
FIDA             Schdllekens-C                                                                                                                                                                     Bakayoko-s    2
France                            Perez-C       Saurin-R                    Lebigot-R       Gallois-R         Bertrand-R       Albrecht-R    Weber-C                                                Galtier-B    I1
Pinganaud-R                         Elouard-R
Japon                  Kawamata-B                                                                                                                                                                                 I
Nations Unies                     Traore-C     Raondry-R                                                                                                 Soumahoro-B       Cacaud-C                  Daso-B      8
Koohafkan-C     Tilkin-C                                                                                                                                           Hough-B
_____ Tilk in-C
Norvege                 Sydness-B                                                                                                           _I
Suisse                  D1e Rhsam-B
Giger-C                                                                                                                                                                                 4
Labrousse-C
W est-B__                              _  _  ___                                                                                                   _ _ _  _   _  _ _  _  _  _   _  _
Union                                           Dailly-R       Avalle-R
europeenne                                                     Desan-R                                                                                                                                            4
Lalande-R                                                                                                                ________
tISAID                  Gallegos-B             Gaylord-B      Wynter-C      Enders-C         Dufils-R          Binghan-C                                 Scharffenberger-R    Bingham-C  Andriam-                II
Grenfell-R                                                   Scharffenberger-R                                                          ialnsn-C
Monfort-C                                                                                                                                   ratsi
rofo -C
ONG (CARE,    Rabetaliana-R    \Veekaup-R       Clausen-R       Siegel-R      Fry-C         Lehman-R         Rabodomalala-R                                                 Vonk-R                               12
Cl, VSF,         Rajaonson-R                   Langrand-R
WWF)               SRoffetgR
Total                       20                                  20                                              13                                              13                         4            6        76
B=        bailleur
C=        consultant
R=        personne ressource



Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
Cost Tables
Madagascar
Second Environment Program Support Project                                              (million FMG)                                     ('000 USS)
Components Project Cost Summary                                                                        %      %Totai                                    %     %Total
Foreign   Base                                  Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs    Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Field Operations
1. Specialized Sub-sector activities
a. Susbinable Soil and Water Management
SoilConservation and improvementof Rural Life                    104,303      9,998    114,301       9      19    24,834      2,380    27,214        9       19
AnkaratantsikaWatershed                                           15,570     14,969    30,538       49        5     3,707     3,564     7,271       49        5
Other Watershed Management                                        13,324      8,642    21,967       39       4      3,172    2,058      5,230       39        4
Subtotal Sustainable Soil and Water Management                     133,197    36            .         20      28     3,T714     8,002    3,71w        20
b. Multple Use Forest Ecosystem Management                          56,867    56,917    113,785       50      19    13,540    13,552    27,092        50       19
c. PCDI and CAPE
Integrated Conservation and Development Projects (PCDI)           42,882         -    42,882         -       7      10,210        -    10,210         -       7
National Parks and Ecotourism                                     84,882    39,203    124,085       32      21    20,210    9,334    29,544         32       21
Subtotal PCDI and CAPE                                             127,764    39,203    16,9          23      2043
d. Maine and Coastal Environment                                    13,389     12,064    25,453       47       4      3,188    2,872      6,060       47        4
Subtotal Specialized Sub-sector activities                                        -7-473,               30      80    78,6          3,76  1126              30 
2. Regional Programming and Local Management
Support to Local NR Management                                      12,991     13,469    26,460       51       4      3,093     3,207     6,300       51        4
Support to Regional Programming                                     10,197      5,667    15,864       36       3      2,428     1,349     3,777       36        3
Regional Fund for Environmental Management                          12,419         -    12,419         -       2      2,957         -     2,957         -       2
Subtotal Regional Programming and Local Management                    35,W        19,136    547F,743    35       9      8,47      46         , 
Subtotal Fied Operations                                               366,825    16928       5,753       30      89      8,       38,1     125,65        30       89
B. Strategic Activtes
1. Policies, Strategies, Instruments                                   3,188     6,850     10,038       68       2        759     1,631     2,390       68        2
2. Making EIA Operational                                              3,365     2,674      6,040       44       1        801      637      1,438       44        1
Subtotal Strategic ActivMes                                                                                              1,3,5
C. Support Activites
1. Environmental Research                                              5,121     4,330      9,451       46       2      1,219    1,031      2,250       46        2
2. Education, Training                                                 3,220     4,340      7,560       57       1        767     1,033     1,800       57        1
3. Geographic Instruments                                              1,848     2,772      4,620       60       1        440      660      1,100       60        1
4. Environmental Information System                                    2,686      3,719     6,405       58        1       640      886      1,525       58        1
5. Program Coordination and Management                                14,049      7,703    21,752       35       4      3,345     1,834     5,179       35        4
Subtotal Support Activities                                             2,84                                                                                        8
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                                     403       193,1     5939          33 --=          95,      46,       141,33        33     1W
Physcal Contingencies                                                 17,401      9,201    26,602       35       4      4.143     2,191     6,334       35       4
Price Contngencies                                                    83,165    36,890    120,055       31      20      5,080    2,255      7,335       31        5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                     500,86g-  239,407   740,276       32      125    104,533  -0,473 --TW              3l



Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
Madagascar
Second EnvWnment Program Support Project                                                                     Field Operatons
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs                                    Specialized Sub-sector activities
(OCOo USS)                                            Sustainable Soil and Water Management                   PCDI and CAPE
Soil                                             Integrated                             Regional Programming and Local
Conservation                                        Conservation                                      Management
and                                   Multiple      and                                                       Regionaf Fund
Improvement                    Other    Use Forest Development   National   Marine and  Support to  Support to          for
of Rural    Ankarafantsika  Watershed  Ecosystem    Projects    Parks and    Coastal    Local NR    Regional   Environmental
Life       Watershed   ManagementManagement   (PCDI)    Ecotourism  Environment Management Programming  Management
I. Investment Coast
A. Civil Works                                            930            626         155       5,253             -       4,339         462        216            -
B. Goods                                                  321            299         358       1,648             -       1,629         645       1,030         120              -
C. Vehices                                                963               -        964       2,666             -       2,856         410           -         250
D. Consultant ServIces
ShorTermT Consultants                                     -               -        498       1,272             -          -          810        500          614
Long-Trm Technical Assistance                             -           1,979         60       4,902             -       1,296         429        263            -
Contrad Services                                          -            432         140       2,947             -       1,209       1,318       2,850        1,158
Subtotal Consultant Services                                -           2,1           9,Z                        -       Z
E. TrainingandFellowships                                   -               -        218       1,211             -        438           92        541            -              -
F. MinI-proects                                        18,827               -        964         107             -           -         381           -           -          2,957
G. Regional Fund Projects                                   -                                      -             -                       -                     943              -
H. Unspecified                                              -               -          -           -        10,210                       -                        -
Total lnvestment Costs                                   21,040      -                3-7          w7         1 0         177 -         ,546       54                 -,
11. Recurrant Costs
A. Staff                                                1,725               -        560       3,055             -      10,008         376           -         331
B. OperalonandmaintenanceofVehicies                         -               -        918       1,379             -       4,419         216           -         141
C. Other Operating Costs                                4,449           3,935        396       2,651             -       3,350         922        900          220
Total Recurrent Costs                                      175          3,3s          17       70S                 -                                           
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      27,214           7,271                               lu,210                        ------             3,777          2,957
Physical Contingencies                                  1,361               -        262       1,355           100       1,477         303        315          378
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                               6,740               -        607       2,508          242        4,758         705        502          770
Foreign                                               118               -         73         716             -        513          143         155         100
Subtotal Inflation                                    6,858               -                                                                -79  3,224 -  5272  8  67 -- 871
Devaluaticn                                           4,979                       -438      -1,777         -180       -3,433        -508       -356         -563
Subtotal Price Contingencies                            1,878                        242       1,447           62        1,838         340        301          308
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       30453            7,271 -    5,73       29,89         1 28,94,



Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
Support Activities
Strategic Activities                                                      Program
Policies,                                                   Environmental Coordination
Strategies,  Making EIA  Environmental Education, Geographic  Information      and
Instruments  Operational    Research   Training  Instruments    System      Management   Total
.-                        -          -           --                          -    11,981
-         150            24        210        1,100          350          404      8,287
-           -            43          -           -              -         564      8,716
1,350         38           130        205            -           495          200      6,112
-           -             -        500           -              -            -     9,428
1,040        700          1,628       230            -           335         1,121    15,108
2,390        738          1,758        935           -           830         1,321    30,648
-        150            246         75           -            32          400      3,403
-  -  -  105           -             -            -    23,341
-  -  -  -  -             -            -       943
-           -             -          -           -              -            -    10,210
2,390       1,038         2,070      1,325        1,100         1,212        2,689    97,528
-           -            55         60           -            73         1,239    17,483
-           -            27          -           -              -           30     7,130
-        400             98        415           -           240         1,221     19,197
-        400            180        475           -           313         2,490    43,809
2,390       1,438         2,250      1,800        1,100         1,525        5,179   141,338
120          72           113         90          55             76          259      6,334



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
PE2-Financing plan                                       -        -  
Requirements                       AvaiL     Gap      Govnt  Germany    WB         Dutch   IFAD    France   GEF   JapAn  Norway |UNDP   Swiss    UE   USAID   WWF
Sustainable soil and water management
ANAE:                       30.45             29.53      0.92      6.09              12.66             7.10      0.68                                       3.00
Ankarafantsika:               7.27             7.27      0.00      1.45     5.82
Other watersheds:            5.73              3.15      2.59      115                2.00                                       1/
Multiple-use Forest Ecosystem Management                                                                                                                                                           I
Planning/zoning              4.62              4.61      0.00      0.92                                                  3.69                              _
Managnt Plans                14.41             13.91     0.50     2.88      2.60                                 0.60                                       3.00            3.83 I.0C
Capacity Building            10.87             10.78     0.0       2.17               0.21                       0.92    1.31                                               3.17    3.00
National Parks/Ecotourism/ICDPs   ___
CAPE - A                     18.00             17.90     0.10      3.60               1.40                       0.40                                               1.00    7.50    4.00
CAPE - BC                    14.86             14.86     0.00     2.97                4.09                               7.80
ICDPs                        10.37             10.37     0.00      2.07                        5.SI                                                                 0.76 8173
Marine and coastal environment
s                  6.70              6.62     0.08      1.34               1.28_                              2.00                      1.50                             0.50
Total sub ssstr components          123.29    _.._
i___            I                    ____
Regional Programming and Local Management                       ___
GELOSE                        6.92              6.91     0.00      1.38               2.92              0.00     1.36                                                        1.25
AGERAS                       4.46              4.46      0.00      0.89                                                  3.00                     "3/                       0.57
FORAGE                        2.96              2.96     0.00      0.59               2.37                                                                                  0.W
Sub-total                            14.34
Strategic activities
Formulation and transfer of environmental
policies, strategies and inst  2.65            2.55      0.10      0.53               0.00                       0.10    1.00                      0.50                     0.42
MECE       _                  1.59              1.60     0.00      0.32                                                                                                      1.28
Sub-total   ___                       4.24
Support activities     _
Research   |                 2.47               2.49    -0.02      0.49                                                  2.00
_ Educ/Form  |                1.97              1.97     0.00      0.39               0.45                       0.38   =                                                            0.75
Geog. instruments             1.23             0.81      0.42      0.25               0.401                      0.16                                                       0.00
Environmental Information     1.70         _   1.70      0.00      0.34               0.721                                                                                 0.64
_ Coord/manag.                5.77              5.46     0.30      1.15                1.50             1.00                                                                 1.81
Sub-total    _                       13.14
Grand-total                         155.01    14993      5.08     31.00     8.42     30.00     5.81     8.10     4.60   20.80            2/        2.00     6.00    1.76   22.20    9.25
Other related financing (not included in the above);  |I_ ___                                                                            1/ USS 2.6 million expected - interest for watershed management
German Technical Cooperation: Two Forestry Projects: 9.3                                                                                 2/ USS 3.1 million expected
German Financial Cooperation: Betsiboka Erosion Control: 4.3 - Education: 3.3 - Four protected areas: xx  _   _                          "3/ plus USS 0.6 million in 96 for pilot AGIR operations
USAID: Tany Meva:  - Regional Develo                                                                  __
France: Support to CFSIGE, FTM, donor coordination: 2.0



Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
Outline of Manual of Procedures for Environmental Management
(coordination and inter-institutional relationships)
In order to prevent the recurrence of conflicts of institutional responsibility, as it has happened in the
past, ONE and the KEPEM project have prepared a Manual of Procedures that specify responsibilities in
the following way:
*  The actions to be carried out under the programme are described as a series of generic activities (e.g.
formulation of sector policies).
*  A list of all possible actors has been established, on the basis of the institutional set up of the
Program. They are:
=> The Government as a whole (Cabinet)
=> The National Environment Council (CNE)
=> The Ministry in charge of the Environment
=> The Interministerial Environment Committee (CIM)
=> The Technical Ministries
> The National Environment Office (ONE)
=, The Implementing Agencies (AGEX) of the Program
r  The Private Operators
=> NGOs
=> Local Governments
=> The Environment Program's Steering Committee (COS)
> The Financing Agencies
* A list of eight possible types of involvement:
X* Designs, prepare
> Clears
> Approves, decides
=> Presents, submits
=> Participates
o Executes
=> Controls
=> Is informed
*  For each activity, a "responsibility matrix" is presented. The rows describe the series of generic
tasks corresponding to the activity (e.g. for the formulation of sector policies, the list includes:
identification, definition of objectives, drafting of terms of reference for studies, etc.). The columns
correspond to all the actors listed above. Using eight different symbols, each cell of the matrix show
the type(s) of involvement of each actor for each task.
*  The Manual presents about fourty such tables. In addition, there are five annexes that describe a
number of key institutional mechanisms and potential problem areas such as:
=> procedures for concertation
=> the coordination function
=> managing decisions on coordination problems
=> mapping of interinstitutional relationships
=> relationship with NGOs, Government projects, donors



Annex 5
Page 1 of I
EP2: Annual Financial Programming Process
>----Policies                                                          3-yr Strategic Plans
Global Plan
PIP                                                              // IP    Regional Plans
Initial Specifications
ONE -AGEX
,  GLOBAL       REGIONAL
S               > <          AR~~~~~~~~~BITRATION  
'~~ -D    DECIION MEHANISS   /  | REGIONS 
E                        t  s ,          I <    c~~~~~~ MULTI-LOCAL
---  TRANS-REGIONAL
PROGRAMMING       -3          WATERSHEDS
i  /   ~~Regional   \\PROCESS                          4       bW TRHD
a t Environment t                                          r PROTECTED AREAS
Fund                  X       +                        CORRIDORS
,                         g ~~~~~~~~~CONSOLIDATION
'                     ~~~~~ ~~Yes  /
FINALIZED
t                                        PROGRAM
Joint Supervision Missions
Program financiers
IMPLEMENTATION     _     _ _         LO  AL
-MONrORING-EVALUATION                 MANAGEMENT
VALATON  __ __ MEDIATION



Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR MULTI-DONOR SUPERVISION STAFF
Introduction
During the preparation process for the Environment Program 2 (EP2), it became evident
that there was a need for a focal point to facilitate coordination of the multi-donor interventions
for Environment Program 2. Based on the past year's experience with a resident World Bank
staff person with task management responsibilities for the Bank's EP1 components, the donors
and international agencies involved in the EP2 preparation process have recommended that a
resident Madagascar Multi-Donor Supervision Staff (MMDSS) be established. This will ensure
a focal point for donor coordination, working for all the donors and paying full-time attention to
administrative, financial, programmatic and other matters related to implementation of EP2.
Justification
Given the importance of the program (the financial envelope would reach $155 million)
and the number of donors, international agencies and non-governmental organizations involved
in implementation (World Bank, UNDP, FAO, UNESCO and US, German, French, Norwegian,
Swiss and Japanese bilateral assistance agencies, Care, WWF and Conservation International),
having a person responsible full time for navigating between these agencies and between these
agencies and the Malagasy executing agencies is justified.
Specific Scope of Work
The role of the MMDSS would be twofold: (a) to serve as a focal point for donor
coordination and facilitation of implementation of donor contribution which are part of EP2 and
(b) to serve as task team member for the World Bank (IDA) contributions of EP2 and in its role
of fiduciary agent for funds expected from IFAD, GEF and Norway. The MMDSS would be
responsible for the following specific tasks:
(a)   responsible for serving as a secretariat for the donors involved in EP2, calling and
organizing local donor meetings, preparation of issues papers for discussion and
ensuring the dissemination of information on all the components and support
elements of EP2 to all the donors, international agencies and non-governmental
organizations and AGEX;
(b)   responsible for facilitating functional contacts between donor agencies and the
AGEX and for trouble-shooting and facilitation of problem-solving between those
agencies;
(c)   responsible for assisting in the standardization (to the extent possible) of various
donor administrative arrangements for program implementation;
(d)   responsible for playing a role in regional work programming, especially for
assisting in the definition of the regional programming processes and structures;



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
(e)   responsible for organization and participation in local multi-donor missions in
coordination with the task managers and project officers of the various donor
agencies;
(f)   responsible for providing regular quarterly reports on the progress of the overall
program to the donors and for input to the Washington-based Multi-Donor
Secretariat newsletter on the Madagascar Environment Program;
(g)   responsible for assisting in the design and implementation of beneficiary
assessments for EP1 and EP2;
(h)   responsible for monitoring the monitoring and evaluation processes of the AGEX
and those of the various components of EP2;
(i)   responsible for assisting in making linkages between the macroeconomics
framework for the PIP and EP2; and
(j)   responsible for maintaining close linkages with the AGEX and with the
environmental desk officers of the sectoral ministries (once established).
Time Frame
Ideally, the MMDSS would be resident in Madagascar from October 1996 till end-1998,
with possible extensions if deemed necessary by the donors and contingent upon available
financing.
Qualification
The MMDSS should have:  (a) a master's level university degree, preferably in
environmental or physical sciences (work experience and other qualifications can serve in lieu of
a specifically environmental sciences degree); (b) complete mastery of French and English; (c)
good communication skills and ability to work with a broad variety of individuals; (d) prior
experience in project management, especially environmental projects; (e) knowledge and
familiarity with Madagascar and the Environment Program;  (f) good foundation in
environmental economics; and (g) excellent computer skills.
Indicative US$ Budget (this budget is based on a one-year scenario)
Salary and Benefits                  $ 50,000
Housing                              $ 12,000
Relocation                           $ 5,000
Local Travel and Per Diem            $ 5,500
Intemational Travel                  $ 7,500
TOTAL                                $ 80,000
Offices, support staff and local communications will be provided by the host agency.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 7
MADAGASCAR
SECOND ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM SUPPORT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
Consolidation of M&E. The program approach adopted for EP2 requires that the M&E
function be consolidated at the program and no longer at the project/agency level. The program
approach creates a need for global information on the financial situation of the program and its
various components, the rate of completion of work, the impact achieved, etc. However, as
explained in Annex 1, the M&E function failed to become operational under EP1 because the
system designed to cover the whole Program attempted to become an internal monitoring and
evaluation tool. In doing so, it became a useless competitor of the M&E tools deployed by each
component or agency. For example, the system was supposed to include 1300 indicators which
is far too much for external M&E. In order to ensure coherence of internal and external M&E, a
M&E task force including all the agencies has been set up during EP2 preparation to prepare all
the necessary documentation. This task force will continue to meet to address the various
common issues and prepare the bi-annual report for COS and CFE meetings.
Quantitative M&E. Therefore, contrary to what happened during EP 1, quantitative M&E must
principally be conceived in terms of external monitoring and evaluation. The quantitative tools
will consists of an array of indicators, maximum 10 per component, which will measure the
performance and impact of activities undertaken against predefined annual targets. Variations
from the target values will need to be explained. Initially, indicators should be consolidated
manually. Contingent upon successful development of the system, computerization based on
adapted software would be considered.
In addition to the set of indicators, it is crucial that the agencies continue to prepare strategic
work programs and annual work work programs. However, ONE from now on needs to
harmonize the budgetary and spatial codification of these plans to allow effective monitoring and
evaluation. Progress in the implementation of these plans will be reviewed twice a year, during
the CFE and COS meetings.
Environmental Information System (EIS). The Tableau de Bord environnemental experience
of EP I allowed to define the principles of an EIS and bidding for hardware and software is under
way. The network structure makes each component or agency responsible for defining and
operating its data bases and catalogues. ONE will ensure proper data exchange, verify the
coherence among catalogues, assist other agencies to reinforces their data bases, and, when
needed, carry out cross-component analyses and publish results.
Qualitative M&E. The qualitative tools will include periodic beneficiary assessments to cover
the whole or specific parts of the Program, plus a number of ad hoc instruments of which a
number have been described in Annex lbis on Participation and Consultation.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 7
Mid-term Review. The M&E setup would include a multidonor mission to assess the
performance and impact of the program at mid-term. The performance of each component would
be assessed in relation with the quantitative objectives set up in their annual work programs and
the corresponding achievements as documented by the M&E system, and if need be the design of
the program would be adjusted, including the allocation of funds to the various activities of the
program.
EP2 External Indicators. Following is a tentative list of quantified M&E indicators, as well as
the standard description sheet which should accompany each of these indicators to specify its
characteristics (qualities, measurement specification and cost, source, formula and parameters...).
Some indicators need to be further refined. Most indicators have been assigned a target value to
be reached by the end of EP2. Values to be reached at the end of every Program year have also
been defined or will defined before implementation but are not presented here. The final list of
indicators and quantitative annual targets would constitute a contract between the Program
implementing agencies and the Government and donors. All these indicators have been
standardized and gathered into a M&E report produced by the M&E committee.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 7
List of Impact and perfornance indicators
Component                   Objecve                                        Indicators                     unit    PY5 target    Code   l/P (1)         Source of mesur t
Sustnable Sail and Wtr iManagemnt
*   Promote techniqus o soil management     *  Top soil os oA miniproject spies  latnye                      2 <1     MPI01      I                 M&E ANAE
coherernce with envworonment
P  Area under direda  conservatin from mhiprojects   Ha         8,300     MPP02      P            M&E ANAE/ Owators
   Promote rabneb bnd use                  *  Area of ulr,e womershed protected                 Ha         4,150     MP103       I         SurveysEx post evaluation
*  Programs coherent with reco enm itions          Number                 MPP04      P       AocIunting System (AS) DEF/ANAE
implnmented
*   Stwnw technical capaodties o               Familses a osfic projects adopt,in techniqases  NumAer      50 00a      MPIO       I        Surveylfarmers sefvaluation
FaNilies partecipadaing in minceia ects           Number      26,400       MPP06    P            M&EANAED OperF ors
Peasant associtos operating tr own                Number         0       MPP07      P                 M&E ANAE
mhniprojects
_                                  *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Redcthn of ANAE bdget partbipation  %         20       MPP08      P
*   PartNiweftoryeesdandafinatrial ease     *  AntemalRetum Rateo                                %           10       MPI0S      P                   ANAE
A ricurtueal  inpopulateons n   minieroject sites    %           30       MP105      I            M&EDEx post evaluation
Y oeld opreases tnine niprojn  stds                  %          150       MPIP1      I
Itulptiph1a Foret Ercosystem Mlanagenwnt (ESFUM1)__
*   Knlowbdge of the status of forest and ks  A Irea mapoed                                      Ha                   SFPOI      P                    DEF
C vok tncreaforestnurfac and eia           A Noes protecrea t ed                           Num 3er       4        SFP02      P                    DEF
*Control statbons set up                         Numnber       10       SFP03      P                    DEF
*   Ncwforeas management practoes s            Area undWrNatal Resourcescontracts              Sq Km        1500      SFP04      P                    DEF
Ntrlcrease in popubtions' hcome from foe prducts     %           10        SF105      I              DEF/Operators
*  Texts ratoftd                                   Number        7        SFPO6      P                    DEF
*  FoNwko  ooefators Oreired in m g ew tuchniqur s  Number       150       SFP07     P             DEF/ Traing oenter
Inease of r ivmarys h forest researl- stations      %           50       SFPOB      P                    DEF
*   tnuease fores surface anct potential    *  Area reforested                                   Ha        30,000      SFiOS      I      DEF/Monthty control statons recorts
*   Inrevase performance of forest service staff    *  Annual Workc Plan reaiization             %           80       SFPIO      P                    DEF
Natonal Parks, and Ecotourisrn
*   Protected area networic set up          *  Protected wowa with oparathnl stnuctue and      Number        1 2      APP01      P                ANGAP/DEF
*   Network conservation                    *  Operational managffi stnuctLnis                 Number                 APP02      P                   ANGAP
*  Degradation of primary forests in lhvel-A protected  %                 AP103       I               ANGAP/FT
areas
*   Network Sustainabb management           *  Protected areas under direct mwnagement by ANGAP   Number     11       APP04       P                  ANGAP
*  Seif  of ANGAP                                    %           14       APP05      P                 AS ANGAP
*   PA used as training sites               *  Annual increase in . of tourists visiting lvel-A   %          20       APP06       P                  ANGAP
protected areas
*   PA used for entertainment               *  Students and pupils having visited th protected  Number      11000      APiO7      I                  ANGAP
areas
*   Partic,ate to loal popultin development    *  Amount of entrance fees available for mini-priects  USS   89000      API08      I                  ANGAP



Annex 7
Page 4 of 7
Marine and Coastal Environment
*   Ensure sustainable management and        *  Local management plans under implementation        Number                 MCPO0       P                   Survey
exploitation of marine natural resources  *  Zone under existing regional action plans        Sq. Km                  MCP02       P                 ONE/EMC
*   Participate to local population development    *  Fishing yields in managed areas               Tons                   MC103      I                PRECOUEMC
*  Increase in fishing families income                 %                     MC104      I                PRECOVEMC
*  Increase of foreign cumency by activities           %                     MC105      I                PRECOVEMC
diversification
*   Prevent marine pollution                  a  Diminution of marine pollution                  Quality ratio             MC106      I                PRECOI/EMC
a   Marine biodiversity ownservation         *  Surface of new protected areas created             Sq. Km                 MCP07       P                  ONEIEMC
Local Natural Resource Managemnt and Land Tenure Security (GELOSE)
*   Locally sustainable management of NR     *  Management Transfer completion rate                  %                     GEPOI      P                    ONE
*  Land tenure security (LTS) completion rate          %                     GEP02      P                     DD
*  Agreed envirornmental mediators                   Number                  GEP03      P                    ONE
*  Status of renewable resources within local      Quality ratio             GEP04      P                   Survey
management areas
*   Increasig Biodiversity and NR benefits for    *  Total area under relative nd tenure security  Sq Km                   GEP05      P                     DO
local community
*  Economical management systems inmplemented        Number                  GEP06      P                    ONE
*  Management cost per hectare                      USS Eq.                  GEPo7      P                   ASONE
cost per hectare of LTS                          US$ Eq.        7        GEPOS       P                   AS DD
Increase in populations income where management    %                     GEP09       P                   Survey
transfer is implemented
*   Land tresecurity                         *  Total of tax oollection within land tenure secuity  FMGIHab                GEP10      P
aeas
*  LTS cost recovery                               FMG million               GEPII      P
Support to Regional and Spatial Approach (AGERAS)
*   Biodiversity conservation                 *  Threats on biodiversity withn AGERAS managed    Qualy ratio               AG101       I     Operators PA/Regicnal structure (RS)
arenas
*  Local cpacitis development                      Quality ratio             AGI02       I                AGERASIRS
*  Muttitocal problems resolved                        S                     AGP03      P                 AGERAS/RS
*  Operational particiative multiboal strucues       Number                  AGPO4      P                  AGERAS
*  Opeational regional plaiming units                Number                  AGPO5      P                  AGERAS
*  Projects completion  t                                                    AGPO6      P                   AGERAS
Regional Fund for Environmental Management (FORAGE)
a   Promoting regional    onmenly            *  Financng requests sent to FORAGE                   Number                  FOI1I       I                  FORAGE
sustainble financing mechanism on a
demand driven basis
*  Proets finaed by FORAGE/ prtot request              %                     FOP02      P
*  Average waiting period betwn request and          month                   FOP03      P
implementation
Strtges and EtA
*   Envionment policy formulation             *  Formulated policies                               Number        1 1       PspQ1      P                     ONE
*  regulations texts agreed and diffused             Number        11        PSP02      P                    ONE
Policy Implementation                        *  Intemational conventions ratfied                  Number                  PSP03      P                ONE/Minteries
*  Evoktion Of Environment status                  Quality ratio              PS104      I               ONEMtinitenes
*  Operational envionmental units created            Number                  PSP05      P                ONE/Minfteries
*  Environmental NGOs and associations               Number                  PSP06      P                ONE/Miniteries



Annex 7
Page 5 of 7
*   Mukig EA procedures operational          0  Total investment subject to environmental impad   USS Eq.                  PS107      I                    ONE
assessments
*  Actions implemented by local population           Number                  PSPO8      P                    ONE
*  Private companies in accordance with environmental    Number              PSI09       I                   ONE
standards
*  Public surveys                                    Number                  PSP1O      P                    ONE
*  OperstionsreviewedbyONE                             %                     PSP11      P                    ONE
*   EIA realized                                     Number                  PSP12      P                    ONE
Environnwntal Resewch
*   Promote nstruments for sustainable NRM    *  Research fields finalized                         Number                  REP01      P               research agencies
*   Strengthen local researchercaacitiss      *  Trained researdcers aocording to th research feld  Number                 REP02      P                    AGEX
*  Contracts and terms of references issued          Number                  REP03      P                 ONE/CAREE
*  Quality of results                              Quality ratio             REP04      P                    survey
*  Consultation of reports                           Number                  REI05       I                ONE/CAREE
Convnunication, Education and Training
*   Enharice communication activities and impact  *  TV/radio shows and magazines on the EnvWonment  Number                CEPOI      p                    ONE
*  Audience of broadcast programs                    Number                  CEPo2      P                 ONE/survey
*  Messages assimilated by populions                   %                     CEtO3       I                   Survey
*   Enhance environmental training            a  Educational staff trained                         Number                  CE104       I                  CFSIGE
*  % satisfied training requests                       %                     CEP05      P                    Survey
*  Schools with green classes                        Number                  CEPO6      P                   CFSIGE
*  Students attending green classes                  Number                  CE107       I               SFSIGE/AGEX
*  Special courses implemented                       Number                  CE108       I         CFSIGE/Ministry of education
*  Optional courses taught in colleges               Number                  CEP09      P                 ONE/CFSIGE
*  Students attending such courses                   Number                  CEPIO      P                 ON/CFSIGE
Cartographic basic instrunents
*   Satisfy users needs                       *  Satisfaction of geographic information users        %           80        IGI01       I               ONE/FTM/AGEX
*  ExecuAion of orders                                 %           100       IGPO2       P                    FTM
O   Ensure FTM profitability                  CTurnover                                              %100                  IGP03       P                    FTM
*  Self-financing capacity of FTM                  FMG billion     17        IGP04       P                    FTM
*  Gross operaing profit: FMG                      FMG billion      4        IGPO5      P                     FTM
*  EP2 'geographi contracts obtained by FTM            %           70        IGPO6       P                    FTM
*  Economical value of FTM                         FMG billion     70        IG107       I                    FTM
EIS
*   Make EIS network operational and useful   *  Informed decisins made                            Number                   Siiol      I
*  Consultaions of databases by users                Number                   S1102      I
*  Network focal points                              Number                   S1103      I
Knowledge status on protected areas               Quality ratio              S1104      I
*  Knowdge of envitonmental status                 Quality ratio              Silms      I
*  Satellie accounts                                 Number                   S1106      I



Annex 7
Page 6 of 7
*   Coordhation                              *  M&E system quality                             Quality ratio             COIO1      I
*  PT, PTAandPSadopted                            Qualityratio             COP02      P
*    of PTA realization                               %                    COP03      P
*  Dirbusemnt rate                                    %                    COP04      P
*  procedues time                                    Days                  COP05      P
*  % PIP aIbcation upon requst                        %                    COP06      P
*  % problems resoved                                 %                    COP07      P
*  Amount of rea      hncatefuds                     US$                   COPO0      P
*  %AGEX satiscton                                Quality rato             coPO       P
Gkbal kdcatnrd
*  Satisfed Maaga  pop  vis--vis the prm              %                     TRI01      I
Each indcator measures         *  Bbdiversty and reable resouwrcs staus           Quality rt                TRI02      I
oneofteobjecVvaof#*ep pogram        *  Increanin income                                   %                     TRI03      I
*  Total prate investment generated by the progrm  FMG billion              TRI04      I
*  Land tenure sety                               Quality ratio             TRIOS      I
*  Erosion rate                                   Quality ratio             TRI06      I
*  Women pa1c4ation                                   %                     TRIO7      I
*  % fnacial nlizatn                                  %                     TRIM0      I
*  Malay         w    reness                       NNtnber                  TRI11      I
(1) I=Wmpsmt, Pperformance



Annex 7
Page 7 of 7
EP2 Monitoring and Evaluation - Indicator Description Sheet
Component:
Short Indicator Label:
Indicator Code:
IndicatorTve:             O Impact              O Performance
Expected Result:
Indicator Description:
Formula:
Source of Measurement:
Method of Measurement:
Person in Charge of Measurement:
Target Values at End of Each Program Year: PYO (ini) =
PYI=
PY2 =
PY3=
PY4=
PY5=
Post=               (Year:           )
Indicator Oualitv Verification (Tick Off ifCriterion Met)
O Objective
O Non Ambiguous
O Measurable
O Project Specific
O Project Sensitive
Freguency of Measurement:
Measurement Cost and Total Cost:
Miscellaneous Remarks:
Sheet Writer:
Sheet Reviewed and Approved by the Head of M&E for EP2 Agency! Component



Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
Disbursements by Semesters and Government Cash Flow
('000 US$)
Govemment
IDA       GEF      Other     Total   Program cost Annual   Cumulative
1           0         0         0        0    20,146   -20,146   -20,146
2        3,298    2,515     9,990    15,803    20,146    -4,343   -24,489
3        3,298    2,515     9,990    15,803    16,224     -422   -24,911
4        2,907    2,241     7,890    13,038    16,224    -3,186   -28,097
5        2,907    2,241     7,890    13,038    15,639    -2,601   -30,697
6        3,112    2,096     7,482    12,689    15,639    -2,949   -33,647
7        3,112    2,096     7,482    12,689    13,495     -805   -34,452
8        3,164    1,848     5,980    10,992    13,495    -2,502   -36,954
9        3,164    1,848     5,980    10,992    11,999    -1,007   -37,962
10       2,538    1,701     5,545     9,784    11,999    -2,216   -40,177
1 1      2,538    1,701     5,545     9,784        0     9,784   -30,394
Total     30,037    20,802    73,774   124,613   155,007   -30,394   -30,394



Annex 9
Page 1 of 38
Economic Analysis of the EP2.
Introduction.
I .    Natural resources serve three major economic functions: they supply direct utility to
individuals, they supply inputs to the economic process, and they supply services that support life
(Pearce and Warford 1993). The sources of Madagascar's growth are likewise linked to its natural
resources base. The World Bank's prescription for growth outlined in the 1994 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) is to assist the government to promote private sector- and export-led growth, attack
poverty, improve natural resource management, build local capacity, and improve project
implementation. The two principal elements of growth identified in the CAS are private sector
development and export diversification and the three sectors expected to lead Madagascar's growth
are agriculture, manufacturing and tourism.
2.    The success of this development strategy, which clearly hinges on sustainable growth in
agriculture, fisheries, and tourism, relies in part on two issues. First, favorable policies and
investments are necessary to ensure the sustainable management of the natural resources which drive
the productivity of those sectors. Second, such investments must also generate benefits for the
predominantly poor, rural population of Madagascar which relies directly on those same natural
resources for meeting its most immediate needs. Madagascar's fifteen-year Environment Program is
the principal vehicle for achieving these objectives. The program arose out of the preparation the
National Environmental Action Plan which itself was a response to concern about the long-term
impact on the country's well-being of depredatory patterns of resources consumption.
3.    This annex appraises the economic rationale for the second five-year phase of the
Environment Program (EP2). Section 1 reviews some of the proximate and underlying causes of
environmental degradation, reviews the economic contributions of Madagascar's natural resources
and, through the use of case study results, the implications of mismanagement. Section 2 briefly
presents the EP2, describing how the program components contribute to the generation of the
economic benefits, policy corrections and incentives that can ensure sustainable development.
Section 3 then presents the findings of a cost/benefit analysis of two major components of the
program: soil and water conservation mini-projects, and multiple-use forest ecosystem management.
I.    The links between environment and economy in Madagascar
4.    Pursuing the mutual goals of growth and sustainability in the natural resource-based sectors
of agriculture, ecotourism, fisheries, and forestry requires identifying sectoral and national policies
and other incentives which need to be corrected. Corrections along those lines is necessary if
complementary on-the-ground investments in natural resources management are to succeed. For
example, improvements in agricultural productivity, which might reduce pressure on fragile slopes
and forests, are linked to many variables: cost and availability of inputs and credit, marketing and
transport systems, unbiased trade rules, product prices which reflect production costs, advances in
farmer knowledge and innovation, which are linked to communication and support services, and
property rights. Many of these factors can negatively or positively influence the "sustainability" of
managing the natural resources which are the building blocks of improving yields and reducing
poverty.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 38
5.     A recent review of the economics of the Madagascar NEAP (Larson 1994) points out the
importance of getting the appropriate incentives in place that will lead to more sustainable paths of
resource consumption. The share of the total marginal benefits of "preservation" that accrues to
farmers must increase if their patterns of resource use are to change. A combination of approaches
are needed to achieve this goal. One approach is through education which would increase resource
user understanding of the importance of existing habitat for water and soil management. Another
means is through the sharing of tourism proceeds either through direct employment or in direct
transfers of a portion of revenues to affected communities. A third approach is "to change the key
underlyingfactors that are driving the demandfor agricultural extensification and as a result the
demandfor deforestation. " (Larson 1994). In other words, land users lack the incentives or means
for adapting their land use systems. Indeed, the most recent World Bank agricultural sector study
found that a combination of insufficient formal credit and the poverty of farmers makes it virtually
impossible for them to afford the capital inputs necessary to initiate any agricultural improvements.
Additional blockages stem from the poorly maintained road network and communications system
with resulting poor development and integration of rural markets. Finally, extension services are
insufficient or non-existent in many areas and do not act as an effective link between the
government's agricultural objectives and field assistance (Keck, Sharma and Feder, 1993).
6.     Agriculture.   The Bank's 1994 agricultural sector strategy note estimates that there is some
32.8 million hectares of potentially cultivable land in Madagascar. Approximately 3.0 million ha are
annually cultivated, of which about 1.8 million ha are cultivated on a permanent basis (World Bank
1994). Much of the unused potential area is ecologically fragile with serious consequences from
agricultural use, and/or inaccessible without large investments in new rural infrastructure. The
country's agricultural potential is closely linked to the soil management regime, particularly given the
increasing land constraints in certain areas of the country, notably the central highlands. Soils in
Madagascar are generally acidic, highly erosive, and of varying degrees of fertility.
7.     The agriculture sector accounts for approximately 34% of GDP and agricultural exports
account for around 45 percent of total exports. However, the agricultural growth picture is
particularly important given that 80 to 85 percent of the population lives in rural areas and is directly
dependent upon agriculture for their subsistence. Yet underinvestment in this sector has been a
persistent problem and despite agricultural policy reforms since the late 1980s, output increases are
strongly linked to increases in agricultural area rather than through yield improvements. Table I
shows that increases in agricultural land area outpaces improvements in yields for twelve major crops.
The problem is considered particularly acute in the large central highlands of the country where
farmers increasingly cultivate marginally productive slopes (the tanety) and forego conservation
investments. Graph I demonstrates these trends for the sub-province (fivondronana) of
Ambohidratrimo.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 38
Table 1. Changes in land area and yield of selected crops
Percent change: 1976 - 1995
Crop            Area           Yield
Rice paddy            14%            11%
Maize                 52%            -19%
Potatoes              84%            10%
Sweet potatoes        20%            -1%
Casssava              56%            12%
Sugar cane            76%            -12%
Beans                -17%            -5%
Groundnuts           -34%            -22%
Coffee                3%             -3%
Cloves                70%            -30%
Sisal                -28%            -7%
Vanilla              109%            -10%
Source: FAO, 1996
Graph 1. Population growth, shortage of irrigated lands and low investments keep
yields low and increase the cultivation of marginal hillsides (the tanety).
40.0
35.0
30.0
25.0
20.0
15.0
.!10.0                                     -
c, 5.0
0.0
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
Year
-4--- rice yields                  irrigated rice area cultivated
- - - population              a    tanety area cultivated
Source: Aboulabbes, Rasolofoharivony and Rajery, 1994.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 38
8.     The impacts of erosion. The lack of smallholder investments in agriculture leads to several
on-site and off-site environmental problems. On-site problems of physical and chemical soil erosion
are commonplace across Madagascar, effectively keeping yields too low for farmers to make
investments. Natural factors, including steep slopes, intensive rainfalls, and highly erosive soils all
contribute to this process. Recent analysis of the slash-and-bum practice (tavy) in eastern
Madagascar show that bare soil, which precedes hillside rice cultivation, hillside rice cultivation
itself, and ginger cultivation all generate considerably higher levels of soil loss and runoff than found
on fallow and forest land (see table 2). The soil losses correspond to fertility losses. The result is that
yields decline so quickly that in most cases individual fields cannot be farned more than two
consecutive years. Yet even very low-cost investments can shift the land's sustainable yield. The
ANAE experience has shown that simple biological fixation through hedgerows is an adequate
investment to move from shifting hillside farning to fixed plots on the central highlands.
Table 2. Observed soil losses and runoff under various land uses in the eastern rainforest zone.
Land use                  Soil loss (as solids and in   Runoff (mm)
suspension) in kg/ha
Bare soil                         149,000                681
Planted in ginger                 144,000                 542
Tavy                              14,500                  571
Savoka (bush-covered                 295                  142
fallow)
Forest                                9.7                 13
Savannah                             817                  154
Source: Lambo Rakotovao, 1995.
9.     Perhaps more serious, but far less quantifiable, are the off-site costs of soil erosion induced
by poor agricultural management and deforestation. Negative off-site erosion effects are best
documented for irrigation systems and infrastructure, although there are also serious consequences for
the productivity of certain coastal fisheries. This is evident in the expanse of irrigated plains near
Marovoay, located near the headwaters of the Betsiboka river. Since 1983 the Federal Republic of
Germany has been financing rehabilitation of the irrigation systems in the area. The region can be
characterized as having intense rainfall and highly erosive soils which, under the patterns of
deforestation and land use, has led to very high rates of soil erosion and increasing sedimentation of
important irrigation water storage reservoirs. Data on three of five reservoirs are presented in table 3.
Two of the reservoirs, the Amboromalandy and Ambilivily, are part of watersheds where the land
resource is increasingly degraded savannah. The third reservoir, the Ampijiroa, is located within the
largely forests Ankarafantsika protected area.



Annex 9
Page 5 of 38
Table 3. Sediment deposition of irrigation reservoirs in West Madagascar
(SCET - AGRI Dinika 1986)
Reservoir    Initial   Size of the   Vegetation    Years    Soil deposition    Soil loss
volume   watershed      cover                      (Mm3)       (t/km2/day)
(Mm3)
increasingly   1933-1970   2.2 (0.059/yr)    1427
Amboroma       20         50        degraded    1970-1983   1.2 (0.092/yr)      2215
-landy                              savannah    1983-1986   0.6 (0.200/yr)      4800
increasingly
Ambilivily     13        30.5       degraded    1957-1970   2.7 (0.208/yr)      5901
savannah    1970-1986   3.6 (0.225/yr)     8852
100% forests
Ampijiroa       2        76.8    in a protected  1970-1986   0.1 (0.006/yr)      98
area
10.    Table 3 shows that the annual rate of sedimentation is much higher and is, in fact, increasing
with time in the two reservoirs located in unprotected, degraded areas of the larger watershed. The
reservoir sedimentation is 50 to 100 times greater in the unprotected watersheds than in the forested
watershed. Assuming no further increases in erosion rates, the lifespan of the Ambilivily reservoir is
30 years, 80 years for Amboromalandy, and 317 years for Ampijiroa.
l.    This soil erosion generates considerable management costs to the farming community
dependent upon the water resources of the reservoirs. To maintain an adequate water supply to the
reservoirs for farming purposes, it is necessary to undertake expensive desilting operations on 25
kilometers of irrigation canals and dredging of 25,000 m3 of sediment from the irrigation drainage
system. The rehabilitation costs to raise the dam on the Amboromalandy reservoir amount to US$3.3
million. In addition, rehabiliation of the canal system requires additional investments of US$1.2
million. These costs, combined with the project costs of US$300,000 for rehabilitation of the
Ambilivily and Ambondromifehy watersheds gives a total erosion mitigation cost of US$4.8 million.
Failure to undertake these corrective actions, or to otherwise rehabilitate the degraded watersheds
results in the sedimentation of 150 ha of irrigated area every year. Given a rice output of 3T per
hectare per year, a cultivated area of 18,000 ha, and a price of 1 ,OOOFMG/kg of rice, the annual loss in
production is worth US$13.8 million. While short-term mitigation costs are much lower than the
value of lost rice output, such corrective investments are likely to become prohibitively expensive as
long as erosion continues unabated. A more sustainable response, and a less costly one in the long-
term, would be to invest in rehabilitating the watershed which would have a positive impact on
overall regional productivity. This would entail assessment and management of land use within an
entire watershed.
12.    The case of Marovoay demonstrates that erosion-induced sedimentation of irrigation systems
increases investment and maintenance costs, reduces agricultural productivity because of poor water
control, and reduces total irrigable area. Another potential problem that could be assessed through
EP2 research is the effect of increasing fertilizer use in irrigation on water quality, including on fish
populations downstream of irrigation systems. The fertilizer question is significant given the trend
towards liberalizing access to agricultural inputs, increasing use of fertilizer-responsive rice varieties,
and increasing fertilizer application in second-season crop production.



Annex 9
Page 6 of 38
13.   In a second example, an analysis conducted in 1990 (AIRD, 1990) assessed the impact of
environmental degradation on irrigation investments in Madagascar. The analysis, which used
prototypical models, found that both the East and West Coast investment models become
economically andfinancially unattractive if environmental problems are not addressed. The Central
Plateau investments remain marginally attractive, through net present values are reduced by more
than two thirds. In all cases, the combined effects of environmental degradation pose a serious threat
to the viability of irrigation investments. The same investigation found that investments in
watersheds to avoid degradation are viable, with potential increased benefits to watershed inhabitants
from improved productivity on upland crops and from the realization of benefits from forest products
(AIRD 1990).
14.   Environmental degradation also results in increased investments in rural infrastructure. The
Route Nationale 2, the highway which links the capital and the country's principal port, was severely
damaged, and collapsed in places, as a result of massive levels of soil and water runoff during the
1993 cyclones. The road passes through the slash-and-bum areas of the eastern rainforest region and
the greatest cyclone damage was registered in those areas. The devastation necessitated a road
rehabilitation investment of US$12.5 million. While this is an imprecise measure of the economic
impact of environmental degradation, it is clear that the costs of mitigation are substantial enough to
warrant a better understanding and quantification of the economic externalities of seemingly
destructive land uses on major public investments such as roads, ports and hydroelectric dams.
15.   Forests and biodiversity. There are no accurate figures for the extent of tree cover in
Madagascar although on-going analysis should produce a reliable calculation sometime in the next
year. Estimations range from 4.1 million ha (remaining moist forest) to 12 million ha (total forest
cover), depending upon the definition of forest land and the methodology employed. Deforestation
figure are also estimates. Estimates of forest clearing report that brush fires in 1993 affected 96,130
ha. Slash-and-burn agriculture is estimated to result in conversion of 200,000 to 300,000 ha of
natural forest each year in the eastern moist forest ecosystems. A study of a portion of the eastern
forests using aerial photographs and satellite images indicates deforestation occurring at an annual
rate of 2 percent (Kramer, Richter and Pattanayak 1995). Table 4 summarizes deforestation data from
this study.
Table 4. Changes in forest cover for the Vohitra watershed, Madagascar
1957        1976         1984
Area (ha)                    321,040      286,370     21,399
Percent of 1957 area         100%         53%         40%
Source: Kramer, Richter and Pattanayak (1995).
16.   Continued forest loss in Madagascar is a concern not only because of the soil loss problems
already discussed, but also because Madagascar's forests are rich in other potential consumptive and
non-consumptive values. The NEAP and the economic analysis of the first phase of the environment
program estimated that tavy imposed an economic cost of US$84 million as a result of lost forest
revenues. This assumes a country capacity to capture timber revenues from the forest area that would
otherwise be burned for tavy. While that may not be possible at present, the farmer's current
preference for tavy directly competes with national, and international preferences for sawnwood,
charcoal, fuelwood, tourism, non-timber forest products and maintaining biodiversity.



Annex 9
Page 7 of 38
17.   For most farmers on the forest frontier, the present incentives are generally skewed in favor
of forest conversion and poor forest management. In a 1990 overview of Madagascar's forest sector,
Nagle commented that: "One of the most pervasive problems is that farmers living next to a forest see
more value to their families in clearing and cropping/grazing activities than they see in sustained tree
management ..... the benefits from govement-promoted forest exploitation have seldom accrued to
those living in the forest area. Their socio-political power is limited or non-existent in forestry, but
may be significant through low-cost agricultural practice. This historic maldistribution of local costs
and benefits is the primary constraint to sustainable forest management in Madagascar." (Nagle
1990).
18.    The marine and coastal resources. The mangrove area of Madagascar is estimated at
between 300,000 and 400,000 ha depending upon the author. The coral reefs of Madagascar,
concentrated along the west coast, are more than 1,000 kilometers in length. The export revenues
from shrimp exports climbed from US$34 million in 1990 to US$58 million in 1994. For fishing in
general the actual amounts exploited are unknown and data is lacking as to the quantify of fish and
shellfish actually available for exploitation. This makes it impossible for Malagasy authorities to
accurately value their fish stocks or effectively price fishing licenses in line with relative scarcities.
The coastal zone is also increasingly important as an immediate source of food and income for coastal
populations.
19.   Despite a lack of complete data, there are clear signs that coastal resources are not being well
managed. The FAO estimates that there is 30,000 tons of fish caught as bycatch in shrimp nets which
is discarded into the sea each year. Returning mostly dead bycatch to the sea poses an environmental
problem because large quantities of dead fish increase nutrient levels, causing eutrophication and
undesirable ecosystem changes such as algae blooms and decreases in fish and shrimp catches.
20.    Table 5 summarizes many of the points made in this section regarding the principal
environmental problems in Madagascar, their economic consequences, their proximate immediate
causes (e.g., extensification of agriculture into marginal areas), and some of the policy, investment or
cultural constraints which tend to underly unsustainable patterns of natural resource use.
Table 5. Environmental problems, their economic consequences and causes.
Environmental   Economic consequence         Immediate causes          Underlying Causes:
Concern                                                          Economic Policies, Prices
and Institutions
* Soil erosion,    * Stagnant yields and per   * Cultivation of marginal   * Agricultural inputs and
degradation and   capita agricultural output.  lands, particularly on the   technologies are absent that
sedimentation.   Production increases are   central highland.       are necessary to intensify
closely linked to extension                        production and decrease soil
into marginal lands. This   * Annual burning of    loss.
reinforces agricultural  pastureland is often
household poverty, food    uncontrolled and destroys   * Small farmers have little
insecurity and low or no    protective vegetation  knowledge about
economic growth (see     cover which increases     conservation and tend to
poverty assessment).     overland waterflow and    follow social traditions which
soil loss.               do not encourage soil-
* Siltation of irrigation                         conserving agricultural



Annex 9
Page 8 of 38
dams and canals reduces    * Declining length of     practices.
their lifespan and        fallow periods of shifting
agricultural yield, while    cultivation in more     * Poor infrastructure and
increasing maintenance    populated communities.    communications prevent a
costs.                                               ready flow of goods and
* Naturally high erosivity  information.
* Infrastructure          of soils, a consistently
increasingly susceptible to  uneven topography, and  * Credit is largely
damage from water and     high intensity rainfall    unavailable, acting as a
soil runoff.              encourage soil erosion.    further disincentive to
investments in land.
* Deforestation,  * Lost economic           * Slash and burn           * Low, administratively set
Forest           contribution from valuable  agriculture               stumpage fees encourage
Degradation,     hardwoods.                                            over-extraction of the
and Biodiversity                            * Illicit timber harvesting   resource.
Loss             * Lost non-timber forest
benefits.                                            * Command and control
approach is unenforceable   l
* Genetic resource values
are lost.                                            * Virtual open access to non-
timber forest products, and
* Infrastructure                                     biodiversity products acts is
increasingly susceptible to                          an incentive to over-exploit
damage from water and                                them, and market them at
soil runoff.                                         prices below social costs.
* Possible decline in
tourism
Degradation of   * Decrease in aquaculture   * Anarchical trawling     * Virtual open access to coral
the marine and    productivity              practices by industrial    reefs and coastal fishery
coastal resources                           fishing vessels.           resources.
* Decrease in fishing
yields                    * Pollution of nearshore   * No requirements for
habitats caused by the    fishing industry and fisheries
* Decrease in shellfish   dumping of wastes and      to undertake EIAs.
collection yields         sedimentation from land
erosion.                  * General Fishing Law of
* Decreased tourism                                  1922 is outmoded.
* Mangrove cutting
* Reduced shoreline       around certain coastal     * Price of fishing licences is
protection increases      cities leading to          administratively set failing to
vulnerability of coastal  deforestation.             reflect either the relative fish
structures to wind, waves                            market values nor demand for
and storms                                           licences.
* Mangrove stumpage fees
are relatively insignificant.



Annex 9
Page 9 of 38
II.    The components of the EP2.
21.   The EP2 consists of four sets of components: specialized sub-sector activities, regional
programming and local management activities, strategic activities, and support activities. Each
component across all four sets of activities is discussed briefly to provide a sense of their economic
implications. Beyond direct investments in field activities, the components cover critical issues
ranging from national and regional natural resource planning, improving the incentive and policy
framework, developing institutional capacity, and improving understanding of environmental issues
through research, education, communication, training, and the development of geographic
instruments as an analytical tool.
Specialized sub-sector activities
22.    Multiple Use Forest Ecosystems (ESFUM). This US$29 million component, which was
prepared in the context of the DEF's new National Forest Management Plan, consists of the following
principal activities:
*  Implementation of a National Forest Ecological Inventory, designed in the EP I as a
baseline tool for making management decisions.
*  Implementation of a new forest management approach that is linked to community
management of renewable forest resources and includes transfer of that authority to
specified communities, professionalization of the forestry profession, and economic
valorization of forest products.
*  Increase the area and the potential of the forestry resource including decreasing pressure
on natural forests.
23.    These actions are expected to lead to the protection of watershed and biodiversity values of
natural forests, an in increase in the level and quality of wood and non-wood production, elimination
of open access to forest stands, a reduction illegal felling of trees,
the improved marketing of non-timber forest products, and a more active role of communities in
forest management. The component also undertakes essential strengthening of the technical,
analytical and management capacities of the Directorate of Water and Forests (DEF).
24.   As a result, biodiversity outside protected areas will be better protected, rural incomes will
rise, and streams of financial and economic benefits will be generated from forests that are
competitive with agricultural benefits. The component is also expected to continue the trend towards
improved rates of collection of forest concession fees. Section 4 includes an economic analysis of
this component.
25.    Soil and water conservation mini-projects. This component, implemented by the National
Association for Environmental Management (ANAE) has as its primary objective to combine
activities which enhance production, decrease erosion and improve soil fertility in smallholder
agricultural communities in order to improve their long-term agricultural productivity. Farming
communities work with ANAE-supported agencies to define their primary problems and needs and
assess how ANAE can possibly assist. The main clients consist of densely populated agricultural
communities facing considerable land constraints as they cultivate both irrigated valley bottoms and
surrounding hillsides.



Annex 9
Page 10 of 38
26.   Individual mini-projects typically consist of a range of measures which combine shorter-term
productivity gains with soil conservation activities which yield longer-term productivity gains and
environmental improvements. The gradual spread of mini-projects in a region, combined with
spontaneous adoption of techniques by other farmers, is expected to reduce the gravity and incidence
of environmental problems including uncontrolled brush fires, degradation of soil structure and
fertility, and sedimentation of irrigation reservoirs and canals. Many mini-projects include associated
assistance at marginal cost for rural development such as provision of potable drinking water, and
literacy or health training. Table 6 lists the types of benefits and costs expected from two typical
mini-project designs.
Table 6. Benefits from ANAE mini-projects
Mini-project                                 Benefits
I a. Improved water control    I a. Higher yields of rice and of second season products
in micro-irrigated areas (100   improves nutrition, reduces demand for rice imports, and
ha or less)                 increases quantity of goods traded in domestic market.
lb. Biological fixation     lb. Stabilizes soil erosion, improves hillside agricultural yields
through establishment of    and soil nutrient content, provides mulch for cattle feed and for
hillside hedgerows on farmer  creating compost which fertilizes irrigation areas. Reduced labor
fields.                     time. Improves fertility enough to allow quasi-permanent
cropping of the same plot.
I c. Potable water source   I c. Reduces incidence of diarrhea which reduces cost of
purchasing medication.
2a. Community-level         2a. In areas distant from natural forest this ensures a local
reforestation including     supply of energy and construction material, helps stabilize soil
creating a nursery          erosion and fertility, provides mulch, and endows participants
with a much greater sense of ownership
2b. Increase number of fruit  2b. Increase and diversify household revenues and nutrition.
trees
2c. Increase and diversify household revenues and nutrition.
2c. Vegetable gardens on
lower slopes                2d. Double or triple rice output on a small plot.
2d. Intensive irrigated rice   I__
27.    The sustainability of the ANAE actions rests in part on the demand-driven and participatory
nature of mini-projects. Communities prepare written requests for assistance from ANAE which then
works with those communities to identify production-enhancing actions, conservation-related actions,
and parallel rural development actions (e.g., health or education) all of which opens the door to
potential collaboration with more communities in the same region. Although the program is demand-
oriented ANAE has clear criteria on what constitutes an eligible request for assistance. The focus on
local level involvement means that actions tend to mesh well with the local agricultural calendar, thus
avoiding problems of labor availability. The cost-sharing arrangements common to all mini-projects
further endow the participants with a strong sense of ownership of any investments. Table 7
demonstrates that, for a subset of mini-projects, participants typically assume about 20% to 50% of
costs, although the amount may be as low as 6% and as high as 90% (not shown here).



Annex 9
Page 11 of 38
Table 7. Cost-sharing between ANAE and participants in the financing of mini-projects.
Mini-project components   Total mini-project   Beneficiary contribution to
cost (FMG)             total cost
FMG         Percent
1. Reforestation and Fruit trees  5,553,507      2,169,166        39
2. Reforestation and Fruit trees  6,395,623       3,072,160       48
3. Reforestation, slope
management, fruit trees,       5,249,290      2,490,820        47
irrigated rice, off-season
crops, rabbits and chickens
4. Reforestation, agroforestry,
vegetables, fruit trees,      14,110,940      7,449,375        53
irrigated rice
5. Improved woodstoves            7,260,000       1,950,000       27
6. Improved woodstoves            7,465,000       2,115,000       28
7. Vegetable gardens              12,174,430      2,537,080       21
8. Vegetable gardens              9,436,919        590,669         6
9. Sandbag dam                    35,650,000     11,162,500       31
10. Reforestation, agroforestry,
vegetable gardens              2,789,515       591,440         21
11. Diversion dam for irrigated
crops                         27,895,000      2,772,000        10
12. Diversion dam for irrigated
crops                         60,219,070      8,006,570        13
28.   Ecotourism and Protected Areas. The benefits of this program differ depending upon the
official category of protected area considered. Some areas are either too small, too remote, or too
fragile to be frequented by tourists. However, they maintain high priority biodiversity status and
therefore one benefit of the component is to ensure that these areas remain protected for their
contribution to the country's biodiversity patrimony. For the few protected areas with ecotourism
potential, the component will support actions that further develop this potential, increasing and
diversifying the revenues from ecotourism, and ensuring that the benefits of entry fees are shared
equally with the village communities living in the peripheral zones of the parks. The component is
expected to generate new income and employment opportunities as well and will mark the first efforts
to link with the private sector in the provision of services to park visitors. Sound management of the
protected areas network is considered integral to ensuring continued growth in the contribution of
Madagascar's ecotourism industry to the national economy.
29.   Coastal and Marine Ecosystem Management. Given the absence of coastal and marine
management in the first phase, the main focus of this component on establishing national, regional
and multi-local coastal resource management plans is the logical first step to sustainable management
of these valuable resources. The main benefits of this component will come from the improved
productivity of the country's coastal areas through the establishment of sound management practices
for mangroves, fisheries, tourism development, and aquaculture among others.



Annex 9
Page 12 of 38
The Regional Programming Activities.
30.   Support to local natural resources management (GELOSE). In Madagascar, the government
has an extremely limited capacity to actively manage, monitor and collect revenues from the
exploitation of natural resources such as forests, forest products, mining, and fishing. Although local
communities have an interest in the management of such resources, they have very little or no legal
rights to manage or otherwise regulate consumptive uses. The absence of effective government or
local management, creates a situation of open access to most natural resources, highly conducive to
illegal activities, overharvesting and overmining in violation of principals of maximum sustainable
yield, under-pricing of natural resources, and other unsustainable practices such as high-grading of
natural forests. Because the local communities do not benefit from certain natural resources,
particularly forests, their preference is to convert them to agricultural uses as needed.
31.   This component is intended to be the key instrument for testing the viability of natural
resources management contracts between local communities and the state in order to eliminate the
open access problem and create greater benefits to local communities which makes them more
competitive with the benefits from agriculture. Through a mediator, communities will be gaining
state-recognized rights to control access to certain natural resources, and to charge fees to "outsiders"
such as forest concessionaires or mining companies to use those resources. Thus, this component is
an important vehicle for improving the incentive framework at the community level in favor of better
management of the natural resource base. It also has an important role in facilitating the work
undertaken under several other EP2 components, particularly the ESFUM and the marine and coastal
environment components.
32.    The component will also continue the efforts to redefine the country's land tenure policies
and the role of the government's land titling agency, particularly in rural areas where greater
flexibility in tenure regimes and less onerous procedures are clearly necessary. The financial
resources to support this latter process are under the program's strategic activities.
33.   Support to regional programming.    In the context of the country's on-going process of
decentralization, EP2 preparation work concluded that beyond the obvious national-level
environmental issues, support to actions defined and implemented at the regional level can
significantly increase the level of ownership, and will, in general, be more responsive to region-
specific environmental problems. Thus, the EP2 is supporting the creation of six regional technical
committees, corresponding to the six administrative regions of the country. The regional committees
undertake analysis of environmental problems, coordinate local actors in the development of plans to
deal with environmental problems, and assist in the design of specific projects or actions. A clear
advantage of this process is that the beneficiaries can become part of the process to identify problems
and define responses which can reach them relatively quickly (see the regional fund component,
below). The National Office for the Environment (ONE) maintains an overall coordinating function
in the regional programming process. The goal, by the end of EP2, is to have undertaken the
necessary regional environmental planning and analysis to facilitate full decentralization and
integration of environment into overall regional development. The regional fund, discussed below, is
a flexible funding source intended to support investment proposals produced by the regional
programming process.
34.   Regional Fundfor Environmental Management (FORAGE). FORAGE is the instrument to
finance those specific actions defined through the regional programming process, already discussed.



Annex 9
Page 13 of 38
The detailed criteria for the FORAGE are in the process of being prepared. The general principal is
that the regional programming process is likely to identify numerous actions which: (i) are not
addressed by the direct, sector-specific components of the EP2, and/or (ii) address environmental
exterternalities specific to the regional or sub-regional level. The regional fund can make either
credits and grants and is seen as an ideal mechanism for rapid response to address environmental
problems which the program's beneficiaires identify.
Strategic Activities.
35.   Policies, strategies, and instruments. This component is the main vehicle for addressing the
underlying policy, institutional and structural problems which encourage unsustainable natural
resources management in Madagascar. Through its focus on the elaboration of strategies and
economic instruments, and specialized training on the application of those instruments, the
component supports the belief that distortions of sectoral and national policies must be removed if
natural resources are to be managed sustainably. For example, the cost offishing, mining andforestry
licenses and concessions must be set at a level which reflects the market value, replacement cost and
relative scarcity of those resources in the country. The component will also contribute to the on-
going reflections and possible redesign of the national land tenure policy and support the formulation
of a policy on bio-prospecting. In so doing, the component will facilitate better linkages between the
implementing agencies, government ministries, decentralized agencies, and other private
organizations.
36.   Making EL4 operational. This component establishes a framework for the development and
use of environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and environmental evaluations (EAs) of public
sector investments. Some examples of activities which could be subject to EIAs or EAs include
electral transmission lines, aquaculture, dams, ports, oil pipelines, pesticide use and storage,
construction of tourism facilities, and mining. The application of environmental assessments is a
crucial step for defining on-site and off-site negative environmental impacts of development activities
which can then be incorporated into cost-benefit analysis. The government's interest in EIA,
reflected in its plans to issue a decree on compatibility of public investments with the environment, is
another indication that there is a strong perceived need to take better account of environmental
externalities in development. In that context, the component holds considerable promise in
facilitating the process of mainstreaming environment in development during the third phase of the
environment program.
Support Activities.
37.   Environmental research. This component is intended to undertake both resource-specific
research and transversal research. It also will try to better coordinate and leverage foreign
participation in research which would contribute to the environment program's overall goals.
38.   Education and training This component is designed to support implementing agencies (e.g.,
DEF, ANAE, ANGAP) in public information campaigns related to the EP2's direct and regional
components, as well as design and initiate activities for broader public education on environmental
management. Target populations include the government ministries and the national assembly,
village communities, school teachers and students, the media, tourists, NGOs, and urban
communities. The component is an important catalytic element for garnering broad-based public
understanding and support for the idea that the fate of the country's natural resources lies in the hands
of its people and that sound management can be a source of economic prosperity and national pride.



Annex 9
Page 14 of 38
39.   Geographic instruments and environmental information systems. Geographic tools, such as
GIS, are increasingly used to support analysis of trends in natural resources and in the management of
those resources. Similarly, environmental monitoring is done to improve knowledge on the state of
the environment and on the impact of development on the environment. These two components
support very basic levels of data collection and analysis for the production of up-to-date maps and
environmental indicators. There is a considerable potential for these components to contribute to
future economic analysis of the environment in Madagascar. For example, establishing annual data
sets on the environment would be extremely useful in conducting time series analysis of the
relationships between environment and trends in specific sectors, population distribution, rural
development policies and economic growth.
III. Economic Analysis of the ANAE mini-projects and the ESFUM component.
40.   This section presents the findings of the economic analysis of two of the program's
specialized sub-sector components. The first component is the soil and water conservation mini-
projects implemented by the ANAE. The second component is the DEF-implemented Multiple Use
Forest Ecosystems component (ESFUM). The objectives and approaches for the both components
were discussed in the previous section. The economic analysis focuses on assessing the on-the-ground
benefits of these two components, and includes a discussion of the analytical assumptions behind the
economic models, followed by a presentation of results and sensitivity analysis. The section
concludes with a brief treatment of the economic benefits from biodiversity and non-timber forest
products.
Soil and water conservation mini-projects component.
41.   Assumptions.  Seven representative models are used to analyze five types of ANAE-
supported activities: improved hillside cultivation with hedgerows, improved irrigation management,
community reforestation, improved woodstoves/charcoal, and high-value vegetable gardens. These
represent some of the most important types of actions ANAE supports in terms of conservation and
production impacts. They often appear mixed together in a single mini-project, or in two consecutive
mini-projects at the same site. Some additional actions which have not been subject to analysis
include fruit trees, pisciculture, apiculture, ravine stabilization, and biogas.
42.   The data on the benefits of improved productivity and per hectare costs are based upon
ANAE's own analysis of EPI implementation experience. Activities were analyzed, as opposed to
mini-projects themselves, because there is no standard formula for what actions are within a given
mini-project. Table 8 summarizes the set of prices for agricultural crops and labor used in the
economic analysis. Market prices are used in valuing all agricultural products except rice. The value
of agricultural labor is difficult to set in the ANAE context since actions are undertaken throughout
the country. In the absence of better information on the opportunity costs faced by farmers in
different communities, the value of unskilled agricultural labor is estimated at FMG2,000 per day.
This figure is based upon ANAE estimates of the going wage in mini-project areas and based upon
discussion with farmers.



Annex 9
Page 15 of 38
Table 8. Values used in the analysis of ANAE mini-projects.
CropNariable               Value
Rice                        FMG 1,020/kg
Manioc                      FMG 250/kg
Sweet Potato               FMG 300/kg
Wheat                      FMG 1,500/kg
Potato                     FMG 500
Various Other Vegetables   Between FMG 750 and FMG
2000 per kilo
Labor                      FMG 2,000/day
Manure                      FMG 15,000/cart (FMG 50/kg)
Fertilizer (NPK)           FMG 2,000/kg
43.   The costs of interventions are based upon actual ANAE costs during the first phase of the
environment program. All economic analyses include an additional cost equal to 31% of mini-project
investment costs which captures the ANAE's expected overhead costs during EP2. The agricultural
labor days per hectare are based upon estimates of the ANAE and the Madagascar resident mission.
In the case of irrigated rice, the resident mission provided estimates of annual labor days for three
types of irrigation systems. The differences in total labor days have to do with the mode of planting
and managing irrigated rice, where seed broadcasting requires the least time and intensive cultivation
systems require the most time.
44.   The economic price of rice, which was set at FMG 1,020/kg, was calculated as follows:



Annex 9
Page 16 of 38
Table 9. Economic Import Parity Value of Paddy *
Unit
FOB price in                                         US$/t                  327
Thailand
(5% broken white rice, milled, BOT
posted average price in 1995)
Add Freight and insurance to point of import         US$/t                   60
Equals c.i.f. at point of import                                            387
Conversion to FMG at market exchange rate of FMG3900 =  FMG/t          1,509,300
$US 1
Add local port handling charges                      FMG/t               100,000
Add local transport and marketing costs              FMG/t               100,000
from the port to the capital
Equals wholesale milled rice price in the capital    FMG/t             1,709,300
Equivalent wholesale price of paddy (66% of milled)  FMG/t             1,128,138
Less transport costs from the farm to the capital    FMG/t             (110,000)
Equals import parity value at farm gate              FMG/t             1,018,138
Rounded off price per kilo                           FMG/kg               1,020
US$/t                  261
- FOB price obtained from price quotes listed on the World Wide Web.
Freight and insurance estimated by World Bank Commodity Policy & Analysis Unit.
In-country costs calculated by World Bank Madagascar Resident Mission.
45.   Results .     The results of the economic analysis (summarized in table 10) show that
activities can generate IRRs ranging from 11% (reforestation) to 149% (improved woodstoves).
With the exception of reforestation, positive net benefits are realized within three years. These
returns measure only the on-site impacts of ANAE-supported actions and there was no attempt to
measure the although additional off-site benefits which are likely to be substantial in many cases.



Annex 9
Page 17 of 38
Table 10. Economic NPV and IRR of ANAE-financed activities.
Net Present          Time horizon   Time to realize
Mini-project               Value*               of analysis  positive net benefits
IRR                       (years)
1. Improved Hillside Management              820       61%       10 years           3
2. Imnproved Hillside Management             672       34%       10 years           3
3. Diversion dam for improved irrigation:    587        57%      10 years           2
Rice, Potatoes and Wheat
4. Diversion dam for improved irrigation:    102       21%       10 years           2
Rice, Potatoes and Wheat
5. High-value vegetable gardens             10,866     75%       10 years           1
6. Eucalyptus reforestation in the                                                  5
Lac Alaotra region
Economic analysis   -387       11%       25 years
Financial analysis   2,481     18%       25 years
7. Improved Woodstoves and Charcoal in     34,084      149%      16 years            I
Ranohira
*All net present values are expressed in $US per hectare (except #7 which does not have an area equivalent),
and assume a 12 percent discount rate.
46.   Improved Hillside Management. An assessment of two cases of hillside management (tanety)
through biological fixation focused on the productivity effect of improved management of slopes. The
hillside management often involves the establishment of low-cost hedgerows on which crops such as
manioc are interplanted with nitrogen-fixing leguminous plants. This technique fixes soils, reduces
erosion, improves soil fertility, reduces labor requirements, and contributes to more sedentary
agricultural practices. Additional benefits of reduced externalities from soil erosion (e.g., the reduced
sedimentation in irrigated areas and damage to public infrastructure), are not quantified.
47.   The economic analysis demonstrates the impact of hedgerows on manioc and sweet potato
yields at two sites. The first site considers 5.2 hectares of land converted to improved management
techniques. The second site considers the improved system on a single hectare. The cost structures
for the two cases are very different, reflecting the differences in initial site conditions.
48.   Experience under EPI indicates that the agricultural yields of both crops typically increases
by more than 100 percent when hedgerows are established. Manioc cultivation, which in traditional
systems, and depending upon initial soil conditions, yields anywhere from 5 to 10 t/ha, can increase to
20 to 40 t/ha with hedgerows. With traditional cultivation approaches, manioc yields decline rapidly
and farmers will cultivate new land every three to five years. However, in the economic analysis, the
without project case assumes that the manioc productivity project does not decline over time.



Annex 9
Page 18 of 38
49.    EPI experience also suggests that these activities can reduce agricultural labor time in manioc
and other crops. In the case of one hillside cultivation mini-project, labor days for manioc decreased
from 350 days/year to 212 days per year and taro annual labor days decreased from 1,600 to 625. For
purposes of the economic analysis, this decline in labor time was overlooked since it is uncertain that
such favorable changes exist in all circumstances. For the with project case, the analysis assumes that
establishing hedgerows effectively reduces cultivated area by 15%. This cost of conservation is
factored into the calculation of yields per hectare.
50.    At a discount rate of twelve percent, the two examples analyzed produce incremental NPVs
of $US672 and $US820 per hectare. Whereas the costs of intervention in the first case were $372, in
year one, dropping to $347 by year three, in the second model the costs are US$645 in the first year
but only US$34 by year three. This variations in costs and benefits depending upon site conditions is
a major reason to require both ex-post and ex-ante economic evaluation of mini-projects.
51.   Irrigation improvements through changes in techniques and water control. The ANAE's
support to irrigated areas is typically limited to introducing changes in farming techniques to increase
yields. The changes in irrigated rice cultivation focus on shifting from broadcast methods to line
planting and a small area dedicated to intensive rice cultivation. While broadcasting requires
approximately 165 labor days/ha, in-line planting requires 175 labor days/ha, and intensive rice
cultivation demands 200 labor days/ha. The following two models look at exceptional cases where
ANAE sponsored high-cost rehabilitation of diversion dams necessary to ensure irrigated crop
production.
52.    Both models represent problems of the central highlands where irrigation areas are scarce and
improvements in yields and water control are vital to keep up with population growth. At a twelve
percent discount rate the two irrigated areas analyzed produce incremental net present benefits of
$US102 and $US587 per hectare. The wide range in net present benefits highlights the fact that
ANAE must be very careful in selecting sites where expensive rehabilitation works will be profitable.
It is far more common for ANAE to introduce the irrigated agricultural improvements without
infrastructure investments, resulting in much lower costs and larger benefits. The typical changes in
irrigated crop area and in yields are summarized in the following table.
Table 12. Yield effects of improved irrigation management.
Without project
With project
Crop                       Area   Yield    Area      Yield
(ha)   (t/ha)    (ha)     (t/ha)
Rice
- broadcasting      25      1.8       3       2.4
in line             0               19       3.0
- intensive          0                3       5.5
Potatoes                    6      10.0      9       10.0
Wheat                       0                4        1.5
53.   Improved vegetable gardens.  Establishing, improving or diversifying vegetable gardens
(cultures maraicheres) is another common element of ANAE mini-projects. While gardens are often



Annex 9
Page 19 of 38
a peripheral element of many projects, they play an important role in generating relatively immediate
benefits, opening up the possibility to pursue a broader range of activities in the future. This is the
case of several communities living in the peripheral zones of the Isalo National Park which is located
in the semi-arid southern highlands. The socio-economic conditions in the participating communities
are characterized by quasi-permanent poverty status, degradation of health, a lack of agricultural
inputs, very low yields (I to 1.7 t/ha for irrigated rice, 400 kg/ha for maize, and 4 kg/ha for manioc),
and an absence of agricultural support services. Environmental problems include soil degradation
and erosion, loss of plant cover, and siltation of irrigated areas.
54.   Newly established village groups, working with a local NGO, are developing village financial
associations (caisse communautaire villageoise) which will make it possible to afford agricultural
inputs. In the immediate term, the ANAE supports low-cost interventions to improve and diversify
vegetable garden production so as to better meet nutritional needs and generate a surplus which can
be sold to neighboring communities and hotels operating around the national park.
55.   An economic analysis based on the experience of two such mini-projects demonstrates that
the benefits from the vegetable gardens are substantial, with an incremental NPV of $10,866 per
hectare and an internal rate of return of 75%. Assuming a stable market for vegetable output, the
proceeds to the participants will help support the development of the village financial association and
will allow the village to begin making investments in itself.
56.   Reforestation.  The two main benefits of reforestation, which is undertaken in
approximately 80% of all ANAE mini-projects, are ensuring a local household energy supply and
controlling soil erosion. This model builds upon mini-project experience in the Lac Alaotra region
where widespread degradation of hillsides contributes to sedimentation of the region's extensive
irrigation schemes. The model demonstrates the financial and economic value of reforestation.
Financial net benefits are calculated on the basis of adding participant costs with the direct investment
costs of ANAE, but not including other ANAE costs of training, technical assistance, etc. Economic
net benefits are calculated on the basis of total activity costs.
57.    Eucalyptus growth rates in community plantations are estimated at 10 m3/ha/year and
eucalyptus wood density is estimated at 700 kg/m3, which gives a total annual output of 7,000kg/ha.
At a price of FMG 11 7/kg', the fuelwood stock from reforestation would have a market value of FMG
420,000/ha. If plantations can be harvested every four years (near Antananarivo harvesting is
possible every three years), then an annual harvest regime would permit cutting of one quarter the
total area to avoid depletion. The three mini-projects considered here cover plantations of 38
hectares. Assuming a failure rate of 10%, this gives an area of 34.2 hectares of which 6.8 ha. can be
harvested annually.
58.   The analysis generates a financial rate of return of 18% and an economic rate of return of
11 %. An important unquantified benefit, reduced irrigation sedimentation, is considerable,
particularly in more degraded and denuded areas like those near Lac Alaotra's irrigation schemes.
' Pre-devaluation price of firewood was FMG 53/kg, equivalent to US$0.03 per kg. Multiplying the foreign
currency price from early 1994 by today's exchange rate of FMG3900/US$l gives a current price of
FMGI 17/kg.



Annex 9
Page 20 of 38
59.   Improved Wood Stoves and Alternative Charcoal Systems. Mini-projects for improved wood
stoves and alternative charcoal systems have been very successfully introduced in the communities
living in the periphery of the Isalo national park. The alternative charcoal systems are based upon the
production of charcoal from bozaka rather than from wood. Bozaka are wood-stemmed grasses
approximately 2-3 cm in diameter which have proved suitable for the charcoal-making process. In
the absence of complete information, it is assumed that both the woodstoves and the charcoal
production systems need to be reconstructed every four years, essentially representing a recurrent cost
to the participants but no cost to ANAE past year one when the technology is introduced.
60.   Experience with these types of projects found that benefits accrue within one year in the form
of reductions in fuelwood consumption, in amount of time allocated to fuelwood collection, in
cooking time, and in charcoal consumption. Table 13 shows the value of the changes in each of these
four areas. The last column gives a value of the annual savings in time and wood consumption based
upon a price of FMGI 17/kg of wood, FMG500 per labor day, and 116 participating households.
Table 13. Benefits of improved woodstoves and charcoal systems
Variable              Without       With project  Annual            Value of
project                    savings        annual savings
(millions of
FMG)*
Amount of fuelwood    2.08 MT/hh   0.54 MT/hh    1.5 MT/hh            5.0
consumed annually
Time spent collecting    61 dayslhh    8 days/hh  52 dayslhh          3.0
fuelwood annually
Time spent cooking     152 days/hh   38 daysfhh    114 days/hh        6.5
per year
Amount of wood        4.0 MT/hh      1.1 MT/hh    2.9 MT/hh          9.9**
consumed as charcoal
* One kilo of fuelwood is valued at FMG 117. Labor time is valued at FMG 500 per day. It is assumed that the
new practices only reduce total consumption by 25% of the amount shown in the previous column. Thus, the
value of annual savings from reduced fuelwood consumption is: 375 x 117 x 116 = FMG 5 million.
** Charcoal's wood equivalent is based upon an estimated transformation rate of 25%.
61.   Based on the above calculations, these interventions have an internal rate of return of 149%
and a net present value, in terms of reduced consumption of natural resources, of FMG 132 million.
62.   Rates of return for individual mini-projects.    The above analysis distinguishes various
types of ANAE-supported activities. The mini-project per se is not treated as a unit of analysis since
its content is highly variable, depending upon the location and the needs of the participants. Soil
conserving measures are inevitably a part of any mini-project. The result is that the mini-projects
represent a balance of high returns from vegetable gardens and irrigation improvements with the less
profitable hillside management, agroforestry and reforestation activities. A key question that must be



Annex 9
Page 21 of 38
asked, therefore, is whether the less profitable aspects of mini-projects will persist in the absence of
an ANAE presence. This concern can be addressed in a financial analysis which removes the subsidy
and ANAE overhead costs to discern private benefits.
63.    There is not as yet comprehensive information on the number of households not directly
related to the mini-project which have nevertheless adopted various mini-project techniques to the
management of their fields. An initial review by the ANAE of the first phase shows that for every
two households participating in mini-projects, a third household adopts mini-project improvements.
Thus, for the EP2, if 100,000 households participate, one could expect that another 50,000 households
will, on their own, adopt the improved resource management techniques. Given the low cost and low
technology of most mini-project activities, it is believed that farmers could readily adopt the mini-
project approaches without additional cost to the state. Such adoption rates suggest that the costs per
hectare are much lower than those calculated for the economic analysis.
64.    The economic analysis of the ANAE mini-projects highlights the fact that individuals
obviously enjoy considerable benefits from better management of their agricultural lands. However,
those benefits are being produced because of a subsidy of the state to bring about changes in
practices. The subsidy is the vehicle for over-coming poor household constraints to investment in
agriculture, particularly for the adoption of approaches with which most farmers have little
experience. The implication is that subsidies should not be a permanent fixture of the mini-project
program. ANAE should, during the course of EP2, put in place a cost-recovery system, which would
require repayment for those activities which largely on-site benefits but limited or no off-site benefits.
65.    Sensitivity analysis.   A sensitivity analysis of the results looks at the switching values for
variables used in the seven case studies. The results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized in
Table 14. The results suggest that, with the exception of reforestation, the outcomes are relatively
insensitive to even large changes in the estimated flows of costs and benefits. In the case of
agricultural activities on hillsides and irrigated areas, the estimated yields of manioc and rice are the
most important variables in determinirg the level of incremental net benefits. With the exception of
the reforestation case, even large increases in costs, particularly the ANAE's overhead and investment
costs, would not compromise the economic viability of the mini-projects. The low switching values
in the reforestation case highlight the low level of quantifiable economic benefits of this component,
and thus its relative sensitivity to changes in both cost and benefit estimates (downstream effects on
siltation have not been incorporated). This finding reinforces the fact that it is important to design
mini-projects which combine the relatively unattractive, but environmentally critical reforestation
activities with other high-value activities.



Annex 9
Page 22 of 38
Sensitivity analysis of Soil and Water Conservation Mini-project Economic Models
Case 1. Improved  dillside    N            Stdi                LawJ. Improved               NPV*    Switcdirg        Case 5. Vegetable gardens             NPV*       Sitdullng
cultivation                         values           inrigated rice system                     vaiues                                                         values
dithoutprject benefits                                     Without proect benefits                                    Project costs
nnioc                           51.9        32%            rice                            272.0       770/%           -kird nmeials                      -2.8       -3027'/o
suedpoato                       31.2        54%            smv  potato                     178.0       117/o         labor                                 -7.3      -1161%
itbwout project costs                                      Wit botproject costs                                        invseimafs                           -17.3      -490%/0
lab"                            -27.0       -62%           labor                            -64.7     -323%           oveiead                              .5.4      -1570%/a
faiililza                       -14.0      -1200/o         filzu                           -82.2      -254%         Project benefits                      117.4        72%
Withaoutprojectnet benefits       42.1        400/         Withoutproject net benefits       303.3       690/%       Incrementalproject benefits            84.8
Wth project benefits                                       With project benefits
SAwic
nmIxC                           67.6        25%            rice                            452.3       46%          Case 6. Reforestation                 NPV*        values
sve potao                       35.1        480/o          st pdato                        253.8       82%          Project costs
WNth prject costs                                            vwheat                          45.4       460/          labor                                -8.8         17/o
mbmr                            -27.5       -61%          Withproject costs                                           invesTmet                           -12.9        12%
fatiiizu                        -14.0      -1200/o         labor                            -85.8     -243%          cowhead                               -4.0        38%/a
inveshtnts                       -1.0      -1611%          &etlizff                        -121.0     -173%           od  reauretsts                      -12.1        12%
ovatmd                           -0.5      -3120%/a        jnwstmars                        -25.6     -816%         Project benefits                       33.8        -4%
Incrementalprject benefits        168                        ovehead                          -7.0     -3004%         Incrementalproject benefits            -1.5
Incrementalproject benefits      208.9
Lase 2. improved hillside    NPv           Sutchirw            LAW 4. Improved              NPv       SvAtdu%        Case 7. Improved                      NPV        SNwcing
cultivation                          lues          irrigated rice cultivation                  values        woodstoves/charcoal                               values
Without project benefits                                   Ifthout project revenues                                   Costs of improved ioodstoves
nmlrc                            3.6         73%           rice                            1100.3      600/c          labor                                4.3       -3091%
sv.e- pdato                      1.8        146%          Hithout project costs                                       invesmneats                          -3.7       -3593%
Fthout project costs                                        labor                           -469.7      -141%         Casts of alternative charcoal system
labcs                            -3.1       -S5% W0tboutproject net benefits               630.6       105%           labor                                -4.6       -2890%
flbtilizef                      -1.6        -164%         With project benefits                                       investzaets                          -3.9      -34080
Withoutproject net benefits       0.7        374%            nce                            1641.8       400/i         ovahad                               -3.5       -37980
Wth project benefits                                       With project costs                                         Bnefits of inproved woodstoves
nunioc                           6.5         400/c         labor                           -211.1     -314%           Valueofsaved vod                     31.7        419%
smettpotmo                       5.1         52%           fertilizer                      -689.5      -96%           Rauced wood colledion                18.8        7080/
With project costs                                           ivsnerts                        -55.8     -11900/0        Reduce cooking time                  40.4        329%
labor                            4.6        -570/o         oveuad                           -15.1     -4404%         Benefits ofaIternative charclsystem
fitilizfr                       -1.7        -152%         Incrementolproject benefits      664.0                      Value of saved vod                   62.0        215%
sivesments                      -1.7        - I 52%                                                                  Incrementalproject benefits           132.9
overhead                         -0.3      -1016%
Incrementalproject benefits        2.6



Annex 9
Page 23 of 38
Economic analysis of the multiple use forest ecosystem management component.
66.    Values for sawnwood Establishing an economic value for the cut wood products of
Madagascar is far from precise. A typical method for putting an economic price on this wood would
be to work back from the f.o.b. price for wood exports at the port in Toamasina, deducting the costs
of transport, labor and any taxes to arrive at the price for the standing timber. However,
Madagascar's wood exports are extremely small. The DEF estimates that 99% of all wood products
are domestically consumed (ONE 1995).
67.   An alternative approach would be to start with the market price in Antananarivo and remove
all costs of transport, labor and taxes to again arrive at the price paid for access, or the stumpage
value. However, historically, the fees concessionaires paid for forest harvesting permits were set
administratively, not taking into account the costs of government administration or, more importantly,
the relative value of species that were harvested. As a result, wood is generally considered to be
underpriced. A third alternative is to use the prices of sawnwood from other countries (see the Bhutan
Third Forestry Development Project) as references for estimating an economic stumpage value in
Madagascar. Replacement cost methods are inappropriate as the country is not faced with domestic
supply shortages.
68.   Another complication arises from the fact that the price for timber in Antananarivo is linked
to quality. It is believed that if wholesalers could consistently receive a high quality product, they
would be willing to pay a higher price (as much as double the current price) for that wood. This
tendency has already been observed in Antananarivo (G. Grosnick, personal communication,
Madagascar). With time, improvements in quality, changes in the concession system and better
information on prices in rural areas would lead to much higher stumpage and market prices which
would more closely reflect cut wood's use values. For a given quality of wood, stumpage prices are
expected to decrease in increasingly remote forest areas, although this would be compensated for in
the case of woods harvested in the west which can be transported directly to the port at Mahajanga for
export.
69.   Given this situation, three sources on wood product prices are compared to calculate an
average cost. The first source is a 1990 forest sector review (Nagle 1990). A second source is a draft
management plan for the 25,000 ha Ankeniheny forest (1994) located approximately 100km east from
the capital. The third source is a socio-economic study of land use, including forest products, (1995)
surrounding the town of Didy, which is approximately 300 km northeast of the capital.
70.   Nagle (1990) cites Bertrand's (1989) prices for various species and grades of wood in the
Antananarivo market. The prices range from a high of US$525m3 to a low of US$37/m3. The
management plan for Ankeniheny gives an average price of manually sawnwood of US$46/m3. In
Didy the price buyers in Antananarivo are willing to pay local concessionaires in Didy are equivalent
to US$63/m3 to US$173/m3, depending on the various species and grades of wood. The same study
estimates that the raw stumpage cost (access fees and labor costs for logging) are approximately 32%
of this total, or US$22/ha to US$62/ha. The economic analysis assumes that the starting economic
price of sawnwood is US$50/m3.
71.    Valuesforfuelwood and charcoal. The Bank's 1994 study of the environmental impact of
woodfuels in Madagascar determined that the prices of woodfuels are: (i) less expensive than
imported petroleum fuels or electricity, and (ii) variable with respect to wood availability, demand,



Annex 9
Page 24 of 38
climate, soil conditions, and user preferences at individual sites. The same study found that
consumers do not perceive kerosene as a replacement for woodfuels because of its high comparative
cost and the poor quality of kerosene stoves available on the market. The appropriate price to use is
the local market price (the equivalent to farm gate) since neither charcoal nor fuelwood are export
goods. The total national supply is too large to consider using the replacement cost based on the price
of kerosene. Existing documents suggest that the price of charcoal at roadside ranges from
FMG2,250 to FMG4,000 for a standard sack of 43kg., depending upon the region. This is equivalent
to FMG52/kg to FMG93/kg. For this analysis, the lowest price of FMG52 (US$13.4/mt equivalent) is
used as a conservative estimate.
72.   Model assumptions.   The economic model employed assumes that the productive area
under management is 180,000 ha in the first two years (representing the pilot zones for which
preparation work was carried out under the EPI). The area yielding direct benefits then increases by
50,000 hectare annually in years three through five. This is the target total area for management
under the EP2. In years five through ten, an additional 50,000 hectares is brought under management
so that, by year 10 the total area is 580,000 ha, the long-term target set by the DEF.
73.   According to a 1994 forest management proposal made by a consulting team to the DEF, the
length of forest rotations (period needed to recut the same parcel of forest) has never been determined
for the moist tropical forests of eastern Madagascar. There are no studies on the growth rates of
natural species, nor on the growth effects of different silvicultural treatments. A forestry consultant to
the DEF estimated that based on other country experiences, a 40-year rotation for tropical moist forest
is probably adequate to maintain yields and larger sustainable management goals. The ESFUM
component would also focus on improving manual harvesting and wood cutting techniques to an
extent that the marketable wood volume increases from about 20% of standing timber to 35%. The
US$6.6 million costs of the EP2 local resources management component (GELOSE), which is
expected to focus on forest areas managed under the ESFUM component, have been included in the
analysis.
Table 14. Assumptions for the ESFIUM model.
Annual productive area       180,000 ha in years 1-2
Annual increase of 50,000 ha in years 2-10
Maximum managed area in year 10 = 580,000
Average price of sawnwood    US$50/ha
Average yield of sawnwood    8.4m3/ha
Average price of charcoal    US$13.40/mt (US$0.013/kg)
Average yield of charcoal    9,000kg
L



Annex 9
Page 25 of 38
Table 15. Economic Analysis of the ESFUM and GELOSE components
Revenues
from                  GEELOSE
Year      Area     VolumeofSews    Saws Wood            Charcoal    Charcoal   DEF Coas         cols
managed    Wood (milon   Reveaues (million  Production    (million         (million    (million         Net annual cash flow.
'000 ha)        m3)              FMG)           (mtlha)       PMG)         FMG)       FMG)^        (million FMG)    (USS '000)
M180                      37,800              7,371       45,000        2,358       32,745      6,418           -29,433            -7,547
2        180               37,S00              7,371        45,000        2,358      17,952      7,369           -15,591            -3,998
3        230               48,300              9,419        57,500        3,013      22,811      5,119           -15,499            -3,974
4        280                58,800            11,466        70,000        3,668      14,353      3,374            -2,593              -665
5        330               69,300             13,514        82,500        4,323      11,235      3,461             3,141               805
6        380               79,800             15,561        95,000        4,978      14,714      3,461             2,364               606
7        430               90,300             17,609       107,500        5,633      14,715      3,461             5,065             1,29
8        480              100,800             19,656       120,000        6,288      14,715      3,461             7,768             1,992
9        530               111,300            21,704       132,500        6,943      14,715      3,461            10,470             2,685
10       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598       14,715      3,461           13,173              3,378
11       580               121,S00            23,751       145,000        7,598       3,050          0            28,299             7,256
12       580               121,S00            23,751       145,000        7,598       3,050          0            28,299              7,256
13       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598       3,050          0            28,299              7,256
14       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598       3,050          0            28,299              7,256
15       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598       3,050          0            28,299              7,256
16       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598       3,050          0            28,299              7,25
17       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050         0            28,299              7,256
1       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598       3,050          0            28,299              7,256
19       580               121,S00            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050         0            28,299              7,256
20       5S0               121,S00            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0            28,299             7,256
21       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0            28,299             7,256
22       580               121,900            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0            28,299             7,256
23       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0            28,299             7,25
24       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0            28,299             7,256
25       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,256
26       580               121,S00            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,256
27       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,256
28       580               121,S00            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,256
29       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,256
30       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0            28,299             7,256
31       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,256
32       580               121,S00            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0            28,299             7,256
33       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0            28,299             7,256
34       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0            28,299             7,256
35       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,25
36       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,256
37       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,256
38       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,256
39       580               121,800            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0           28,299              7,256
40       580               121,900            23,751       145,000        7,598        3,050          0            28,299             7,256
' GELOSE is the name of the local resources managmnent component.
Sensitivity Analysia
NPV
RESULTS                                                                                  (million
Vriable             FMG)    Switching values
NPV (in USS '000)             9,S5                                  Sawn Wood Revenues           134,977       28%
IRR                      1711                                Charcoal revenue              43,179        89%
DEF Coat.                    113,289       34%
Coat of GELOSE                26,435       145%
Net baslts                   38,433
74.        The cost-benefit analysis results, presented along with sensitivity analysis results in table 15,
show that the ESFUM component, when combined with the local resources management component,
has an internal rate of return of 17% and an NPV of US$9.8 million. When only the ESFUM



Annex 9
Page 26 of 38
component is considered, the IRR climbs to 22% while the present value of net benefits increases to
US$16.6 million. The quantified benefits are limited to sawnwood and charcoal production. It is
assumed that the same forest areas can produce both benefits since they rely on different grades of
wood. However, the ESFUM component is expected to also generate benefits by ensuring the
continuing flow of values from biodiversity, non-timber forest products (NTFPs), and protection of
benefits from off-site activities (e.g., agriculture). In other words, it is not possible at this point in
time to accurately calculate and project the full economic benefits of improved forest management.
Although there is no without project scenario, it is clear that in such a case both the direct benefits
from sawnwood and charcoal as well as the other expected benefits from biodiversity and NTFPs
would continue declining at an unestimable cost.
75.   The sensitivity analysis indicates that changes in sawnwood revenues, followed by changes in
the DEF's implementation costs, would have the greatest impact on the component's measurable
economic benefits. The major factors which might reduce the sawnwood revenues include possible
shortfalls in the area brought under management, failures to realize improvements in harvesting and
cutting techniques, and price changes.
76.   Biodiversity and Non-timber forest benefits. Although the ESFUM cost-benefit analysis does
not include biodiversity and non-timber forest benefits, this sub-section briefly reviews some of the
existing information on those benefits.
77.   Although there are a few estimates and official statistics on the export value of certain plant
and animal species, no estimates exist as to the aggregate or average per hectare value of biodiversity
in Madagascar, in part because of lack of knowledge of the volume of consumption and trade in the
domestic market. A GEF-supported biodiversity priority setting exercise in 1995 found that there are
considerable levels of biodiversity found in forest and non-forest lands which are not part of
Madagascar's protected areas system. Table 16 summarizes data presented in studies by McManus
(1995) and by Vallade (1995) on the export values of Madagascar's biodiversity.
Table 16. Estimated Annual Export Values for Madagascar's Biodiversity
Product                Estimated Annual Export Value
(US$)
Rosy Periwinkle                           1,000,000
Reptiles and Amphibians                    500,000
Butterflies, birds, orchids, succulents,  50,000 - 150,000 each
aquatic plants, palms
Prunus africanum bark                     700,000
78.   The non-timber forest benefits from Madagascar's natural forests are also considerable. Field
work by Shyamsundar (1993) found that fuelwood, crayfish, crab, tenreck and frog contributed a
combined mean annual value per household of US$66.2 (US$1=FMG1800). In a review of non-
tirnber forest benefits, Lampietti and Dixon (1995) report that studies of NTFBs of natural forests in
developing countries render annual extractive values ranging from $5/ha to $162/ha, not including the
value of hunting activities.



Annex 9
Page 27 of 38
IV. Financial analysis and cost recovery.
ANAE soil and water conservation mini-projects.
79.   The seven ANAE activities modeled in the economic analysis are reconsidered here
from the farmer's perspective in order to assess the potential for future cost recovery
arrangements between the ANAE and its beneficiaries. Revised calculations of the ANAE
activities remove the non-market costs of production such as family labor and manure, as well
as the ANAE's overhead cost. In addition, each model carries specific assumptions on the
expected value of output consumed by the family in order to determine how much the
activities contribute to generating cash income. With the exception of vegetable gardens,
household consumption is estimated as equal to 80% of total output. It is on the basis of cash
income only that repayment capacity is assessed. Repayment structures include a five
percent annual interest charge on outstanding ANAE-subsidized investment costs. The length
of repayment grace periods for participating farmers were set based upon the time necessary
for farmers to realize a net incremental increase in their cash income. The results for each
activity are discussed below, followed by a set of accompanying tables.
80.   Improved hillside cultivation of manioc and sweet potato. The two examples of this
activity produce distinctly different results. Both cases assume that 25% of increased output
is consumed and that annual repayments should not exceed twenty-five percent of the
incremental cash improvements. However, in the first case, which has substantially lower per
hectare investment costs than the second case, the results show that 100 percent of investment
costs could be recovered in less than six years. In contrast, only thirty-three percent of
investment costs can be recovered over the same period in the second example. Based on
these results, it is clear that there ought to be some level of cost recovery in this type of
activity although the two models considered here also demonstrate that such a capacity
depends upon several factors including the initial conditions, the analytical assumptions, the
level of investment, and the likelihood of expected outcomes.
81.   Irrigated agricultural improvements from a diversion dam. The analysis of two
examples of this activity produce results similar to those discussed above. In the first
example, the returns to the investment are considerably greater because of improvements in
rice yields combined with the expansion of area dedicated to second-season crops. As a
result, the farmers are able to repay 100 percent of investment costs within three years. In
contrast, the second case does not include second-season crops and involves less
intensification than the previous example. Assuming no additional household consumption
for five years (i.e., all increased output is sold in the market), the farmers would still only be
able to repay 10% of the investment costs after five years. It is im.portant to note that an
increase in the repayment requirements from 25% of incremental cash to say, 100%, would
result in total repayment of the investment within four years.
82.   Vegetablegardens.  In the case of establishing vegetable gardens, it is assumed that
households consume fifty percent of the output, while the other fifty percent is marketed. It is



Annex 9
Page 28 of 38
also assumed that annual repayments are equal to 50 percent of the incremental cash
improvement among participants. Based on these assumptions, the farmers could repay 100
percent of the investment costs within three years.
83.   ReforItation. In the economic analysis, a "financial" internal rate of return of 18
percent was calculated which excluded the overhead costs of ANAE but included the
investment costs subsidized by ANAE. The objective here is to assess the capacity of farmers
to repay those investment costs. Although eucalyptus reforestation has important off-site
benefits through reductions in erosion, it also provides critical on-site benefits in the form of
household fuelwood. Thus, it is assumed that 80 percent of the eucalyptus produced is
consumed locally, leaving 20 percent that can be potentially marketed. Given the relatively
long period before returns begin (four years), and the low level of marketable fuelwood, it is
not surprising that farmers could not repay the costs of this investment.
84.   Improved woodstoves and charcoal. The benefits of this activity are in the form of
reductions in wood consumed and in time reductions for wood collection and cooking.
Although these activities do not generate direct cash income benefits, any time savings offer
participants the opportunity to earn income from other activities. In the absence of
immediately identifiable cash income benefits, cost recovery should not be a requirement for
this activity.



Annex 9
Page 29 of 38
Case 1. Improved hillside cultivation of manioc and sweet potato (5.2 ha)
YEAR                                       Unit        0          1         2         3         4         5         6         7          8          9         10
Without project scenario
Net returns                             USS         3,590      3,590     3,590     3,590    3,590      3,590     3,590      3,590      3,590     3,590      3,590
less household consumption of 80%       USS         2,872      2,872     2,872     2,872    2,872      2,872     2,872      2,872      2,872     2,872      2,872
availablecashincome                     USS           718       718        718       718       718      718        718        718       718        718       718
labor days                             days         2,275     2,275      2,275     2,275     2,275    2,275      2,275     2,275      2,275      2,275     2,275
cashAabor days                          USS          0.32       0.32      0.32      0.32      0.32      0.32      0.32       0.32       0.32      0.32       0.32
With project scenario (before cost recovery)
Net returns                             USS         3,051      3,547     4,043      4,653    5,149     5,149      5,149     5,149      5,149     5,149      5,149
less the without project consumption    USS         2,872      2,872     2,872     2,872    2,872      2,872     2,872      2,872      2,872     2,872      2,872
less consumption increase of 25%        USS             0         0        293       445       569       569       569        569       569        569       569
total available cash income             USS           179       675        878      1,336    1,708     1,708      1,708     1,708      1,708     1,708      1,708
labor days                              days        2,033      1,961     1,961      1,961    1,961     1,961      1,961     1,961      1,961      1,961     1,961
cashAabor days                          USS          0.09       0.34      0.45       0.68     0.87      0.87       0.87      0.87       0.87      0.87       0.87
Investment costs                        USS          -100       -173      -173         0         0         0         0          0         0          0         0
ANAE subsidy                            USS           100        173       173         0         0         0         0          0          0        ,0         0
Incremental change (before cost recovery)
change in total available cash income   USS          -538        -43       160       618       990      990        990        990       990        990       990
change in cashAabor day                 USS          -0.23      0.03      0.13       0.37     0.56      0.56       0.56      0.56       0.56      0.56       0.56
change in cash/abor day (%/)          percent        -72%        9%       42%       116%     176%      176%       176%      176%       176%      176%       176%
Cost Recovery Plan
Incremental cash improvement            USS             0         0        160       618       990      990        990        990       990        990       990
Total repayment due                     USS          -105       -292      -488      -448      -294       -46         0          0          0         0         0
Repayment                               USS             0         0         40       155       247        46         0          0          0         0         0
Net cash improvement                    USS             0          0       120       464       742       944       990        990        990       990       990
Percent of investment costs recovered:     100%
* Assumes 5% interest, 2-year grace period, 4-year repayment, interest capitalized
during grace period, based on recovery of 100%/6 of investment costs.
Repayment level is set at 25% of incremental cash improvement



Annex 9
Page 30 of 38
Case 2. Improved hillside cultivation of manioc and sweet potato (1 ha)
YEAR                                       Unit        0         1          2         3         4         5         6         7          8          9         10
Without project scenario
Netreturns                              USS           231       231        231       231       231       231       231        231       231        231       231
lesshouseholdconsumptionof80/.          USS           185       185        185       185       185       185       185        185       185        185       185
available cash income                   USS            46        46         46        46        46        46        46        46         46         46        46
labor days                             days          260        260       260       260       260       260       260        260        260       260       260
casMabordays                            USS          0.18       0.18      0.18      0.18      0.18      0.18      0.18       0.18       0.18      0.18      0.18
With project scenario (before cost recovery)
Net returns                             USS           262       384        493       588       588       588       588        588       588        588       588
lessthewithoutprojectconsumption        USS           185       185        185       185       185       185       185        185       185        185       185
lessconsumptionincreaseof25%            US$             0        50         77       101       101       101       101        101       101        101       101
total available cash income             USS            77       149        231       303       303       303       303        303       303        303       303
labor days                              days          558       400        373       345       345       345       345        345       345        345       345
cash/labor days                         US$          0.14       0.37      0.62      0.88      0.88      0.88      0.88       0.88       0.88      0.88       0.88
Investment costs                        US$          -259       -155      -122         0         0         0         0          0         0         "I0        0
ANAE subsidy                            US$           259       155        122         0         0         0         0          0         0          0         0
Incremental change (before cost recovery)
change in total available cash income   USS            31        103       185       257       257       257       257        257       257        257       257
change in cash/labor day                USS          -0.04      0.20      0.44      0.70      0.70       0.70     0.70       0.70       0.70      0.70       0.70
change in cash/labor day (%/a)        percent        -22%      110%      249%      394%      394%      394%      394%       394%       394%      394%       394%
Cost Recovery Plan*
Incremental cash improvement            USS            31        103       185       257       257       257       257        257       257        257       257
Total repayment due                     USS          -271       -447      -598      -552      -488      -423         0          0         0          0         0
Repaynent                               USS             0         0         46        64        64        64         0          0         0          0         0
Netcash improvement                     US$            31        103       139       193       193       193       257        257       257        257       257
Percent of investment costs recovered:     33%
* Assumes 5% interest, 2-year grace period, 4-year repayment,
interest capitalized during grace period.
Repayment level is set at 25% of incremental cash improvement



Annex 9
Page 31 of 38
Case 3. Irrigated agricultural improvements from a diversion dam (25 ha)
YEAR                                        Unit        0         1          2         3          4         5          6         7          8         9         10
Without project scenario
Net retums                                          18,979     18,979    18,979    18,979    18,979      18,979    18,979    18,979    18,979    18,979    18,979
kesshouseholdconsumptionof80%                       15,183     15,183    15,183    15,183    15,183      15,183    15,183    15,183     15,183    15,183    15,183
available cash income                                3,796      3,796     3,796      3,796     3,796      3,796     3,796      3,796     3,796      3,796     3,796
labor days                                           5,450     5,450      5,450     5,450      5,450     5,450      5,450     5,450      5,450     5,450     5,450
casMabor days                                         0.70       0.70      0.70       0.70      0.70       0.70      0.70       0.70      0.70       0.70      0.70
With project scenario (before cost recovery)
Net returs                                          19,440    34,757    34,757    34,757    34,757    34,757    34,757    34,757    34,757    34,757    34,757
lessthewithoutprojectconsumption                    15,183    15,183    15,183    15,183    15,183    15,183    15,183    15,183    15,183    15,183    15,183
kss consumption increase of 25%                      1,064      4,894     4,894      4,894     4,894      4,894     4,894      4,894     4,894      4,894     4,894
total available cash income                          3,193    14,681    14,681    14,681    14,681    14,681    14,681    14,681    14,681    14,681    14,681
labor days                                           5,450      7,510     7,510      7,510     7,510      7,510     7,510      7,510     7,510      7,510     7,510
caslabor days                                         0.59       1.95      1.95       1.95       1.95      1.95      1.95       1.95       1.95      1.95      1.95
Investment costs                                    -6,442         0          0         0          0          0         0          0                  p          0
ANAE subsidy                                         6,442         0          0         0          0          0         0          0         0          0        0
Incremental change (before cost recovery)
change in total available cash income                 -603     10,885    10,885    10,885     10,885     10,885    10,885    10,885    10,885      10,885    10,885
change in cash/labor day                             -0.11       1.26       1.26      1.26       1.26      1.6        1.26      1.26       1.26      1.26      1.26
changeincash/laborday(%)                             -16%       181%      181%       181%      181%       181%      181%       181%      181%       181%      181%
Cost Recovery Plan
Incremental cash improvement                          -603    10,885    10,885    10,885    10,885    10,885    10,885    10,885    10,885    10,885    10,885
Total repayment due                                 -6,442    -6,764    -4,245      -1,600         0          0         0         0          0          0         0
Repayment                                                0      2,721     2,721      1,600         0          0         0          0         0          0         0
Net cash improvement                                     0      8,164     8,164      9,285    10,885     10,885     10,885    10,885    10,885     10,885    10,885
Percent of investment costs recovered:     1 00%
* Assumes 5% interest, 1-year grace period, 3-year repayment,
interest capitalized during grace period.
Repayment level is set at 25% of incremental cash improvement



Annex 9
Page 32 of 38
Case 4. Irrigated agricultural Improvements from a diversion dam (100 ha)
YEAR                                       Unit        0          1         2         3         4          5         6         7          8         9         10
Without project scenario
Net returns                                        47,513    47,513    47,513    47,513    47,513    47,513    47,513    47,513    47,513    47,513    47,513
klsshouseholdconsumptionof80/.                    38,010    38,010    38,010    38,010    38,010    38,010    38,010    38,010    38,010    38,010    38,010
available cash income                               9,503      9,503     9,503     9,503      9,503     9,503     9,503      9,503     9,503     9,503     9,503
labor days                                         17,050    17,050    17,050    17,050    17,050    17,050    17,050    17,050    17,050    17,050    17,050
cash/abor days                                       0.56       0.56      0.56      0.56       0.56      0.56      0.56       0.56      0.56      0.56      0.56
With project scenario (before cost recovery)
Net returns                                        56,990    72,444    72,444    73,750    73,750    73,750    73,750    73,750    73,750    73,750    73,750
less the without project consumption               45,592    57,956    57,956    59,000    59,000    59,000    59,000    59,000    59,000    59,000    59,000
kss consumption increase of 25%                         0         0          0         0          0         0     3,687      3,687     3,687     3,687      3,687
total available cash income                         11,398    14,489    14,489    14,750    14,750    14,750    11,062    11,062    11,062    11,062    11,062
labor days                                          17,770    17,770    17,770    17,770    17,770    17,770    17,770    17,770    17,770    17,770    17,770
cash/labor days                                      0.64       0.82      0.82      0.83       0.83      0.83      0.62       0.62      0.62      0.62      0.62
Investment costs                                  -13,388         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0                   01  
ANAE subsidy                                        13,388        0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
Incremental change (before cost recovery)
change in total available cash income                1,895     4,986     4,986     5,247      5,247     5,247      1,560     1,560     1,560      1,560     1,560
change in cash/labor day                             0.08       0.26      0.26      0.27       0.27      0.27      0.07       0.07      0.07      0.07       0.07
change in cash/labor day (/.)                       15%        46%       46%       49/e      49%/a     490/h     12%        12%       12%        12%       12%
Cost Recovery Plan*
Incremental cash improvement                        1,895      4,986     4,986     5,247      5,247     5,247      1,560     1,560     1,560      1,560     1,560
Totalrepaymentdue                                 -13,388   -14,057   -13,451   -12,815   -12,078           0         0         0          0         0         0
Repayment                                               0      1,247     1,247     1,312      1,312         0         0         0          0         0         0
Net cash improvement                                 1,895     3,740     3,740     3,935      3,935     5,247      1,560     1,560     1,560      1,560     1,560
Percent of investment costs recovered:     10%
* Assumes 5% interest, 1-year grace period, 3-year repayment,
interest capitalized during grace period.
Repayment level is set at 25% of incremental cash improvement



Annex 9
Page 33 of 38
Case 5. Vegetable Gardens (2 ha)
YEAR                                       Unit        0          1         2         3         4          5         6          7         S         9         10
With project scenario (before cost recovery)
Net returs                                          5,969      5,969     5,969      5,969     5,969     5,969      5,969     5,969     5,969      5,969     5,969
kss consumption of 50%/                             2,985      2,985     2,985     2,985      2,9S5     2,985     2,985      2,985     2,985     2,985     2,985
total available cash income                         2,985      2,985     2,985     2,985      2,985     2,985     2,985      2,985     2,985     2,985     2,985
labor days                                            612       612        612       612       612        612       612       612        612       612       612
cashAabor days                                          5         5          5         5          5         5         5          5         5         5         5
Investment costs                                    4,739         0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0         0
ANAE subsidy                                        4,739         0          0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
Cost Recoery Plan
Incremental cash improvement                        2,985      2,985     2,985     2,985      2,985     2,985     2,985      2,985     2,985      2,985    2,985
Total repayment due                                 4,739    -3,409    -2,013       -546         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
Repayment                                            1,492     1,492     1,492       546         0          0         0         0          0         0         0
Net cash improvement                                 1,492     1,492     1,492      2,439     2,985     2,985      2,985     2,985     2,985      2,985     2,985
Percent of investment costs recovered:     100I/
Assumes 5% interest, no grace period, 4-year repayment,
Repayment level is set at 50%/. of incremental cash improvement
Case 6. Reforestation in the Lac Alaotra region (8.5 ha)
YEAR                                       Unit            0          1         2         3          4         5         6          7         8         /9        10
With project scenario (before cost recovery)
Net retums                                              0         0          0         0      1,785     1,785      1,785     1,785     1,785      1,785     1,785
kss consumption of 80%/.                                0         0          0         0      1,428     1,428      1,428     1,428     1,428      1,428     1,428
total available cash income                             0         0          0         0       357        357       357       357        357       357       357
labor days                                           1,533      767        767       767       767        767       767        767       767       767       767
cash/labor days                                      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.47      0.47       0.47      0.47      0.47       0.47      0.47
Investment costs                                   -2,527    -1,322          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0         0
ANAE subsidy                                        2,527      1,322         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Cost Recovery Plan*
Incremental cash improvement                            0         0          0         0       357        357       357       357        357       357       357
Total repayment due                                -2,527    -3,975    -4,174      4,382    -4,602    -4,644      4,689      4,736    -4,785    -4,837    -4,892
Repayment                                               0         0          0         0        179       179       179        179       179       179       179
Net cash improvement                                    0         0          0         0    -4,423      4,466    -4,511    -4,558      4,607     4,659    4,713
Percent of investment costs recovered:     00/
* Assumes 5% interest, 4-year grace period, 6-year repayment,
Repayment level is set at 50%/. of incremental cash improvement



Annex 9
Page 34 of 38
Protected Areas and Ecotourism Component.
85.   The purpose of this section is to consider the likely evolution of Madagascar's tourism
and ecotourism industry and, on the basis thereof, to evaluate the potential for ANGAP (the
National Association for the Management of Protected Areas) to attain financial self-
sufficiency by the end of the third phase of the Environment Program (EP3). The recent
trends in tourism growth and in park visitation, shown below, serve as a base for estimating
future revenues. Between 1987 and 1995, visits to protected areas grew at an average annual
rate of 104 percent. The decline in 1991 is attributable to the civil unrest that year.
Year               1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993   1994  1995
Tourists visiting  28,136 34,405 38,954 52,923 34,891 53,655 55,102  65,839 78,890
Madagascar
Visits to protected              1,429  3,960  1,808  5,855  14,941  17,369 36,206
areasII
Percent visiting                4      7      5      11    27     26    46
protected areas
Percent annual                         177   -54   224   155    16    108
increase in PA visits
Sources: Ministere de la police; the DEF until 1991, and ANGAP since 1991.
The entry fees to the protected areas are currently set as follows:
Non resident       20 000 FMG (approximately $5 )
Expatriate resident   15 000 FMG (approximately $ 3.75)
Resident adults     1 000 FMG (approximately $ 0.25)
Children under 14     150 FMG (approximately $ 0.04)
Researchers        50 000 FMG (approximately $ 12.5)
86.   Because non residents generate the bulk of the ecotourism receipts in Madagascar,
ANGAP expects to increase its entry fees from the current $5 per tourist to $10 per foreign
tourist. The analysis assumes that this essential fee change will take place by the beginning of
1997 to correspond with the launching of the EP2. On the basis of planned developments
during the EP2 and EP3, ANGAP expects to supplement its entry fees with earnings from a
range of activities including guide and porter fees, royalties on artisanal products and other
items sold at shops, and concessions to private enterprises.



Annex 9
Page 35 of 38
87.    A tourism expert participating in the December, 1995 pre-appraisal mission calculated
an average per tourist expenditure at Madagascar's category A protected areas of US$25 and
broken down as follows:
  US$10 entry fee (50% of the fee is channeled directly to local communities)
*  US$1.5 for guide fees
*  US$2.5 for porter's fees
*  US$3 for maps, guides, posters, and other low-cost items
*  US$2 for artisanal objects sold through gift shops.
*  US$6 from lodging and dining concessions
88.    Based on these figures, the following table presents the estimated annual income for
ANGAP from 1997 through 2006, assuming average annual growth of 12 percent in the
number of tourists. The calculations also assume that 50 percent of entry fees are reinvested
in the local, periphery zone communities and the revenues from the other activities increase
gradually from 1997 to 2001 before they attain the expected levels listed above. For example,
ANGAP's concession royalties are estimated at only $1 per tourist in 1998, increasing by $1
per tourist annually, until they reach $6 per tourist in 2003.
ANGAP's estimated annual operating income from category A protected areas.
Year                    1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006
NumberofvistorstoPAs    36.2  40.5  45.4  50.8  57.0  63.8  71.5  80.0  96.0  107.5  120.5  135.0
(XI 000)
Entry fees(xlOOO$)      107   110  454   508   570  638   715   800   960   1.075  1,205 1,350
Local share of entry fee  ?   ?     227   254   285   319   357   400   480   537   602   675
Share of entry fee to ANGAP  ?  ?   227   254   285   319   358   400   480   538   603   675
Guides                  0     0     32   45   72   96    107   120   144   161   181  203
Porters                 0     0     45   76    114  160   179  200   240   269   301   338
Ecoshop sales           ?     ?     23   51    114  191   215   240   288   323   362   405
Artisanal sales         ?     ?     23   51   86    123   143   160   192  214   240  270
Concession royalties    O     0     0     51    114   191  286   400   576  645   723   810
TOTAL ANGAP(X1 000$)                350   528   785   1,080 1,288  1.520 1,920 2.150 2,410 2,701
89.    According to the preceding projections, ANGAP's receipts would reach US$2.7
million in 2006. Current estimates place ANGAP's annual operating costs (not including
major investments during the EP2 and EP3) at $4 to $5 million. Thus, the estimated $2.7
million in annual revenues would cover anywhere from 54 to 67 percent of ANGAP's
operating costs.
90.    A more optimistic scenario could significantly increase the estimated receipts to a
level sufficient to meet the estimated operating costs. Such a scenario would be the result of
several actions which could lead to three major changes in the model: (i) annual tourism
growth of 15 percent rather than 12 percent, (ii) a reduction in the distribution of entry fees to
communities from 50 percent to 30 percent, and (iii) a payment to ANGAP of ten percent of
the tourism tax collected at the airport. These changes would generate an estimated US$4.4
million in revenues for ANGAP by the year 2006, representing an increase of sixty-three



Annex 9
Page 36 of 38
percent from the original estimate. Annual revenues of US$4.4 would be sufficient to meet
anywhere from 88 to 100 percent of ANGAP's estimated recurrent costs.
91.   ANGAP recommends the following specific actions to create the conditions for
realizing the higher estimated revenues:
* establish currency exchange offices within the service areas of the four most visited
protected areas, with eventual offices at all category A protected areas.
* establish within the same service areas reliable national and international communication
links (telephone and fax).
* define and apply a system for granting property rights (through auction or another form) to
encourage investment in lodging in the peripheral zones of the protected areas.
* create or improve landing strips near protected areas with limited access by road.
* create a single administrative transaction point in order to streamline the procedures for
undertaking investments in the peripheral zones or within protected areas.
* reduce the difficulties tourists typically encounter entering and leaving the country by
simplifying procedures and requirements.
n permit other companies (besides Air Madagascar) to operate flights to and from
Madagascar.
 introduce a national-level tourism marketing strategy which places more attention on the
protected areas and biodiversity of the island (rather than beach tourism).
* develop mutually beneficially partnerships between ANGAP and tour operators.
* give ANGAP the authority to set entry fees and other fees generated from protected area
tourism as well as the percentage which must be reinvested in local communities.
92.   The investments foreseen under the EP2 and EP3 are critical if ANGAP is to have any
chance to reach revenue levels sufficient to meet their operating costs. A third model
assumes that ANGAP continues to operate in the absence of any additional investment in
protected areas. It is assumed that this would lead to an increase in tourism of only 5 percent
per year during the EP2, gradually diminishing during the EP3. Furthermore, the model
assumes that there are no revenues from activities beyond the entry fee (e.g., no ecoshops),
and no concessions awarded to the private sector which has no interest in bringing clients to
poorly maintained protected areas. Under such a scenario it is estimated that by the end of
EP3, ANGAP's annual receipts would fall to $200,000, which represents only five percent of
operating costs.
93.   Another potential contribution to the long-term financial sustainability of the protected
areas system is the USAID-sponsored Tany Meva foundation. This foundation will serve as a
mechanism for attracting external funding in the form of equity for managing Madagascar's
biological heritage. If ANGAP is able to demonstrate its capacity as a managing agency, it
could attract financial sponsors to contribute to the foundation. The interest from those
contributions would then be available for ANGAP to invest in revenue-generating activities.



Annex 9
Page 37 of 38
Multiple Use Forest Ecosystems Component (ESFUM) and the National Forestry Fund.
94.   The purpose of this section is to assess the evolution of the National Forestry Fund
(NFF) and estimate the potential future contributions this fund could make to the operating
costs of the DEF for implementing the ESFUM component.
The NFF has the following sources of revenues:
*  fees from cutting permits
*  fees on exported logs, timber, and wood products
*  fees on exports of raphia, artisanal products and cashew nuts
*  fees on exports of wild plants or flowers including medicinal products
*  forest access fees, fines, and legal transaction costs
95.   The following table shows the receipts and expenditures of the FFN since its creation
in 1988. The table shows the rapid increase in the rate of fee recovery, particularly in the last
two years. However, expenditures also increased rapidly over the same period, even
exceedings revenues in 1992 and 1993. As of July 3, 1996 the fees collected for the year total
720 million FMG whereas costs for the year reach 1.4 billion FMG.
Year          Fees collected          Expenditures
(in million FMG)      (in million FMG)
1988               14                      5
1989               113                    34
1990               196                    59
1991               165                    123
1992               196                   266
1993               211                   218
1994               10                    308
1995              1,689                  768
1996              720*                  1,458*
* Through July 3, 1996
96.   As the FFN collection system continues to improve, it is possible to estimate its
potential contribution to meeting the costs of managing the 580,000 ha of forests under the
ESFUM component. On the basis of recent experience, a forest economist with the DEF
generated the following estimates on the fees collected in each province for various grades of
wood (categories 2 through 5)



Annex 9
Page 38 of 38
Volume of wood and fees collected
Category   Fees   Category   Fees   Category   Fees    Total
2     (million    3      (million   4 and 5  (million   fees
Province        (m3)    FMG)    (m3)    FMG)    (m3)    FMG)  (million
FMG)
Antananarivo      0         0      8800      211      7200      137     348
Antsiranana     9360      487      63960    1535    67080    1274    3296
Fianarantsoa    5840      304      54560    1261    58400    1110    2675
Mahajanga       1600       83      11400     538     24000     456      1077
Toamasina       9360      487      71760    1722    74880    1423    3632
Tulear           1600      83      8000      192      6400      122     397
Total timber    27760     1444    227480    5459    237960    4522    11425
volume
Total charcoal    6940     79      56870     455     59490     476      1010
volume
Total fees                1,523             5,914              4,998   12,435
(million FMG)
97.   The above table shows that total receipts could reach 12.4 billion FMG per year,
equivalent to $3.1 million at an exchange rate of 4,OOOFMG per US dollar. To this sum can
be added annual fees on the exportation of wood products totalling US$160,000, for a total of
US$3.27 million. Of this amount, the DEF estimates that sixty percent would be paid in
currency while the remaining fourty percent would be collected in the form of in-kind
payments or direct reforestation. Thus, the cash contribution to operating costs would be
approximately $1.96 million annually. In comparison, the DEF's annual recurrent costs, by
the end of the EP2, are estimated at US$0.9 million. The FFN fee calculations presented
above rely on the DEF's own estimates of expected production from the 580,000 hectares
under the ESFUM component. The economic analysis, presented earlier, relied on much more
conservative production estimates than those of the DEF. However, applying the same
assumptions as the DEF with respect to forestry fund collection rates (approximately 3 percent
of the value of sawnwood and 1 percent of the value of charcoal), to the production estimates
used in the economic analysis, leads to estimated annual fees of US$0.9million. Based on
these calculations it appears that the forestry fund could, within ten years, meet anywhere
from 50 percent to 100 percent of the DEF's annual operating costs. The DEF is expected to
undertake more refined analysis of their annual work programs to move gradually towards full
cost recovery by the end of the Environment Program.



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
DOCUMENTS IN PROGRAM FILES
1.    Charte de l'Environnement
2.    Synthese des Rapports de faisabilite thematique et pour l'evaluation economique du
Programme environnemental Phase II, deux volumes., Cabinet MPA, novembre 1995
3.    Etude de faisabilite - Programme Environnement, Phase II, 16 volumes:
Version initiale: Septembre 1995, version revisee: Janvier 1996.
*  Composante Conservation des sols et amelioration du cadre de vie rural - Etude de
faisabilite technique pour le Programme Environnement 2, 1997-2001. ANAE,
Antananarivo, juin 1995 - Document complementaire: septembre 1995
*  Composante Gestion conservatoire des eaux et des sols, sous-composante Bassins-
versants, DEF
*  Composante Ecosystemes forestiers A usages multiples, DEF. Version revisee, mai
1996, 3 volumes.
*  Composante Aires protegees et Ecotourisme, ANGAP
*  Composante Environnement urbain, ONE
*  Composante Environnement marin et c6tier, ONE
*  Composante Cadastre et Securisation fonciere, Direction des Domaines
*  Composante Information geographique de base, FTM
*  Composante Sensibilisation - Information - Education - Formation, ONE
*  Composante Prevention et attenuation des catastrophes naturelles et technologiques,
ONE
*  Composante Appui au PAE - Volet Gestion economique des politiques, ONE
*  Composante Appui au PAE - Volet Systeme d'Information sur l'Environnement,
ONE
*  Composante Appui au PAE - Volet Procedures environnementales, legislation
environnementale, ONE
*  Composante Appui au PAE - Volet Recherche environnementale, ONE
*  Composante Appui au PAE - Volet Appui A la mise en oeuvre de la gestion locale
communautaire des ressources naturelles renouvelables, ONE
*  Organisation institutionnelle et Coordination du PE2, ONE
4.    Seminaire national sur la Planification et le legislation forestieres, 5 - 7 decembre 1995,
documents de travail:, DEF - Intercooperation - ESSA Forets:
*  Politique forestiere malgache, document d'orientation
*  Plan directeur forestier national, version provisoire
*  Avant-projet de loi portant revision de la legislation forestiere
5.    Manuel de procedures pour la coordination des relations interinstitutionnelles dans la
gestion de l'environnement A Madagascar, ONE - KEPEM, septembre 1995



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
6.     Projet de loi relatif a la gestion communautaire locale des ressources naturelles
renouvelables
7.     Rapport sur 1'etat de l'environnement a Madagascar, ONE - Institut national de la
Statistique, 1995
8.     GEF design assistance to EP2: summary of findings - CI, Washington, November 1995
9.     Evaluation par les beneficiaires. 5 volumes plus executive summary. 1995
10.   Joint appraisal mission. Working documents. Preliminary version. COS 1995, document
No 1, December 1995
11.   ONE. Audit des capacites institutionnelles. Rapport final. Institutions et Development et
Cabinet Mpanazava, Avril 96
12.   ONE. Manuel d'organisation du programme environnemental 2. Version preliminaire.
Aout 1996.
13.   ONE. Systeme de suivi-evaluation. Manuel d'indicateurs et Manuel de procedures.
Versions preliminaire. Aouit 1996.
14.    Projet de d6cret fixant le cadre institutionnel pour la gestion de l'environnement.
Septembre 1996.



Annex 11
Page 1 of 6
Sector Policy Statement
(Translation of the original in French)
1- Present Situation
11/ Malagasv Environmental Charter (CEM)
Aware that the environmental degradation centered around humankind is the principal
cause of the incessant research for a development at all levels, the Malagasy State promulgated
Law 90-033, establishing the Environmental Charter ratified by the National Assembly on
December 21, 1990. Indeed, the country's economy relies mainly on natural resources.
This CEM contains the general principles of the National Environment Policy (PNE) and
the arrangements translating in operational terms the implementation of this PNE in the
framework of the overall development of Madagascar.
12/ Environmental Action Plan (PAE)
The operational implementation of this law has caused the officials to put in place an
PAE in which the different phases are about 5 years long:
Environmental Program I or EPI starting in 1991
Environmental Program 2 or EP2 starting in 1997
Environmental Program 3 or EP3 starting in 2002
The goal of the PAE is to promote development via the sustainable use of natural,
resources, and in particular to protect the biological diversity of Madagascar for the benefit of
future generations.
This PAE has the following objectives:
*  to limit the degradation of original ecosystems
*  to promote rational modes of use of renewable natural resources and the preservation of
ecological functions
*  to construct an economic and sectoral planning system based on the relevant environmental
concerns
13/ Environmental Program I or EPI
The EP I is the first integrated environmental project of the Republic of Madagascar.
The principal objective is to get the PAE started. Multiple missions were identified and the steps
for attaining the objectives are as follows:
*  an education, training and environmental awareness project
*  a biodiversity protection project
*  a soil conservation and rural live improvement project
*  a land titling, mapping and remote sensing project
*  an PAE support project composed of the following:



Annex 11
Page 2 of 6
> a research subcomponent
= an environmental legislation subcomponent
=> a database subcomponent
=> an environmental impact assessment subcomponent
The EPI finishes this year, and the PAE begins its second phase in 1997.
14/lnstitutional Framework
For implementation of a plan an appropriate institutional framework is needed for to
ensure the success of the project. The structures implanted during the EPI are the following:
*  Minister in charge of the Environment
*  National Office of the Environment (ONE), the operational management structure
*  National Association of Environmental Action (ANAE)
*  National Association for the Management of Protected Areas (ANGAP)
*  Geographic Information and Environmental Training Center (CFSIGE)
Existing institutions such as the Land Management and Land Titling Directorate (DD),
the Office of Water and Forests (DEF) and the Mapping Institute (FTM) were strengthened.
The two anticipated structures in the CEM, namely the National Institutional
Environmental Structure (SINE) and the National Conservation Commission for Development
(CNCD), were not functional.
2-Basic Policy Principles
21/ Obiectives:
The overarching objective consists of optimizing the management of natural resources
for human development needs.
22/Strategic Princivles of the Environmental Action Plan
The Government is aware of the importance of good management of natural resources
for the economic development of the country, and conversely of the influence of the level of
economic development on the use of natural resources. The strategy of managing natural
resources which underlines the PAE is thus an integral part of the country's development
strategy, in the framework of the policy of resurgence of growth of the economy.
Also for the implementation of this policy the following principles were adopted:
* Decentralization of the Program implementation towards decentralized local governments,
initially at the level of the future administrative Regions, as much for the program planning
as for the execution of activities.
*  Long term vision of actions and financing
*  Intensification of dialogue instead of transmission through a hierarchy
*  Presentation of the program to the population emphasizing the benefits rather than the
constraints



Annex 11
Page 3 of 6
* Mobilization of local populations in the conception and implementation of environmental
activities.
* Use of associations and other NGOs in the private sector in the implementation of activities
3-Principal Medium Term Measures:
The continuation and consolidation of achievements of EP I is the principal objective of
the Environmental Program 2. Strengthened by the experience of EP I, the country has to supply
itself with institutional, legal and regulatory instruments, adequate for handling the various
eventual constraints, internal and external to the program, in its implementation. The program
approach will be better in relation to the coordinated independent projects approach.
31 / The new institutional framework
The structures for the management of operations established during the EPI will be
maintained and even strengthened for the implementation of Environment Program 2. ONE will
be charged with the operational coordination of the program.
On the other hand, the experience of EP I confirmed the necessity for the country to have
on the one hand a forum for reflection and discussion, and on the other hand improved
mechanisms for coordination within the Administration.
The institutional structures which were specified by the CEM and which were not
implemented during EP I, namely the SINE and the CNCD, no longer correspond to this new
vision of need, so they will be replaced by two new entities:
31.1/National Environmental Council (CNE)
* The National Environmental Council, independent body, has a consultative character,
charged with giving its opinion on the general direction and strategic vision on
environmental matters.
31.2/ Interministerial Environment Committee (CIME)
* The Interministerial Environment Committee, guarantor of the real and effective integration
of the requirements for an environmentally sustainable development.
32/ Environmental Proeram 2 (EP2):
The components of the Environmental Program 2 are notably:
32. 1/Direct Components:
* multiple use forest ecosystem
* protected areas and ecotourism
* management for the conservation of water and soils
=> mini project
=> management of large watersheds
* marine and coastal zone



Annex 11
Page 4 of 6
32.2/Transversal components
* support to regionalized management and spatial approach
* Support to Local Natural Resource Management and Land Tenure Security
=> land tenure securization
=> management of natural resources by local community
* Regional fund for environmental management
32.3/ Strategic components:
*  Elaboration and transfer of policies, strategies and instruments
*  Environmental impact assessment of investments (MECIE)
32.4/Support components
*  environmental communication
*  environmental education and training
*  environmental information system
*  finalized environmental research
*  geographic information
*  support to the coordination and management of EP2
33/ Program law, the reform of the legal and regulatorv framework
In view of the lessons of EP I and for the implementation of EP2 the Government has
committed itself to:
* Define or redefine the mandates of some of the entities as well as the mechanisms of their
interventions. In particular,
=> the CNE and the CIME as defined in section 31 will be constituted shortly
=' as well, the mission of the private entity charged with managing the network of
Protected Areas will be redefined to get better results
-- the management of Protected Areas will be conferred to ANGAP which is an
evolution from its mission of coordination to that of strategic and operational
manager in order to improve conservation of these ecosystems. In the framework of
this management, the Government, in concert with ANGAP, will enact all necessary
legislative and regulatory measures in order to permit ANGAP to do the following:
0 to contribute to the management of disputes concerning the Protected Areas
0 and to put in place plans for managing the network
=> CFSIGE is mandated to develop and implement the environmental education and
training policy
*  launch a national debate on the development of a Land Code. Meanwhile, a more simple
form of land tenure will be enacted, called relative land security system, giving legitimacy
to defacto situations that are accepted and guaranteed by the community and allowing such
a community, with a simple procedure, to manage in a rational manner the renewable natural
resources made available to them.
* pass a Program contract with FTM for the period 1997-2001 for the rehabilitation and
production of basic geographic information



Annex 11
Page 5 of 6
* specify the respective roles of central government, local governments and their partners in
the implementation of the environment action plan, in accordance with the principle of
Government withdrawal and the policy of promoting private initiative
* set the rules and institutional framework for such an implementation
* establish the conditions for the integration of the PAE in the National Development Plan as
well as for the integration of the various environmental activities at regional level
* provide for the inscription in the budget law of the necessary Government contributions
corresponding to the Financing Agreements passed with financing institutions, in particular
external ones
* with regard to the MECIE decree on the compatibility between investments and the
environment, review its application and applicability with the aim of having operational
aspects of environmental assessment, control and monitoring taken over progressively by
line ministries and local governments
* within the framework of the integration of environmental concerns into the country's
sectoral and global development policies, proceed with the formulation of environmental
policies for various sectors (agriculture, water, macro-economy, ...), and implement the
policies that have been formulated during the phase I of the Environment Program (tourism,
roads, energy, mining, industry)
Consequently, a draft Program Law that would complete, specify or modify the
provisions of the CEM will be presented to the Parliament at its next session for the
implementation of the above policy. The regulations that are required for the application of the
policy will be promulgated shortly, in particular with regard to the relative land security system
and the management of protected areas.
To complement the above, the Government also intends to:
* present to the next session of the Parliament a proposal for a Forest Policy Orientation Law
and a proposal for a law for a Revision of the Forestry Legislation
* promulgate as soon as possible the various by-laws and regulations required to implement
the Program, particularly the by-laws to implement the revised forestry legislation (once the
law voted by Parliament) and the by-laws to implement the recently adopted law on the local
community management of renewable natural resources, in particular the decree on
environmental mediators
* ensure that the various institutions involved in the Program have sufficient implementation
capacity, in particular by making sure that planned or on-going institutional capacity analysis
will be completed and ensuring that the measures that might appear necessary would be
actually implemented.



Annex 11
Page 6 of 6
34/Financial and economic aspects
In order to strengthen the way strong interactions between environment and development
are taken into account, criteria of economic and financial analysis will be systematically
introduced in the formulation of the activities of the program, particularly ANAE's mini-
projects, the activities under the regional fund component (FORAGE - Regional Fund for
Supporting Environmental Management), and the management of forest areas.
The search for the long-term financial viability of the Program will also require setting-
up cost recovery mechanisms for those activities that justify it, i.e. those that generate quickly
enough tangible benefits at the level of the beneficiaries of the programs.
Aware that the financing of development activities in rural areas follows very diverse
approaches and that such a diversity might be a problem for implementing the cost recovery
policy mentioned above, the Government intends to conduct a review of all major operations
under its responsibility with a view to determining whether, and to what extent, such operations
provide or allow for cost recovery and, if so, whether, and to what extent, cost recovery
mechanisms can be introduced or strengthened, as the case may be, under such operations, and
harmonized with one another.



Annex A.1
Page 1 of 2
PROTECTED AREAS LISTED ACCORDING TO PRIORITIES
Source          ANGAP             ANGAP   ANGAP                             CI-GEF                                WB
Ground     New         Knowledge after PRIF Scientific and Participatory  Donor of Oper.
Workshops
Name            Area (ha)  Category  Total  Biologic    Priority for    Priority    Degree    Structure in EPI
Score      a      Conservation     for       of
Diversity                Research  Pressure
I Ankarana                     18,225    A-2       24       E            E           E          E           USA
2  Andohahela                  76,020    A-7       24        E           E            E         E           USA
3  Analamera                   34,700   B-2 1      24        E           E            E         E           USA
4  Tsimanampetsotsa            43,200   B-2 4      24        E           E            E         E
5  Cap Sainte-Marie             1,750   B-1 8      24       E            E            E         E           USA
6  Manombo                      5,020   B-i 1      23        E           E           VI         E            WB
7  Masoala                    220,000    A-3       22       E            E           E          I           USA
8  Isalo                       81,450   A-li     22         E           VI           E         VI         WB/IUSA
9  Andranomena                  6,420   B-1 9      22       VI           E            E        VI         WB!USA
10  Lokobe - Nosy Tanikely       2,220   A-10       21       E            E           E          A            WB
11  Mangerivola                 11,900    C-5       21       VI          VI           E         VI
12  Tsaratanana -               83,872   B-2 2      20       E           VI           VI         I            WB
Manongarivo
13  Marojejy - Anjanaharibe     92,240   B-1 6      20       E           VI            I        VI           KfW
14  Andringitra - Pic d'Ivohibe    34,613   B-1 5   20       E           VI           VI         I           KfW
15  Betampona                    2,228  B- 1 10    20        VI          VI           VI        VI        Brit. Church
16  Beza Mahafaly                  600   B-1 2      20       VI           E           VI         I        WWF/lJSA
17  Ambatovaky                  60,030    C-6       20       VI          VI           VI        VI
18  Mantadia                    10,000    A-6       20       VI           E            I        VI           USA
19  MananaraNord                24,000   B-i 3      20       VI           E            I        VI        UNDP/WB
20  Bemaraha                   152,000    A-9       19        E           VI          VI         A         France/WB
21  Zahamena                    73,160   B-1 7      19.      VI           I           VI         VI          USA
22  Ranomafana                  41,600    A-4       19       VI           VI           I         VI          USA
23  Andasibe (Analamazaotra)       810    A-5       18        1           VI           I         VI          USA
24  Namoroka                    21,742   B-2 3      18        I           E           VI         A
25  Zombitse - Vohibasia        21,500   B-1 4      18        I           VI          VI         I          Norway
26  Ambohijanahary              24,750    C-8       18        1           VI          VI         I



Annex A.1
Page 2 of 2
Source          ANGAP              ANGAP   ANGAP                             CI-GEE                                WB
Ground     New          Knowledge after PRIF Scientific and Participatory  Donor of Oper.
Workshops
Name             Area (ha)  Category  Total  Biologic    Priority for    Priority    Degree    Structure in EPI
Score      a      Conservation     for        of
Diversity                Research  Pressure
00JJi0it402704 dBaiedejigiB aly0000000000 i 01;,500  Z-C- i    I                         I        A;
28  Montagne /Foret d'Ambre    18,200    A-1         17       VI           I           VI         A         USA/WB
29  Ambohitantely                 5,600   B-2 6      17        I           I           A          VI           WB
30  Ankarafantsika               60,520    A-8       17       VI           I           VI         A            KfW
31- Kalabaita                    28,25  ~B-2         15       U           VIEW
32  Midongy du Sud              43,423   B-2 10      13       U            I            E         L            WB
33  Bota                         -8,380   B 29                U            U            E         I
34  Tamnpoketsa Analarnaitso     17,150    C-1       4        U            U            U         U
35  Marotandrmnoei              42,200  |                                 C-2............' -.........
36  Kas"j                        1..800...2                                                                            .
37i Maningoza                    7.,..0......
38. Beniaive                     11,510    C-4       -                                                   _______
TOTAL  1,407,14
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   3
A= Average = 3 points        L= Low = 2 points
E= Exceptional = 6 points    U= Unknown = 1 point
1= Important = 4 points      VI = Very Important = 5 points



Annex A.2
Page 1 of 1
PROTECTED AREAS QUALIFYING FOR GEF ASSISTANCE (LISTED ACCORDING TO PRIORITIES)
Source        ANGAP            ANGAP   ANGAP                 Conservation International - GEF               UNDP - WB
Ground     New         Knowledge after PRIF Scientific and Participatory  GEF Funding for
Workshops
Name           Area (ha)  Category  Total  Biological   Priority for   Priority   Degree   Mnagemen  Management
Score   Diversity   Conservation    for    of       t Plan
Research  Pressure
1 Tsitmanampetsotsa         43,200   B-2 4     24        E           E          E         E          X           X
2  Cap Sainte-Marie          1,750   B-1 8      24       E           E           E        E          X           X
3  Manombo                   5,020   B-1 1      23       E           E          VI        E                      X
4  Andranomena               6,420   B-1 9      22       VI          E           E        VI                     X
5  Tsaratanana -            83,872   B-2 2      20       E           VI         VI         I                     X
Manongarivo
6  Marojejy            -   92,240   B-1 6       20       E           VI          I        VI                     X
Anjanaharibe
7  Andringitra - Pic        34,613    B-1 5     20       E           VI         VI         I                     X
d'lvohibe
8  Betampona                 2,228   B- 1 10    20       VI          VI         VI        VI         X           X
8  BezaMahafaly                600   B-1 2      20       VI          E          VI         I                     X
9  Ambatovaky               60,030    C-6       20       VI          VI         VI        VI         X           X
10  Mananara Nord            24,000   B-1 3      20       VI          E           I        VI                     X
11  Zahamena                 73,160   B-1 7      19       VI           I         VI        VI                     X
12  Namoroka                 21,742   B-2 3      18        I          E          VI        A          X           X
13  Zombitse - Vohibasia     21,500   B-1 4      18        I          VI         VI         I                     X
14  Ambohijanahary           24,750    C-8       18        I          VI         VI         I         X           X
15  Baie de Baly              1,500    C-7       18        I          E          VI        A                      X
16  Ambohitantely             5,600   B-2 6      17        1           I          A        VI         X           X
17  Kalambatritra            28,250   B-2 7      15       U           VI          E        A          X           X
18  Midongydu Sud            43,423   B-2 10    13        U            I          E        L                      X
TOTAL   573,898
A= Average = 3 points      L= Low = 2 points
E= Exceptional = 6 points  U= Unknown = 1 point
1= Important = 4 points     VI = Very Important = 5 points



Annex A.3
Page 1 of 2
BIOGEOGRAPHICAL FEATURES OF PROTECTED AREAS QUALIFYING FOR GEF ASSISTANCE
Protected Area      Area (ha)       Main Habitat Type                           Special Interest
Northern Region
RS d'Analamera           34700    deciduous forest, rainforest  plant spp from eastern and western Domain, endemic
Propithecus d. perrieri, Aye Aye, Fossa, Mad. Fish Eagle,
Hawk Accipiter henstii
RS de Manongarivo        35250    differs with altitude, lowland  21 mammal spp, 8 primate spp, 3 carnivore spp, endemic bird
rainforest                   fam., 47 bird spp, 48 reptile and frog spp
RNI 4 de Tsaratanana     48622   rainforest, differs with altitude   12 mammal spp, 54 bird spp, endemic reptiles and frogs,
Lemur macaco and L. rubriventer, endemic birds Atelornis
crossleyi, Phyllastrephus cinereiceps
RNI 12 de Marojejy       60150   rainforest, differs with altitude,  2000 endemic plant spp, 17 frog and 22 reptile spp, 102 bird
forest types from 3 different  spp, 3 endangered bird spp, Propithecus d. candidus
I regions
RS d'Anjanaharibe Sud    32100    similar to RNI 12, but only foret assumed to have a rich fauna and flora, Lemurs, Indris,
types from 2 regions         carnivores
Western Region
RS d'Andranomena          6420    dry deciduous forest, remarkable many endemic species, endemic tortoise Pyxisplanicauda,,
Baobabs                      two Boa species, several Lemur spp, Fossa
RNI 8 de Namoroka        21742    dry deciduous forest, differs with 12 mammal spp, 56 bird spp, endemic frogs and chameleons,
soil, Euphorbia, Baobab,     endemic chameleon Brookesia bonsi
Pachypods
PN ZombitseNVohibasia    21500    southern most dry deciduous   67 bird spp, 14 mammal spp, 6 lemur spp, endemic bird and
forest                       gecko Phyllastrephus apperti, Phelsuma standingi
RS d'Ambohijanahary      24750   transition zone of central and    several palm spp, Propithecus verreauxi deckeni
western forest types
Baie de Baly              1500    dry deciduous forest,         migrating birds area, endemic and very rare tortoise
Mangroves, temp. lakes,      Geochelone yniphora
wetlands
Eastern Region
RNI 3 de Zahamena        73160    primary and secondary         61 bird spp, 12 mammal spp, Crocodile, Lemurs Propithecus
rainforest, montane forest   d. diadema, Varecia variegata
RS d'Ambatovaky          60050   rainforest, similar Zahamena



Annex A.3
Page 2 of 2
Protected Area     Area (ha)       Main Habitat Type                          Special Interest
RS de Mangerivola        11900   rainforest, similar Zahamena
RNI de Betampona         2228    rainforest, lowland
PN Mananara Nord         24000   lowland rainforest, mangroves   largest protected part of mad. lowland rainforest, 60
bird,several primate spp, Brachypteracias sp, Hapalemur
simus, Indri indri, Allocebus trichotis, Dugong, crocodile
South -Eastern Region
SIB de Midongy du Sud   24145 and  intact southern mad. montane   together with RNI l Ithe largest remaining bloc of this type of
43423   rainforest                    forest, 42 bird spp, several mammals, still not well studied
RS de Manombo            5020    lowland rainforest, 50%       58 bird spp, endemic birds Lophotibis cristatus and Canirallus
kioloides
RNI 5 d'Andrigitra       31160   rainforest, differs with altitude   22 frog spp. 65 bird spp, 1 endangered bird spp, 2 rodent spp
and exposition              Brachyuromys, birds Neodrepanis hypoxantha, Atelornis
pittoides, Dromaeocercus brunneus
RS du Pic d'lvohibe      3453    rainforest 70%, degraded      43 bird spp, Lemurs and reptiles, Lemurfulvus rufus,
secondary forest 30%        Propithecus diadema, endemic bird Randiapseudozosterops
RS de Kalambatritra      28250    one of the rare rainforest   9 mammal spp, rainforest birds, 34 bird spp, fossa, Lemur
_____________________ ___________ fragments in the Central Domain fulvusfulvus, bushpig
|Soutbern Region
| RNI 10 de              43200    dry thorn shrub vegetation,  high plant endemism, 72 bird spp, 3 lemur spp, Lemur catta in
Tsimanampetsotsa                  Didieraceae, halophil vegetation  high density, endemic fish Typhleotris mad., endemic plover
Charadrius thoracicus
RS du Cap Ste Marie      1750    dry bush vegetation           rare plant spp, 3 tenrec spp, bird spp that are confined to dry
bush vegetation, plants Aloe millotii, Megistostegium perrieri
RS de Beza-Mahafaly       600     dry thorn shrub, Didiereacae,    12 mammal spp, 5 primate, 4 tenrec spp, 61 bird spp, Geogale
____________ gallery forest             aurita



Annex B
Page 1 of 2
GAZETTED FORESTS PRIORITIZED FOR CONSERVATION PURPOSES
Priorities after
Gazetted Forest      Province      Area         PRIF Scientific
Workshop
ha      Biological   Research
1 Prt o a-not: 3       Fianarantsoa         19,710    E
2 Anjiabe                 amasina          38,00      E           E
3: SLoka, Witra0        ;; 0; 0    0       0 ;; 0 Toamasina  00.   E  ...E
4: Hauteo Rantabe.      Toamasina   3:,200            E            E
SMakhakr              T'Oams            142500       EE
6 Vbhitaly             T anmasina         10,300      E           E
7 Vohitra .b .         Toamasina           11,525     E   -       E
A Aandrioa              Tranasna 3b 3:,800                        EE
9 Anjaarihb          ToamasinaAnjh,20 : aE c    T77 00
lOAnk&ahaka  Toamasina          ~~~14,750   EE
I1 IF  a'rwnana         Toamasina           1,.634  ~EE
12 1(ambo~aza     Toamasina         :27,600:    'El
13 V oh idrfamontson    Toama'sina .14,500                         E
714 BAzamdvoaAtsino      Antsiranana       27 800:  E:T::          E
:15 Besariak            Antsira'nana.      38,260      E
1:6 Ambbdi *vo:hitrm  p: Anitsiranana       2,420:                .E
17 Cap Moala I          Antsiranana        27,682         E:
1S Anhfi*fit bo y       Antsiranaa         31,15       E ST 
19 Andvakoera           Anranana           12575       E~          E
20 Ivongo                Fianarantsoa       9,220      E           VI
21 Vondrozo et Ivohibe 4   Fianarantsoa    40,694      E           VI
22 Ivongo                Fianarantsoa       8,700      E           VI
23 Ihorombe              Fianarantsoa       2,375      E           VI
24 Efasy                 Fianarantsoa       10,650     E           VI
25 Ivohibe et Ivongo     Fianarantsoa       17,277     E           VI
26 Lopary                Fianarantsoa       2,516      E           VI
27 Ambre                 Antsiranana         5,595     E           VI
28 Antafondro            Antsiranana       39,000      E           VI
.29 Fenoamby Sud         FinrnSO& ..380..Y
30 MenaMMbondoNtdd.   Fian:arantsoa          2,319     VIl        E
31 MphavelonaAnn iWbod    Fiaarantsa.       5,203        I-        E
32: A  larbe             anansa100                    VE
33  NOSy  Varik          Fianaantso     .    310VE
34 Mananjary I      .   Fianarantsoa        2,480      VI          E
3155 ManaayT2      :    rFianarantsoa        3,900  YI       .     E
3.6 Manakara 12'..-1     Fianaansa           ,10  ..'       .      E
.37 Tam Ioo              Toamasina            537      VI           E
3g Anibatomaaimai        Toaasina           2,200        I          E
39 Amparafana            Toamasina          3,5        VI.E
40 Andrabobe I           Toaznasina    ~    2,375   .VI:-
41   ..kian .oai..na....398  ...
[42N Nailzn              Tdamasina ~    57,800         V 



Annex B
Page 2 of 2
Priorities after
Gazetted Forest      Province      Area--       PRIF Scientific
Workshop
ha      Biological   Research
43 Andavakimenarana     Toamasina           1,416     VI           E
44 Ampiadianbalahy    Toamasina            33,247     VI           E
45 Haute Teza           Toamasina          12,230     VI           E
46 Ambohilero           Toamasina         117,000     VI           E
47 Sivora               Toamnasina          7,400     VI           E
48 Savarindrano         Toamasina           1,900     VI           E
49 Vohitrakolahy        Toamasina          16,800     VI           E
50 Namnandrahana        Toamasina             900     VI           E
51 F6n6rive             Toamasina             294     VI           E
52 Fierenana            Toamasina          63,790     VI           E
53 Andravory            Antsiranana        29,280     VI           E
54 Bezavona et Sakatia    Antsiranana       5,400     VI           E
55 Analalava            Antsiranana         4,400     VI           E
56 Ambomihirahavavy     Antsiranana        68,500     VI           E
57 Ampataka             Toliary             7,750     VI           E
S8 Ankoadava            Toliary            33,530     VI           E
59 Befotaka Tsimembo    Mahajanga          18,600      1           E
TOTALI 1,177,146||
A= Average
E= Exceptional
I= Important
U= Unknown
VI = Very Important
VL= Very Low



Annex C
Page 1 of 6
CALCULATION OF GEF INCREMENTAL COSTS
BROAD DEVELOPMENT GOALS
1.    Aware of the significant environmental problems that it faced, the government of
Madagascar approved its National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) in 1989. It then
embarked on the implementation of the NEAP through a fifteen year Environment Program. The
first five year phase aimed at creating a proper policy, regulatory and institutional framework. In
this second phase, for which GEF Incremental Funding is being sought, the first phase programs
will be consolidated before the final phase which will mainstream environment into
macroeconomic management and sector programs.
BASELINE
2.    Madagascar's Second Environment Program  aims to curb current environmental
degradation trends, promote the sustainable use of natural resources, and create the conditions
for environmental considerations to become an integral part of macroeconomic and sectoral
management of the country. Under the baseline activities proposed in PE2, biodiversity actions
would be limited to improving the management of 20 national parks and reserves, and 19 other
identified priority sites would remain unmanaged. Forest management would focus on
production, so inventory of the remaining biodiversity resources, including marine biodiversity,
would remain incomplete, despite the knowledge that existing national parks and reserves cover
but a small part of Madagascar's biodiversity and most were established with other interests in
mind. In particular, the root causes of biodiversity loss, identified as local and district actions,
would be left largely unaddressed.
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVE
3.    Madagascar has been called the single highest major biodiversity conservation priority in
the world owing to its combination of high diversity, endemism, and degree of threat. Although
Madagascar occupies only about 1.9% of the land area of the African region, it has more orchids
than the entire African mainland, and is home to about 25% of all African plants. Overall, about
80% of Madagascar's plant species are endemic, and for animals the proportion is usually even
higher, the best example being the lemurs, close to 100% of which occur naturally only in
Madagascar. In addition, 95% of the country's 265 reptiles and 99% of its 120 amphibians are
endemic, and figures for other groups of organisms are comparable. Higher-order endemism is
also extremely high in Madagascar, making even less diverse Malagasy taxa exceptionally
valuable. For instance, although there are only eight genera of endemic Malagasy freshwater
fish, the genetic information in these species has been compared to the entire very rich cichlid
fish fauna of the African rift lakes. Madagascar has also recently been selected as a critical site
for marine conservation worldwide.
4.    The global environment objective of the Second Environment Program Support Project
is to curb the loss of globally significant biodiversity by slowing current environmental
degradation trends, promoting the sustainable use of natural resources, and creating the
conditions for environmental considerations to become an integral part of macroeconomic and
sectoral management of the country. Given the national scope of the EP2 and the range of
ecological conditions in the country, the GEF project would fall under all four GEF biodiversity



Annex C
Page 2 of 6
operational programs, with higher emphasis on forest ecosystems, and to a lesser extent on
coastal and marine ecosystems.
GEF ALTERNATIVE
5.    The GEF contribution to EP2 will lay the groundwork for new approaches to addressing
root causes of biodiversity loss in the country. It will build integral components of biodiversity
conservation into revitalized forestry institutions and strengthen the administration of protected
areas. Finally and most importantly, it will build consideration of biodiversity into on-going
national programs aimed at decentralizing the management of natural resources.
6.    By adding GEF financing to the second phase of the Environment Program the
shortcomings noted in the baseline are overcome. In particular the Environment Program is
extended to complete inventory of the still little known biodiversity of the forests and marine
ecosystems of the country, critical sites for terrestrial and marine protected areas are identified
and management is established, effective management is established at those known biodiversity
sites that are of little ecotouristic value (ie. the sites other than National Parks), and the root
causes of biodiversity are attacked through support to a program of regional and district action.
SYSTEM BOUNDARY
7.    In this case the system boundary is the country of Madagascar as a whole, together with
its fringing reefs and coastal zones. The program cuts across all sectors of the economy and
involves public, private and community institutions.
INCIDENTAL DOMESTIC BENEFITS
8.    Long term incidental domestic benefits will stem from the increased valuation of non-
timber forest products (NTFP's) resulting from a review and revision of policies and
mechanisms to address these. In particular the use, export and sale of an increasing range of
products, together with the values associated with their genetic composition (bioprospecting),
will be enhanced. In the long term incidental domestic benefits may stem from increased
ecotourism associated with the identification and establishment of new biodiversity reserves and
national parks, including marine sites.
COSTS
9.    The GEF contribution is $20.8 million allocated as follows:
$ (million)
Multiple-use Forest Management Component                                 $5.0
National Parks and Ecotourism                                            $7.8
Marine and Coastal Environment                                           $2.0
Regional Programming and Spatial Analysis                                $3.0
Environmental Policies, Strategies & Instruments                         $1.0
Research and Inventory                                                   $2.0
Total $20.8



Annex C
Page 3 of 6
10.   INCREMENTAL COST MATRIX
Component          Cost       Cost        Domestic Benefits     Global Environmental
Category  ($million)                                  Benefits
Sustainable Soil    Baseline       $43.45  Reduced soil erosion and  Rate of forest
and Water                                 increased productivity on  conversion by tavy
Management                                smallholder farms.       reduced.
Alternative    $43.45
Increment        $0.0
________________  (GEF)            ($0.0)
Multiple-use       Baseline       $15.89  Completion of national
Forest Ecosystem                          forest inventory.
Management                                Improved multiple-use
(ESFUM)                                    forest management by
state, private interests
and communities.
Alternative    $29.89  Increased revenues to    New protected areas
state, private and      identified, management
communities from        plans prepared and
ecotourism and          implemented, .
commerce in non-timber
forest products.
Increment       $14.0
(GEF)           ($5.0)
National Parks     Baseline        $26.35  Basic protected area    20 national parks and
and Ecotourism                             system strengthened.    reserves effectively
(CAPE)                                     Policy and mechanisms    managed.
established for protected
area concession and
tourism taxes to be levied
and proceeds returned to
the areas.
Alternative    $43.15                           18 additional national
parks and reserves
brought under effective
__________________  ___________                                    management.
Increment       $16.8
(GEF)           ($7.8)
Marine & Coastal  Baseline          $3.45  National coastal zone   2 high priority sites
Environment                                management policies,    brought under effective
legal framework and     management.
master plan established.
Local level action plans
prepared, two sites
protected.



Annex C
Page 4 of 6
Component         Cost       Cost       Domestic Benefits    Global Environmental
Category  ($million)                               Benefits
Alternative      $6.6                        Inventory of coral reef
ecosystems,
identification of critical
sites, establishment of
local level management
at additional sites.
Increment      $3.15
(GEF)          ($2.0)
Regional
Programming and
Local
Management
(AGIR)
- Local Natural   Baseline         $9.3  Improved land tenure   Possibly incidental
Resource                                 security.              benefits in reduced
Management &                                                    forest conversion.
Land Tenure
Security
(GELOSE)
Alternative      $9.3
Increment       $0.0
(GEF)          ($0.0)
- Regional        Baseline         $0.0 None, this program does
Programming and                          not exist in the baseline.
Spatial Analysis
(AGERAS)                               _
Alternative      $4.3                         Root causes of
biodiversity loss
identified and tackled at
regional and local levels
Incrment         $4.3
(GEF)          ($3.0)                      -_               _
- Regional Fund for Baseline       $0.0  None, this activity does
Environmental                            not exist in the baseline.
Management
(FORAGE)
Alternative      $3.5  Regional and local level   Financing for regional
activities in watershed    and local level
management, urban      biodiversity activities
environment            identified through
improvement etc.       AGERAS
financed.
Increment        $3.5
(GEF)          ($0.0)



Annex C
Page 5 of 6
Component          Cost        Cost         Domestic Benefits     Global Environmental
Category   ($million)                                   Benefits
Strategic
Activities
- Environmental     Baseline          $2.2  Improved national
Policies, Strategies                        environmental policies,
and Instruments                             strategies & instruments.
Alternative       $3.2                           Increased valuation of
biodiversity through
review and revision of
policies on use, export,
and sale of non-timber
forest products.
Increment         $1.0
(GEF)           ($1.0)
- Sectoral          Baseline          $1.1  EIA operationalized.     Incidental benefits in
environmental units                                                  reduced negative
a_________________                                 impacts on biodiversity.
Altemative        $1.1
Increment         $0.0
_______________ _ [(GEF)             ($0.0)    __=
Support Activities  L                    I_
- Research          Baseline          $0.5  Limited research in
support of PE2.
Alternative       $2.5                           Comprehensive
inventory and
assessment of
biodiversity outside
existing protected areas
to determine real
biodiversity values.
Increment         $2.0
(GEF)           ($2.0)
- Communication,   Baseline           $0.7  Increased awareness,     Increased awareness,
Education &                                 knowledge and skills in   knowledge and skills in
Training                                    environment across full   biodiversity
range of society.        management.
Alternative       $0.7
Increment          0.0
(GEF)           ($0.0)
- Geographic        Baseline          $1.2  Increased availability of   Increased availability of
Instruments                                 spatial data on land use,   spatial data on factors
etc. in map form.        affecting biodiversity.
Alternative       $1.2
Increment         $0.0
(GEF)           ($0.0) 



Annex C
Page 6 of 6
Component         Cost       Cost       Domestic Benefits    Global Environmental
Category  ($million)       -                       Benefits
- Environmental    Baseline        $1.2  Increased ability to   Increased ability to
Information                              monitor, interpret, and    monitor, interpret, and
Systems                                 plan for environmental    plan for environmental
change                 change
Alternative      $1.2
Increment        $0.0
(GEF)          ($0.0)                                           _
- Program         Baseline         $5.9  Effective program      Effective program
coordination and                         management             management
management
(including
monitoring and
evaluation)
Alternative      $5.9
Increment        $0.0
(GEF)          ($0.0)
Totals            Baseline      $111.24
Alternativ    $155.99
e
Increment     $44.75
f (GEF)       ($20.80) _






IBRD 28253
120                       46                                                                              50"            12-
,eANTSIRANANA
MADAGASCAR                                            For d'Ahe .P
PROTECTED AREAS                                         Montogne d           4A7e Analomer
CATEGORY CLASSIFICATIONS (A, B,& C)                                                  Ankarona <
CLASSIFICATION PAR CATEGORIE (AB & C)                                 is    -                  .
DES AIRES PROTEGEES iDE MADAGASCAR                                                  Tsaratonano                  4
-14                      PENDANT LE PE 1I                                MaA'> -.    srtnn                                4
pJ l,,             gX'-<  MaWojejy
/(; X                        Anjanahcribe-Sud
0    50   100   150 Kilomewrs                                      Bora             Aja
I       I     I                                '   '                          -    ,      \
0        50       100 Mihe                  X ,I                                              @
X 1 MAHAJANGA                    Nosy *ngobe
16'                                                                                   marot,ndrtnio                       16.
Ankarafantsika
Tsingy de Namoroka           Tanlponetso j              *tMononaro-Nord
,; ,singy deAndilmaitso
Bemorivo                                                    A        X
Moningozy       Katsijy                            Ambotovaky   P   INDIAN
Mozambique                                                                          Zahomeno (    OCEAN
Channel                Ts ingy de 
18  annel           (  Bema9rYaha                                  '                    7o lleDmpona               18'
Bemoraho                 Ambohitantely i        Mangerivola t     * TOAMiASINA
",rAmbohijanahary                     -
ANTANANARIVO*                   aMantodiq/
Anolamoaoaotra
20,                                                                                               PROTECTED AREAS:        20
Andranomena                                                    AIRES PROTEGoEES
AV    C rATG    A
/  _    ~CA EGOIE A
Ranomafona n               .      CATERIEgB
/~~~~
FIANARANTSOAdO                             AW  CCARIEC
'    FARITAWN (PROVINCE) CAPITALS
CHEF-UIEU DE FARITANY
22,                                                                           /              f    NATIONAL CAPITAL       22-
1   Andringitra  /            W     CAPTALE D'ETAT
Vohibasia &      Isalo                           /                     FARtTANY BOUNDARIES
LIMITES DES FARtTAWY
,  Zombitsec9 5                     Pic d'ivohibe  /
TOLIARA                                           "4anombo                           ISIGIAWAPf' Mo. 1996
.    Kalambatritra
Beza Mahafoly
this moa  s pnxl d.,,
by th.o  O..ign    ,24--
~~ ~~~                                                      24' ~~~~~AFRICA
bao7uhnoWori.s,eolo,rs   T5imanampet50tsa                         /                                   
dgnonoinotiono  mo any .  I
olh. r inEnnobIon dmwn                                             /
on .h;, mop do no-
,,ply, on bs pod of                            Andohahe/a                                                            I .NDIAN
Th Worlc f,n GP,;       \                               w  1> w(1ATLANTIC                                             OCEAN
0 r                                                        ,                                  OCEAN
or orceptonce of such         -                    _Z 
Cap Ste MArie                          48'                                 MADAGASCAR
I                          I                              ............
AUGUST 1996






.



IMAGING
Report  No:             16133  MAG
Type: PD
Printed on recycled paper



