Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028499
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Second Environment Program Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated March 14 , 1997
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028499
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91\1e5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94\1e2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund; 
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from 
the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; 
(D)
the Recipient has also requested International Development Association 
(the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim trust fund 
(Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, to provide 
Page  2
additional financing towards the financing of the Project, and by an agreement of even 
date herewith between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Administrator has 
agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to 
twenty million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR20,600,000) (the 
Credit); and
(E)
the Recipient intends to contract from French Republic (France), Germany, 
Japan, Switzerland, Kingdom of Norway (Norway), European Union (EU), United States 
Agency for International Development (USAID), United Nations Development Program 
(UNDP), UNDP acting as an implementing agency of GEF, International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD) and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) (referred to 
collectively hereinafter as Co-financiers), loans or grants in an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $81,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in agreements (Co-financing Agreements) to be entered into 
between the Recipient and such other Co-financiers; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: 
“the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” mean 
special drawing 
rights as valued by the International Monetary Fund 
in accordance with its 
Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in 
Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last 
use of such term in 
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank 
acting as an implementing agency of the 
GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its 
Page  3
own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this 
Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except 
as the Bank 
and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”; and
(viii) a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the 
General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen 
in which any further disbursement under 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed 
the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.” 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“ANAE” means Association Nationale d’Actions Environnementales, the 
Recipient’s National Association for Environmental Actions;
(b)
“ANGAP” means Association Nationale pour la Gestion des Aires Protégées, 
the Recipient’s National Association for the Management of Protected Areas; 
(c)
“CFSIGE” means Centre de Formation des Sciences de l’Information 
Géographique et Environnementale, the Recipient’s Training Center for Geographical and 
Environmental Information Technology;
(d)
“CIME” means Comité Inter-Ministériel de l’Environnement, the Recipient’s 
Inter-Ministerial Committee for the Environment referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement;
(e)
“CNE” means Conseil National de l’Environnement, the Recipient’s National 
Environment Council referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
“Co-financing Agreements” has the same meaning as in the Preamble to this 
Agreement;
(g)
“DD” means Direction des Domaines, the Recipient’s Land Titling 
Directorate;
(h)
“DEF” means Direction des Eaux et Forêts, the Recipient’s Water and 
Forest Directorate;
(i)
“Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement” means the agreement of even 
date herewith between the Recipient and the Administrator for the Project, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the “General 
Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated 
January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
Page  4
(j)
“FTM” means Foiben-Taosarintanin’i Madagasikara, the Recipient’s National 
Geographic and Hydrographic Institute; 
(k)
“ONE” means Office National de l’Environnement, the Recipient’s National 
Environment Office; 
(l)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation Manual 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Program Implementation 
Plan;
(m)
“region” means a political subdivision in the territory of the Recipient;
(n)
"RPC" means the regional programming committee referred to in paragraph 3 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(p)
“Urban Code” means Code de l’Urbanisme et de l’Habitat, the Borrower’s 
Urban Code.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million nine hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Parts A.2 and B of the Project, 
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set 
off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002  or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out Parts A.1 (b) and A.2 of the Project through DEF, 
Parts A.3 
(a), A.4, C and D (other than D.2 (b) and (c)) of the 
Project through ONE, and 
Part A.3 (b) of the Project through DD, with 
due diligence and efficiency, in 
conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative and technical practices, 
and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall 
provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for such Parts of the Project; and
(ii)
shall cause ANAE to carry out Parts A.1 (a) and A.5 of the 
Project, ANGAP to 
carry out Part B of the Project, CFSIGE to carry out 
Part D.2 (b) of the 
Project, and FTM to carry out Part D.2 
Page  5
(c) of the Project, with due diligence 
and efficiency, in conformity 
with appropriate financial, administrative and 
technical practices, 
and with due regard to ecological and environmental 
factors,  
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, respectively, to carry out the Project, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project by ANAE, 
ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out Parts A.1 (b), A.2, A.3, A.4, C and D (other than D.2 (b) and (c)) of the 
Project, and shall cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM to carry out Parts A.1 (a) and 
A.5, Part B, Part D.2 (b), and Part D.2 (c), of the Project, respectively, all in 
accordance with the Implementation Program  set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A.1 (b), A.2, A.3, A.4, C 
and D (other than D.2 (b) and (c)) of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Recipient responsible for carrying out such parts thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  6
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Recipient shall cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations and financial condition of ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, 
respectively.
(b)
The Recipient shall cause cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, 
respectively, to: 
(i)
have their records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year; (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01.  The Recipient shall cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, 
respectively:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain their plants, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices.
Section 5.02. The Recipient shall:
(a)
not later than January 31, 1997, appoint a person with qualifications and 
Page  7
experience acceptable to the Bank to the position of Deputy Director-General of ONE;
(b)
ensure that the following positions shall continue to be filled at all 
times by persons having qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank:
(i) 
Directors General of ONE, ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, 
(ii) 
Deputy Director General of ONE, and 
(iii)  Directors of DEF and DD.
Section 5.03.  (a) The Recipient shall, not later than December 31, 1997 or such 
later date as shall be agreed between the Recipient and the Bank, conduct a review of 
all major donor-financed operations in rural areas, for which the Recipient is 
responsible, with a view to determining whether, and to what extent, such operations 
provide or allow for cost recovery and, if so, whether, and to what extent, cost 
recovery mechanisms can be introduced or strengthened, as the case may be, under such 
operations, and harmonized with one another.
(b)
Based on the review under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Recipient 
shall establish, in respect of operations of DEF and DD, and cause ANAE, ANGAP and FTM 
to establish, in respect of their own respective operations, adequate cost recovery 
mechanisms, which shall be acceptable to the Bank, and designed to ensure as far as 
practicable the sustainability of such operations.
Section 5.04.   The Recipient shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1997, conduct a 
review of the institutional capacity of ONE, DEF and DD, and cause ANAE and ANGAP to 
conduct a review of their own respective institutional capacity, with a view to 
determining whether, and to what extent, such institutions have the capacity to carry 
out the corresponding parts of the Project, as specified in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement; and (b) based on the results of such review, take, and cause ANAE and ANGAP 
to take, such measures as may be needed to strengthen the institutional capacity of 
such institutions.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
 ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations arising under this Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM will be able to 
perform its obligations arising under this Agreement;
(c)
the statutes of ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM, as the case may be, to perform any of its 
obligations arising under this Agreement;
(d)
the Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM, or 
for the suspension of the operations of ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM;
(e)
the Co-financing Agreements or the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement shall have failed to become effective by December 31, 1997, or such later 
date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph 
shall not apply if the Recipient establishes that adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Recipient from other sources;
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of any 
Page  8
grant or 
loan made to the Recipient for the financing 
of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the Co-financing 
Agreements or the Interim Fund 
Development Credit 
Agreement; or 
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused 
by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under 
such agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Recipient from 
other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations 
of the Recipient under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of 
the General Conditions:
(a) 
the CNE and the CIME have been duly established; and
(b)
a Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to the Bank, has been adopted 
by the Recipient.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance and Budget
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
22489
Antananarivo
For the Bank: 
Page  9
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) 
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Tantely Andrianarivo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President, 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category 
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
 1. Civil works under
    $900,000
85% 
     Parts A.2 and B
     of the Project
2. Goods under
         $1,000,000  
100% of foreign 
    Parts A.2 and B
expenditures and 
    of the Project
85% of local 
expenditures 
3. Consultants’ services     $2,000,000
100% 
    and  training under
    Parts A.2 and B
Page  10
    of the Project
4. Operating costs under     $4,000,000  
90% for expenditures
    Parts A.2 and B 
incurred up to
    of the Project
December 31, 1998,
70% thereafter
5. Unallocated
  $1,000,000
  __________
TOTAL
  $8,900,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:  
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred 
under the Project on account of (i) local contractual staff salaries, travel costs and 
allowances, (ii) maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and (iii) office rent, 
supplies and utilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for civil works under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, goods and consultants' services (firms) 
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, consultants' services (individuals) 
under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, operating costs and training, under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount 
so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reverse current environmental degradation 
trends and to promote sustainable use of natural resources, including soil, water, 
forest cover and biodiversity, and to create conditions for environmental 
considerations to become an integral part of macroeconomic and sectoral management in 
Madagascar.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Generation and Dissemination of Environmentally-Sound Agricultural and 
Forest Management 
Practices
1.
Sustainable soil and water management. Implementation of (a) about 4,000 
sub-projects designed to improve natural resource management and promote sustainable 
agricultural practices, on a demand-driven basis, for the benefit of local 
communities; and (b) specific watershed management schemes on a small-scale pilot 
basis or to protect large-scale infrastructure investments.
2.
Multiple use forest ecosystem management. Transfer of responsibility for the 
management of natural resources to local communities or local governments, including 
Page  11
(a) completion of national ecological forestry inventory, and reconnaissance surveys, 
in order to establish a full list of forest blocks, and identify possible new 
protected areas, (b) completion of on-going pilot forest management schemes, (c) 
formulation of management plans on a participatory basis, and (d) implementation of 
forest management plans.
3.
Support to local natural resource management and land tenure security. Provision 
of institutional support for local natural resource management, including: (a) 
establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework, and training of 
environmental mediators; and (b)  provision of training, technical advisory services 
and equipment to improve the Borrower’s capacity for land tenure administration.
4.
Support to regional planning and spatial analysis. Establishment of small 
regional technical units to provide support to RPCs, through provision of advisory 
services and a full-time secretariat for program management and technical work, and 
for the formulation of local environmental strategies and sub-projects to be financed 
under Part A.5 of the Project. 
5.
Regional fund for environmental management. Establishment of a fund to provide 
grants to finance environment management sub-projects.
Part B:
Protected Areas and Ecotourism
Establishment of a network of protected areas, through (a) surveys and 
delimitation of affected areas, and implementation of appropriate legal and regulatory 
measures, (b) construction of infrastructure, and provision of equipment and staff to 
ensure effective conservation, (c) carrying out of applied conservation research 
programs to provide the basis for effective monitoring of environmental indicators, 
(d) promotion of environmental awareness and strengthening environmental education, 
and (e) promotion of ecotourism.
Part C:
Marine and Urban Environment
1.
Marine and coastal environment. Formulation of national and multi-local coastal 
resource management plans to ensure sustainable management of coastal resources, 
formulation of proposals for a new generation of marine parks, and implementation of 
multi-local coastal resource management plans.
2.
Urban environment. Integration of environmental concerns in urban development 
policies, through revision of the Urban Code, and support to urban management 
activities by communities and local governments.
Part D:
Environmental Management Tools
1.
Strategic activities. (a) Formulation and transfer of environmental policies, 
strategies and instruments, and (b) making environmental impact assessment operational 
by setting up environment units at the level of key sector Ministries.
2.
Support activities. (a) Execution of an environmental research program, 
including establishment of a research unit, (b) improvement of environmental content 
of general education and vocational training, (c) production of key geographic 
information, (d) establishment of an environmental information system to provide key 
indicators on the status of environmental resources and the impact of the Project, and 
(e) support for the coordination and management of the Project, including execution of 
communication programs and establishment of a consolidated monitoring and evaluation 
system.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works 
Page  12
Part A.
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable. 
Part B.
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.  
(a)
 Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods  
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, and civil works, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000  equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review  
Page  13
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; 
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; 
(d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the 
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above. 
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
(a)
The Recipient shall establish:
(i)
a Conseil National de l’Environnement (CNE), whose functions, 
composition and 
terms of reference shall be acceptable to the 
Association, to be responsible 
for providing high level policy and 
strategic guidance for the Project; and
(ii)
a Comité Inter-Ministériel de l’Environnement (CIME), to be 
chaired by the 
Minister of Environment, on behalf of the 
Prime Minister, and whose functions, 
composition and terms of 
reference shall be acceptable to the Association, to 
be responsible for 
overall coordination of the activities of the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall, not later than June 30, 1997, designate the 
individual members of CNE and CIME.
2.
The Recipient shall designate:
(a)
ONE to have overall responsibility for the operational management and 
coordination of the Project, and  to review and clear proposed work plans and budgets, 
review the progress of the Project, and address day-to-day issues arising in the 
course of the implementation of the Project; and
(b)
the Director General of ONE to be the Project Coordinator and, as such, 
to be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Project, including coordination 
of procurement, disbursement and accounting activities, consolidation of annual work 
plans and budgets, and progress reports, and supervision of the recruitment and 
Page  14
performance of consultants. 
3.
Pending completion of the decentralization process and the installation of 
regional governments in the territory of the Recipient, the Recipient shall establish 
in each of the regions a regional programming committee to be responsible for the 
prioritization of activities to be financed under the Project and included in the work 
program for that region.
4.
The Recipient shall: 
(a)
prepare and submit to the Bank a Project Implementation Manual, 
acceptable to the Bank, giving details of all procurement and disbursement 
arrangements, performance indicators and other administrative, financial and 
organizational arrangements,  as agreed with the Bank for purposes of  the Project; 
and 
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment, abrogation or 
waiver may, in the opinion of the Bank, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
5.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators referred to in 
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than June 30 of each year, undertake, in conjunction with the 
Bank, ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, a joint annual review of the Project, (or, in the 
case of the annual review to be undertaken not later than November 30, 1999, a 
mid-term review), during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters 
relating to the progress of the Project and the performance by the Recipient of its 
respective obligations under this Agreement, including: 
(i)
the progress achieved by the Recipient in the implementation of 
the Project, 
having regard to the performance indicators referred to in 
sub-paragraph (a) 
of this paragraph;
 
(ii)
a review of the proposed work plans and budget for the forthcoming 
fiscal year;
(iii)
in the case of the mid-term review, (A) the progress achieved in 
the 
establishment and implementation of cost recovery mechanisms 
under Section 
5.03 (b) of this Agreement, and (B) proposals 
for such strategic adjustments 
to the Project as may deemed necessary 
or appropriate in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Bank, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in particular, of the 
various matters to be discussed at such review; and
(d)
following each annual review, undertake to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take, or cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM to take, any corrective action 
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, 
or to implement, or cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM to implement, such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project.
6.
(a)
The Recipient shall, not later than November 30 of each year, submit to 
the Bank, for its approval, proposed annual work plans and budget for the forthcoming 
fiscal year, giving details of proposed budgetary allocations and disbursement 
estimates, proposed procurement and training activities, and such other particulars as 
the Bank may require, including, where applicable, an evaluation of the results of the 
training program for the current fiscal year.
Page  15
(b)
The Recipient shall submit to the Bank for review:
(i)
semi-annual progress reports on the status of the Project to be 
submitted not 
later than May 31 and November 30 of each year, 
including semi-annual 
procurement reports, giving details of: 
(A)
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the 
Project, 
including best estimates of allowances for price 
contingencies; 
(B)
revised timing of procurement actions, including 
advertizing, bidding, 
contract award and completion time for 
individual contracts; and 
(C)
status of compliance with aggregate limits prescribed for 
specific 
procurement procedures; and
(ii)
reports as needed on the award of contracts under the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Parts A.2 
and B of the Project; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A.2 and B of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $600,000 
in respect of the Special Account for Part  A.2 and B of the Project to be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts A.2 and B of the Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of  SDR2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
Page  16
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall 
have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to Parts A.2 and B of the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
Page  17
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
