Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N009 MAG
Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Environment Program Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with funds 
contributed by certain members of International Development 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of 
Governors of International Development Association
Dated March 14, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N009 MAG
INTERIM FUND 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B) the Administrator has received a letter of sector policy, dated 
October 23, 1996, from the Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to promote and strengthen its environmental management strategy 
(hereinafter referred to as "the Program"), and declaring its commitment to the 
execution of the Program;  
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from French Republic (France), Germany, 
Page  2
Japan, Switzerland, Kingdom of Norway (Norway), European Union (EU), United States 
Agency for International Development (USAID), United Nations Development Program 
(UNDP), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development and UNDP acting as implementing agencies of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) and World Wildlife Fund (WWF) (referred to collectively 
hereinafter as Co-financiers), loans or grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$94,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in agreements (Co-financing Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
such other Co-financiers; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution”; and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries”;
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Interim Fund Credit will 
Page  3
not be required to finance the Project's costs to be  financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Administrator 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit 
during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of the expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, the Administrator may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,  such amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“ANAE” means Association Nationale d’Actions Environnementales, the 
Borrower’s National Association for Environmental Actions;
(b)
“ANGAP” means Association Nationale pour la Gestion des Aires Protégées, 
the Borrower’s National Association for the Management of Protected Areas;
(c)
“Beneficiary” means the beneficiary of a grant; 
(d)
“CFSIGE” means Centre de Formation des Sciences de l’Information 
Géographique et Environnementale, the Borrower’s Training Center for Geographical and 
Environmental Information Technology;
(e)
“CIME” means Comité Inter-Ministériel de l’Environnement, the Borrower’s 
Inter-Ministerial Committee for the Environment referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement;
(f)
“CNE” means the Conseil National de l’Environnement, the Borrower’s 
National Environment Council referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(g)
“Co-financing Agreements” has the same meaning as in the Preamble to this 
Agreement;
(h)
“DD” means Direction des Domaines, the Borrower’s Land Titling 
Directorate;
(i)
“DEF” means Direction des Eaux et Forêts, the Borrower’s Water and Forest 
Directorate;
(j)
“FORAGE” means Fonds Régional d’Appui à la Gestion de l’Environnement, 
the Borrower’s Regional Fund for Environmental Management;
(k)
“FORAGE Procedures Manual” means the FORAGE Procedures Manual referred to 
in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes any schedules to the FORAGE Procedures Manual;
(l)
“FTM” means Foiben-Taosarintanin’i Madagasikara, the Borrower’s National 
Geographic and Hydrographic Institute;
(m)
“grant” means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
to finance a sub-project;
Page  4
(n)
“ONE” means Office National de l’Environnement, the Borrower’s National 
Environment Office;
(o)
"Project Account" means the project account referred to in section 3.04 
of this Agreement;
(p)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation Manual, 
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation 
Manual;
(q)
“region” means a political subdivision in the territory of the Borrower; 
"RPC" means the regional programming committee referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement; 
(r)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(s)
“sub-project” means a sub-project under Part A.1.(a) or A.5 of the 
Project, as the case may be;
(t)
“Urban Code” means Code de l’Urbanisme et de l’Habitat, the Borrower’s 
Urban Code.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01.  The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million six hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,600,000).
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (other than Part A.1 (a) and A.5 thereof) 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, and amounts paid 
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be paid) in respect of grants to meet the 
reasonable costs of goods and services required under a sub-project and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to 
time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or cancelled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Page  5
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07.  (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each May 1 and November 1, commencing May 1, 2007 and ending November 1, 
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2016 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest rate at an 
annual rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out  Parts A.1 (b) and A.2 of the Project through DEF, 
Parts A.3 
(a), A.4, C and D (other than D.2 (b) and (c)) of the 
Project through ONE, and 
Part A.3 (b) of the Project through DD, with 
due diligence and efficiency, in 
conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative and technical practices, 
and with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall 
provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
Page  6
resources required for such Parts of the Project; and
(ii)
shall cause  ANAE to carry out Parts A.1 (a) and A.5 of the 
Project, ANGAP to 
carry out Part B of the Project, CFSIGE to carry out 
Part D.2 (b) of the 
Project, and FTM to carry out Part D.2 
(c) of the Project, with due diligence 
and efficiency, in conformity 
with appropriate financial, administrative and 
technical practices, 
and with due regard to ecological and environmental 
factors, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, respectively, to carry out the Project, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Project by ANAE, 
ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A.1 (b), A.2, A.3, A.4, C and D (other than D.2 (b) and (c)) of 
the Project, and shall cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM to carry out Parts A.1 (a) 
and A.5, Part B, Part D.2 (b), and Part D.2 (c), of the Project, respectively, all in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  (a)  Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall open, in a commercial bank and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, an account in the currency of the 
Borrower, to be operated and maintained by ONE, into which it shall deposit from time 
to time its local counterpart contribution to the cost of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
make an initial deposit of the equivalent of $200,000 into the 
Project Account; 
and 
(ii)
replenish the Project Account on a monthly basis, or whenever the 
balance 
thereof equals not more than one third of the amount 
of the initial deposit, 
whichever occurs first. 
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A.1 (b), A.2, A.3, A.4, 
C and D (other than D.2 (b) and (c)) of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out  such parts thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
Page  7
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a)  The Borrower shall cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations and financial condition of ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, 
respectively.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, respectively, to:
(i)
have their records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of their 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
such records, 
accounts, financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Administrator 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Page  8
Other Covenants
Section 5.01.  The Borrower shall cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, 
respectively:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Administrator for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain their plants, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices.
Section 5.02.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than January 31, 1997, appoint a person with qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Administrator to the position of Deputy Director-General 
of ONE;
(b)
ensure that the following positions shall continue to be filled at all 
times by persons having qualifications and experience acceptable to the Administrator:
(i) 
Directors General of ONE, ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, 
(ii) 
Deputy Director General of ONE, and 
(iii)  Directors of DEF and DD.
Section 5.03.  (a) The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1997 or such 
later date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Administrator, conduct a 
review of all major donor-financed operations in rural areas, for which the Borrower 
is responsible, with a view to determining whether, and to what extent, such 
operations provide or allow for cost recovery and, if so, whether, and to what extent, 
cost recovery mechanisms can be introduced or strengthened, as the case may be, under 
such operations, and harmonized with one another.
(b)
Based on the review under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall establish, in respect of operations of DEF and DD, and cause ANAE, ANGAP and FTM 
to establish, in respect of their own respective operations, adequate cost recovery 
mechanisms, which shall be acceptable to the Administrator, and designed to ensure as 
far as practicable the sustainability of such operations.
Section 5.04.   The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1997, conduct a 
review of the institutional capacity of ONE, DEF and DD, and cause ANAE and ANGAP to 
conduct a review of their own respective institutional capacity, with a view to 
determining whether, and to what extent, such institutions have the capacity to carry 
out the corresponding parts of the Project, as specified in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement; and (b) based on the results of such review, take, and cause ANAE and ANGAP 
to take, such measures as may be needed to strengthen the institutional capacity of 
such institutions.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 6.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
Page  9
(b)
ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations arising under this Agreement;
(c)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM will be able to perform its 
obligations arising under this Agreement;
(d)
the statutes of ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM, as the case may be, to perform any of its 
obligations arising under this Agreement;
(e)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM, or 
for the suspension of the operations of ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM;
(f)
the Co-financing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1997, or such later date as the Administrator may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources;
(g)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the Co-financing 
Agreements, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Administrator that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Administrator to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur;
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of Administrator
Section 7.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the CNE and the CIME have been duly established;
Page  10
(b)
a FORAGE Procedures Manual, acceptable to the Administrator, has been 
adopted by the Borrower;    
(c)
a Project Implementation Manual, acceptable to the Administrator, has 
been adopted by the Borrower;
(d)
the Project Account has been duly opened, and the initial amount of 
$200,000 equivalent deposited therein.
Section 7.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this Agreement 
shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the 
earlier.
Section 7.04.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Budget
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
22489
Antananarivo
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  11
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Tantely Andrianarivo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
   Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit
   % of
Allocated
Expenditures
  (Expressed in
   to be
Category
  SDR Equivalent)
  Financed
1. Civil works 
1,000,000 
85%
2. Goods 
1,700,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
85% of local 
expenditures 
3. Consultants’ 
3,100,000 
100% 
    services, training 
    and audits
4. Grants 
   (a) under Part A.1 (a)
6,200,000
100% of amount of
of the Project
grants disbursed
   (b) under Part A.5
1,400,000
100% of amount of
of the Project
grants disbursed
5. Operating costs 
4,600,000 
90% for expenditures 
incurred up to
December 31, 1998,
Page  12
70% thereafter 
6. Unallocated
2,600,000
_________
TOTAL
      20,600,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred 
under the Project on account of (i) local contractual staff salaries, travel costs and 
allowances, (ii) maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and (iii) office rent, 
supplies and utilities.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for civil works 
under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent, goods and consultants' services 
(firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, consultants' services 
(individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, operating costs and 
training, under such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reverse current environmental degradation 
trends and to promote sustainable use of natural resources, including soil, water, 
forest cover and biodiversity, and to create conditions for environmental 
considerations to become an integral part of macroeconomic and sectoral management in 
Madagascar.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Generation and Dissemination of Environmentally-Sound Agricultural and 
Forest Management 
Practices
1.
Sustainable soil and water management. Implementation of (a) about 4,000 
sub-projects designed to improve natural resource management and promote sustainable 
agricultural practices, on a demand-driven basis, for the benefit of local 
communities; and (b) specific watershed management schemes on a small-scale pilot 
basis or to protect large-scale infrastructure investments.
2.
Multiple use forest ecosystem management. Transfer of responsibility for the 
management of natural resources to local communities or local governments, including 
(a) completion of national ecological forestry inventory, and reconnaissance surveys, 
in order to establish a full list of forest blocks, and identify possible new 
protected areas, (b) completion of on-going pilot forest management schemes, (c) 
formulation of management plans on a participatory basis, and (d) implementation of 
forest management plans.
3.
Support to local natural resource management and land tenure security. Provision 
of institutional support for local natural resource management, including: (a) 
establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework, and training of 
Page  13
environmental mediators; and (b)  provision of training, technical advisory services 
and equipment to improve the Borrower’s capacity for land tenure administration.
4.
Support to regional planning and spatial analysis. Establishment of small 
regional technical units to provide support to RPCs, through provision of advisory 
services and a full-time secretariat for program management and technical work, and 
for the formulation of local environmental strategies and sub-projects to be financed 
under Part A.5 of the Project. 
5.
Regional fund for environmental management. Establishment of a fund to provide 
grants to finance environment management sub-projects.
Part B:
Protected Areas and Ecotourism
Establishment of a network of protected areas, through (a) surveys and 
delimitation of affected areas, and implementation of appropriate legal and regulatory 
measures, (b) construction of infrastructure, and provision of equipment and staff to 
ensure effective conservation, (c) carrying out of applied conservation research 
programs to provide the basis for effective monitoring of environmental indicators, 
(d) promotion of environmental awareness and strengthening environmental education, 
and (e) promotion of ecotourism.
Part C:
Marine and Urban Environment
1.
Marine and coastal environment. Formulation of national and multi-local coastal 
resource management plans to ensure sustainable management of coastal resources, 
formulation of proposals for a new generation of marine parks, and implementation of 
multi-local coastal resource management plans.
2.
Urban environment. Integration of environmental concerns in urban development 
policies, through revision of the Urban Code, and support to urban management 
activities by communities and local governments.
Part D:
Environmental Management Tools
1.
Strategic activities. (a) Formulation and transfer of environmental policies, 
strategies and instruments, and (b) making environmental impact assessment operational 
by setting up environment units at the level of key sector Ministries.
2.
Support activities. (a) Execution of an environmental research program, 
including establishment of a research unit, (b) improvement of environmental content 
of general education and vocational training, (c) production of key geographic 
information, (d) establishment of an environmental information system to provide key 
indicators on the status of environmental resources and the impact of the Project, and 
(e) support for the coordination and management of the Project, including execution of 
communication programs and establishment of a consolidated monitoring and evaluation 
system
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  14
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, and civil works, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed  $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Parts A.1 (a) and A.5 of the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator. 
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the 
Page  15
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Administrator.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above. 
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide 
services financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall establish:
(i)
a Conseil National de l’Environnement (CNE), whose functions, 
composition and 
terms of reference shall be acceptable to the 
Administrator, to be responsible 
for providing high level policy and 
strategic guidance for the Project; and
(ii)
a Comité Inter-Ministériel de l’Environnement (CIME), to be 
chaired by the 
Minister of Environment, on behalf of the 
Prime Minister, and whose functions, 
composition and terms of 
reference shall be acceptable to the Administrator, 
to be responsible 
for overall coordination of the activities of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1997, designate the 
individual members of CNE and CIME.
Page  16
2.
The Borrower shall designate:
(a)
ONE to have overall responsibility for the operational management and 
coordination of the Project, and  to review and clear proposed work plans and budgets, 
review the progress of the Project, and address day-to-day issues arising in the 
course of the implementation of the Project; and
(b)
the Director General of ONE to be the Project Coordinator and, as such, 
to be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Project, including coordination 
of procurement, disbursement and accounting activities, consolidation of annual work 
plans and budgets, and progress reports, and supervision of the recruitment and 
performance of consultants. 
3.
Pending completion of the decentralization process and the installation of 
regional governments in the territory of the Borrower, the Borrower shall establish in 
each of the regions a regional programming committee to be responsible for the 
prioritization of activities to be financed under the Project and included in the work 
program for that region.
4.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare and submit to the Administrator a Project Implementation Manual, 
acceptable to the Administrator, giving details of all procurement and disbursement 
arrangements, performance indicators and other administrative, financial and 
organizational arrangements, as agreed with the Administrator for purposes of  the 
Project; and 
(b)
carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the 
Project Implementation Manual and, except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, 
shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment, 
abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Administrator, materially or adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators referred to in 
paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
not later than June 30 of each year, undertake, in conjunction with the 
Administrator, ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE and FTM, a joint annual review of the Project, (or, 
in the case of the annual review to be undertaken not later than November 30, 1999, a 
mid-term review), during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters 
relating to the progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its 
respective obligations under this Agreement, including: 
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Project, 
having regard to the performance indicators referred to in 
sub-paragraph (a) 
of this paragraph;
 
(ii)
a review of the proposed work plans and budget for the forthcoming 
fiscal year; 
and 
(iii)
in the case of the mid-term review, (A) the progress achieved in 
the 
implementation of Part A.5 of the Project, and in the 
establishment and 
implementation of cost recovery mechanisms 
under Section 5.03 (b) of this 
Agreement, and (B) proposals for 
such strategic adjustments to the Project as 
may deemed necessary or 
appropriate in furtherance of the objectives of the 
Project;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Administrator, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and giving details, in 
particular, of the various matters to be discussed at such review; and
(d)
following each annual review, undertake to act promptly and diligently in 
Page  17
order to take, or cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM to take, any corrective action 
deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, 
or to implement, or cause ANAE, ANGAP, CFSIGE or FTM to implement, such other measures 
as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of 
the Project.
6.
(a)
The Borrower shall, not later than November 30 of each year, submit to 
the Administrator, for approval, proposed annual work plans and budget for the 
forthcoming fiscal year, giving details of proposed budgetary allocations and 
disbursement estimates, proposed procurement and training activities, and such other 
particulars as the Administrator may require, including, where applicable, an 
evaluation of the results of the training program for the current fiscal year.
(b)
The Borrower shall submit to the Administrator for review:
(i)
semi-annual progress reports on the status of the Project to be 
submitted not 
later than May 31 and November 30 of each year, 
including semi-annual 
procurement reports, giving details of: 
(A)
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the 
Project, 
including best estimates of allowances for price 
contingencies; 
(B)
revised timing of procurement actions, including 
advertizing, bidding, 
contract award and completion time for 
individual contracts; and 
(C)
status of compliance with aggregate limits prescribed for 
specific 
procurement procedures; and
(ii)
reports as needed on the award of contracts under the Project.
7.
For the purposes of Part A.1 (a) of the Project, the Borrower shall make 
available to ANAE such proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit as may be allocated from 
time to time to Category 4 (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to be used to finance sub-projects thereunder on a grant basis, and on such 
other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Administrator; including, but 
without being limited to, provisions to the following effect:
(a)
the amount so allocated to sub-projects shall be used exclusively to 
finance natural resource management activities for the benefit of local communities;
(b)
no sub-project shall be considered for financing under the Project except 
in accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set forth in the ANAE 
Procedures’ Manual dated January 1991 and approved by the Borrower and the 
Administrator, as such ANAE Procedures’ Manual may be amended from time to time;
(c)
goods and services required for the purposes of financing sub-projects 
shall be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator, and 
set forth in the ANAE Procedures’ Manual; 
(d)
no sub-project shall be considered for financing under the Project, 
except to the extent that: (A) it has been duly evaluated and subjected to a 
cost-benefit analysis, and, on the basis thereof, the projected rate of return has 
been determined to be acceptable to the Borrower and the Administrator; (B) adequate 
arrangements have been made by the Beneficiary for the financing of maintenance and 
other incremental recurrent costs, if any; and (C) in the case of income generating 
activities, adequate cost recovery mechanisms have been agreed upon between the 
Beneficiary and ANAE;
(e)
the amount of each grant shall not exceed: (i) 80 percent of the total 
investment cost of the sub-project; or (ii) except as the Administrator may otherwise 
agree, $5,000 or, in the case of infrastructure sub-projects, $30,000; and
(f)
no sub-project shall be executed under the Project, unless a contract has 
been concluded between the Beneficiary and ANAE, setting forth the respective 
obligations of the parties thereunder, including details of disbursement schedules and 
Page  18
procurement procedures, and the amount of the relevant counterpart contribution.
8.
(a)
For the purposes of Part A.5 of the Project, the Borrower shall make 
available to ANAE such proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit as may be allocated from 
time to time to Category 4 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to be used to finance sub-projects thereunder on a grant basis, and on such 
other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the Administrator; including, but 
without being limited to, provisions to the following effect:
(i)
the amount so allocated shall be used exclusively to finance 
sub-projects for 
the benefit of village communities, and other public 
and private 
organizations;
(ii)
no sub-project shall be considered for financing under the Project 
except in 
accordance with criteria, and terms and conditions, set 
forth in a FORAGE 
Procedures' Manual approved by the Borrower 
and the Administrator;
(iii)
goods and services required for the purposes of financing 
sub-projects shall 
be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Administrator, and 
set forth in the FORAGE Procedures' Manual; 
(iv)
no sub-project shall be considered for financing under the 
Project, except to 
the extent that: (A) it has been duly evaluated and 
subjected to an economic 
analysis, and, on the basis thereof, 
determined to be economically viable; (B) 
adequate arrangements have 
been made by the Beneficiary for the financing of 
maintenance and 
other incremental recurrent costs, if any; and (C) in the case 
of 
income generating activities, as defined in the Procedures Manual, adequate 
cost recovery mechanisms have been agreed upon between the Beneficiary and 
ANAE;
(v)
the amount of each grant shall not exceed: (A) 80 percent of the 
total 
investment cost of the sub-project; or (B) except as the 
Administrator may 
otherwise agree, $20,000 or, in the case of 
infrastructure sub-projects, 
$100,000; and
(vi)
no sub-project shall be executed under the Project, unless a 
contract has been 
concluded between the Beneficiary and ANAE, setting 
forth the respective 
obligations of the parties thereunder, 
including details of disbursement 
schedules and procurement 
procedures, and the amount of the relevant 
counterpart 
contribution.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the FORAGE Procedures Manual 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, and, except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision 
thereof, if such amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Administrator, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR5,000,000.
Page  19
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower,  withdraw from the Interim 
Fund Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
Page  20
the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
