C~~~~~~~~~ EU P Y  
RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-686a
I   Thks repOrt was prnre4d for use wifin the Bank and its ofa!ioted organizations
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
no  epbihdnrw may itb q-uod as representing thi--a-|s- 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE
KEB'A NT TRPANSTjMITS  N  TL.TNE PPROJTWrT
T URKEY
October 14. 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       - Lira (LT)
1 LT                  100 Kurus (Krs)
US$1                = LT 9. 08
LT 1                  US$0. 11
LT 1, 000, 000        US$110, 000
(10 mills        = 1 US Cent)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
KW                  = Kilowatt
MW = Megawatt       = 1, 000 Kw
Kwh                 - Kilowatt hour
Gwh = Gigawatt
hour       = 1, 000, 000 kwh
Kv                 = Kilovolt
One meter (m)      = 3. 28 feet
One kilometer (km) = 0. 6214 mile
One ton            = 2, 240 pounds
Etibank's Financial Year - Calendar Year
LIST OF INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
Bank     - International Bank for Reconst ruction and Development
DSI      - Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulic Works)
EEIM     - Etibank Elektric Isletmeleri Muessessei
(Etibank Power Operations Establishment)
EIEI     - Elektric Isleri Etut Idaresi
(Electric Planning and Statistical Agency)
IDA      - International Development Association
SWOCI      Stone & Webster Overseas Consultants Inc.
TEK      - Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu
(Turkish Power Authority)
Ministry - Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources



TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF THE
KEBAN TRANSMISSION LINTE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                  i - ii
1.   INTRODUCTION                                               1
2.   THE POWER INDUSTRY IN TURKEY                               2
3.   THE BENEFICIARY - ETIBAN4K                                 4
General Description                                     4
Consolidated Balance Sheet and Income Statement          5
Reorganization of Electric Power Activities             5
Legislation under which Etibank Operates                 7
(a)  Law 440                                         7
(b)  Tariffs                                         7
(c)  Asset Revaluation                               8
(d)  Auditing                                        9
Etibank Power Group - Present Financial Condition
and Past Earnings History                              9
Etibank Power Group Accounts                            10
4.   SECTOR PROGRAMI AND BANK PROJECT                          10
Existing Facilities                                     10
The Sector Program                                      11
Description of the Bank Project                         12
Estimated Cost of the Bank Project                      12
Status of Engineering and Procurement                   13
Disbursement                                            13
Preference for Local Bidders                            14
5.   JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT                              14
The Power Msarket                                       14
The Keban Hydroelectric Project                         16
International Aspects of Keban Project                  18
6.   FUTURE FINANCES                                           18
Financing Plan                                          18
Estimated Future Earnings                               21
Future Financial Position                               21
7.   CONCLUSIONS                                               22
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission consisting of
Hlessrs. G.E. IWyatt and A.A. Raizen which visited Turkey between
january 14 and February 9, 1968.



LIST OF Ai  JEff
1.   Principal Generating Stations in Service and Under Construction
on the Etibank Interconnected System
2.   Etibank Capital Development Program, 1968-1972
3.   Etibank Interconnected System - System Capability and Maxcimum Demand
4.   Keban Transmission Lines - Estimated Cost of the Bank Project
5.   Etibank Interconnected System - Peak Demand Forecasts
6.   Etibank Consumer Statistics
7.   Keban Hydroelectric Project - Estimated Cost
8.   Factors Leading to the Choice of Transmission Line Design
9.   Etibank - Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1965-1967
10.   Etibank - Consolidated Income Statements for the Years Ended
December 31, 1965-1967
11.   Etibank Power Group (1964-69) and Proposed Turkish Power Authority
(TEK) (1970-72) - Balance Sheets, Actual 1964-1967 and Estimated
1968-1972
12.   Etibank Power Group - Income Statements 1964-1967
13.   Etibank Power Group (1968-69) and Proposed Turkish Power Authority
(TEK) (1970-72) - Estimated Sources and Applications of Funds,
1968-1972
14.   Etibank Power Group (1968-69) and Proposed Turkish Power Authority
TEK (1970-72) - Estimated Income Statements 1968-1972
IMAP  Turkey - Electrification Plan



T U R K E Y
APPRAISAL OF THE
KEBAN TRANS1MISSION LINE PROJECT
SUMMARY
i,        This report covers the appraisal of a project of Etibank (the
Government Agency responsible for electrical development in Turkey) for
the construction of 1,460 km of 380 kv transmission lines from the
1,240 Mw Keban Hydroelectric Station to Ankara and Istanbul. The estimated
cost of the Project is Turkish Lira (LT) 325.6 million (US$35.9 million).
A Bank loan of US$25 million equivalent towards the cost of the project
has been requested. The foreign exchange costs, excluding consultants
charges (which are being met by USAID) but including interest during con-
struction, are estimated at US$22.7 million equivalent and it is recommended
that the balance of the loan should be made available to meet local
expenditures on the Bank Project up to one third of the total amount of
foreign exchange costs met out of the loan as already agreed among the
Syndicate members.
ii.       The Borrower would be the Government of the Republic of Turkey
which would relend to Etibank on the same terms as the Bank loan.
iii.      The Bank Project is an integral part of the much larger Keban
Hydroelectric Project which is being financed by a Syndicate of lenders
comprising France, Germany, Italy, USA and the European Investment Bank.
The Syndicate is under the chairmanship of the Bank. These hydroelectric
works have been under construction for about two years and are now about
25% complete. As originally conceived the Keban Project included some
items of transmission and distribution at voltages below 380 kv. Some
of these items have already been constructed by Etibank which is now
seeking assistance for financing the remainder from other members of
the Keban Syndicate. The remainder of the original project comprising
the construction of 380 kv transmission lines and related substations
required to transport the power from the hydroelectric station at Keban
to the load centers of Ankara and Istanbul is included in the Bank Project.
iv.       The total Turkish power demand is rising at a rate of about
14% per annum, but the demand for power from the Etibank network is
rising at a rate of more than 20% per annum as its share of the total
demand increases. Etibank's share of total power sold in Turkey is
expected to rise from 67% in 1967 to 89% in 1972.
v.        The Bank Project is technically sound, the estimated costs are
reasonable and the construction dates are realistic. The main contracts
for the Keban/Istanbul transmission line have been awarded after inter-
national competitive bidding carried out in accordance with the Bank
Guidelines.



- ii -
vi.       Etibank, the electrical department of mhich was reorgnized
at the end of 1967, is conpetently managed and is capable of carrying
out the Bank Project with the assistance of consultants and contractors,
and of operating it.
vii.      Under legislation which is notq before parliament, it is expected
that the electrical organization of Etibanc which is no-w the largest, but
not the only electrical agency of the Government, will be transferred in
1969 to a separate Turkish Power Authority (TEK), which would then be the
sole electrical generating and transmitting agency of the Government with
powers to assume responsibility for distribution and retail sales, if
requested to do so by municipal authorities.  The Bank is giving technical
assistance to the Government in the reorganization required for the achieve-
ment of this objective.
viii.     The estimated total cost of Etibank's 1968-1972 program of
electrical expansion, including work in progress, is LT 6,840 million
(US$753 million) which represents about 80% of the total expenditure in
Turkey for the electrical sector during the period.
ix.       The earnings of the Etibank Power Group are not entirely
adequate in spite of an increase in tariffs averaging 45% in Mgarch 1967.
It has been agreed, however, that by 1970 the earnings would be improved
so that the minimum return on average net fixed assets in service realis-
tically valued would be eight per cent, except that in the year in which
the Keban Hydroelectric Project comes into service and the next two years
while this very large increase in capacity and assets is being absorbed,
the minimum return would be seven per cent. While the contribution from
net internal cash generation towards the financing of construction expend-
itures is very modest for the 1968-1972 period, it will be substantially
improved by the end of the period and should be adequate thereafter.
x.        In view of the satisfactory agreement reached during negotiations
on the points summarized in paragraph 7.04 of this report, the Bank Project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 25.0 million equivalent to the
Government of Turkey for relending to the Etibank Power Group on the same
terms as payable by the Government. A term of 25 years, including a grace
period of four years, is recommended.



T U R K E Y
APPRAISAL OF THE
KEBAN TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report covers the appraisal of a project comprising the
construction of 1,460 km of 380 kv transmission lines from the Keban
Hydroelectric Station to Istanbul, together with substation works at
Keban, Kayseri, Ankara and Istanbul. The Government of Turkey has asked
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to
make a loan of US$25 million equivalent towards the cost of the Project.
In this report it will be referred to as the Bank Project to distinguish
it from the much larger 1,240 Mw Keban (Hydroelectric) Project of which
it forms an essential part.
1.02      The estimated cost of the Bank Project is Turkish Lira (LT)
325.6 million (US$35.9 million) including interest during construction.
The Borrower would be the Government of Turkey, which would relend the
proceeds to Etibank, a government agency charged with the development of
public electricity supplies throughout Turkey as well as the development
of mining and banking.
1.03      The Bank Project is part of Etibank's electrical development
program during the five years 1968 through 1972 which is estimated to
cost LT 3,201 million (US$352 million), including interest during
construction. An associated program of hydroelectric works costing
LT 3,639 million (US$401 million) is being undertaken by the State
Hydraulic Works (DSI) in the same period. The DSI program includes the
hydroelectric works of the Keban Project.
1.04      The Keban Hydroelectric Station has been under construction for
more than two years with financing provided by a Syndicate of lenders
comprising the USA, Germany, France, Italy and the European Investment
Bank (EIB) under the chairmanship of the Bank. The EIB is responsible
for supervision of construction. Unexpected difficulties have arisen
with foundations which are likely to delay the completion of the Project
by up to one year. It is now expected that the first phase of the Project,
with an installed capacity of 620 lw of plant, will be in oper-tion late
in 1971 or early 1972.
1.05      The Bank agreed in 1965 to consider a loan of US$25 million
towards the building of transmission lines, as its contribution to the
financing of the Keban Project, provided the Government took steps to
improve the efficiency of the electric powJer industry by creation of a
central authority embracing the activities of a number of existing
organizations whose efforts had hitherto lacked coordination. A similar
requirement has been included in the loan agreements of other members
of the Syndicate. It was expected at that time that such an organization
could be created in time to carry out the Bank Project. Although the
Government submitted a bill to Parliamient for this purpose in
December 1966 (see paragraph 2.06) it became clear towards the end of



- 2 -
1967 that the necessary legislation would not be passed in time and some
interim arrangements would be required. Accordingly, following dis-
cussions between the Government and the Bank, it was decided to con-
solidate as much authority as possible in Etibank pending the creation
of the central authority (see paragraph 3.07).
1.06      The Bank has made one previous loan for power and the Inter-
national Development Association (IDA) has made two credits available
to the Government of Turkey for relending to the Cukurova Electric
Company as follows:
(a) 1952 Loan No. 63-TU for US$25.2 million to cover
the foreign exchange requirements for the Seyhan Dam
and 36 M4w power station together with associated trans-
mission works. This project was completed in 1956.
(b) 1963 Credit 3h-TU for US$1.7 million to cover the foreign
exchange cost of installing a third unit of 18 imw at
the Seyhan hydroelectric station. This credit is fully
drawn and the project was completed in 1964.
(c) 1964 Credit 59-TIJ for TJS$24.0 million towards the cost
of constructing a 100 Mw thermal station at Mersin, a
70 Muw hydroelectric station at Kadincik and associated
transmission works. The project is scheduled to be com-
pleted in 1971.
Performance on these credits to date has been satisfactory. A mission
to appraise the proposed Kadincik II hydroelectric project of 55 Mw,
for Bank or IDA financing of about US$8.5 million, is scheduled for
November this year.
1.07      This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission con-
sisting of Messrs. G.E. t'lyatt and A.A. Raizen, which visited Turkey
between January 14 and February 9, 1968, and on feasibility studies
carried out by Ebasco Services Inc. and Commonwealth Associates Inc.,
and market surveys and economic appraisals by Batelle Memorial Insti-
tute and Stone & Webster Overseas Consultants Inc., (SWOCI). All these
firms are American and their studies were financed by U.S. AID.
2. THE POWER INDUSTRY IN TURKEY
2.01      The first electric power plant to be installed in Turkey
was commissioned at Tarsus in 1902, but it was not until 1913 that
Istanbul, which was then the capital of Turkey, received its first
supply.  When the present Republic was established in 1923, the installed
capacity was only about 33 1Mw and in order to speed development the new
government issued a number of franchises to foreign companies to construct
and operate electrical utilities. At a later date the Government took
over and operated for some years the installations constructed under
these franchises before transferring them to the principal municipalities
in the areas served. Although great strides have been made in recent
years, electricity is still available to only about one-third of the



- 3 -
population of Turkey. Somne 300 municipalities (27% of the total) and
about 35,000 villages (98% of the total) have no public supplies of
electricity.
2.02      Since 1935 the Government has created four organizations
whose functions include electrical development. These are:
(a) Elektrik Isleri Etut Idaresi (EIEI), created in 1935
as a planning and statistical organization for the whole
of the electrical supply industry in Turkey.
(b) Etibank, a State Economic Enterprise created in 1935 to
put into effect, amongst other things, the plans for
development initiated by EIEI.
(c) i1ler Bank, a State Economic Enterprise created in 1945
for the purpose of assisting provincial governments,
municipalities and village administrations with financing
and construction of their public services, including
electricity.
(d) Devlet Su Isleri (DSI), the State Hydraulic Works,
created in 1953, whose duties include development and
operation of multipurpose hydroelectric projects in
cooperation with EIEI.
2.03      By the end of 1967, Etibank, lller Bank and DSI all ouned
and operated power stations and transmission lines as did some 435
municipalities and 207 villages. In addition there were a number of
utility companies operating, the largest of which was the Cukurova
Electric Supply Company in the iAdana area, and a large number of
private industrial generating plants some of whicn sold surplus power
to municipalities and villages.
2.04      This multiplicity of agencies did not make for the coordinated
and efficient development of the power supply industry, a situation
which was made worse by the fact that Etibank, the most important of
them, nominally lacked the authority to plan its own development.
Moreover the EIEI which was responsible for planning had no power to
enforce its plans on other agencies.
2.05      The Government had for long recognized that this division of
responsibility was unsatisfactory and in 1959 it introduced a bill to
Parliament for consolidation of the various agencies. This bill was re-
jected. In 1964 the Government applied to the Bank for technical assis-
tance in reorganizing the industry. Before agreeing to this request, the
Bank commissioned Ebasco Services Inc. to carry out a reconnaissance
survey and make recommendations as to the scope of assistance required.
This work was completed in January 1965 and later that year the Bank
approved a technical assistance grant of up to US$1.95 million to cover
the foreign exchange costs of the reorganization.



-4 -
2.06      In January 1966 meetings took place in Ankara betwieen
representatives of the Bank and a steering committee set up under the
chairmanship of the Minister of Ehergy and Natural Resources, to dis-
cuss implementation of the Technical Assistance Program. The agreed
program required the Government to submit to Parliament a bill for
the creation of a central electricity authority to be known as Turkiye
Elektrik Kurumu (TEK) following which the Bank would assist the Govern-
ment in recuriting consultants to commence the work of reorganization.
The drafting of the TEK Bill was carried out with assistance from the
Bank and the Bank's special advisor on power, Lord Hinton of Bankside.
In December 1966 a Joint Parliamentary committee was appointed to hear
objections to the bill and make recommendations regarding amendments.
This wiork has now been completed and the amended draft bill is expected
to be passed with relatively minor amendments later this year or early
next year.
2.07      Although the TEK Bill as finally presented to Parliament dif-
fered in several respects from the proposals agreed in January 1966, it
was considered by the Bank to be a substantial step in the right direction,
which in no way precluded further advance at a later date to the ultimate
goal of a completely integrated public electrical utility to serve the
whole country. In effect the Bill would create TEK as the sole generating
and transmitting agency of Government, with control of its own planning
and development, and powers to take over municipal systems if requested
by the municipalities. The Bank therefore accepted the view that the
Government had met its obligations under the January 1966 agreement and
assisted them in the selection of SWOCI to undertake the first stage of
the technical assistance in preparation for the establishment of TEK.
The consultants commenced field work in August 1967 and expect to complete
the first stage later in 1968 or early in 1969.
3.  THE BENEFICIARY - ETIBA4K
General Description
3.01      Etibank, which as previously noted in paragraph 1.02 is engaged
in the mining and banking businesses as well as in electric power, is
under the control of a Board of Directors consisting of six full time
members. The Chairman of the Board is also the General Manager, and
there are four Assistant General Managers responsible for electric power,
mining, banking and administration.  Etibank's total staff consists of
about 600 engineers and technicians, 2,000 administrative and clerical
employees and 13,000 workmen.
3.02      Through its mining operations, conducted by nine wholly owned
subsidiaries, Etibank is one of Turkey's major producers and exporters
of chrome, copper, sulphur, colemanite, cuprous pyrites, lead, zinc,
and mercury. It has also recently begun the production of borax and
boric acid.



3.03      Etibankc is also one of Turkey' s important commercial banks, with
27 branches in the principal cities and toowns0 It provides no financing
to any of the Etibank enterprises or anr other State economic enterprise.
The commercial banking business is organized as a department of Etibank.
While this department is not formally a separate legal entity, a portion
of Etibank's capital has been assigned to it, and its administration, assets
and accounts are all maintained separately. Thus, in fact, the Banking
Department functions as a distinct and separate enterprise under Etibank.
Consolidated Balance Sheet and Income Statement
3o04      Consolidated balance sheets of Etibank as of December 31, 1965-
1967 are attached as Annex 9. Total assets at December 31, 1967 were
LT 3,934 million (US$433 million), of which about 55% was applicable to
the electric utility business, 33% to mining, and 12% to banking.
30o5      Etibank's outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 1967
totalled LT 1,348 million (US$148 million), including LT 997 million
(US$110 million) borrowed from the State Investment Bank, an institution
formed by the Government to finance State Economic Enterprises; LT 321
million (US$35 million) of foreign loans; and the balance from other
domestic sources. Etibank's total authorized capital of LT 500 million
(US$55 million) is fully paid up; it also has accumulated a substantial
surplus from retained earnings, which, it holds in the form of various
provisions for reserves, but the precise amount is uncertain pending
final parliamentary approval of the audit reports for the years 1964-1967
(see footnote 3 to Annex 9), A proposal to increase Etibank's authorized
capital is under consideration by the Government,
3.06      Attached as Annex 10 are consolidated income statements of
Etibank for the years ended December 31, 1965-1967. All aspects - mining,
banking and electricity - of Etibank's business were profitable0 The con-
solidated net profit, after provision for income taxes, has increased from
LT 1h6 million (US$16 million) in 1965 to LT 322 million (US$35 million)
in 1967. Since its authorized capital is fully paid up, Etibank may retain
its profits for reinvestment in its business only to the extent of appropri-
ations to various reserves within specified limits. The balance is payable
as dividends to the Government, and tentative provision has been made to pay
such dividends in the amount of LT 40 million (US$4 million) for 1966 and
1967 and LT 22 million (US$2 million) for 1965.
Reorganization of Electric Power Activities
3.07      From 1956 until the end of 1967, Etibank's electric generating
and transmitting facilities were operated by a wholly owned subsidiary, the
Etibank Elektrik Isletmeleri Muessesesi (EEIM), with its own officers and a
separate Board of Directors. In addition, two self-accounting departments
of Etibank were responsible for construction of generating plants and addi-
tions to the transmission network, which upon completion were turned over
to EEDMA for operation. In a reorganization effective as of January 1, 1968,
EEIM4 was dissolved and all of Etibank's electric power activities were con-
solidated into the Etibank Power Group, a self-accounting department under
an Assistant Managing Director.  Half of Etibank's capital, LT 250 million
(US$27.5 million) has been assigned to this department, which has also



- 6 -
assumed responsibility for all debts applicable to power operations and
taken over all the assets, including work in progress, of EEIM and the
former construction departments. Although not a separate legal entity,
the Power Group like the Banking Department is in fact a distinct enter-
prise, with its assets, liabilities, employees, operations, budgeting,
accounting and auditing all maintained separately from Etibank's other
activities.
3.08      The new Power Group also assumed responsibi-lity for operating
the DSI hydroelectric stations, from which EELI had kieretofore purchased
power. Pursuant to a Protocol between Etibank and DSI, agreed to late in
1967, the operation of these stations and their operating staffs were
transferred to Etibank. This agreement covers 17 stations now or shortly
to be in operation, with a total installed capacity of about 437 M4w, as
well as all new stations to be completed by DSI in the future (except
those outside Etiban}c's service area or those to be used exclusively for
irrigation pumping). Etibank now pays a rental for the DSI hydroelectric
stations on much the same basis as it formerly paid for purchasing power,
namely, a charge per kwh generated which is calculated to cover the
depreciation of the investment over its useful life plus approximately
2-1/2% interest.
3.09      The Protocol with DSI also recognizes that Etibank has complete
responsibility for the development planning of power systems and provides
that DSI will secure Etibank's agreement before beginning construction of
any new hydroelectric installations within areas served by Etibank, except
for those to be used exclusively for irrigation pumping.
3.10      As of January 1, 1969, pursuant to a second Protocol between
Etibank and EIEI, responsibility for market research and preparation of
development programs in all areas served by Etibank, or which Etibank,
intends to serve, has also been transferred to the Etibank Power Group.
Feasibility reports for hydroelectric projects will still be prepared by
EIEI, but only in close cooperation with Etibank, instead of with DSI
as heretofore.
3.11      The Protocol between Etibank and EIEI states inter alia that
the planning of a Nuclear Power Station, which the Government has already
decided to build, will be carried out by EIEI. This station is now
scheduled for commissioning in 1976 and a consortium of Swiss, USA and
German Consultants has been commissioned to prepare a feasibility report
for the construction of a station utilizing natural uranium as fuel, and
for the development of Turkey's deposits of uranium ore. It is possible
that a nuclear station of about 400 Mw will be an economic source of
electrical energy in Turkey by 1976, or soon after, though this will not
be knowvn for certain until tlhe consultants' feasibility report is available.
However, if following consideration of the feasibility report the decision
to build 'e nuclear station is confirmed, the planning and design of it
should be carried out in the closest cooperation with Etibank. Assurances
to this effect have been obtained from the Government.
3.12      The new Power Group is competently managed. It has some 4,000
employees, including about 200 engineers and 200 other professionally
trained employees, 400 clerks, and about 3,200 laborers.



- 7 -
3.13      The changes effected by the interim reorganization go some way
towards the foundation of a central generating and transmitting authority
as envisaged in the TEK law and with the minor changes agreed during
negotiations, have made Etibank into a suitable beneficiary for a Bank loan.
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that no municipality con-
nected to Etibank's system, or which could be supplied more economically by
Etibank, will be permitted to build or extend its own generating plant in
future. Thus with the exception of the Cukurova area and some small
isolated municipalities and villages, Etibank will meet the whole of the
future generation and transmission requirements of the public electric power
supply in Turkey.
3.14      Since this interim reorganization is intended only as a temporary
measure until the TEK bill is passed, it is recommended that it be accepted.
Agreement has been obtained during negotiations that the Bank may suspend
disbursement or call the loan if there is any material change, without the
Bank's consent, in the functions and responsibilities of the Power Group
of Etibank or its successor, TEK.
Legislation Under which Etibank Operates
(a) Law h40
3.15      State-owned economic enterprises in Turkey such as Etibank and
the proposed Turkish Power Authority (TEK) are intended to be run in
accordance with commercial principles as part of a mixed economy which
includes privately-owned as well as publicly-owned businesses. In addition
to being subject to taxation and treated in other respects as though.they
were private joint stock companies, all state-owned economic enterprises
are subject to the provisions of a law passed in 1964 (Law 440) and the
regulations issued pursuant to it. The stated purpose of this law is to
enable such enterprises to be run autonomously and to create more resources
for investment by operating profitably and productively. Although Law 440
was intended to promote the autonomy of state-owned economic enterprises,
they are still subject to very close supervision by the Government, through
the Ministry of Finance and, in the case of Etibank and TEK, the Ministry
of Energy and Natural Resources (the Ministry). Among other things, these
ministries recommend to the Cabinet the appointment of various members of
the Board of Directors and the appointment and dismissal of the General
Manager and his Assistants.
(b) Tariffs
3.16      Under Law 440, state-owned economic enterprises are free to
determine the prices of their goods and services. An exception is made for
basic goods and services such as coal, fuel, electric power, iron, artificial
fertilizers and railway transportation, for which the Cabinet may fix the
prices. In case this is done and the price fixed is less than cost, the
resulting loss is to be paid to the enterprise within one year out of the
Government budget. The Government has to date not used this authority to
fix the prices of electric power since the law became effective in 1964.



- 8 -
3.17      The section of Law 440 authorizing enterprises to fix their prices
has been held not to apply to Etibazil, because a provision of an earlier
statute authorizing the linistry to approve or disapprove Etibank's prices
was determined not to have been repealed by Law 440. Under this earlier
statute, a proposal by Etibank's Board of Directors to put into effect a new
schedule of prices or tariffs must be submitted to the Ministry. The Ministry
may approve or disapprove the new schedule, but if it takes no action within
two months of an application, Etibank is permitted to implement its proposals.
3.18      In fact, in 1964, after Law 440 was passed, a proposal to increase
Etibank's electric tariffs was made and disapproved. However, a new tariff
schedule representing an average price increase of 450 was approved and
became effective on March 1, 1967. This was the first change in electric
tariffs made since 1959.
3.19      Whilst the structure of Etibank's tariffs is well suited to ensure
the most economic use of Etibank s resources it is apparent that it would
be desirable to have some objective standard for fixing the level of tariffs
of the Etibank Power Group and of TEK when it is created. During negotiations
agreement was reached on a tariff covenant under which it has been agreed
that the tariffs of the Etibank Power Group (and of TEK iwhen it is created)
will be adjusted when necessary to assure a minimum rate of return of eight
per cent beginning with the year 1970. This rate of return is to be measured
by taking net operating income after taxes and before interest charges as a
percentage of average net fixed assets in service valued on a realistic basis.
In the year in which the Keban Hydroelectric Project comes into service and
for the next two years during which this very large increase in generating
capacity and assets in service is being absorbed, the minimum rate of return
would be seven per cent. The covenant also provides that any overrun in the
required annual return for a fiscal year may be applied to offset any short-
fall during the next three fiscal years, but if following such adjustment
there is any shortfall in the required return for a fiscal year it shall
be made up in the next year.
(c) Asset Revaluation
3.20      The book value of assets in service is believed to be understated
because it has not been adjusted to reflect substantial increases in
Turkish price levels since 1953 and the devaluation of the Turkish lira in
1958 which increased foreign costs as measured in terms of local currency
by a ratio of 3.2 to 1. On the other hand, there are some offsetting factors
which should be taken into account in estimating the current value of the
assets. Thus, the present book values include very substantial amounts of
import duties and taxes which have recently been reduced by 80% (see para-
graph 4.04), and substantial economies in the costs of constructing trans-
mission lines have been achieved in recent years.
3.21      The need for revaluation is recognized under Law 440, which
provides that the assets and liabilities of state-owned economic enterprises
shall be revalued according to methods to be recommended by a committee
appointed under the Law. This has not yet become effective because no
agreement has been reached on the principles to be followed, The proposed
bill to create TEK also provides that the book values of the assets to be
transferred to TEK are to be adjusted to reflect a reasonable revaluation
of such assets as provided in Law 440.



3.22      In viewr of the uncerta4rity about when revaluations under Law 440
may be made, agreement was reached during negotiations on a basis for
adjusting the book values of assets to a realistic current basis for purposes
of the rate of return covenant. Initially, this adjustment will be a fixed
amount which it has been agreed is a fair approximation of the extent to
which the assets are presently undervalued (see footnote 3 to Annex 12)..
In lieu of this, if Etibank elects to have a valuiation study made by con-
sultants acceptable to the Bank, the fixed assets in service would be revalued
on the basis of their depreciated replacement value as determined in that
study. It has also been agreed that in the event of any significant changes
in Turkish price levels or foreign costs as measured in Turkish lira in the
future, there shall be corresponding adjustments in the values of the fixed
assets in service, in accordance with methods satisfactory to the Bank.
(d) Auditing
3.23      Within four months of the end of each year, state economic enter-
prises must prepare a balance sheet, income statement, and a report on the
year's activities which compares actual results to the budgets. This is
submitted to the Government's Supreme Board of Control, which is responsible
for examining the yearly transactions and accounts from administrative and
technical, as well as financial, standpoints. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that audited financial statements would be submitted to the
Bank within seven months after the end of each fiscal year.
Etibank Power Group - Present Financial Condition and Past Earnings History
3.24      Balance sheets of the Etibank Power Group for the years ended
December 31, 1964-1967, are included as part of Annex 11. It will be noted
that debt financing has been the principal source of the capital accumulated
for the Power Group, as indicated by the debt/equity ratio of 75/25 at the
end of 1967. If allowance is made for the revaluation of assets as agreed
during negotiations, the debt/equity ratio would be 55/45.
3.25      A substantial part of past earnings is represented by accounts
receivable from the Istanbul and Izmir municipal distributing companies
which Etibank was unable to collect prior to 1963 and which the Government
has agreed to pay over an extended period. These extended term accounts
receivable amounted with unpaid interest to LT 194 million at the end of
1967. Legislation was passed in 1963 under which the Government assumed
the obligation to pay these debts in annual installments over a 20-year
period with interest at 5%, in whatever amount was finally agreed between
EEIM and the municipalities or determined by the courts   This agreement
was not reached until 1967, and no payments have yet been received. Mean-
while, in 1967, the Istanbul company again became seriously delinquent,
and after a court order directing the customers of the Istanbul company to
pay their bills to the court until the amount due Etibank had been collected,
a settlement was reached under which the arrears totaliing LT 67 million
would be paid over a six-month period ending May 1968.
3.26      Apart from the recent problems with the Istanbul distributing
company, Etibank has had no difficulty in collecting its bills promptly
since a 15% discount is offered if payment is received within one month
and a penalty of one per cent per month is charged for later payment.



- 10 -
In addition, Etibank requires a deposit from each customer equal to about
one month's average bill. Because its bills are usually paid promptly, the
low ratio of current assets to current liabilities (including current
maturities of long-term debt) of about 0.8 to 1 at the end of 1967 is no
problem.
3.27      Annex 12 contains income statements for Etibank Power Group for
the years 1964-1967. Until 1963, operations were not profitable.    Since
then, there has been a modest profit with the apparent rate of return,
represented by net operating income before interest to average net fixed
assets in service, ranging from six per cent to eight per cent between
1964 and 1966 and increasing to 13% in 1967, when tariffs and discounts
were revised resulting in an average price increase of about 45% from
M4arch 1, 1967. If, however, allowance is made to correct the understatement
of the book value of assets in service, the rate of return would be reduced
to less than two per cent, in 1964-1966 and six per cent in 1967 (see footnote
3 to Annex 12).
Etibank Power Group Accounts
3.28      Since Etibank at its inception was primarily a mining organization,
its accounting procedures and system of accounts were designed to fit such
an organization rather than an electric utility. At the Bank's request
and to assist with this appraisal, SWOCI made a detailed study of EEDI's
financial and operating report for the year 1966 and of the accounts of the
construction departments for that year. It reclassified the accounts and
prepared the 1966 consolidated balance sheets and income statements for the
Etibank Power Group in accordance with conventional utility accounting
forms. The statements for 1964, 1965 and 1967 have been prepared by Etibank
accountants following the method used by SWOCI.
3.29      As part of the first stage of the technical assistance (see para-
graph 2.07), SWOCI is making a study to recommend a uniform system of
accounts for the electric power industry. It was agreed during negotiations
that by January 1, 1970, Etibank would adopt a revised system of accounts
for the Power Group, consistent with modern electric utility practice and
satisfactory to the Bank.
4. SECTOR PROGRAII AMD BANK PROJECT
Existing Facilities
4.01      At the end of 1967 the total capacity of generating plant in-
stalled in Turkey was about 1,950 Mw. Of this total, 1,327 Mw or about
68%, was connected to systems owned and operated by Etibank, and 104 Mw,
or about five per cent, was owned by the Cukurova Company near Adana. The
balance of 519 Mlw was made up of a large number of small isolated municipal
and village installations and private industrial plants.
4.02      Etibank's dominant position in the electrical sector is a com-
paratively recent developmaent. It was only in 1956 that it created its
subsidiary electrical utility, the EED31, yet today Etibank owms and operates
five separate systems. Four of these at Almus (Tokat), Kuleonu, Hazar and
Kiti are small systems with a total installed capacity of 51 Mlw, the largest



- 11 -
being Almus with 28 Mw. The fifth system, hnownm as The Interconnected System
comprises 1,006 Nw of generating plant and about 4,000 km of 154 kv trans-
mission lines, and supplies the whole western half of the country from
which over 90% of Turkey's electrical demand originates.  Etibank owns
190 Niw of hydroelectric and 544 TIw of thlermal generating plants and leases
326 Nw of hydro plants from DSIL It controls the output of a further 267 I'Tw
of generating plants on consumers' networks connected to its transmission
system, most of which are old and re'atively irefficient5  The 544 Mu of
modern thermal plant owned by Etibank burns coal, lignite and fuel oil.
4.O3      Details of the principal generating units in service and under
construction are shown in Annex 1.  The location of these stations is
shown on the map attached to this report.
The Sector Program
4.o4      The developnent program for the electrical sector of the Govern-
ment's second Five-Year Plan 1968-1972 was prepared by EIEI with assistance
from SWOCI. As originally planned the total cost of the program was
LT 9,636 million (US$1,061 million) but due to subsequient modifications
and reductions in import duties and taxes l/ it is not now likely to
exceed LT 8,500 million (US$936 million). About 90% of the generation and
all major transmission works in the plan, totaling LT 6,840 million (US$753
million), are scheduled to be constructed by Etibank, or on its behalf by
DSI and others. The balance of the program consists of extensions to the
Cukurova Company's system, municipal systems and rural electrification.
4.05      From the above it will be seen that virtually all major electrical
development works in the next five years will be the responsibility of
Etibank. They include the construction of about 1,230 Nw of hydroelectric
and 625 1w of thermal power stations as well as the commencement of a nuclear
power station of about 300/400 Mw. Also included are 2,210 Ian of 380 kv
transmission lines and related substations to transmit the large blocks
of power being generated at I'Keban, Gokeekaya and Ambarli to the load centers
of Ankara, Istanbul, Izniir and Southern Turkey; as well as many extensions
to the 154 kv network and lower voltage systems. These works account for
about 80% of the total expenditure for the electrical sector in the plan
period. The Etibank program is broken down into its main constituents in
Annex 2.
h.o6      The timing of additions to the canability of the system and
Etibank's estimated growth of maximum demand on the interconnected system
are shown in Annex 3 in graph form. It will be seen that according to the
forecast there will be no reserve capacity for the winter peak demand in
1969, and very little in 1970. It is probable that some restriction of
demand will be necessary in both years but, to minimize the risk, Etibank
is taking steps to obtain additional supplies from external sources. A
1/ As from August 1967 customs duties and taxes on imported equipment for
use in generating plants of over 25 Nw capacity and transmission lines
of 154 kv and above were reduced by 80%.



- 12 -
154 kv transmission line is now being constructed to connect with the
Cukurova Company's system where 120 Mw of steam and hydroelectric plant
is under construction and expected to be completed by 1969 or 1970, and
the Government is discussing with Bulgaria the possibility of importing
power in the Istanbul area.
4.07      The map attached to this report shows the principal transmission
lines and proposed additions, including the Bank Project.
Description of the Bank Project
4.08      The Bank Project consists of about 1,460 km of 380 kv transmission
lines between Keban and Istanbul with substation works at Keban, Kayseri,
Ankara and Istanbul, Between Keban and Ankara it is proposed to construct
two parallel lines, each about 550 km long with a midway series capacitor
station at Kayseri. From Ankara a single line would be constructed to
Istanbul, a distance of about 360 km. Both portions would be constructed on
rectangular based self-supporting galvanized steel towers about 36 meters
high.
4.09      A 380 kv transmission line of identical design to the Neban/
Istanbul line, with substations at Ankara and Istanbul, is now being con-
structed by Etibank with finance provided by U.S. AID, as part of the
300 INwf Gokcekaya Hydroelectric Project. Since this line and the terminal
substations form an integral part of the Keban Project, Etibank has
requested that some items such as control and protection equipment, switch-
gear, insulators and line hardware should be included in the Bank Project.
This will permit the necessary standardization of equipment of all sections
of the line with improvement in reliability, ease of control and savings
in cost.
4h10      As originally conceived the Keban Project included some minor
transmission and distribution lines and substations at voltages below
380 kv, which originated from the Keban substation. These works were not
included in the Government's request for a loan. Some of these lines have
already been constructed by Etibank which is now seeking assistance for
financing the remaining works from other members of the Keban syndicate.
Estimated Cost of the Bank Project
4.11      The estimated cost of the Bank Project is LT 325.6 million (US$35.9
million) including engineering, interest during construction and contingencies.
Of this total LT 212.6 million, or US$23Q4 million equivalent, is the estima-
ted foreign exchange component. Engineering costs will be financed by U.S.
AID, leaving a net requirement of US$22.7 million equivalent of foreign
exchange. It is recommended that the Bank should make a loan of US$25
million equivalent to cover the foreign exchange costs and a portion of the
local currency costs of the project comprising local purchases and local
construction costs excluding duties. The following is a summary of the
estimates and a further breakdown is given in Annex 4. The estimates are
reasonable.



- 13 -
Cost in US$ million equivalent
Local      Foreign       Total
Keban/Istanbul Transmission
Line and Substations             9.8         18.1        27.9
Gokeelcaya Line & Substation
Material                           -          O.5          °o5
Contingencies                      1.0         10          2.0
Engineering                        0,2           O.7         0.9
Interest during Construction       1.5          3.1         4.6
TOTAL             12.5        _23.4         35.9
The estimates include contingencies of about five per cent for foreign costs
and 10% for local costs. The allowance of five per cent only for foreign
costs is considered adequate in view of the advanced stage of the bidding.
Status of Engineering and Procurement
4.12      Most of the engineering for the Bank Project has already been
carried out by Commonwealth Associates Inc, in the course of their services
for the Gokcekaya line. The consultants' contract with Etibank provides for
the extension of their services to cover the preparation of bidding documents,
evaluation of bids, preparation of working drawings, inspection at manufactur-
ers' works and supervision of erection for the Keban to Istanbul lines. These
arrangements are satisfactory.
4,13      At the time when the contracts for construction of the Keban Dam
were signed it was expected that the first two 155 Mw generators would be
ready to go into commercial operation early in 1971 and in order to ensure
that the Project should commence earning revenue as soon as possible, it
would have been necessary for the Keban/Ankara/Istanbul transmission lines
to be in service by that time. For this reason and because the cost of fuel
for thermal generation due to delay would be about US$500,000 per month,
Etibank was obliged to proceed with the ordering and placing of contracts
for the Bank Project. Bidding and evaluation have been carried out in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines, with the Bank reviewing documentationp
evaluation of bids and award of contracts. All the main contracts for the
transmission line have been awarded and bidding is now proceeding for sub-
stations and minor equipment. The main contract, which provides for the
supply of steel towers and construction of the Keban/Istanbul lines and sub-
stations was awarded to Societa Anonima Elettrificazione S.p.A. (SAE) of
Italy for the sum of US$9,784,742 equivalent on April 13, 1968.   In addition
two contracts for supply of conductor were awarded on June 7, 1968, to
Echevarria Hermanos SoA. and Industria Navarro del Elumina S.A,, both of
Spain, for the sums of US$4,192,158 and US$2,772,004 equivalent respectively.
The SAE contract provides for completion of line construction by October 31,
1970, with penalties for delay. This is a realistic program.
Disbursement
4.14      For equipment, material and services (including erection of the
transmission line and substations) supplied by foreign contractors, the Bank
would finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs. For local expenditure the
Bank would finance a portion of local costs not exceeding one third of the
amount disbursed in respect of the foreign exchange cost of the project, as
has already been agreed among the Syndicate members,



- 14 -
4.15      Foreign exchange payments made by Etibank since September 1,
1968 total about US$300,000 equivalent, and further payments of US$308,000
equivalent in October and US$3,413,000 equivalent in November are due.  It
is recommended that all these payments be reimbursable out of the loan.
Preference for Local Bidders
4.16      In order to encourage local industry and because there are in
Turkey firms qualified to bid for the two main contracts of the Keban/
Istanbul lines, i.e., tower supply and erection and supply of conductor,
Etibank proposed that a margin of preference should be given to local
bidders. Moreover, to reduce the foreign exchange requirement in the likely
event that a foreign bidder should win the contract for tower supply and
erection, Etibank proposed a margin of preference for foreign bidders who
utilized local resources for the fabrication and galvanizing of steel towers.
These requirements were met by evaluating bids for the two main contracts in
the following manner. Firstly, all duties and taxes were deducted from all
bids, both local and foreign, and secondly, to the extent that foreign or
local bidders fabricated in Turkey, bids remained unaltered, even as regards
imported raw material, and to the extent they imported fabricated material
their bids were increased by 15%. As a result the lowest and successful
bidder for the tower contract (SAE) proposes to fabricate and galvanize
about 46% of the steel towers in Turkey and import the balance, but all of
the conductor will be manufactured in Spain.
5. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
5.01      The 380 kv transmission lines from Keban to Istanbul forming
the major part of the Bank Project are an integral part of the Keban Hydro-
electric Project. The following justification of the latter is therefore
the justification of these lines.
The Power Market
5.02      Three detailed and extensive market surveys of the demand for
power in Turkey have been carried out by consultants in the past five years
as follows:
1963 by Ebasco Services for EIEI as part of the Keban
feasibility report
1965 by Batelle Memorial Institute for AID as the basis
of an economic appraisal of the Keban Project
1967 by SWOCI for EIEI as part of a priority study for
the electrical sector of the second five-year plan
The first two studies estimate the demand in the area which will eventually
be supplied from the Etibank system. The third estimates the demand on the
system. From the end of 1972 onwards the system includes the Cukurova
Compary and represents about 98% of total sales in Turkey. The forecasts
of maximum demand arising from these three studies are shown in graph form
in Annex 5.



- 15 -
5,03      The growth of demand on Etibank's generating plant from the inter-
connected system is determined by four main factors:
(a) the growth of demand on the networks of its customers;
(b) the connection of networks previously operating in isolation;
(c) the connection of new large industrial loads;
(d) the closing down of old and less efficient plant on con-
sumers' installations as Etibank's generating capability
is extended with larger and more efficient units.
5.04      The number of consumers supplied by Etibank at the end of 1967
was 633. Of these, nine municipalities and 11 large industries consumed
nearly 80% of Etibank's total sales. A breakdown of consumers by categories
and the consumption of some of the larger consumers is given in Annex 6.
5.05      The pattern of sales presented by the breakdc,m given in Anlex 6
does not truly reflect the heavy emphasis on industrial sales in Turkey.
Although the breakdown shows sales to large and small :i ;;^ :-ies as 1, 24
million kwh, or 39.6% of Etibank's total sales, a very large piart of sales
to municipalities is also used for industrial purposes. The recent market
survey carried out by EIEI shows ultimate usage of power sold in Turkey
(including private industrial plants) as follows:
Percentage of Total
Industry                                       74.8
Domestic and Commercial                         16.2
Government                                       3 5
Street Lighting                                 2.2
Unclassified (villages and small towns)          30
100.0
In the past sales to the manufacturing industries have tended to increase
faster than those to mining, but greatly increased activity in mining dur-
ing the next few years is expected to reverse this trend. By 1972 the
resulting increase in supply of metals and fertilizers is expected to
generate an expansion of the manufacturing and food processing industries
which will restore the previous trend. The estimated requirements of major
industries which have applied to Etibank for power supplies to commence
during the next five years are given in Annex 6. In addition to these large
power consumers to whom Etibank will make direct sales, there are many other
industrial developments which will take power indirectly from Etibank through
the municipal systems to which Etibank sells in bulk.
5.o6      The average annual rate of growth of sales for the whole of Turkey
over the past twenty years and the EIEI forecast for the period up to 1982
is as follows:



- 16 -
Average Annual
Increase in kwh Sales
Period                                       %
1946 - 1950                                   8.4
1951 - 1955                                  14.9
1956 - 1960                                  12.5
1961 - 1966                                  11.9
Future
1967 - 1972                                  14*4
1973 - 1977                                  11.0
1978 - 1982                                   9.9
Growth rates for Etibank's sales on the interconnected system, which
comprised 96.2% of Etibank's total sales in 1967, are considerably higher
than the above for the reasons given in paragraph 5.03. For example, in
1967 Etibank's total sales increased by 21,3E compared with an increase of
13.8% for the whole of Turkey. In the next five years Etibank's sales are
expected to increase by 158% from about 3,600 million kwh 1967 to about
9,300 million kwh in 1972, an average annual increase of about 21%. In the
same period Etibank's share of total sales in Turkey will increase from 67.3%
to 89.2%. These figures are reasonable and could be achieved if the devel-
opments provided for in the second five-year plan are completed on schedule.
The Keban Hydroelectric Project
5.07      The Keban Hydroelectric Project consists of a rockfill dam
rising about 510 feet above the Euphrates (Firat) River in the mountains
of Eastern Turkey. A power station built on the left bank of the river
immediately below the dam will ultimately contain 1,240 Mw of generating
plant in eight units of 155 Mw each operating at a station load factor of
about 50%. Taking into account the delays in construction noted in para-
graph 5a08 it is now expected that the first of these units would be in
operation late in 1971 and another three at intervals of about three months
each. These four units will be capable of using all the available water
equivalent to an annual production of about 5,000 million kwh when working
as base load plant at high load factor. It is proposed to install the
remaining four units as the need for additional peaking capacity arises
which will probably be, one in 1974, two in 1976 and the remaining one in
1977. Power will be transmitted from the site, which is remote from areas
of high demand, to Ankara and Istanbul, a distance of about 910 km., by
means of the two 380 kv transmission lines of which the Bank Project
comprises the major portion, one of which will be routed via the 300 Mw
Gokeekaya hydroelectric station expected to be completed in 1972.
5.o8      WTork on the building of the dam and powerhouse commenced in 1966
under the supervision of the Consultants, Ebasco Services Inc., and is now
about 25% complete. The cost of the Keban Project as revised in April 1966
was estimated to be US$337.7 million of which US$134.4 million was expected
to be the foreign exchange cost including US$7 million for interest during
construction (see Annex 7). During the course of construction it has become
apparent that the cost of foundation work at the dam and powerhouse sites
will exceed the estimates. Firm estimates of these additional costs are
not expected to be available until late October or November, but preliminary



- 17 -
estimates put the increase as high as US$28 million equivalent of which
the foreign exchange component would be about US$12 million equivalent.
On the other hand large savings in other items such as railway relocation
and transmission lines indicate that the total foreign exchange cost of
the project may be within the 1966 estimate though final cost including
local expenditure is likely to be about US$400 million equivalent. The
increased foundation work and other difficulties such as the need for
improved coordination of the work may cause delay in completion of the
project. Foreign consultants have now been engaged to improve coordin-
ation,     Finance for construction of the project is being provided by
a foreign syndicate as indicated in paragraph 1.04.
5.09      The economic appraisal of the Keban Project by the Batelle
Memorial Institute for U.S. AID summarized its conclusions on the economic
feasibility of the project by stating that, ignoring secondary benefits
such as river control, the cost of capital would have to be more than 10%
to remove Keban's economic advantage over an alternative thermal plant*
Studies carried out by the Bank indicate that the equalizing discount
rate changes relatively little for different rates of increase in demand.
Even with a uniform growth rate of as little as 6-3/4% throughout the period
from 1965 to the time when the project would be fully loaded, the equalizing
discount rate would be about eight per cent. As stated in paragraph 5.06
above, the growth rate of Etibank's interconnected system is expected to be
higher than that for Turkey as a whole. Over the period from 1965 to 1978,
by which time Keban should be fully loaded, the average growth rate is
likely to be about 14% per annum at which the equalizing discount rate
would be a little in excess of 10%.
5.10      The cost of production at Keban based on the original cost estimate
of $337 million, with four units fully loaded, assuming a return on capital
investment of six per cent per annum and a life of 50 years, is 2.51 kurus
(krs) per kwh generated (2.8 US mills) or, including transmission to Istanbul,
4.03 krs per kwh (4.44 mills). Preliminary examination of other potential
hydroelectric sites, or groups of sites nearer to the load centers indicated
that none of them could duplicate Keban's energy output for less than four
krs per kwh generated (4.4 mills). The equivalent cost of the best alterna-
tive thermal power, assuming an installation of 620 Mw with an installed
cost of US$120 per kw exclusive of duties, would be 4.9 krs per kwh generated
(5.4 mills).  Such a thermal plant would consume about 1,200,000 tons of fuel
oil per annum. On the basis of the latest cost estimates of $400 million, th
estimated cost of power at Keban will be 3.9 krs per kwh generated (4.3 US
mills) or including transmission to Istanbul 4.7 krs per kwh (5.2 US mills).
1/ It is proposed that the three European firms of Consulting Engineers,
Messrs. SOFRELEC (French), ELECTROCONSULT (Italian) and W. Lahmeyer and
Company (German) will each supply one expert to assist the Turkish team
of engineers responsible for coordinating the work of construction.
Discussions have been taking place over some months and negotiations
are now believed to be in the final stages,



- 18 -
International Aspects of Keban Project
5.11      Operation of the Keban Dam could affect downstream users of
Euphrates waters in Iraq and Syria but there is at present no international
agreement governing their use. However, the Government of Turkey has given
an undertaking to those members of the Syndicate financing construction of
the dam that it will continue to use its best endeavors to reach agreement
with Iraq and Syria on this subject. The Government has also agreed on a
regime of controlled flow in the initial filling period of the dam, which
is intended to meet the needs of downstream users. Since the purpose of
the dam is to conserve water and the Turkish power system is large enough
to be able to absorb the whole output of power generated by the release of
downstream users' water reouirements, irrespective of the time when it is
released, any subsequent agreement on regulation of releases is not likely
to affect the economics of the project.
5el2      From the above it is concluded that there is adequate justifica-
tion for the Keban Project of which the Bank Project forms an integral part.
The Bank Project is the most economical means by which power generated at
the Keban Hydroelectric Station can be transmitted to the load centers. A
short note on the considerations leading to the choice of line design is
contained in Annex 8.
6. FUTURE FINANCES
Financing Plan
6.01      Attached as Annex 13 is a forecast of the sources and applications
of funds of the Etibank Power Group for the years 1968-1969 and of the
proposed Turkish Power Authority (TEK), which is assumed to begin opera-
tions on January 1, 1970, for the years 1970-1972. This is summarized in
the following table, which shows the proposed financing plan for this five-
year period:



- 19 -
(Amounts in Millions of LT)
Financial Requirements                            Amount         %
Construction Expenditures
Direct  (including capitalized interest)          3
Keban Transmission Project                      320          5
Other Transmission Projects                   1 104         16
Total Transmission Projects                            21
Generating Additions                          1,724         25
General Plant                                    531
Total Direct                             3,201         17
By DSI for Etibank and TEK ?
Keban Dam and Powerhouse                      2,996         414
Gokcekaya Dam and Powerhouse                    581          8
Other Hydroelectric Projects                     62          1
Total Generating Additions by DSI          69v
Total Requirements                       6 8140       100
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation                        2,283
Less: Debt Service                                932
Net Internal Cash Generation                            20
Borrowings for Direct Program
For Transmission Network
Proposed Bank Loan                            227          3
Other Foreign Loans                           171          3
State Investment Bank Loans                   199          3
597          9
For Generating Additions
Foreign Loans                                 822         12
State Investment Bank Loans                   i88          6
1210          18
Total Borrowings for Direct Program           K-E           27
Raised by Government for DSI
Foreign Loans for Keban Dam and Powerhouse 1,000          15
Foreign Loans for Gokcekaya Dam and
Powerhouse                                   200          3
Provided from Government Budget             2t4 9          5
Total Raised by Government for DSI            3,39
Other Sources, Net of Other Requirements         41
Total Sources                            6,332        100
J Does not include LT 5 million spent in 1967.
g/ The amounts shown for expenditures by DSI are the estimated amounts to
be spent on hydroelectric projects now under construction; expenditures
for other hydroelectric projects to be started prior to 1972 are not
included. The estimated expenditures by DSI as shown above, totalling
LT 3,639 million, do not appear in Annex 13, which shows instead the net
value, LT 4,934 million, of all completed DSI hydroelectric plants
expected to be transferred to TEK in the period covered.



- 20 -
6.02      The construction program for the 1968-1972 period is very large
both in absolute and relative terms. The estimated construction expendi-
tures for this period total LT 6,840 million (US$753 million), an amount
which is 2.4 times as much as the total book value of the plant in service
at the end of 1967 of the Etibank Power Group and DSI.
6.03      Although only 20% of total construction requirements in the
1968-1972 period would be met from net internal cash generation, this
can be accepted as an adequate contribution for this period, when the
program includes two large hydroelectric projects and there is a very
rapid expansion of plant frcm a relatively small base. By 1972 the annual
amount of net internal cash generation is substantially greater than in
earlier years, and earnings generated in the period after 1972 are likely
to be sufficient to permit over 30% of total construction requirements to
be financed from net internal cash generation.
6.04      The proposed Bank loan, which it has been assumed would bear an
interest rate of 6-1/2% and have a term of 25 years including four years
grace, would meet about three per cent of the total 1968-1972 construction
requirements, and other foreign credits (including those obtained for the
DSI program) about 33%. These foreign loans would cover most of the foreign
costs of the construction program. Apart from the proposed Bank loan, about
25% of the needed foreign credits still have to be arranged. It has been
assumed they will be obtained by, or relent to, Etibank or TEK at an aver-
age interest cost of six per cent and repayable in annual installments, with
maturities, including grace period, of from 20 to 25 years depending on the
nature of the project.
6.05      Loans from the State Investment Bank are expected to finance 9%
of the total construction requirements. These loans are made for specific
projects at seven per cent interest, with annual amortization over a period
determined on the basis of an estimate of the time required to repay the
loan from earnings to be realized from the project. The average term of
the loans outstanding at the end of 1967 was 16 years. It is assumed that
future loans will have maturities, including grace period, of 15 years for
transmission and thermal generating projects and 20 years for hydroelectric
projects.
6.o6      As shown in Annex 13, the estimated borrowings from the State
Investment Bank amount to LT 94 million in 1968, LT 278 million in 1969,
LT 174 million in 1970, and LT 41 million in 1971. There is some question
whether, considering all the other demands on the State Investment Bank,
it will be possible to borrow as much as is assumed for 1969 and 1970. If
not there is a reasonable possibility of obtaining payments of equity
capital from the Goverrmient budget in amounts up to about LT 100 million
per annum. Any such cquity contributions would be in addition to the
LT 2,439 million, representing 35% of the tomal 1968-1972 construction
program, which it is now anticipated will be provided from the Government
budget for the hydroelectric projects being constructed by DSI.
6,07      As is usually the case with any very large expansion program
extending over a period of years, there are some uncertainties about the
financing plan and there may well be variations in the actual developments
as compared with the program now foreseen. Nevertheless, on the basis of
the information now available, the financing plan is reasonable and provides
a sound basis for proceeding with the proposed Bank loan.



- 21 -
Estimated Future Earnings
6.o8      Estimated income statements of the Etibank Power Group for
1968-1969 and of TEK for 1970-1972 are set forth in Annex 14, which also
explains the principal assumptions underlying these income forecasts.
Reflecting the substantial sales increases expected and a 10% increase in
average tariffs which may be needed to comply with the agreed rate of return
covenant (see paragraph 3.19) revenues are projected to more than double
from LT 615 million in 1968 to LT 1,415 million in 1972. Operating expenses,
including taxes, are forecast to increase from LT 439 million in 1968 to
LT 864 million in 1972. As a result, operating income is expected to increaE
from LT 176 million in 1968 to LT 551 million in 1972.
6.og      As a percentage of average net fixed assets in service, if no
allowance for revaluation is made, operating income will be equal to about
11% to 12% in 1968-1971 and will drop to about nine per cent in 1972 when
the Keban and Gokeekaya projects come into service; if allowance for re-
valuation is made on the basis agreed during negotiations (see paragraph
3,22 and footnote 3 to Annex 12), the rate of return is only about seven
per cent in 1968 and 1969 but would be at least eight per cent or slightly
higher in 1970-1972. These are acceptable rates of return for an electricit;
authority such as the Etibank Power Group or TEK and are in accord with the
agreement reached during negotiations (see paragraph 3.19).
6.10      The forecasts assume that a 10% increase in tariffs will be
necessary in 1970 in order to assure that the minimum agreed return of
eight per cent on revalued assets will be attained in that year. Operating
expenses have been conservatively estimated, and it is possible that improve-
ments in operating income may be realized by reductions in expenses rather
than increased tariffs.  In any event, whether and to what extent tariff
increases will be needed to comply with the rate of return covenant will
be determined from year to year in the future as developmaents actually
occur.
Future Financial Position
6.11      Estimated balance sheets for the Etibank Power Group as of the
end of 1968 and 1969 and for TEK as of the end of 1970-1972, appear in
Annex 11. Reflecting both the transfer of hydroelectric plants from DSI
and the very large construction program, electric plant in service is
expected to increase from LT 1,875 million in 1967 to LT 9,271 million in
1972. There would be a very big increase in the Governmentts equity
capital investment from LT 250 million to LT 3,984 million as a result
of the capital contributions incident to the transfer of the DSI plants
to TEK.  Thus, although long-term debt is expected to increase from LT 1,404
million at the end of 1967 to LT 4,041 million at the end of 1972, the debt/
equity ratio would change from 75/25 to 44/56. This is a conservative and
acceptable debt/equity ratio for an electric utility.
6.12      In order to assure the maintenance of a satisfactory financial po-
sition throughout the term of the proposed Bank loan, it is usual to have
a covenant limiting the incurrence of long-term debt, without prior Bank
approval, unless net revenues before provision for depreciation for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for a later 12-month period



- 22 -
ended prior to the incurrence shall be at least l,5 times the maximum
debt service for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the
debt to be incurred. This would be too restrictive a test to apply to
the commitments which the Etibank Power Group or TEK must enter into
during the period 1968-1972, when plant is being expanded so greatly (see
paragraph 6.02). By the end of 1972, howsever, the assets and earnings
should have grown sufficiently so that the test could be met with a margin
of safety for debt commitments needed to finance future expansion. Agree-
ment was reached during negotiations to the usual debt limitation covenant
to be effective beginning January 1, 1973.
7. CONCLUSIONS
7.01      The forecasts of future sales and demands to be supplied by the
Etibank Power Group and the proposed TEK are reasonable. The Bank Project,
which is a part of a much larger expansion program to meet the increasing
demands for power in Turkey, is technically sound and economically justi-
fied. The estimated cost and date of completion of the Bank Project, based
largely on tenders received, are realistic.
7.02      In order to assure that the transmission line from Keban to
Istanbul would be completed by the time the Keban Hydroelectric Project
was originally scheduled to begin operations in early 1971, Etibank was
obliged to proceed with the ordering and placing of contracts. Bidding
and evaluation have been carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guide-
lines and with the Bank's review. It is recommended that if a Bank loan
is approved, foreign exchange payments made prior to such approval and
subsequent to September 1, 1968, be reimbursable out of the loan (para-
graph 4.15).  It is also recommended that in accordance with the agreement
among members of the Keban Financing Syndicate, if part of the Bank loan
is not needed to meet foreign exchange costs of the Bank Project, it may
be used for local currency financing up to an amount equal to one-third
of the amount committed out of the loan for foreign exchange costs (para-
graphs b.1.1 and 4.14).
7.03      The financial forecasts for the period 1968-1972 indicate that
the rate of return earned on assets in use would be adequate.  @thile the
proportion - about 20% - of total construction requirements expected to
be met from net internal cash generation after payment of debt service
is lower than usual in other countries where sources of capital are limited
in relation to demand and their availability uncertain, it can be accepted
as adequate for this period when there is such a large increase in plant
from a relatively small base. The financial position at the end of 1967
was inadequate, with a high debt/equity ratio of 75/25. This latter ratio
would be substantially improved, however, as a result of the transfer of
ownership of hydroelectric stations in the form of capital contributicns
by the Government, and by 1972 the debt/equity ratio should be about 44/56.



- 23 -
7.o4      The Bank Project would be suitable for a loan of US$25 million
equivalent to the Government of Turkey for relending to Etibank on the same
terms as payable by the Government. A term of 25 years, including a grace
period of four years, is recommended, During negotiations, agreemernt has
been obtained with respect to the following matters:
(a) Planning of the initial nuclear plant will be carried out in
the closest cooperation with Etibank, and no municipality supplied
by the Etibank Power Group or TEK, or which could be more economi-
cally supplied by them, will be Permitted to build or extend its
generating plant in future (paragraphs 3611 and 3.13).
(b) The Bank may suspend disbursement or call the loan if there is
any material change, without the Bankc's consent, in the functions
and responsibilities of the Etibank Power Group or its successor,
TEK (paragraph 3.14).
(c) Electricity tariffs will be fixed in accordance with a covenant
to achieve a minimum return on a realistically valued assets base
of eight per cent by 1970, with the minimum return to be reduced
to seven per cent in the year in which the Keban Hydroelectric
Project comes into service and for the next two years (paragraph
3.19).
(d) Fixed assets in service will be revalued on a realistic basis for
purposes of the rate of return covenant (paragraph 3.22).
(e) By January 1, 1970, the Etibank Power Group (or TEK if it is in
existence and operation) will have adopted a revised system of
accounts consistent with modern utility practice (paragraph 3.29).
(f) After January 1, 1973, Etibank and TEK will not incur any long-
term debts wjithout prior Bank approval unless internal cash
generation is at least 1.5 times the maximum future debt service
requirements (paragraph 6,12).
October 14, 1968



AN1iEX 1
T U R K E Y
Principal Oenerating Stations in Service and Jnder
Construction
on the Etibank Interconnected System
A. Existing Plant owned by Etibank'3 Consumers
Station                                         Mv         Type
SilhEtar (Istanbul!                             120        Thermal
shot UIzmir)                                     30
Ego (Ankara)                                     15
Eregli (Steel)                                   20
Karabuk (Steel)                                   5
Gokso-Kerkopru                                   11        Hydro
Seka (Izmet Paper Mill)                           7        Thermal
Sizer                                             7        Hydro
Kayakoy (Iller Bank)                              L          ,,
Bursa                                             6        Thermal
lenisli                                           I       Hydro
Bunyan                                            1          "
Miscellaneoua  Diesels                           40        Thermal
Total            267 Mw (2h hydro)
B. Existing Plant owned by Otibank or leased from DSI
Station                                         14W        Type
Sarlyar                                         170       lHydro
Hirfanli (DSI)                                   93         1r
Catalagzi [coal fired)                          125        Thermal
Tanobilek (lignite fired)                       125
Aotarli (611 fired)                             250
Soma (lignite fired)                             Jib
aemer (DSI)                                      46        Hydro
Demirkopru (DSI)                                 75
Kesikopru (DSI)                                  76
Total         1C00      Mw (6162 Hyd r)
C. Additions to system capacity through connection of other
existing systems or by completion of new pltats
Year connected
tp Interconnected
Systemn                Name                    mw
1968      Almcs (existing system)               27                 Hydro
Durucasu ( "        "  )               1 (obsolete)
1970      Kovada I            "  )               a
Kovada It (1969)                     1V8
Kepez  (existing system)              26
Dinar  (    1C      *. )               1 (obsolete)
Ambarli, tInits III, NV & V          625                 Thermal
1971      Keban                                620o                Mydro
Haszr I & 11 (existing system)        3C          
Ue. Cag '
Sefitoaer                            150                 Thermal
Ergani (existing system)               4i(obsolete)        .
1972      Ookcekaya                            300                 Hydro
1973      Cukurova (existing system)           230              Hydro & Thermal
Engil (existing system)                Li               Hypro
Malatya (existing system)              4
Tortum  (existing system)             22
Ikizdere I (existing Iller
Bank system)              8
Ikizdere II                           50          IQ
Harsit (1969)                         15
Hopa (1970)                           50                 Thermal
Cildir                                20                 Hydro
Visera                                 1
Total    2, o5 Mw
' 1973 total plant installed will be:
Hydro                 1,816
Thermal               1,515
Total    3,331 Mv
NOTE: Dstes in () after nane are dates when new stations are completed
when not the same as dates when connected to the Interconnected
System
October 16, 1968



ANNEX 2
TURKEY
Etibank Capital Develoment Program. 1968-1972
Total Cost in Millions of -
Item                                         LT               US$
A. Work undertaken by Etibank
(i) Generating ProJects already started
Ambarli 125 Mw Steam Unit No. III             166              18
Subtotal                         166              18
(ii) New Generating ProJects
Ambarli, 300 Mw Steam Units IV & V            402              44
Oymapinar 216 Mw Hydro (final cost 600)       387              43
Hopa 50 Mw Steam                              100              11
Nuclear Station (final cost 1,200)            372              41
Seyitomer (final cost 294)                    297              33
Subtotal                       1,558             172
(iii) 380 kv Transmission Lines and Substations
Gokcekaya to Istanbul Line                     55               6
Gokcekaya to Ankara Line                       42               5
Istanbul Substation                            32               4
Ankara Substation                              40               4
Keban Project Transmission Lines              256              28
Keban Project Substations                      64               7
Gokcekaya to Izmir Line                       159              17
Future additions 1971 and 1972                120              13
Seyitomer to Seydisehir line                   98              11
Subtotal                         866              95
(iv) Extensions to 154 kv Lines and Substations
Subtotal                         558              61
(v) Miscellaneous                                           53               6
Total of work undertaken by Etibank                 3,201             352
B. Work undertaken by DSI
Generating Projects already started
Keban 620 Mw     Hydro                      2,996             330
Gokcekaya 300 Mw   "                          581              64
Kovada II 48 Mw    "                           36               4
Harsit 15 Mw                                   24               3
Cag Cag 14 Mw                                   1
Yureiyir 6 Mw                                   1
Engil 4 Mw                                      -
Ercis 1.2 Mw                                    -
Total of work undertaken by DSI                     3.63              401
GRAND TOTAL OF PROGRAM                              6,840             753
October 14, 1968



ANNEX 3
TURKEY: ETIBANK INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM
SYSTEM CAPABILITY AND MAXIMUM DEMAND
(MEGAWATTS)                                                 -     -
3,500;            1          1           13,500
3,000                                                                       3,000
ETIBANK TITAL GENERATING PLANT
{/
2,500                                             _                         2,500
TOTAL GENERATING PLANT      _              /           0 o o o
ON INTERCONNECTED SYSTE                                m 1/ ,  cr o:  r,:n
-                 I  r Hg (D U) O O O _~~~~~~~t   In C\
IJ500                                   0 _ 7                  _            1,500
SYSTEM         R 
.   2 L    |         ~~~~~~   ~   ~~~~~~MAXIMUM  S o
r-_j           DEMAND               Li5 s
1,000                                                                       1.000
0 o o      o 0o o o  2  0 to 0 1o 2  0 t   to F0o o 0
a c           w L) >- I I  >  I    _      °d5 0 o COO 0
I I:    I I I I F1   I I: I 1F     I:     I I I II
r-- -   Xm tD CDU in  0 st O  O:   O      eD 0 IT  N
|l         C14 v  t   \ J    U'  N       _      rn _  ,cO , 
00  ADDITIONS                W~~~~~~~~-A 
500    TO SYSTEM                                                         j _ I.  -  I500
l(MEGAWAT TS )  En    0u              m Lzjm 
M a°        a, O  eS       0        <          ) 
I  J  o U) o                     ( uE  x c
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K.            |                 <   >   LL  s A JO
1,000                                         IC 1  10 07             0
00      4 e 000 < <   0 00mWi      0       OHOOCj 
0                            1~~~  01~        0 
1968  1969       197 0      1971f      097         197
NOTE: Timing of additions to the system  is according to informotion supplied by E1ibonk; in January 1968
which differs slightly from timing essumed by SWOCI in Annex 5 from 1971 onwards.
-21) IBRD-3866



ANNEX 4
TURKEY
Keban Transmission Lines
Estimated Cost of the Bank Project
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
(millions of IX)           (millions of US$)
Keban-Istanbul 380 kv Line
1460 Ian 380 kv line      69.3    135.5    204.8      7.6    14.9      22.5
Ankara substation          8.0     13.4     21.4      0.9     1.5       2.4
Istanbul substation        9.3     10.1     19.4      1.0     1.1      2.1
Kayseri substation         2.6      4.4      7.0      0.3     0.5      0.8
Keban substation            .2      1.1      1.3       -      0.1      0.1
Gokcekaya line and
substation material        -       4.8      4.8       -      0.5       0.5
Contingencies v            8.9      8.4     17.3     1.0     1.0       2.0
Engineering                1.4      6.4      7.8      0.2     0.7       0.9
Interest during
construction             13.3     28.5     41.8      1.5     3.1      4.6
TOTAL              113.0    212.6    325.6     12.5    23.4      35.9
1/ Since bidding is completed only five per cent contingencies has been
allowed on foreign currency and 10% on local currency requirements.
October 14, 1968



ANNEX 5
TURKEY: ETIBANK INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM
PEAK DEMAND FORECASTS
(MEGAWATTS)
5,000           I    I        I        I        I   I    I        1   I    1     5,000
SWOCI*( 967)
4,000                                                                            4,000
3,000                                                                            3,000
BS8ATELLE* (1965)
2,000                                                                            2,000
/  .\2   EBASCO* (1963)
1,000                                                                             1,000
C>.
Z (0
<       ADDITIONS TO THE
< z        o- <>       INTERCONNECTED SYSTEM AS
NO frr r- z    FORECAST BY SWOCI IN 1967
F2j           m c  <t' Y
41r  N-< :
44I  I  )     I _  I  :E  I
'64 '65  '66 '67  '68 '69  '70  '71 '72  '73 '74  '75 '76  '77 '78 '79
*Ebosco and Batelle forecasts ore the totol for the area served by the system, not all of which is carried by the system.
**SWOCI forecast is of the load carried by the system.
IBRD-3867



ANNEX 6
T U R K E Y
ETIBANK CONSUMER STATISTICS
A. Number of consumers supplied by Etibank at the end of 1967 and their
consumption by categories.
Sales in        Percentage of
million kwh     total Etibank
1967          sales (1967)
9 large municipalities               1,865            51.9
11 large industries                     980            27.2
165 small municipalities                 287             8.0
121 small industries                     W41            12.4
241 villages                              1C             0.3
86 miscellaneous                          8             0.2
633 consumers                          3,594           100.0%
B. Consumption of three largest municipalities in 1967
kwh            Percentage     Additional kwh
sold by          of Etibank's   generated in 1967
Etibank          total kwh      by consumers' own
millions (1967) sales (1967)    plant, millions
Istanbul              1,032               28.7         347
Ankara                  379               10.5
Izmir                   250                7.0         107
Total            1,661               46.2         45h
C. Consumption of 4 largest Industries in 1967.
kwh sold       Percentage
by Etibank      of Etibank's
total kwh
Coal                                  304            8.5
Fertilizer                            139            3.9
Paper                                 135            3.7
Steel                                 108            3.0
Total                         686           19.1
NOTE: Sales to the three municipalities and four power consumers mentioned
above in B and C represent two-thirds of Etibank's total sales and
about 44% of total sales of electricity in Turkey.
D. Major industries which have applied to Etibank for power supplies
to commence in the period 1968 through 1972.
Mw      Annual
Industry                Number of Additional Loads  demand    OWH
Fertilizer (Kutahya and Samsun)          2              40        190
Petrochemical (Izmit)                    5              39        230
Cement                                   5              3h        185
Chromium (seasonal)                      1              25         25
Alumina (Seydisehir)                     1              17        100
Steel (Istanbul)                         1              10         50
Railway electrification                  1              10        4O
Oil refining (Izmir)                     1              15         75
Paper (Giresun & Dalaman)                2              37        200
Ferro-chrome (Elazig)                    1              14         70
Copper (Samsun)                          1               9         40
Industrial estates                       4             60        300
Total                             310      1,505
August 12, 1968



T U R K E Y                                           AJ   7
KEBAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Eptimated Cost
(Financing Model III, Revised February 1966)
Local     Forei n    Total       Local     Foreian     Totel
(-illion TL)                 --(million us$)
Dam and Power Station                            256.1    446.7        702.8        28.2     49.2      77.4
Diversion Tunnels                                 80.8     - -          80.8         8.9        -       8.9
Relocation Railway                               390.4    105.3        495.7        43.0     11.6      54.6
Other Civil Engineering Costs (DSI)              428.5      -          428.5        47.2        -      47.2
Turbines & Generators (620 Mw)                     6.4     89.9         96.3         0.7      9.9      10.6
Other Mechanical and Electrical Equipment          5.4     65.4         70.8         o.6      7.2       7.8
Transmission Lines                               188.0    304.1        492.1        20.7     33.5      54.2
Subtotal                             1,355.6   1,011.4     2,367.0       149.3    111.4      260.7
Engineering                                       64.5     28.2         92.7         7.1      3.1      10.2
Contingencies                                     70.8    100.8        171.6         7.8     11.1      18.9
Interest during Construction                      91.7     64.5        156.2        10.1      7.1      17.2
Escalation                                        65.4     15.4         80.8         7.2      1.7       8.9
Taxes and Duties                                 198.0        -        198.0        21.8       -       21.8
Total                                1.846.0   1.220.3     3.066.3       203.3    134.47
August 9, 1968



ANNEX 8
T U R K E Y
APPRAIISAL OF THE
KEBANT TRANSNISSION LINE PROJECT
Factors Leading to the Choice
of Transmission Line Design
In order to select the most economical design for the transmission
lines the consultants carried out a special study of the possible alterna-
tives. Two lines are essential in order to maintain stability and continu-
ity of supply. The capital cost and operating costs of lines of different
conductor sizes operating at voltages between 154 kv and 700 kv both
alternating and direct current were studied. It was found that for
interest rates above 5% twin bundled ACSR conductors of 954 mcm spaced
at 457 mm and operating at 380 kv would be the cheapest both in initial
and annual costs. These two lines are adequate for transmission of
1240 Mw and this voltage will also be the most economical for transmission
of the u].timate development of 2000 Mw of power from the Firat River, by
addition of a third circuit from Keban to Istanbul. Most of the terrain
crossed by the line will be above 3,000 ft altitude, and between Keban
and Kayseri it will traverse mountainous terrain up to 6,000 feet altitude.
Some sections of the line will be largely inaccessible due to rock outcrops
and for some months of the year others will be inaccessible due to heavy
snow. For this reason self-supporting galvanized steel towers of conven-
tional design have been selected in order to reduce the need for mainten-
ance. The design of the line and substations forming the Bank Project
is sound and there is no other known means by which the power could be trans-
mitted at lower cost with the same safeguards as regards reliability.



TURY
ETIBANK
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31. 1965 - 1967
(Millions of LT)
Assets
Gross lFxed Assets in Operation                     2,226    1,611    1,304
Less: Accumulated DepreciAtion             1      X1 40
Net Fixed Assets la Operation               1         13
Work in Progress                                       67
Total Net Fixed Assets                      2,       1. 731   1.2-1
Government Bonds and Investments of Reserve Funds      97        6      112
Investments in Affiliated Companies                   1        161
Current Assets
Cash on Hand and in Banks                           118       72      105
Receivables end Advances - Banking                  337      305      287
Receivables - Other                                 L52      333      337
Inventories                                         32        2       2
Total Current Assets                        1,209      A92        2
Other Debits i/                                       463      411
Total Assets                                 LI      3.321      Z
Liabilities
Capital                                                                 500 0  0
Surplus and Raserves                                                    310
Long-Term lebts                                     W4j      1,196    1.061
Current Liabilities
Deposits and Accounts Payable - Banking             281      235      180
Accounts Payable - Other                             1       26       216
Total Current Liabtlilties                     9        X        R
Other Credite                                         ml       5        ffi
Profit for Current Year, Beforenoene Taxes
and Apprpriations of Surplus                          1
Total Liabilitles                             ,       .32'
Long-Term Debt/Capital 2/                         73/27    71.29    68/32
Current Assets to Current Liabilities              1.7      1.9      2.4
I/ Etibank's accounts are audited anually by the Oovernmentls Supreme Board of
Controli  Untfil the audit report has been reviewed and accepted by Parliament,
appropriations of profit for surplus and reeerves, payment of dividends to the
Govermsent Treasury, and other purpoes anr kept in auspense accounts. SiAce
Parliamentary review and acceptance bas not yet been obtained for the years
1964-1967, the other debit and other credit accounts inolude large suus
applicable to various temporary accounts.
2 See Annex 10 for proposed distribution of profit, pending final clearance of
the audit reports mentioned in footnote 1.
2/ This ratio ove rstates the proportion of log-tem debt to total capitalization,
since it compares the mount of debt to capital, excluding surplus frum retained
earnings. Such surplus, including amounts appropriated for so-called extra-
ordinary reserves, is very oubstantial, but Its precise amount is not certain
because as explained in footnote 1 the accounts for the years 1964-1966 hae
not yet been finally approved by Parliwaznt.
October 14, 1968



ANNEX 10
TURKEY
ETIBANK
Consolidated Income Statements for the Years Ended December 31, 1965 - 1967
(Millions of LT)
1967     1966      1965
Proceeds from Sales                                       897       804      712
Interest Earned                                            33       30        28
Other Profits                                             251        60       6
Total Revenues and Other Profits          E_                   E3
Expenses
Cost of Goods Sold                                      471      396       356
Sales Taxes                                              45        51       40
Selling Costs and Expenses                                8        11       11
Interest                                                 88       69        50
Miscellaneous                                           117        94      100
Total Expenses, Before Income Taxes                  729      621       U
Profit, Before Income Taxes                               452       273      246
Proposed Distribution of Profit Before Income Taxes 1/
Income Tax                                              130      117        93
Less:  Losses of Chrome Mining Subsidiaries                                 (7)
Payments to National Emergency and Civil Defense Funds    8         3       10
Appropriations to Reserves
Legal Reserves                                         28       13        18
Reserves for Possible Future Losses                    42        4
Extraordinary Reserves                                204        96      110
Dividend Payments to Government Treasury                 40       4         22
Total                                                 _       273        _
1/ The distribution of the annual profit is subject to final Parliamentary
approval of the audit report as explained in footnote 1 to Annex 9.
October 14, 1968



ANNEX 11
TURKEY
ETIBANK PO.E   GRU     16-9
PROPOSED TURKISH P94ER AUTHCaITY ~TEK) (1970-72)
Balance Sheets, ActualMi964~-1967 and Esti-mated i963-1972
MIT.lons of- LT)
Actual as of December 31                         Estimated as of December 31
1964       1965      1966       1967           1968       1969       1970       1971      1972
ASSETS
Electric Plant in Service                                943      1,033     1,323      1,875          2,023      2,123      L,089    1h,782      9,271
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation                          206        2b2       295        371            L48        529        849       998      1 229
Net Plant in Service                            73          9:W__157                                     .9         ,b                ~   Oh
Work in Progress 1/                                      303        486        551       237            359        96?      1,131     1,123      1J)168
Other Long-Term Assets
Investments                                              1          3         4a         5             11         16         22        28         35
Extended Term Account Receivables                       8b       213        226        19L            200        182       16L        11,6.      I7
Less:   P'rovision for Uncollectable Accounts           76                   86 _86
Current Assets
Cash                                                    La          6         7          3             40         L9        6b         69        103
Net Receivables                                        152         37        hi        116             60         66         76       102        115
Materials and Supplies                                  39         35        37         50             50         So         6i        7?         dl) 
Prepaymsents                                             La        5          3          7              7          9        20         3(         2
Total Current'Assets                            ___9         3          a       -7 __157                  IE   iT 7-4 7-         70       321
Deferred Debits (principally for preliminary
surveys, investigations, and major maintenance)         12         8         21         12             10         11        13                    IL.21
Total Assets                                  1,260      1.500     132                       2,312      29i        L,791      5,6       9, 718
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital and Suirplus
Etibank Capital AlIlocated to Power Group              250        250       250        250            250       2?50     2,217      1,217      3,98h
Retained Earnings                                       50        71         79        20B            301        Li9       625        911      1,261
Total Capital and Surplus                       300        T2I       72-        75             551        951      1.842      2,128     5,2b7
Long-Term Debt
Loa-ns to Power Grouip from Other                      722
LtIbank Activities                                    77      1,0006 1     773        633            633       633        633        633,       §3'
State Investment Bank Loans                                                 327        L79            555        Slib      969        968        909
Proposed World Bank Credit                                                                             16       1L 2       155        227.       2!22
Other Foreign Credits___                                                    245        292          _ 2987       L0S       863      1,08       2 .277
Total Long-Term Debt                            7_17     l,0O      l3g/       I7,8           1,502      1, Q95      ,5        2,909     b,OLI
Less:   Deut Due Within One Year                                   _                    66             b9         I!        7b       J11         139
Net Long-Term Debt                              l7_      T         T* 13 5     T3            1,163      T72.576               2.79Lp     k9 2
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                        7L        57         2b         32             20         23        30         30         '
Customeer flepOsits                                     12        l4         17         33             38         Li        bY         1           3
Taxes Accrued                                            3         3         18         76             58         71        76         e;!, 
Interest Accrued                                        12         3          3          3              9         12        l          17         I)
Long-Term Debt Due Within One Year                       3/        3/         3/        66             L9        !,[.       74        115        139
Other Cuirrent and Accrued Liabilities                   9         L3 3                         7            7          7          7
Total Current Liabilities                       flO0        di         _7        _             181       1T7         ~          T           2
Customer Advances for Construction                        29         27        21         2L             20         19         Jr         39        71.)
Deferred Credits                                           8        lb         11         20             30         20         12         2. 
3elf-Insurance Reserve                                     6          9        11         15             20         2,6       35         45S
Contributions for Extensions                              35        h2         50         56             57         55        60         62b
Total Capital and Liabilities                 1,L26      1,500     1.832      2,2            2.312      2,9hh                 51* ~L65  %L1~
RATIOS
Debt/Equity                                            72/28     76/24      80/20      75/25          73/27      75/25     59/Lal     58/42      hb/56
Current Assets to Current Liabilities                    1.8       1.0        1.b         .8             .9        .9         .9         .9         .8
I/  Includes plant under construction, construction stores and equipment, and deposits to acquire rights of way or property.
2/ Includes State Investment Bank and foreign credits.
3/ Not available.
October 1b, 1968



ANNEX 12
TURKEY
ETIBANK POWER GROUP
Income Statements 1964-1967
(Millions of LT)
1964               1965                1966                1967
Amount     %        Amount     %        Amount     S         Amount     A
Generation - Gwh
Hydro - Etibank Stations                           519     21          675      23          689     21          718     18
- DSI Stations                               547     22          832     28          965      29          79b     20
Thermal - Coal                                     771     30          745     26           761     23          652     16
- Lignite                                  680     27          668     23          871     27           784     20
- Fuel Oil_                                                                                           1,005     26
Total Generation                           r,517               22        lO7  m    3                    3,953    100
Station Use - Gwh                                    120      5          116      4          138       4          172      I
Transmission Losses - Gwh                            130      5          147      5          165      5           162      4
Total Losses                                  m      T0          263      9 23303                         335      a
Sales - Gwh                                        2=Z       90        2.7       91         2,9       91        3Z619     92
% Increase in Sales Over Previous Year                                           17                   12                  21
Average Revenue per kwh in Kurus                     9.6                 9.6                  9.8                13.9
Operating Revenues
Sales of Electricity                               218                 255                 292                  505
Other                                                2                                        1                   1
Total Operating Revenues                     fr     1O0           M     100           m     10o          75      lo
Operating axpenses
Fuel - Coal                                         38     17           36     14            35     12           39      9
- Lignite                                      24     11           24      9           30     10           26       5
- Fuel Oil                                                                                                 39       8
Payments for DSI Hydro Power                        17      8           29     12           34      12           5h     31
Materials Other Than Fuel                            6      3            7      3            7       2           12      2
Wages and Salaries                                  25     11           24      9            28     10           37      7
Miscellaneous Expenses                              11      5           13      5            15      5           16      3
Lepreciation                                        33     15           35     14           47     16           62      12
Amortization of Organizeticn and
Major Maintenance Expenses                         2      1            3      1            4       1            5      1
Taxes Other Than Income                              6      3            7      3            a      3             8      2
Income Taxes                                        12      5           16      6           15      5            53     11
Total (% * Operating Ratio)                  17C     79          19      7           223    _7           3i       70
Operating Income                                      46     21           61     24           70     2l          155      3n
Other Income 1/                                       93     42           18      7           15       5          186     21
Other Expenses (including income taxes on net other
income of LT 8 million in 1964 and LT 18 million
in 1967)                                            34     15           23      9           22      8           77      15
Net Other Incane                              59     27           7)      2)          77)     3)          3i      7
Gross Inccme                                         105     48           56     22           63     21           185     36
Income Deductions
Interest on Foreign Credits                          4      2            6      2            4      1            4       I
Interest on Etibank and State
Investment Bank Credits                           26     12           2LI    10           35     12           53     10
Total Income Deductions                       30     1W           30     12           39     13      ~     7      171
Net Income 1/                                         75     34           26     10            24      8          I 'P    25
Rate of Return
Without Allouing for Revaluation of Assets
Average Net Fixed Assets in Service 2/           702                 726                 864                1,213
Operating Income as % Thereof                           6.6%                8.h%                8.1%                12.7%
Allowing for Revaluation of Assets 3/
Average Net Fixed Assets in Service             1,532               1,516               1,61,               1,923
Operating Income as % Thereof                             .4%                1.4%                1.9%                 5.9%
1/ In 1964, other income includes substantial credits to reverse depreciation on spares charged in previous years and to record
claims for discounts forfeited and interest payable by customers who were late in paying their bills. In 1967, other income
includes substantial amounts for which credits were recorded as a result of settlement of claims arising from past arrears of
payments by the municipal distributing companies, and also large amounts of discounts forfeited and interest collectible as a
result of late payment of 1967 bills (see paragraph 3.25). As a result of these extraordinary items of other income, net
income for 1964 and 1967 is unusually high.
2/ Average as of the beginning and end of the year of gross fixed aseets, less accumulated depreciation and contributions for
extensions, except 1964 for which year-end figures are used.
3/ As noted in paragraph 3.20, the book value of the assets in service is believed to be understated.    It has been agreed that
a fair approximation of the adjustments required to correct this understatement would be an increase in gross fixed assets
in service of LT 1,120 million; an  increase in the accumulated depreciation of LT 310 million as of December 31, 1964; and
an increase in annual depreciation expense of LT 40 million until this increase in the value of the gross fixed assets in
service is fully offset.
October 14, 1968



ANNEX 13
TURKEY
(RPSDETIBANK powER UROUP (1968-69)
Estimated Sources and Applications of Funds. 1968-1972
(Millions of LT)
Total
2968       1969       2970      1971       1972         1968-1972
SOURCF,S OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Giross Inease                                         173        191        282        396        558           1,598
Extraordinary Incmse                                               7          6          6                         19
Depreciation                                           77         81        128                  231              666
Total InenlCahGnrain-                                       72 9                   89        787           2,2B3
tong-Tens Borroings2                                                                                                 2
g                                       ~~~      ~~~     ~~~~~16  126  43  6                        2
Other Foreigs Borrowings                               56        141        679       20       1,6213
State Investment Bank Loans                            96        278        174        61      __                587
Total Borrowings                                                       373U       33       1-,269 
Governcment Capital Contributions 1/                                          967                2,767            3,734
Other Sources                                                                                                        5
Paym_entfs of Extended Term Accounts Receivable        (6)        i    18               iS         8              56
increase (Decrease) in Accounts Payable               (12)         3         7                    (8)            (10)
Increase in Accrued Taxes                             (18)        13          5         8         83              91
Increase in Accrued Interest                            6          3          2         3          2              16
Custoner Deposits                                       5          3          6        15         11              LO
Contributions for Extensions                            1          1          2          2         2
Inraein Self- Insuance Reserve                                6          9        10         12              62
Total Other Sources                               (1)                   _          _9 
Total Sources                                     395       871      2.128        93      493.                6
APPlICATIONS OF FUNDS
Construction Requirements (InclUdes Interest
Cherged to   onstructlon)I
Transmission Expenditures
380 kv Projects                                      6         9           7         1                          2a
Kebh4                                                        95         6           3                         2n
Ookcekaya                                          25        70         76                                   169
Other                                                         5         77        120         77             279
156 ke and Below                                      101        102       128        182        163             656
Total Transmission                                17        37         3E3        333        T220          Y
Generation Additions                                   86        326       615        360        337           1,726
General Plant                                          13         10        10         10         10              53
Total Construction Requirements                   270       7           7          8         37ri
Transfers of Plant from Government to Pooe
Turkish Power Authority - Ret Va-lued r/      ,e                              967                3.967           4.934
Debt Service
AisorTU-t Ica  on                                                                                                   5
Proposed Bank Credit                                                                             50
Other Foreign Credits                                46         30        25         32         7326
State Investment Bank Loans                          18         19        19         L2         59             157
TotalI Amsorticationl                              33         79         3.        7         137             37 0
Interest                                                                                                          4
Propose,d Bunk Credit                                 1          5        10         13         16              .63
Other Fareign Credits                                 9         16        25         67        13126
State Investment Boek Leans                          37         69        63         69         68             286
Etibank Credicts                                     67         47        67         67         6'             235
(Less) Charged to Construction                     (          (35)         ~         6)         3)
Total Interest                                     __          -       4   )       m                         9
Total Debt Service                               lja6       129        126        188        343             932
Othe.rRecurmet
raeeso  gvrmn       Bends                          6          5          6          6         7               30
Net Increase (Decrease) in Deferred Debits
for Major Maintenance, aet.                           (2)         1          2                                    2
Repayment of Gustomer Advances                          4          1                                                5
Increase (Decrease) in Accounts Receivable            (56)         6        10         26         16
Increase in Inventories                                                      11        1s          2              31
Increase in Prepaid Expenses                                       2         11                    1              16
Decrease (Increase) in Deferred Credits               (10)        10          9         9                         18
Increase in Cash                                       37          94                             34             100
Total Other Requirements                         (I)          ~         _           _        _                0
Total Applications                                          Ul87     2,128        938       .935           9,267
Cash Balance at End of Year                              40         69         64         69       103
Times Annual Debt Service
Covered by Internal Cash Generation                     1.7        2.2        3.3        2.9        2.3             2.6
l/ The Government is to transfer the ownership of it. hydroelectric generating plants to the proposed Turkish Power
Authority. In 1970, when the Authority is expected to begin its operations, the net value of the comoleted plants
to be traneferred (representing the difference between their estimated gross value of LT 1,159 million and their
estima ted accmumlated depreciatioln to the end of 1969 of iT 192 million) is shown as a capital contribution. In
19 72, when the Ksban and Qokeekaya hydroelectric projects are expected to be commeissioned, of their estimated
total cost of IT 3,967 million, LT 2,767 eillion is show as a capital contribution and IT 1,200 million is included
under "Other Foreign Borrowing". The latter amount represents the estimated amount of foreign credits received
by the Governiment in building these projects, and it is assumed that the Autoority will be responsible for
servicing these debts on a conventional long-tens basis similar to what the bank: would require.
2/ Does not include LT 5 million spent on the Neban transmissimn project in 1967.
October 14, 1968



ANNEX 14
TURKEY
ETIBANK POWER GROUP (1968-69)
PROPOSED TURKISH POWER AUTHORITY (TEY) (1970-72)
Estimated Income Statements 1968-1972
(Millions of LT)
1968                1969                 1970                1971                 1972
Amount     %         Amount     %        Amount     %         Amount              Amount
Generation - Gwh
Hydro - Etibank Stations                            610     13           580     11          580      9           580      7          580       6
- DSI Stations                              1,165     25        1,290      24        1,560     24i        1,560     17        5,820     56
Therrnal - Coal                                     445      9           80     15          750     12           650      7          300       3
- Lignite                                 1,080     23        1,135      21        1,135     18        1,535      17        1,800     17
- Fuel Oil                                1 45O     30        1 600      29        2 410     37        4,710      52        1 835     18
Total Generation                             7'* iIoo             m        o         6        100        9 035     100       10,335    1o0
Station Use - Gwh                                     255                4 Li 5T 7                           5   85                             7
Transmission Losses - Gwh                             225      5           255      5          330      5           420      5          650      6
Total Losses                                   w                   570                 73      11          9        11        1,03      1,0
Sales - Gwh                                         4,270      90        4 U3       9        5,700      9           070     T9        9,300      90
% Increase in Sales Over Previous Year                         18                  13                  18                   42                   15
Average Revenue per kwh in Kurus                     14.4                 14.3                15.5                 15.2                 15.2
Operating Revenues
Sales of Electricity                                614                  689                 884                1,228               1,L13
Other                                                 1                    1                   1                    2                   2
Total Operating Revenues                      6      100          690     100          85     lO        1,230     100                 Li41  1)0
Operating EJOenses
Fuel n -30                                           5           51       7           38      4           33      3            15      1
- Lignite                                       35      6            36      5           37      4           50       4           59      4
- Fuel Oil                                      71     12            80     12          121    1l           236      19           92      7
Payments for DSI Hydro Plants                        47      8            51      7
Materials Other Than Fuel                            14      2            1L      2           17      2           20       2           19       1
Wages and Salaries                                   71     12            79     12          100     11          116       9          132      9
Miscellaneous Expenses                               20      3            28      4           33      4s           38      3           42      3
Depreciation                                         77     12           81      12          128     15          149     12           231     16
Amortization of Organization and
Major Maintenance Expenses                           8      1             7      1            9      1             9      1            8       1
Taxes Other Than Income                              13      2            15      2           29      3           49       4           96      7
Income Taxes                                         53      8           63       9           98     11          143     12           170     12
Total (% - Operating Ratio)                            - 71         0      73          3I-     69                 6_9           BE1     61
Operating Income                                      176     29           185     27          275     31          387      31          551     39
Other Income and Expenses Net                          (3)    (1)            6      1            7       .            7      1            7       3
Gross Income                                          173     28           191     28          282     32           394     32          558      Lo
Income Deductions
Total Interest Charges                               94     15          115      17          145     16          176     14           260     1
Less:  Interest Charged to Construction              14      2            35      5           63      7           62       5           54      4
Net Interest Charges                           8      13           80      12           X      _9          _ _       9
Net Income Before Extraordinary Items                  93     15           111     16          200     23          280      23          352     25
Extraordinary Items, Net of Income Taxes of
LT3 million in each of 1969-71                                              7                    6                   6
Net Income to Retained Earnings                        93                  118                 206                  286                 352
Rate of Return
Without Allowing for Revaluation of Assets
Average Net Fixed Assets in Service   1/         1,483                1,527               2,358                3,451               5,850
Operating Income as % Thereof                              11.9%                12.1%               11.7%                11.2%                9.4
Allowing for Revaluation of Assets   2/
Average Net Fixed Assets in Service              2,153                2,157               2,948                4,001               6,360
Operating Income as % Thereof                               7.0                  7.4%                8.C%                 8.7%                8.0
1/ Average as of the beginning and end of the year of gross fixed assets, less accumulated depreciation and contributions for extensions.
2/ The rate of return allowing for revaluation of assets has been computed in accordance with the method agreed during negotiations
for the proposed Bank loan and explained in footnote 3 to Annex 12, i.e., by increasing the net value of fixed assets in service on
the basis there stated and by reducing operating income by LT 40 million per year to provide for the increased annual depreciation
expense on this basis.
October 14, 1968



ANNEX 1]
Page 2
Principal assumptions underlying income forecasts
for the Etibank Power Group for 1968-1969, and for
the proposed Turkish Power Authority (TEK) for
1970-1972
1.        Revenues have been estimated on thle basis of the sales forecast
described in paragraph 5.06, It has been assumed that the present tariff
schedules, which became effective on March 1, 1967 and which represented
an average increase over the previous tariffs of about 45%, would continue
through 1969, and that at the beginning of 1970 there would be an average
increase in tariffs of 10%1.
2.        Fuel costs vary with the pattern of generation expected depending
on the completion of new plants.  They are based on current prices which in
the case of lignite were increased substantially in 1967 when Etibank's power
tariffs were increased, and in the case of fuel oil include import duties
and taxes equal to 42% of the total cost, Coal costs were also raised, but
an agreement to reduce them to a level competitive with fuel oil costs was
recently reached. The following estimated costs per kwh have been used in
forecasting fuel costs:
Coal        -   5.0 kurus (except for 1968 and 1969 when higher
prices up to 6.8 kurus were expected
to be in effect).
Lignite     -   3.2 to 3.3 kurus
Fuel Oil    -   5.0 kurus
3.        Rental payments for the DSI hydroelectric plants are estimated
for 1968 and 1969 on the basis stated in paragraph 3.08. Thereafter, with
ownership assumed to be transferred to TEK, depreciation and taxes, other
than income tax, are substituted for the rental payments. These taxes are
a very substantial item and principally represent real property taxes which
were not payable by DSI. Of a total of LT 96 million of such taxes payable
in 1972, LT 56 million is attributable to the DSI plants.
4.        Depreciation is based on straight-line rates, using four per
cent for transmission substations; three per cent for transmission lines;
an average rate of four per cent for thermal generating stations; and
various rates for individual categories of hydroelectric plant which are
likely to produce an average rate for such plant of about 1.6%. These
rates are reasonable. A full year's depreciation is taken as an expense
in the year in which new plant is commissioned, regardless of when during
the year the new plant begins operations. Somewhat higher depreciation
rates are permissible and used for income tax purposes.
5.        Other expenses for materials, labor, etc., have been estimated by
taking into account new requirements as additional plant is placed in serv-
ice and allowing for future increases in prices and wages of about five per
cent per year.
6.        Income taxes are estimated at the corporate rate of 35% of
taxable income.



T U R K E Y
ELECTRIFICATION PLAN
B5ULGARIA,. B ACKS A \57K -
I  A   C6g!R R  //\00  L C \  /  T9.10   /  9a;;6  DuabcA5u   oFt>t  °   J   ( / A'T0--
R  .   R   NN
GREECYf                                                                   1. UsZDERE C _2,, ( c U 50SZR
C 9  tolg~~~~~~~~  _   _     siflavol   PYO/P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C,  059        -b~9S      A
0   C IRcE                   RAN 
r ^ $ 7>o j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'hdi tEM5IEYS             \ IN PRATIN
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U7 lK.r (.ANCBILE\x  ~ESdembld              100R CO     RSANI            - 0
.~~~~ZAR .PWR  LAT
I.,l,                     NPLANNI
I  OURD-IRATI
..LEON ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ CHOE  E
-E.ER  ~ M DIER ANEAN  SE                                 CIITIJC IO-SCCELE  FR  ONTOC5O
6'  C2                                                 POWER  PLANTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILMOESoo o o  LPA1140R   I  LANN
5-  T.,.-  11  80'9K.'  '-DIN,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OT- 271
SEPTEMBER lIES ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~HRA



2



EC/o/68 - 71/1
T U'R K E Y
M4EIM2ORANDUM ON THE ECONOI.IC SITUATION
1.           The last economic report on Turkey (EA-169b of August 28, 1967)
described Turkey's recent econornic performance under the First Five-Year
Plan (1963-67) and reappraised the countryts prospects in the light of an
earlier, more comprehensive review of Turkeyts institutions, economic
developmw-t and prospects (EA-153a of November 23, 1965).   T' c      iiC
islon ri:Iiih visit;d Tui-key l t Ounauier i3 nov prep!iring its report.
Recent Economic Growth
2.           The last report pointed to the rapid growth of GNP in 1966.
The substantially accelerated pace compared with the two previous years
was mainly the result of record agricultural crops and the related
subsequent considerable gains in the secondary and tertiary sectors. At
the same time inflationary pressures remained limited, although prices
rose somewhat more quickly than before and the balance of payments deficit
on current account showed again a substantial increase, keeping foreign
exchange reserves at a very low level.
3.           The report pointed out that the development effort became bette
organized during the period of the First Five-Year Plan and that therefore
a stronger basis was laid for further growth. However, it is also mentioned
that important structural problems had remained unresolved, that basic
reforms were needed to realize the potential of agriculture more fully and
that the pattern of its production nmeded reappraisal, particularly in
relation to the effects of existing financial amd marketing arrangements.
It also pointed out that to push forward with industrialization on a ration-
al basis, much remained to be done to improve the performance of the State
Economic Entcrprises.
4.           Growth of the Turkish economy accelerated markedly in recent
years. The First Five Year Plan (1963-67) aimed at an annual increase in
GNiP of 7 percent in real terms. Average performance in the past five years
was close to the target and significantly above the average annual growth
rate of about 5 percent in the 1950 Fsr
5.           Economic growth has continued in 1967 although its pace has
been noticeably slower than in 1966. GNP increased at an estimated rate
of 6.5 percent compared with 10 percent in 1966.   The contribution of the
agricultural sector has dropped substantially while other activities,
particularly in the industrial sector, increased their contributions. The
only nominal growth of agricultural production was largely a result of the
bumper crops and steep increases in agricultural output in almost every
field in the previous year.



-2-
6.           In recent years industry and services contributed an increasing
share to GON. Industrial production increased at about 9 percent per
year, services at 7 to 8 percent, while agricultural output grew at about
3 percent per annum. In 1967 agriculture contributed about 30 percent to
ONP and industry (including manu-acturing, mining and energy) about
25 percent.
7.           At the same time a rising share of income was devoted to invest
ment. Gross fixed capital formation increased from 13.2 percent of GNP
in 1962 to 19.4 percent in 1967. The share of public investment increased
from 7.1 percent to 11.1 percent and that of private investment from 6.1
percent to 8.3 percent. The rise in investment implied a correspondingly
reduced expansion of consurmption, particularly in the private sector.
8.           The state of public finances improved considerably in recent
years.  While central government sector expenditure in 1963-67 increased at
an average annual rate of 11.5l, current expenditure increased by 7 percent
and that for investment by 11 percent. Expenditure for defense, police and
gendarmcry (excluding contributions by NATO) increased in line with total
general budget expenditure in recent years, absorbing 20 to 22 percent of
the latter or 42 to 45 percent of total current expenditure.  Tax revenue
increased at 11 percent per annum during 1963-67 and total central govern-
ment revenues increased from 16.0 percent of GIJP in 1963 to 18.5 percent in
1967. In fiscal year 1967 total revenues increased by more than 20 percent,
thus reducing the overall deficit to about TI 1.17 billion compared with
TL 2.39 billion in 1966 and TL 2.47 billion in 1965. The larger increase
in revenues than expected was mainly due to higher receipts of income taxes;
the booming economy of recent years brought many taxpayers into higher tax
brackets.
9.           Inflationary pressures had increased considerably towards the
end of 1966, since a great deal of extra liquidity had gradually been pumpec
into the economy.  The money supply, excluding sight savings deposits, grewi
by over 17 percent in 1966.  Among factors responsible were the growing
transfers by workers abroad, budget deficits and central bank credit to
support a wxide range of agricultural products, for most of which crops were
at record levels.
10.          In 1967, the rate of increase in the money supply was reduced
to about 12 percent. Increasing the level of prior deposits for imports
had the effect of tying up larger private sector funds. A government issue
of long-term securities of TL 700 million in February 1967 to finance the
fiscal year's budget deficit together with considerably smaller workers'
remittances reduced the credit potential of the commercial banksj although
bank credits continued to rise. Inflationary pressures w-iere thus reduced.
The w-jholesale price index for iay 1968 was at the same level as a year ago.



-3-
11.           Exports and imports of goods were subject to rather wide
fluctuations. Exports of merchandise increased by about 7 percent in
1967, about in line with the basic trend in the preceding years. Imports
fell 5 percent in 1967 and increased on a trend basis probably somelwhat
less than exports. They showed cansiderable annual fluctuations, influencec
by the short-term availability of foreign exchange. Large and sharply
rising remittances from workers abroad covered to an increasing extent the
substantial trade deficit. The $9 million first recorded for this item in
1964 increased to $115 million in 1966, but declined probably to about
$90 million in 1967, substantially below the expected $130 million, mainly
as a result of less favorable economic conditions in the western European
industrial countries. Receipts from tourism have consistently been
disappointing and have yet to reach a positire figure on a net basis.   The
deficit on current account fluctuated strongly in recent years and averaged
about $120 million, reflecting largely net foreign assistance forthcoming,
which was lower than expected. Gross gold and foreign exchange reserves
of the central bank were $119 million at the end of 1967, equal to about
two months' visible imports, but net convertible reserves are very small
and foreign exchange transfer delays a customary feature.
12.           A consortium for aid to Turkey under the auspices of OECD in
Paris has the function of organizing a satisfactory flow of development
funds.  The Common Market countries are Turkey's main foreign .markct and
in December 1964 an agreement for associate membership with the EEC was
signed giving Turkey some tariff-free quotas for tobacco, raisins, dried
figs and hazelnuts and financial assistance of up to $175 million over a
five-year period. A number of bilateral trade agreements have been con-
cluded with eastern bloc countries to secure markets for the traditional
agricultural export products.
Development Planning
13.           Turkey is still to a considerable extent an agricultural
economy, although considerable efforts have been made in recent years to
transform the country from a predominantly agricultural economy to a
modern western state based to a much larger extent on manufacturing
industries. The philosophy underlying these endeavors is rooted in
Ataturk's revolution, which assigned a leading role to the State to
achieve these goals by establishing new industries in the form of State
Economic Enterprises. Liberalizing tendencies have become stronger in
recent years and private sector industries have been growing rapidly, but
the inroads made into the system of etatism have been limited so far.
14.           The establishment of the State Planning Organization (SPO) in
1960 was a new departure to make the development effort more orderly and
was partly a reaction to haphazard and inflationary policies pursued
during thelfifties. Emphasis was put once more on cccelerated industrial-
ization, in contrast to the expansion of agriculture in the early fifties



through the extension of the cultivated area. The main development
strategy has not changed from the First to the Second Plan, which
started in 1963 and 1968, respectively. The Second Plan again puts
emphasis on investment in manufacturing. Proportionat6
increases in investment are planned in transport and tourism, against a
decline in the share of agriculture, mining, housing and health.
15.           The Plan aims at a real growth of GNP of 7 percent per year,
the same target as in the First Five-Year Plan. This target implies a
considerable stepping up of capital formation. Total investment expend-
itures are expected to increase from 19.8 percent of GNP in 1967 to 24.3
percent in 1972.  Concurrently, domestic savings are assumed to rise from
17.9 percent of GNP to 22.6 percent in 1972, wxith an implied marginal
savings rate of 32 percent. Given the projected level of debt repayment,
the current account deficit on goods and non-factor services would decline
from 2 percent of GNIP in 1967 to 1.7 percent in 1972.
16.           Industry is expected to grow at about 12 percent per year,
compared with 9 percent during the First Plan. The respective figures for
agriculture are 4 percent and 3 percent. Little change is expected in
the growth of transport and construction and a somewhat slower growth for
other services. With regard to investments according to branches of
economic activity, the Second Plan puts increased emphasis on manufac-
turing, power, transport and especially tourism.  Investments in other
services, particularly housing, are assumed to take up a smaller share.
17.           Although achievements during the First Pl(an were encouraging
since the target growth rate was almost reached with limited inflation,
it has to be realized that output of agriculture and particular2y industry
fell appreciably behind Plan targets while services exceeded expectations.
These developments point to shortcomings in the capacity to implement,
and to the necessity to strengthen those parts of the Turkish bureaucracy
concerned with development.
18.           A number of policies have been newly designed, introduced
or strengthened to bring about the projected change. The efforts needed
to obtain a 7 percent growth rate in the coming five years will have to
be greater than in the past, partly because it is expected that less idle
capacity will be available than during the First Plan period. A higher
capital/output ratio and hence more investments are expected. At the same
time the supply of savings from abroad is not expected to increase, so
that domestic savings will have to rise exceptionally fast, i.e. at a
marginal savings rate of about one-third.
19.           In the field of public finance the main aim is therefore to
promote savings and investment and at the same time to achieve a more
equitable distribution of taxes. However, even assuming a reasonable
success in stepping up voluntary savings, a successful tax reform with
many new taxes, optimistic allowances for improved tax collection and



more efficiency of government administration and State Economic Enterprises,
it is doubtful whether the savings/investment targets can be fulfilled.
These difficulties are generally recognized in the new Plan and more prom-
inence than in the First Plan is given to increasing domestic savings. In
addition, reorganization of the capital market is envisaged and improvements
in the direction of savings into priority channels and transfers of
Government savings to the private sector are proposed.
20.           Much of the increase in foreign exchange receipts is expected
to come either from fields in which little progress has yet been made,
such as tourism and export of manufactured goods, or is depending on factor,
with little possibility of Turkish control, such as remittances from worker-.
abroad. In addition, the changed emphasis on exports is likely to encountex
many difficulties. The planned growth in industrial goods exports pre-
supposes a large increase in efficiency in many industries and the com-
pletion of investments on time and the contemplated rise in exports of
cereals and livestock may run up against a lack of surpluses available for
export in the face of increasing domestic consumption.
2.            The Government is aware of the difficulties of trade
expansion and is taking some measures to encourage exports. The formulatio.
coordination and implementation of export promotion has been largely
centralized. A Department for Encouragement and Implementation was
established within the State Planning Organization for this purpose, with
powers to give selective encouragement to exports.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
22.           The goals that have been set for the Second Plan are am-
bitious and the underlying assumptions appear to be optimistic. the overall
target growth rate of 7 percent per annum will be difficult to achieve,
because it assumes an annual expansion of agricultural production by h
percent and industrial production by 11 percent, which appears optimistic ii.
the light of past experience and considering present constraints. During
the First Plan period agricultural production increased by only 3 percent
a year, despite comparatively favorable weather conditions and industrial
production did well with an annual increase of 9 percent.
23.           Foremost among the basic economic problems facing the country
are the overvaluation of the Turkish lira and heavy protection. Autarkic
policies and distortions of the price structure remain threats to the
efficiency of investments and export competitiveness. It is doubtful
whether the Turkish Government administration - including the operation
of the State Economic Enterprises which have to contribute the bulk of
the increase in industrial output - can be changed to the extent necessary
to bring about a substantial improvement in the capacity to implement
planned objectives, including policy measures and physical targets. In



- 6 -
addition to these technical limitations, it is doubtful whether the pro-
jected savings can be achieved. In the public sector the allowance for
improved tax collection is probably optimistic, and with regard to private
savings the assumption of a marginal savings rate of 32 percent may prove
overambitious.
24.           The balance of payments projections therefore are optimistic.
The expected increase in production of industrial goods implies substantial
improvements in the efficiency of marny industries; such improvements are
even under the most favorable assumptions unlikely to improve the competi-
tiveness of industries on international markets to the required extent.
Projected earnings from tourism and remittances from workers abroad are
very high given recent experience and imports would probably exceed sub-
stantially the planned levels, assuming availability of foreign exchange.
It is perhaps in the latter respect that the underlying assumptions are
most optimistic in relatbn to recent experience. Turkeyts gross borrowing
ability--projected at $1.55 billion for the period 1968-73--could well be
less than $1.0 billion if present trends in the provision of aid were to
continue.
25.           At the end of 1967 the external debt repayable in foreign
currencies was estimated at $1.87 billion (of which $500 million were
credits in the pipeline, excluding a $200 million USSR credit negotiated
recently). Given the net aid requirement of $0.8 billion in the Second Pla,.
and assuming a similar pipeline in 1972 as in 1967, the total debt out-
standing would be $2.67 billion at the end of the Plan. Repayments in
1968-72 are high, partly because of repayment obligations contracted in the
1965 debt roll-over agreements, amounting to $165 million during the Second
Plan.
26.           Assumingtlk.t imports will grow at 7.4 percent per year during
1968-72 and by 6.5 percent in 1973 and exports and other net receipts at
8.5 percent over 1968-73, gross borrowing for 1968-73 is projected at
$1.55 billion. The debt service ratio would decline from 27 percent
expected in 1968 to 16 percent in 1972, largely because of the higher level
of exports. Under less favorable assumptions of the gap, gross borrowing
would total about $2 billion during 1968-73 and the debt service ratio in
1972 would be 17 percent. Under more favorable assumptions, gross
borrowing would total $1.26 billion over 1968-73 and the debt service
ratio in 1972 would be 15 percent. These computations assume that the
terms of future borrowing would average medium soft as in recent years.
27.           Turkey for many years has had a heavy external debt burden am:
external reserves are low. However, Turkey's growth potential and recent
progress show that the country's economy could develop rapidly and that
around-the mid-1970's, if the Government follows adequate policies, aid at
concessionary terms could taper off and conventional project borrowling
could meet external capital needs thereafter. In these circumstances,
Turkey's creditworthiness for Bank loans is still limited; it is a blend
country eligible for both Bank loans and IDA credits.
Europe Department
October 14, 1968



