CIRCULAThING COPY           RSRCE
TO RE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK      RESTRICTED
IN GENERAL FILES              Report No. P-647
L~ -I
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE
KEBAN TRANSMISSION LINE PROJECT
October 17, 1968



REPCRT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE E=EUIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSIT LGOAN TO 'Ti1M REPUBTIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE KEBAN TRAINSMISSIOIN LINE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$25 million to the
Republic of Turkey to assist in financing the construction of transmission
lines related to a dam and hydroelectric power plant at Keban.
PART I. HISTORICAL
2.        Turkey has so far received seven Bank loans for a total amount of
$70.7 million, of which $32.0 million was outstanding as at September 30, 1968.
It has also received seven IDA credits for a total amount of $80.5 million.
A loan of $25.2 million (63-TU) was made in 1952 for the multi-purpose Seyhan
Dam and related power facilities, and two IDA credits totalling $25.7 million
(34 and 59-TU) were made in 1963 and 1964 in the same region for the
Cukurova Electric Company.   The Bank has also been providing Turkey with
technical assistance since 1967 (up to $1.95 million) for the reorganization
of the electric power industry.
3.        In 1961 the Turkish Government requested assistance from the OECD
Consortium for Turkey for financing the Keban dam, a power house with four
hydroelectric power units of 155 rno each and related facilities, and
transmission lines from Keban to Ankara and Istanbul.    A syndicate of
lenders was formed in 1965 under the chairmanship of the World Bank,
consisting of Flrance, Germany, Italy, USA, the European Investment Bank, and
the Wiorld Bank.  The European Investment Bank took primary responsibility
for supervision of the construction of the dam, the power house, and
related facilities, which syndicate members other than the Iorld Bank were
to finance.   The main civil works construction started in 1966 and the
transmission line construction in August this year.    The !trld Bank's
contribution was to be for the transmission lines, substations and related
material. A mission to appraise the Bank's project was in Turkey in
January and February 1968 and bidding arrangements were agreed so that
construction could start during 1968.   Preliminary discussions were held
in Washington in August and September and in Paris followning a meeting of
the Keban Syndicate in September.   Final negotiations were held in
Washington on October 9, 1968.    Principal members of the Turkish delegation
in the preliminary discussions were Mr. Kemal Noyan,Undersecretary, Ministry
of Energy and Natural Resources, Mr. Munir Tanyeloglu, General Manager of
Etibank, Mr. Ihsan Tun9ay, Director of Planning, Etibank and
Mr. Sermet Pasin, Director General of the Treasury and OIEC.    For the final
negotiations the Turkish Delegation consisted of Mr. Zeki Toker, Economic
Counselor, Thrkish Embassy, Mr. Bedrettin Sarp, Technical Adviser, Turkish
Embassy, and Mr. Esref Erknen, Director of Operations, Etibank.
4.        From 1962 until 1966 Turkey was an IDA country, but since 1966
has been regarded as a country able to service limited amounts borrowed on
more conventional terms.   Pending IDA replenishment, this and other projects
eligible for financing in Turkey this year are being proposed as Bank loans.



5.        The following is a summiary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Tarkey as at September 30, 1968:
Loan or                                                      Amount (US$ mTlaion)
Credit                                                                    Undis-
Number    Year         Borrower              Purpose         Bank    IDA bursed
Six loans and three credits made between 1950 and 196L        60.7  11.5    -
38-TU     1963    Republic of Turkey    Seyhan Irrigation      -    20.0    3.3
59-TU     1964    Republic of Turkey    Second Cukurova        -    24.0   11.7
Power
75-TU     1965    Republic of Turkey    Industry-TSKB          -    10.0    0.1
461-TU     1966    Republic of Turkey    Industry-TSKB        10.0    -      1.3
91-TU     1966    Republic of Turkey     Irndustry-TSKB        -    15.0    2.0
Total (less cancellations)                          70.7  80.5   18.4
of which has been repaid to Bank and others      38.7
Total now outstanding                              32.0
Amount sold                           0.7
of which has been repaid           0.3           0.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                     31.6   80.5
Total undisbursed                                   1.3  17.1    18.4
6.         Execution of most of the projects has been satisfactory.    Two
changes in the construction plans of the Second Cukurova Project were agreed
in 1966 and 1968, and the project is now scheduled for completion in 1971.
Progress with the on-farm development under the Seyhan irrigation project,
which had been disappointing until 1967, is now satisfactory.    An improvement
in the administration for implementing the project and an increase in
agricultural credit for the project area have recently been agreed with the
Gavernment.
7.         IFC became a shareholder of TSKB, the Industrial Development Bank
of Turkey, in 1963 and presently holds 11.6 per cent of TSKB's ordinary share
capital of TL 63 million.   In July 1966, IFC invested nearly $1.4 million,
jointly with TSKB, in a loan and shares for the expansion of a synthetic yarn
factory, Sentetik Iplik Fabrikalari A.S., (SIFAS).
8.         The following lending operations are under consideration:
(a) Seyhan Irrigation--Stage II, for which negotiations are
substantially completed for a Bank loan of $26 million;



(b)  TSKB (Industrial Development Banik of Turkey) which was
reappraised by IFC in August.   A loan of about $30 million is now under
consideration.
(c) SYKB (Industrial Investment and Credit Bank of Turkey) which
was first appraised by I1C in August.    If its financial structure can be
improved, a loan or credit of about $10 million may be proposed.
(d) Kadincik II hydroelectric station for the Cukurova Electric
Company, for which an appraisal mission is scheduledin November with a view
to a Bank loan or IDA credit of about $8.5 million.
PART II. DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
9.        BORROWER:                 Republic of Turkey.
BENEFICIARY:              Etibank.
AM4OUNT:                  Various currencies equivalent to
$25 million.
PURPOSE:                  To assist in financing the construction
of transmission lines and substations
related to a dam and hydroelectric plant
at Keban.
AMORTIZATION:             In 25 years, including a 4 year period
of grace, through semi-annual install-
ments beginning October 1, 1972 and
ending October 1, 1993.
INTEREST RATE:            6-1/2 per cent.
COMMITMENT CHARGE:        3/4 of 1 per cent.
RELENDING TERMS:          Substantially the same as those of the
Bank Loan.
PART III. THE PROJECT
10.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Keban Transmission Line
Project--Turkey" (TO-686a dated October 14, 1968) is attached.
Background
11.       The Turkish power industry is growing rapidly with a surge of
major investments, including Keban, under way or to be completed in the
next few years. To consolidate the industry, the Government has presented
for consideration by the Parliament a bill to create a single national
electricity authority.   Pending creation of this Authority, an administrative
consolidation of the electric power industry within Etibank, as described
below, has been made.



12.       The Keban hydroelectric project consists of a rockfill dam
rising about 510 feet above the Euphrates (Firat) River shortly below its
confluence with the Murat River in the mountains of eastern Turkey.    It
includes intake structures, concrete spillways, a compacted earthfill
section designed to function as an emergency spillway, four steel penstocks,
a powerhouse containing four 155 mwl turbogenerators initially (to be later
increased to eight units of 155 mw), a switchyard, the Guluskar railway
and highway bridge over the Murat River, engineering and other services for
the civil works, and transmission lines to Ankara and Istanbul with associated
substations.   The hydroelectric works have been under construction for more
than two years and are now about 25 per cent complete.    The project was
originally estimated to cost about $3h0 million equivalent, of which about
$135 million would be in foreign exchange.
Keban Syndicate
13.       The Keban Syndicate, which was formed in 1965 to help finance
the project, agreed to provide, on certain conditions, the following amounts:
($ million equivalent)
United States                                  40
Germany                                        20
France                                         10
Italy                                          10
European Investment Bank                       30
Wi,orld Bank/IDA                               25
Total                                    135
The financing principles agreed upon provided for (a) loan terms not harder
than 15 years, including five years' grace, and 4 per cent interest, except
for the World Bank loan, (b) contributions from bilateral lenders to be
used for purchases in the respective contributing countries with up to one
third of the amounts so used to be available in addition for local expend-
itures, (c) EIB contribution, to be used within the EEC and on a matching
basis with EEC members' contributions, (d) maximum competition compatible
with arrangements under (b) and (c) above, and (e) 1orld Bank Group
participation to be subject to approval of the Executive Directors of the
Bank or IDA (as the case might be) to carry standard lending terms and to
be used for procurement under full international competition.
The TEK Legislation
1.       The Syndicate considered that financing this project presented the
opportunity to help the Government achieve important objectives in reorgan-
izing and unifying its electric power industry and in putting it in a sound
financial condition.   Accordingly, the Bank took up the matter with the
Government. After extensive discussions the Government and the Bank reached
agreement on a draft law to establish the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK).



- 5 -
However, the Government was unable to recommend to the Parliament certain
measures in the proposed reorganization.    Since these measures were not
essential at this stage in Turkey's power development, a compromise bill
was accepted by the Bank.   Negotiations were then started on steps which
the Government might take pending enactment of the bill.   As a result, the
Government reorganized the electric power industry, insofar as possible, by
executive decision, the main effect of which was to place under the control
of Etibank the bulk of the state-owned electric power assets and the
Governmental electric planning activities.    The draft lcan agreement contains
the Government's undertaking to transfer to Etibank promptly after
construction the operation and management of virtually all of its future
power assets.   Through these arrangements the Etibank Power Group forms the
nucleus of the future TEK.
Technical Assistance
15.       The second way of helping reorganize the entire electric power
sector was a technical assistance agreement between the Republic of Turkey
and Stone and Webster Overseas Consultants, and financed by the Bank. Under
this agreement the consultants were to assist the Goverrment in making the
transition to TEK, and specifically in achieving the following objectives
in the shortest possible time: centralized dispatching of power, centralized
planning and coordination of construction programs, and management of the
industry in accordance with commercial and industrial practices, including
appropriate accounting systems.
Etibank
16.       Etibank, which will be responsible for the project pending the
establishment of TEK, is a State Economic Enterprise established in 1935
with important interests in mining and banking as well as in electric power.
It has a Board of Directors consisting of six full-time members.    The
Chairman of the Board is also the General Manager.    Its staff consists of
about 600 engineers and technicians, 2,000 administrative and clerical
employees and 13,000 workmen.   Total assets at December 31, 1967 were
TL 3,934 million (US$433 million) of which about 55 per cent was applicable
to the electric utility business.   Outstanding long-term debt at
December 31, 1967 totalled TL 1,3L8 million (US$1h8 million), including
TL 321 million (US$35 million) of foreign loans.   All aspects of Etibankts
business in the period 1965-1967 have been profitable.    Consolidated net
profit, after provision for income taxes, increased from TL 146 million
(US$16 million) in 1965 to TL 322 million (US$35 million) in 1967.
17.       In a reorganization effective as of January 1, 1968, all of
Etibank's electric power activities were consolidated into the Etibank Power
Group, a self-accounting department.   Half of Etibank's capital, TL 250
million (US$27.5 million) has been assigned to this department, which has
also assumed responsibility for all debts applicable to power operations
and taken over all of Etibank's power assets.   Although not a separate
legal entity, the Power Group is in fact a distinct enterprise, with its



- 6 -
assets, liabilities, operations, budgeting, and accounting segregated from
Etibank's other activities.   The Power Group has also assumed responsibility
for operating the hydroelectric stations owned by the State Hydraulic
Works (DSI).   The new Power Group is competently managed.    It has some
4,000 employees, including about 200 engineers and 200 other professional
staff.   The changes brought about by the creation of the Etibank Power Group
have made Etibank into a suitable beneficiary for the proposed loan.
Cost Estimates and Financing Arrangements
18.       The present estimated total cost of the Keban project, including
the transmission work to be financed by the proposed Bank loan, is about
$400 million equivalent, of which about $130 million, including interest
during construction, is in foreign exchange.   It is expected, however, that
both the total and foreign exchange costs of the project will prove to be
somewhat higher because of serious and unexpected geological difficulties at
the dam site.   A further revision of the cost estimates will be made later
this year when the extent of the difficulties will be better knowTn and
engineering decisions have been reached on how best to deal with them.    At
that time the Keban Syndicate plans to meet again to consider whether and
to what extent the members might be prepared to make supplementary loans to
cover foreign exchange expenditures arising from overrun costs or from the
inability of the Government to utilize fully the tied bilateral contributions
which were pledged in the initial financing.
The Bank Project
19.       The total cost of the transmission line ahsd substations which have
been allocated to the Bank projec  is   3    milion, o whic    t    o`eign
exchange costs (excluding expenditures on engineering whicfl are being
financed by the US AID) is $22.7 million.   The proposed Bank loan has been
rounded up to $25 million, and will therefore be disbursed against local
expenditures to the extent of $2.3 million, as a consequence of the original
decision of the Syndicate that it would be appropriate to cover some local
expenditure in order to provide an adequate-'contribution to the total cost
of the project; it should also be borne in mind that the aggregate foreign
exchange expenditures on the Keban program as a whole are now expected to
gount to at least as much as the total external financing thus far provided
for the project.
20.       Two of the principal aspects of the Bank project are, first,the
administrative consolidation within Etibank of the power industry, as
described above, pending creation of TEK, and, second, agreement on an
acceptable financial rate of return on the realistic net value of the fixed
power assets in service, whether owned or merely operated by the Etibank
Power Group.   The earnings of the Etibank Power Group are not adequate in



- 7 -
spite of an increase in tariffs averaging about 15 per cent in NIarch 1967.
Agreement has been reached with the Government and Etibank that electricity
tariffs will be fixed to achieve a minimum return of 8 per cent after taxes cna
realistically valued assets base commencing with 1970.    However, because
of the relatively large amount of new power assets coming into service along
with Keban in 1971 and 1Y72, it was also agreed that a 7 per cent rate of
return would be acceptable for the year in which Keban came into service and
for the next two years.
Reimbursement of Expenditures
21.       The Government has been obliged to proceed with the ordering and
placing of contracts for the Bank's portion of the Keban project in order to
meet the original construction schedule for completion of the transmission
lines by 1971.   Bidding and evaluation have been carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines and the provisions described in paragraph L.16 of
the Appraisal Report, with the Bank reviewing the evaluation of bids and
award of contracts.   The first foreign exchange payments made by the
Government were about $300,000 equivalent in September, and further payments
of about $308,000 in October and $3,413,000 in November are expected.    In
view of the foregoing it is recommended that all payments made since
September 1, 1968 be reimbursed out of the loan.
Use of Euphrates Waters
22.       Since operation of the Keban Dam could affect downstream users of
Euphrates waters in Iraq and Syria, the Syndicate members sought to have an
international agreement on their use before the project was started.    This
did not prove possible.   However, the Government of Turkey has given an
undertaking to those members of the Syndicate financing construction of the
dam that it will continue to use its best efforts to reach agreement with
Iraq and Syria on this subject.   The Government has also agreed on a regime
of controlled flow in the initial filling period of the dam, based on studies
by consultants financed by the Bank, which is intended to meet the needs of
downstream users.   Since the purpose of the dam is to conserve water and
the Turkish power system is large enough to be able to absorb all the power
generated by the release of downstream users' water requirements irrespective
of the time when it is released, any subsequent agreement on regulation of
releases is not likely to affect the economics of the project.
PART IV. LEGAL INSThUME4TS AND AUTHORITY
23.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Etibank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Ececutive Directors
separately.



- 8 -
PART V. THE ECOt71CPIY
24.       The latest economic report on Turkey (EA-169b of August 28, 1967)
described Turkey's recent economic performance under the First Five-Year
Plan (1963-67) and reappraised the country's prospects in the light of an
earlier, more comprehensive review of Turkey's institutions, economic
development and prospects (EA-153a of November 23, 1965).    Another
comprehensive economic review is presently under way.   The mission which
visited Turkey last summer is now completing its report which will also be
made available to the OECD Consortium for Turkey.    The Consortium provides
a forum for considering Turkey's development plans and project priorities
in relation to the amount and terms of foreign financing available.    It is
hoped that, although the amount of development assistance being provided by
the Consortium members has fallen below the level of recent years, the work
of the Consortium particularly on matters of economic policy and the quality
of proposed investments, can become increasingly important in the future.
25.       An updating Economic Memorandum dated October 1, 1968 is attached.
It concludes that the goals of the Second Five-Year Plan (1968-1972) are
ambitious, the underlying assumptions are optimistic, and that the target
growth rate of 7 per cent per annum will be difficult to achieve.    Despite
these difficulties and Turkey's heavy external debt, Turkey's growth potential
and recent progress show that the economy could develop rapidly and that if
the Government follows adequate policies, the present high debt service ratio,
now amounting to 27 per cent of export earnings may be expected to decline and
around the mid-seventies aid at concessionary terms could be reduced and
borrowing at conventional terms could meet Turkey's external capital needs.
In these circumstances, Turkey should continue for the next few years to
receive part of its aid on concessionary terms, including IDA credits as soon
as IDA is replenished.   I consider Turkey creditworthy for the proposed loan.
PART VI. COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
26.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII. RECOMMENDATION
27.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Republic of Turkey in an
amount equivalent to U. S. $25,000,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Turkey in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million United States



- 9 -
dollars (U. S. $25,000,000), to mature on and prior to October 1, 1993,
to bear interest at the rate of six and one-half per cent (6-1/2%) per annuim,
and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan
Agreement (Keban Transmission Line Project) between the Republic of Turkey
and the Bank and in the fria of Project Agreement (Keban Transmission Line
Project) between the Bank and Etibank, which have been presented to this
meeting.
Robert S. McNaimara
President
Attacbment
Washington, D.C.
October 17, 1968



