Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4589 
Operation Name 
Fifth  Poverty Reduction Strategy Support  Grant 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Energy, transport and water (45%); General Public Administration 
(20%); Education (20%); General Agriculture (15%) 
Project ID 
P106083 
Borrower(s) 
RWANDA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
January 09, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 13, 2009 
Date of Board Approval 
March 17, 2009 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Since 2002, Rwanda has implemented a comprehensive reform program to reduce poverty and 
support growth. The reform program initiated under Rwanda’s first Poverty Reduction Strategy 
Program (PRSP) focused on social sector development to lay the foundation for improved 
service delivery for human development and growth. These reforms – supported by the first 
series of Poverty Reduction Support Grants (PRSG 1 to 3) resulted in substantial achievements 
in the social sectors.  
 
Despite these achievements, the most recent poverty assessment suggests there has been a 
marginal reduction in national poverty rates, and some increase in rural-urban inequality over the 
period 2001 to 2006.  In addition, the post-conflict economic growth rebound effect is over as 
GDP growth rates experienced have slowed down considerably from an annual rate of about 10.5 
percent attained over 1996-02 – the first few years following the conflict—to 5.6 percent over 
the period 2003-2007.   
 
Rwanda’s second generation PRSP, called the Economic Development and Poverty Reduction 
Strategy takes stock of these
 
achievements in human capital development, presenting a strategy 
focused on accelerating growth, with emphasis on decentralization and a greater role for the 
private sector. In line with the EDPRS, the second PRSG series is centered on measures to 
generate sustained economic growth, with an emphasis on improving delivery of economic and 
infrastructure services.   
 
Supported by the PRSG series, Rwanda continues to make satisfactory progress in implementing 
its poverty reduction strategy.  Economic growth in 2008 is estimated at 8.5 percent, driven by a 
rebound in agricultural productivity and strong secondary sector growth. Over the medium term, 
prospects are for average growth rates to fall in the range 6 percent (driven by continued 
productivity in agriculture in line with implementation of the Crop Intensification Program and 
Land husbandry, Water Harvesting and Hillside Irrigation Program), which will likely to be too 
low to meet the GoR’s 2020 poverty reduction targets.  The challenge therefore remains to 
address both human capital and infrastructure constraints to growth to ensure 
sustainable
 broad 
based growth to meet the poverty reduction targets. 
Page  2
2. Operation Objectives 
Given the above context, PRSG 5 will focus on 5 priority areas: (i) raising agricultural 
production in a sustainable manner; (ii) improving access to and quality of key economic 
infrastructure services; (iii) strengthening the framework for post-basic education, with the aim 
of building a skilled workforce and promoting science and technology; (iv) deepening and 
widening the financial sector; (v) strengthening management of public resources at the central 
and local levels. Specifically, the operation will support the following policy actions:   
·
Development and implementation of an action plan to promote emergence of private 
sector-led fertilizer procurement and distribution system  
·
Establishment of a cost reflective tariff for electricity generation. 
·
Development of a  transport sector master plan that includes the priorities of the road 
maintenance and financing strategy 
·
Development of a comprehensive strategic framework for post-basic education, which 
reflects the institutional
 
requirements to implement the STI Policy 
·
Development of an Integrated Financial Management System (IFMIS). 
·
Adoption of appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks for the national payments 
system, credit bureau, and secured transactions 
 
·
Adoption and implementation of the sustainable capacity building and staffing strategy 
for RPPA. 
·
Adoption and Operationalization of a comprehensive 5-year capacity building strategy 
for local Government 
·
Support to policy actions to promote skills development and retention in the civil service, 
and strengthen coordination of functions and structures. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The rationale for Bank’s involvement rests on (a) its ability to provide significant resources to 
narrow the gap between the financing needs for the implementation of the EDPRS and available 
resources from Rwanda’s own sources and other donors, (b) its technical contributions to the 
policy dialogue, grounded in a combination of the Bank’s international experience with a long 
track record of work in Rwanda in the areas covered by the PRSG, (c) the preference by the 
Rwandan authorities to receive a significant part of IDA resources as general budget support 
with the objective of enhancing domestic ownership, capacity building through learning by 
doing, and accountability to domestic stakeholders by using the government’s budget process for 
the use of donor resources, and (d) the Government’s track record of reform and its commitment 
to advancing the reform agenda. 
 
4. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower/Recipient 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
80 
 Total 
80 
 
Page  3
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
Given the nature of the operation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation arrangements will 
continue to rely on government arrangements with the aim of strengthening government capacity 
and institutions. The Government has developed a results and performance framework integrated 
into the planning and budgeting processes for monitoring the EDPRS. The integrated results 
framework/monitoring system consists of three components
:
a
National Results and Policy 
Matrix; a Common Performance Assessment Framework; and a Development Partners’ 
Assessment Framework.  It has also designed appropriate institutional settings to monitor its 
implementation, in which responsibility for the overall monitoring of the EDPRS rests with 
MINECOFIN’s Strategic Planning Unit.  In addition, the Budget Monitoring and Reporting team 
reports on spending of the budget and related outputs.  This team also ensures that the sector 
spending plans are incorporated into the macro-MTEF, and budget.  The Bank will work closely 
with these two units to monitor spending and outputs achieved under the proposed operation.  
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
Expected benefits are as follows:  (i) increased access to infrastructure services while continuing 
to consolidate and improve access to education and health services to increase the supply of 
skilled labor in the workforce; (ii) improved efficiency of spending by supporting reforms to 
strengthen the MTEF and public procurement process; (iii) strengthened capacity to implement 
through support to civil service reforms to improve ministerial structures and provide incentives 
to staff, increase skills of the civil service, and reduce turn-over.  The operation builds upon the 
successes of the first series of PRSGs, particularly the performance-based contracting of high-
impact health services via local health centers and per student transfers in the education sector to 
support increased hiring and incentives for teachers at the District level.  PRSG 5 will also aim to 
support GoR in its attempt to replicate this success in the infrastructure and agriculture sectors.  
The objective is to develop a basis for sustained growth through supporting measures to improve 
the efficiency of spending and use of aid funds.   
 
Macroeconomic and financial risks remain on the downside, due to the global financial crisis and 
economic slowdown. However, risks are considered moderate to low given the closed nature of 
the economy and the GoR’s record in macroeconomic management and.  Risks to the program 
are expected to arise through continued reductions in world commodity prices that compromise 
export earnings coupled with a reduction in grants as the world recession deepens in donor 
countries.  The Government has committed to monitoring developments closely and taking 
appropriate preemptive measures to mitigate the risk. To date, fiscal spending has been contained 
and monetary policy tightened to mitigate the potential balance of payments risk.  It will 
continue its policy of identifying areas for contingent spending should more external resources 
become available.  It will also continue to protect priority spending from any overall cuts in 
spending.  Finally, it will continue with measures to expand the tax base and improve the 
efficiency of the tax system.  Mitigation of this risk is achievable as long as GoR continues to 
implement reforms to increase investment to support growth.
 
Despite international and regional efforts to find a lasting solution to the problems of instability 
in the Great Lakes Region, instability in the region continues to be a risk to Rwanda's economic 
stability and to the consolidation of development progress. The Bank supports efforts aimed at 
fostering peace and security between Rwanda and its neighbors.  Internally Rwanda’s security 
Page  4
and political situation remains stable.  Predictability of donor financing, particularly the size of 
World Bank disbursements, is also issue, though amounts in doubt represent a small fraction of 
overall budget support and as such cannot substantially compromise the Governments program. 
Risks associated with weaknesses in the country’s fiduciary framework, particularly at 
decentralized levels, is a concern.  However, the PRSG series, including PRSG-5, will support 
the GoR’s capacity building efforts in the above areas, which would help to mitigate this risk. 
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
This operation is governed by Operational Policy (OP) 8.60, 
Development Policy Lending, 
and 
therefore is not subject to OP 4.01, 
Environmental Assessment.  S
pecific country policies 
supported by the PRSG 5 are 
not
 likely to cause significant effects on Rwanda's environment, 
forests and other natural resources.  However, 
minor and manageable
 environmental aspects 
may arise through measures to support irrigation and marshland development, and the 
development of certain export areas such as mining activities.  In the case of irrigation and 
marshland development Government has developed the environmental framework for marshland 
development.  The development of irrigation schemes will require adequate resources to control 
the incidence of water-borne diseases, pollution of surface and groundwater by agrochemicals, 
water-logging and salinization of soils, and population resettlement.  Similarly, it will be 
important to address the potential environmental impacts from preparation of the mining 
strategy. 
 
PRSG-5 will rely on the on-going IDA operations in water, agriculture, private sector 
development, and on small grants for environmental capacity building provided by UNEP. The 
operation will also support GoRs efforts to mainstream improved environmental stewardship into 
the medium-term expenditure framework of MINIRENA. The approach will focus on long-term 
sustained support to building capacity to address environmental concerns in the implementation 
of the EDPRS 
 
8. Contact point 
Contact: Kene Ezemenari 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5559 
Fax: (202) 473-8466 
Email: KEzemenari@worldbank.org 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Page  5
