Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H452-RW 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fifth Poverty Reduction Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 19, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H452-RW 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated March 19, 2009, entered into between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for 
the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this 
Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
(a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described 
in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to fifty-three million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 53,000,000
)
(“Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn 
Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would 
have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any 
action taken under the Program, including any action specified in Section I of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, that is, a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will 
be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P. O. Box 158 
Kigali 
Rwanda 
Facsimile: 
250-57-75-81 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Kigali, Rwanda, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
By /s/ James Musoni 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ Victoria Kwakwa 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
A. Education
Publication, on the official website of the 
Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for 
education, of the Policy on Technical and Vocational Education and Training. 
B. Energy
Submission, to the Recipient’s Parliament for approval, of a new law on electricity and 
gas, satisfactory to the Association, establishing a transparent regulatory framework and 
an environment conducive to private sector participation in the sector, and clarifying the 
roles and responsibilities of stakeholders in the sector. 
C. Water
Establishment of a water and sanitation management information system, satisfactory to 
the Association and including a national inventory of water and sanitation infrastructure, 
for purposes of facilitation of effective water resource management. 
D. Roads
Adoption, by the Recipient’s Cabinet, of a road maintenance strategy, satisfactory to the 
Association, including a framework for the financing and operationalization of road 
maintenance, and clarifying the roles and responsibilities of the central government and 
Districts in road maintenance. 
E. Agriculture
Completion, by the Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for agriculture, of 
feasibility studies, satisfactory to the Association, on watershed management in at least 
four (4) of the thirty-four (34) sites identified for watershed management and terracing 
under the Land Husbandry, Water Harvesting, and Hillside Irrigation Program, and 
including a technical assessment of such pilot activities and mapping of areas requiring 
protection through watershed management and terracing. 
Page  7
6
F. Finance
Execution of a memorandum of understanding, satisfactory to the Association, between 
the 
Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for agriculture and the National Bank of 
Rwanda, for purposes of implementation of a grant to support the financing of rural 
investments under the Second Rural Investment Facility.
 
G. 
Public Expenditure Management
Completion of development of PublicBooks software, satisfactory to the Association, for 
purposes of improvement of budget preparation, reporting, and accounting in the 
Recipient’s budget agencies. 
H. Public 
Procurement
Publication, on the official website of the Rwanda Public Procurement Authority, of the 
2008 annual report of the independent panel addressing appeals by contractors of public 
procurement decisions, for purposes of improvement of transparency and accountability 
in public procurement. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single 
tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table 
below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
53,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
53,000,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
Page  8
7
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account referred to in Section II.C.1 of the Schedule to this Agreement 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than  
four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such account and its 
audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing 
shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any 
time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2010. 
Page  9
8
APPENDIX 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“District” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Law No. 29/2005 of December 31, 2005, representing a designated area and 
population within the territory of the Recipient. 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ 
Page  10
9
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which 
the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General 
Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
4. 
“Land Husbandry, Water Harvesting, and Hillside Irrigation Program” means the 
Recipient’s program, as set out in its program document of March 2007, designed to 
increase the productivity and commercialization of hillside agriculture, support water 
harvesting and irrigation through the adoption of suitable technologies, and to provide a 
foundation for sustainable hillside intensification sustained agricultural productivity 
growth.  
5. 
“National Bank of Rwanda” (
Banque Nationale du Rwanda
)
means the Recipient’s 
central bank. 
6. 
“Policy on Technical and Vocational Education and Training” means the Recipient’s 
policy, dated November 28, 2008, designed to develop knowledge and skills through 
training activities for employed and self-employed individuals in the market force. 
Page  11
10
7. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated February 9, 2009 from the Recipient to the Association declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in support of the Program during its execution. 
8. 
“PublicBooks Software” means the Recipient’s integrated software for budget 
preparation, execution, accounting, and reporting. 
9. 
“Rwanda Public Procurement Authority” means the Recipient entity established and 
operating pursuant to its Law No. 63/2007 of December 12, 2007 and charged with 
organization, supervision, analysis and advisory functions on public procurement matters.  
10. 
“Second Rural Investment Facility” means the Recipient’s program under its Ministry in 
charge of agriculture, as per the Recipient’s Second Strategic Plan for the Transformation 
of Agriculture, Program 3, Sub-Program 3.6, clause 3.6.e (i), which is administered by 
the National Bank of Rwanda, and designed to provide financial incentives through 
investment cost subsidy to private sector operators, including farmer groups, for 
investment activities involving extensive economic or environmental externalities. 
11. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for Credits 
and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
Page  12
11
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn a
mount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing 
until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the 
Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as 
follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association 
of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support 
of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the 
Financing Agreement.” 
Page  13
12
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support 
of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
__________
 
