Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4560 
Operation Name 
Fifth  Poverty Reduction Strategy Support  Grant 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Energy, transport and water (45%); General Public Administration 
(20%); Education (20%); General Agriculture (15%) 
Project ID 
P106083 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA  
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC PLANNING 
Date PID Prepared 
November 25, 2008 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
January 13, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 17, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Since 2002, Rwanda has implemented a comprehensive reform program to reduce poverty and support 
growth. The reform program initiated under Rwanda’s first Poverty Reduction Strategy Program (PRSP) 
focused on social sector development to lay the foundation for improved service delivery for human 
development and growth. These reforms – supported by the first series of Poverty Reduction Support 
Grants (PRSG 1 to 3) resulted in substantial achievements in the social sectors.  
 
Despite these achievements, the most recent poverty assessment suggests there has been a marginal 
reduction in national poverty rates, and some increase in rural-urban inequality over the period 2001 to 
2006.  In addition, the post-conflict economic growth rebound effect is over as GDP growth rates 
experienced have slowed down considerably from an annual rate of about 10.5 percent attained over 
1996-02 – the first few years following the conflict—to 5.6 percent over the period 2003-2007.   
 
The strategic challenge facing Rwanda in the years to come is: to accelerate its growth rate and to 
improve further its human development indicators through improved quality of public investments. 
Meeting these challenges will require on-going reforms. To sustain broad-based and rapid economic 
growth, Rwanda needs to (i) improve infrastructure including road connectivity, access to power and 
water; and (ii) create a climate for environment-friendly and socially beneficial private investment to 
take place.
 
Improving human development indicators will require both additional resources to finance 
program expenditures and institutional/governance reforms to improve service delivery. 
 
The Government of Rwanda’s (GoR’s) commitment to advancing the reform agenda to increase 
participatory growth and reduce poverty provides a sound basis for continued Bank support. Supported 
by the PRSG series, Rwanda continues to make satisfactory progress in implementing its second 
generation PRSP, called the Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy.  Economic growth 
in 2008 is estimated at 8.5 percent, driven by a rebound in agricultural productivity and strong secondary 
sector growth. Over the medium term, prospects are for average growth rates to fall in the range 6 
percent, which will likely to be too low to meet the GoR’s 2020 poverty reduction targets.  The second 
PRSG series is therefore centered on measures to generate sustained economic growth, with an emphasis 
on improving delivery of economic and infrastructure services  
 
Page  2
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the proposed second Rwanda Poverty Reduction Support Grant is to support the 
continued implementation of critical structural, fiscal and administrative reforms needed to boost 
economic growth and achieve rapid poverty reduction over the medium term. Overall, fiscal reform 
measures to strengthen public financial and administrative management should allow increased spending 
efficiency, to lay the foundation for increased absorption and effectiveness of higher aid inflows. 
Improvements in governance and administrative reforms will also spur improvements in the broader 
investment climate in the state, and hence, to greater private investment and growth. The program is also 
expected to result in effective service delivery by reducing implementation constraints through (i) an 
improvement in organizational effectiveness and (ii) strengthened public sector capacity. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
The proposed operation will be the second in a proposed series of 4 Operations over a four-year period 
to support the medium-term program for the socio-economic development of Rwanda. PRSG 5 will 
focus on 5 priority areas: (i) raising agricultural production in a sustainable manner; (ii) improving 
access to and quality of key economic infrastructure services; (iii) strengthening the framework for post-
basic education, with the aim of building a skilled workforce and promoting science and technology; (iv) 
deepening and widening the financial sector; (v) strengthening management of public resources at the 
central and local levels. Specifically, the operation will support the following policy actions:   
·
Development and implementation of an action plan to promote emergence of private sector-led 
fertilizer procurement and distribution system  
·
Establishment of a cost reflective tariff for electricity generation. 
·
Development of a  transport sector master plan that includes the priorities of the road 
maintenance and financing strategy 
·
Development of a comprehensive strategic framework for post-basic education, which reflects 
the institutional
 
requirements to implement the STI Policy 
·
Development of an Integrated Financial Management System (IFMIS). 
·
Adoption of appropriate legal and regulatory frameworks for the national payments system, 
credit bureau, and secured transactions 
 
·
Adoption and implementation of the sustainable capacity building and staffing strategy for 
RPPA. 
·
Adoption and Operationalization of a comprehensive 5-year capacity building strategy for local 
Government 
·
Support to policy actions to promote skills development and retention in the civil service, and 
strengthen coordination of functions and structures. 
 
The reforms supported under Operation, and more broadly under the Government’s reform program, are 
expected to make contributions to reducing poverty in several ways. Some of the main mechanisms 
through which the program would impact poverty are as follows: 
•
Rwanda’s fiscal reforms aimed at improving the prioritization and efficiency of expenditures, will 
enable a greater share of resources to be focused on poverty-related expenditures. The MTFP seeks to 
reorient public spending towards high-priority developmental spending (social sector spending, non-
wage O&M, capital spending) that will provide education, health, basic social and infrastructural 
services to the poor and to productive enterprises that employ the poor, including support for improved 
agricultural performance. 
Page  3
•
Rwanda’s structural reforms in agriculture and private sector development seek to enable private sector 
led growth of markets for agricultural inputs, increase levels of rural and agricultural finance and 
improve the investment climate by easing the regulatory burden on the private sector. This will enhance 
economic growth and employment opportunities. The governance reforms would reduce corruption, 
which tends to hurt the poor disproportionately. 
•
The comprehensive EDPRS integrated monitoring and evaluation framework will help the 
Government take account of actual progress to reorient policy towards the Vision 2020 and Millennium 
Development Goals. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
This operation is governed by Operational Policy (OP) 8.60, 
Development Policy Lending, 
and therefore 
is not subject to OP 4.01, 
Environmental Assessment.  S
pecific country policies supported by the PRSG 
5
are 
not
 likely to cause significant effects on Rwanda's environment, forests and other natural 
resources.  However, 
minor and manageable
 environmental aspects may arise through measures to 
support irrigation and marshland development, and the development of certain export areas such as 
mining activities.  In the case of irrigation and marshland development Government has developed the 
environmental framework for marshland development.  The development of irrigation schemes will 
require adequate resources to control the incidence of water-borne diseases, pollution of surface and 
groundwater by agrochemicals, water-logging and salinization of soils, and population resettlement.  
Similarly, it will be important to address the potential environmental impacts from preparation of the 
mining strategy. 
 
PRSG-5 will rely on the on-going IDA operations in water, agriculture, private sector development, and 
on small grants for environmental capacity building provided by UNEP. The operation will also support 
GoRs efforts to mainstream improved environmental stewardship into the medium-term expenditure 
framework of MINIRENA. The approach will focus on long-term sustained support to building capacity 
to address environmental concerns in the implementation of the EDPRS 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower/Recipient 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
80 
 Total 
80 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Kene Ezemenari 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-5559 
Fax: (202) 473-8466 
Email: KEzemenari@worldbank.org
 
