Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17738-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$123 MILLION
TO
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SECOND INLAND WATERWAYS PROJECT
April 29, 1998
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1997)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = US$0.12
US$1.00 = Y 8.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS   -        Country Assistance Strategy
dwt    -       Deadweight ton (for vessel)
EACCF -        Country Director of China, East Asia and Pacific Region
EAP   -        Environmental Action Plan
EASTR -        Transport Sector Unit, East Asia and Pacific Region
EIA    -       Environmental impact Assessment
EIRR   -       Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR   -       Financial Internal Rate of Return
FY     -       Fiscal Year
G      -       Guangdong
GPWB  -        Guangdong Province Waterway Bureau
GOC   -        Government of China
ICB    -       International Competitive Bidding
IWT    -       Inland Waterway Transport
IWW   -        Inland Waterway
J      -       Jiangsu
JPWB  -        Jiangsu Province Waterway Bureau
NCB   -        Local Competitive Bidding
NBF   -        Not Bank Financed
Ln     -       Loan
L-S-R  -       Lianhuashan-Shawan-Ronggui
MOC   -        Ministry of Communications
MOF   -        Ministry of Finance
NPV    -       Net Present Value
OED   -        Operations Evaluation Department
PMO   -        Project Management Office
PWB   -        Provincial Waterway Bureau
RAP   -        Resettlement Action Plan
RRFA  -        Rate of Return on Average Net Fixed Assets
RVP   -        Office of Regional Vice President
SPC    -       State Planning Commission
TA     -       Technical Assistance
teu    -       twenty-foot equivalent unit (for container)
WB    -        Waterway Bureau
WW    -        Waterway
Z-H    -       Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen
Vice President:   Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Country Director: Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Manager:  Jeffrey S. Gutman, EASTR
Task Manager:    Toshiro Tsutsumi, EASTR



China
Second Inland Waterways Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ............................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ..........................................................2
B. Strategic Context ............................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ...............................2
2. Main sector issues and Govermment strategy ............................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .......................................................4
C. Project Description Summary ............................................................5
1. Project components ............................................................5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ............................................................6
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................6
D. Project Rationale ............................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................                    7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...............................7
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design ............................................................                      7
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................................8
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ............................................................8
E. Summary Project Analyses ............................................................9
1. Economic ............................................................9
2. Financial ...........................................................                                                                     11
3. Technical ...........................................................                                                                    11
4. Institutional ...........................................................                                                                 11
5. Social ...........................................................                                                                       11
6. Environmental assessment .......................                                                                                          12
7. Participatory approach .......................                                                                                            14
F. Sustainability and Risks .......................                                                                                             14
1. Sustainability: .......................                                                                                                  14
2. Critical risks: ....................... 14
3. Possible controversial aspects: .......................                                                                                   15
G. Main Loan Conditions .......................                                                                                                 15
1. Effectiveness conditions: .......................                                                                                        15
2. Other ........................15
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                                                                                         15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                                                                                        16



Page ii
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .......................................................                                               17
Annex 2: Project Description .......................................................                                                  19
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .......................................................                                              22
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .......................................................                                        23
Annex 5: Financial Analysis .......................................................                                                  30
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .......................................................                           35
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ..................................................... .. 37
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (Optional) ..................................................... 38
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ......................................... 38
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds .......................................................                             39
Annex 7: Institutional Development and Reforms .......................................................                                40
Annex 8: Management Information System (MIS) .......................................................                                  44
Annex 9: Financial Management .......................................................                                                45
Annex 10: Environmental Assessment and Action Plan Summary ...................................................... 46
Annex 11: Project Processing Budget and Schedule .......................................................                             58
Annex 12: Documents in the Project File .......................................................                                      59
Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits .......................................................                                     60
Annex 14: Country at a Glance ....................................................... 63
MAPS
IBRD 29238: China Inland Waterways II Project
IBRD 29239 Jiangsu Province
IBRD 29240 Pearl River Delta



China
Second Inland Waterways
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Date: April 29, 1998                         Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Toshiro Tsutsumi
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang        Sector Manager/Director: Jeffrey S. Gutman
Proj ect ID: CN-PE-3619   Sector: Transportation   Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan  Program of Targeted Intervention:   [  Yes [Xl No
Project Financing Data             [X] Loan   [] Credit [] Guarantee  [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ M/SDR M): US$123 million
Proposed tenns:                       []  Multicurrency    [X] Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): 5          []   Standard Variable [   Fixed       [X] LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: N/A
Financing plan (US$ M):
Source                           Local        Foreign           Total
Government                                            166.3            0.0            166.3
Cofinanciers                                            0.0            0.0              0.0
IBRD                                                    0.0          123.0            123.0
IDA                                                     0.0            0.0              0.0
Other (specify)                                         0.0            0.0              0.0
Total     166.3          123.0            289.3
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Communications Departments of Guangdong and Jiangsu Provinces
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1998    1999    2000   2001    2002   2003 2004
Annual        5      18      28      30      25      12    5
Cumulative       5      23       51     81      106    118  123
For Guarantees:                               []   Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:          [X]  Yes              [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period:    Expected effectiveness date: 08/28/98  Expected closing date: 06/30/2005



Page 2
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Inland Waterway Transport (IWT) is known in most situations as the least costly, the least energy
consuming, and least hazardous mode of transportation. Despite these advantages, IWT has become less
attractive for time-sensitive valuable cargo and short haul transportation following the higher priority
given to development of rail and road infrastructure. However, IWT is now receiving increased attention,
particularly because of its low environmental impact, the development of multipurpose water resources
systems and increased importance of intermodal transportation.
China has five major IWT systems, e.g. Yangtze River, Pearl River, Grand Canal, Heilong Jiang, and
Huaihe. The Yangtze is the largest system, (in length, depth and traffic) and has improved more than the
others. Under the Ninth Five-Year Plan, the Government of China (GOC) decided to develop the Pearl
River in Guangdong Province and the Grand Canal in Jiangsu Province, the second and third largest
systems. These developments represent continuation of the Guangxi and Zhejiang components of the
Bank's first Inland Waterways project in China (Loan 39106-CHA). The Govermnent also decided to
divert funds from the road and port subsectors to finance IWT development.
The objective of the proposed project is to provide more efficient and productive IWT services which
would be more competitive than the current services. This would be achieved through reduction of unit
cost and transit time by: (a) upgrading Inland Waterways infrastructure to allow navigation of larger size
vessels, (b) increasing shiplock capacity to reduce waiting time, and (c) increasing financial and
organizational capacity of IWT agencies.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16321-CHA. Date of latest CAS discussion: March 18, 1997 (note: updating of
the CAS is scheduled for May 28, 1998): (a) Reduce infrastructure bottlenecks and provide better access
to interior provinces by supporting the effort of the Government of China (GOC) to alleviate transport
bottlenecks by assisting modernization of IWT modes; and (b) reduce fiscal constraints of Provinces and
maintain the momentum of structural reforms by increasing financial and institutional autonomy of
provincial IWT agencies.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
IWT demand increased at an average of 7 percent annually for the period 1990-1994. As IWT's major
cargoes are coal, ores and construction materials transported over long distances, it has become a
practical means of relieving congestion on other transportation modes. IWT is not presently fully
achieving its objectives of providing low-cost transport for bulk products, since its operations are mainly
by small vessels that have high operating costs.
Significant progress has already been made on institutional reforms to provide a competitive context for
IWT services. IWT management was decentralized from the Central to the local Provincial govermnents;
IWT services, such as river ports, shipping companies, freight forwarding, and ship building, were
commercialized and corporatized; waterways transport tariffs were partly liberalized (tariff negotiations
between shipping companies and cargo owners are allowed within a limited range); cargo allocation by



Page 3
the government has been substantially eliminated; and many barriers to free entry to the industry were
removed. These reforms have started to create a more competitive environment for the subsector.
However, there are several issues that need to be addressed to stimulate IWT development: (a)
modernization of the vessel fleet (particularly increases of vessel size); (b) improvement of IWT
infrastructure to allow the use of larger vessels; (c) implementation of more market-based pricing to
stimulate competition between modes; (d) rationalization of user charges; (e) improved cost recovery and
reduction in government subsidies; and (f) institutional reform to make it more conducive to competitive
operations .
Modernization of IWT Fleet. An increase in the average vessel size is essential for IWT efficiency to
improve, and to help reduce congestion of channels, shiplocks and ports. For example in Jiangsu,
although the number of larger (i.e., 1,000-2,000 dwt) vessels is expected to increase, a realistic projection
shows that by the year 2010, over 84 percent of the fleet will still consist of vessels of less then 500 dwt.
GOC recognized the importance of this issue , and Jiangsu Province has recently carried out a study of
how to stimulate an increase in vessel size (the first phase Vessel Size Increase Study).
Improvement of IWT Infrastructure. Upgraded IWT networks are needed to so that IWT operators
can use the larger vessels needed to achieve the subsectors potential low operating costs. IWT agencies,
however, do not have sufficient information (i.e. origin-destination of cargo, vessel type, vessel size,
vessel age, reconstruction of fleet, cargo owners and their facilities, port facilities and their development
plans) to plan network development.
Market-Based Pricing. After the recent reforms, market competition exists to some extent within each
mode except rail, but intramodal competition is still limited through freight tariff regulation. Road and
inland waterway (IWW) freight tariffs can be negotiated within a range of plus or minus 20 percent of
the established tariffs, but rail freight tariffs are still strictly controlled with a view to helping to stabilize
major commodity prices. This remaining control results in allocative distortions between modes.
User Charge and Cost Recovery. User charges for each mode should be based on similar principles of
cost recovery and equity. The impact of port and waterway charges on international trade also needs to
be taken into account. No country aims at full cost recovery of IWT costs, including investment,
operation and maintenance. Even in the USA, revenue from user charges covers only about 15 percent of
the total. In China the rate of cost recovery varies by province. For example, in Jiangsu, user charges
recover about 60 percent of total costs (100 percent of channel operations/maintenance costs but 0
percent for new investment). IWT user charges in China presently include: (a) a Channel Maintenance
Tax, based on the gross revenues for SOEs and the registered tonnage of barges for other operators; (b) a
Shiplock Fee, based on gross tonnage of the vessel passing through the locks; and (c) a Channel
Construction Tax, charged in some Provinces according to the registered dwt of each vessel. The
structure of these charges needs to be reviewed from the point of view of revenue generation and
charging for infrastructure on the basis of costs imposed or benefits received. Reforms of 1994 allowed
Provincial Waterway Bureaus (PWBs) to establish their own Channel Construction Taxes, which now
varies significantly between them (for example, 2 Yuan/barge ton/month in Jiangsu and nothing in
Zhejiang). Since IWW cargo generally is of low unit value, and tariffs are low in the competing rail
mode, increases in user charges can result in mode shifts to more costly modes. To resolve this dilemma,
the National Government permitted a cross subsidy scheme, in which: (a) IWT agencies may own and
operate hydropower plants, and sell electricity as a byproduct of dams built for navigational purpose, and
use the revenues to finance navigation improvements; and (b) a new fund was established in MOF
making use of part of the revenue of the road vehicle purchasing fee and all of the port development



Page 4
fund.
IWT Administration. IWT agencies should manage the sector in the interests of users; they need to be
operationally and managerially efficient to enhance modal competitiveness. In addition, to maintain their
financial viability without necessarily increasing user charges, their own productivity needs to increase.
China's IWT agencies are more decentralized then those of other countries and several of their functions
have already been commercialized. Although PWBs themselves still remain part of the Provincial
Government administration, they are usually financially autonomous and are undergoing further reform.
Jiangsu Province Waterway Bureau (JPWB) is substantially autonomous and has separated designing
and construction dredging responsibilities by creating SOEs. Their procurement procedures for civil
works construction are based on competitive bidding, following a market economy. Similar
commercialization has been implemented in Guangdong Province.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The key sector issue to be addressed by the project would be: (a) encouragement of vessel size increase;
(b) development of planning and management capacity of IWT agencies; and (c) increased cost recovery
for new investments. For the sustainability of the project, modernization of the IWT fleet would critical.
However, while it is the responsibility of shipping operators to choose the vessels that best suit their
business, IWT agencies should create an environment that provides appropriate incentives. To help
achieve this, they need to become more knowledgeable about operations and of the infrastructure that is
needed to maximize the sectors' efficiency. To able to finance the investment needed, they must set their
user charges to cover their costs and provide for investment funding, while maintaining competitiveness
with other modes of transport.
Technical assistance (TA) will be provided for the second phase study on increasing vessel size to
encourage the use of larger vessels as well as the development of database to meet the future
development of a Management Information System (MIS). TA for navigational safety development and
institutional reforms leading to commercialization of the maintenance dredging department (Guangdong)
will also be provided.
Strategic Choices
Two Provinces, Guangdong and Jiangsu, have been chosen as a priority for the modemization and
reform process, because:
*  Jiangsu has the longest and Guangdong the second longest IWT networks (23 percent and 10 percent,
respectively, of the national total);
*  Guangdong and Jiangsu Inland Waterways carry the largest and second largest share of freight
traffic, respectively (53 million and 47 million tons, which comprise 18 and 16 percent of the
national total freight traffic, respectively);
*  Jiangsu and Guangdong Inland Waterways form the greater part of the Yangtze River and the entire
Pearl River Deltas networks, respectively, and;
*  their inclusion represents a continuation of the Zhejiang and Guangxi IWT being developed under
the first Bank-financed project.
If implemented successfully, this project would be a significant milestone for sustainable development of
China's IWT system.



Page 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components:
The project would include two major IWT Provinces, Guangdong and Jiangsu. Both Provinces have
decentralized their IWT functions and have well developed management organizations. Under the first
reform (1981-82), IWT management was decentralized from the Central Government to Provincial
Governments.  Waterway  Bureaus  (WBs)  were  created  under the  Provincial  Communication
Departments. The WBs were further reformed by separation of their commercial activities, such as river
port operation, and waterway dredging and design. They are now financially autonomous in terms of
operation and maintenance, but have not yet fully developed their planning and management capacity to
encourage modernization and commercialization of IWT industries. To address major issues, the project
comprises:
Cost Including
Contingencies % of Bank Fiancing % of Bank
Project Component                 Category        (US$ M)    Total   (US$ M)   Financing
Guangdong Province                                              165.9       100       70.0         42
Al. Renovation of Zhaoqing-Huatiaomen and      Physical         121.3        21       51.5         42
Lianhuashan-Shawan-Ronggui (L-S-R)
Waterways
A2. Enhancemant of maintenance dredging       Physical and       17.7        3        17.4         98
capacity and operational management       Institutional
A3. Technical assistance for institutional  Policy, Institutional  2.4        0        1.1         46
development and implementation support,   and Implementation
and training                                Support
A4. Resettlement, monitoring and maintenance    Implementation   22.3        4         0.0          0
during implementation                       Support
A5. Tax and duties                                                2.2         0        0.0          0
Jiangsu Province                                                123.4       100       53.0         43
Bl. Construction of five shiplocks             Physical         105.2        18       52.4         50
B2. Technical assistance for institutional  Policy, Institutional  2.2        0        0.6         27
development and implementation support,   and Implementation
and training                                Spport
B3. Resettlement, design and monitoring     Implementation       15.8         3        0.0          0
Support
B4. Tax and duties                                                0.20       0         0.0          0
Total                                                   289.3      100      123.0         43



Page 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* Encouragement of the modernization of IWT fleet to reduce its operating costs;
* Commercialization and capacity increase in planning and management of WBs; and
* Introduction of the strategic user charge for investment cost recovery into IWT sector.
Although the modernization of fleet is not the direct responsibility of WBs, a study resulting in specific
recommendations of how to achieve increases in vessel sizes, would be undertaken under the Project.
Database development as the first step of MIS will also be implemented. Guangdong and Jiangsu
Provinces plan to further increase cost recovery. Modal competition between rail and Inland Waterways
will be carefully monitored in terms of Inland Waterways freight tariffs, particularly the impacts of
possible IWT user charge increases and future rail freight tariff.
JPWB has been decentralized from Provincial Communication Department and is almost financially and
institutionally autonomous. GPWB is still going through the process and needs more assistance with its
institutional reforms. Under the project, GPWB will prepare a study for the commercialization of the
dredging department. A Management Information System (MIS) will be developed to modernize IWT
operation and increase planning capacity of IWT agencies (see Annex 8 for more details).
3. Benefits and target population:
Direct Benefits: would derive mainly from (a) reduction of transport cost by using larger vessels (G and
J) and by providing direct waterway access for oceangoing vessels for dry bulk and containerized cargo,
thus reducing transshipment cost (G); (b) reduction of shiplock waiting time (J), and; (c) a reduction of
congestion in other modes of transport (road and railwayXG and J). These benefits would accrue to both
project Provinces, as well as to the inland provinces of Shanxi, Shaanxi, Guizhou, Yunnan, and Guangxi
Provinces, from which coal (major cargo of IWT) is produced and transported to the south by waterway.
Other benefits would include: (a) safer IWT operation; (b) strengthened institutional capacity of IWT
agencies; (c) better planning of improvements to the IWT network; (d) introduction of improved
technology for more efficient maintenance for IWT, (e) poverty reduction by providing better access to
landlocked regions; and (f) environmental enhancement by improving narrow and abandoned channels in
the existing IWT system.
It is estimated that more than 57 million people would directly benefit from the proposed project (or
about 20 percent of the population in Guangdong and Jiangsu, and 5-10 percent of the adjacent/inland
Provinces).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The proposed project would be implemented by the PWBs of the Provincial Communication
Departments in each province. Ministry of Communication (MOC) will be the coordinating agency at the
Central Government level. Ministry of Finance will onlend to Provincial Governments. PWBs will
establish Project Management Offices and branch offices for regional implementation and will appoint
through a competitive process, qualified tendering company(ies) familiar with Bank procurement
guidelines. Supervision consultants for construction would be appointed locally. Both PWBs have rich
experience in implementing IWT investment projects for years albeit on a small scale. These Provincial
agencies also have experience in institutional development and management of the IWT network.



Page 7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
The IWT mode has the potential to be the most economical and environmentally friendly mode of
transport for low value bulk cargo over long distances. Alternative modes, road and railway, are heavily
congested and capacity expansion would require huge investments. For IWT, different waterways' cross-
sectional configurations and alternative channel developments for IWT network were compared as
alternatives. The proposed project was selected after the comparison of investment costs, level of future
maintenance (siltation problem), operational benefits, and connectivity with other parts of the IWT
network.
2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
Sector issue                          Project                Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings (Bank-financed Projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Bangladesh: Inland Water Transport
Improve IWT capacity                Rehabilitation Project (completed)                      S
Provide year-round efficient water  Thailand: Inland Waterways and                          US
transport for export                Coastal Port Project (completed)
Improve vessel safety               Bangladesh: Third Inland Waterways      S               S
Increase Inland Waterways traffic capacity Project (ongoing)
* Improve institutional capacity
Increase financial capacity of the IWT  China: Inland Waterways Project    S               S
agencies                           (ongoing)
Corporatize IWT agencies
Prioritize possible projects        Yangtze Economic Zone Transport        NA              NA
(YETZ) Study (completed)
Other development agencies             None
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposedproject design:
This project would be the second IWT project in China (the first project is ongoing) and Bankwide
experience in this subsector is very limited. China's first Inland Waterways project is progressing
satisfactorily both in physical and institutional terms (financial viability for the cross-subsidy from the
power generation and sale of electricity is not yet established). Major contracts for both civil works and
procurement of equipment have been awarded without any significant delays. Implementation is also
being carried out approximately on schedule. This is mainly due to the strength of China's executing
agencies in preparing engineering design and handling the bidding process. The first major institutional
reform was achieved through establishing a company for dam/shiplock operation by separating from the
Provincial Communication Department. Implementation of resettlement action plans and environmental



Page 8
action plans have also been satisfactory. Executing agencies are paying a lot of attention to the
conditions of resettlement as well as the progress made.
However, compared to the strength of China's executing agencies in the physical aspect, TA
components, such as institutional reform, appear to be less executed. Taking this into account, TA
components under the project were designed to be realistic, practical, and simple, but will be expanded
and developed further for future needs. TA will be helped by the first stage of a similar study being
implemented locally. Agreement of the TA implementation has been discussed upfront, from the
identification stage.
Bankwide experience in the port subsector based on OED's analysis of 35 projects completed between
1980 and 1992, indicates two major problems: (a) a long implementation period due to the
underestimation of civil work construction periods and a long procurement period; and (b) lower than
expected benefits through overoptimistic traffic projections. To minimize these problems, engineering
design for the proposed project has been substantially completed. Since the project would include no
complicated civil works, prolongation of project execution would be unlikely. The Bank has carefully
reviewed and reduced the traffic forecasts, and made them compatible with current expectations of
national, regional and provincial economic development.
Bankwide railway experience, based on findings by OED through the review of 40 Bank-financed
projects conducted between 1985 and 1992, also indicates optimistic traffic forecast as a major problem
followed by: (a) weak financial condition, (b) ineffective tariff policy, (c) institutional rigidity, and (d)
low operational efficiency. These findings are relevant to the proposed project, and the Task Team has:
(a) undertaken an exhaustive analysis of the borrowers financial viability; (b) determined that the present
tariff policy will generate sufficient revenues to fund counterpart expenditures and loan amortization; (c)
defined a realistic institutional reform program; and (d) agreed with the Borrower on a series of actions
that will increase productivity.
China's highway experience in some Bank-financed projects indicates: (a) inadequate quality of
construction and (b) cost overruns. Although the proposed project would not require advanced
technology for civil work construction, the project would take into account the need to use experienced
and competent contractors and supervision consultants, as well as a careful determination of project cost
estimates.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The project has been included in the Ninth Five-Year Plan and approved by the State Planning
Commission (SPC) and Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Ministry of Communications (MOC)
responsible for coordination of the project is strongly supportive of the project and has organized
workshops to assist Guangdong and Jiangsu WBs in preparation of the project. Commitments of the
Provincial Communication Departments for provision of counterpart funds have been made.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project (see C. 2 for more details):
*  Pressure to increase the average size of the vessel fleet, the single most important action for the
subsector to realize its potential cost advantages;
*  Continued modernization of IWT operations and commercialization of IWT agencies (i.e. dredging);
and
*  A stronger relationship between planning of waterway infrastructure and operations.



Page 9
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV = US$210.1 million; ERR = 21.4% [ Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[ Other
ERR        ENPV
Overall project      21.4%   US$210.1 million
Guangdong subproject  21.0%   US$103.3 million
Jiangsu subproject   21.9%   US$106.8 million
The economic evaluation was undertaken on the basis of cost minimization to satisfy a given level of
waterway transport demand. The evaluation was based on a comparison of the economic costs of
investment with quantified project benefits, which were those attributable to reduced vessel delays and
savings in vessel operating costs through operating larger ships. Since the financial analysis was based
on the revenues and expenditures of the Inland Waterway Bureaus, there is no direct relationship
between the outcomes of the economic and financial analyses.
Economic investment costs were derived by subtracting price contingencies, taxes and subsidies from,
and applying a shadow price for manual labor to, financial investment costs. Financial vessel operating
costs were converted to economic costs by eliminating taxes and subsidies.
The benefits of the Guangdong subproject would derive mostly from the operation of larger vessels on
the delta of the Pearl River. The benefits of the Jiangsu subproject would mostly arise from reductions of
delays at shiplocks on the Grand Canal, so a simulation model of vessels moving through the shiplocks
was used to generate projections of vessel delays and operating costs. The estimate of these benefits was
based on the outputs of a simulation model of more than 200 freight movements between their origins or
destinations, and taking account the rate of growth of demand for waterway transport, the operating costs
of vessels of different sizes and the rate of change of vessel size and the impact of the project on that
rate.
Sensitivity tests were made with variations in the assumed values for these key variables. A lower level
of demand for waterway transport would reduce the benefits of both subprojects, but much more in
Jiangsu, since the delay to vessels waiting to pass through the locks goes up more than proportionally
with the number of vessels. Similarly, at the low level of demand, the subproject would be marginally
unjustified. The benefits of this subproject would increase much more than proportionally with traffic.



Page 10
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSffiVITY TEST RESULTS
ERR (%)  ENPV (US$ mln)
Basic                                21.4         210.1
Guangdong                       21.0         103.3
Jiangsu                         21.9         106.8
Demand for waterway transport: Higher
Guangdong                       22.8         126.9
Jiangsu                         33.3         509.2
Demand for waterway transport: Lower
Guangdong                       17.9          59.0
Jiangsu                         11.5          -3.1
Change to larger vessels: Faster
Guangdong                       18.1          60.3
Jiangsu                         16.3           7.6
Change to larger vessels: Slower
Guangdong                       12.1           1.0
Jiangsu                         33.6         591.0
Large vessel operating costs: Lower
Guangdong                       23.7         130.3
Jiangsu                         22.1         108.9
Large vessel operating costs: Higher
Guangdong                       15.1          29.0
Jiangsu                         21.8         106.3
The average size of vessels presently operating in the two provinces is much less than the maximum
permitted on the waterways. In Jiangsu, this is in part because many of the voyages are for very short
distances, less than 50 kin, for which larger vessels would be inappropriate, but more because of the lack
of incentives to invest in larger vessels despite their overall cost advantages. The use of larger vessels
would reduce the benefits of the Jiangsu subproject because the delays at the shiplocks would be shorter.
This loss would be partly compensated by the savings in vessel operating costs on the remainder of the
voyage, and would not be large enough to make the project benefits unsustainable. Although there are
also many short distance voyages on the Pearl River, their impact is overshadowed by the large
proportion of longer voyages that would be able to benefit from the larger vessels that the subproject
would make feasible. Unlike in Jiangsu, the benefits of the Guangdong subproject would be increased
with a faster introduction of larger vessels.
If the cost advantages of larger vessels turn out to be less than assumed, the benefits of both subprojects
will be reduced, but not by enough to make them unjustifiable.



Page I 1
2. Financial (supported by Annex 5):
NPV (6% DCR)  FIRR
(Y million)    (%)
(a) Guangdong Province         403.8        9.3
(b) Jiangsu Province           386.8        7.8
(c) Whole Project              790.6        8.3
3. Technical:
All physical components of the project are based on detailed feasibility studies undertaken by the
Waterway Design Institute of each Province. These feasibility studies have been approved by the Central
Government. Coordination with related agencies, e.g., Port Authorities, Water Resource, Hydropower,
have been sought. Major technical concern, siltation problem and changes of water level after the
channel deepening/widening, have been carefully studied for the Guangdong component. Guangdong
used both physical and mathematical models as well as pilot dredging at the entrance channel to verify
the applicability of the mathematical model. For the Jiangsu component, siltation would not be a major
problem, since channels are separated with shiplocks and water flow is minimal. Cost estimates for all
components have been based on similar locally financed projects already carried out by GPWB and
JPWB. Detailed design has been and will be undertaken by experienced domestic consultants. Both
Guangdong and Jiangsu have experience in implementing similar projects, and there would be no major
problem in designing, supervising and implementing the project. The technical design of the project is
considered sound.
4. Institutional:
(a) Executing Agencies. Executing agencies for Guangdong and Jiangsu components will be
Guangdong Province Waterway Bureau (GPWB) and Jiangsu Province Waterway Bureau (JPWB),
respectively. They are under the Provincial Communication Departments and are responsible for the
management of physical Provincial IWT network. Although both Waterway Bureaus have no
experience in implementing the Bank-financed projects, the experienced Provincial Communication
Departments will provide guidance to familiarize Waterway Bureaus with procedures for Bank-
financed projects.
(b) Project Management. Each Waterway Bureau has established a Project Management Office (PMO),
which comprises Planning, Financial, Engineering/Procurement, Environmental Departments, as
well as local branch offices, to prepare and implement the project. Experienced tendering agencies
will be engaged to assist in procurement for both Provinces.
Extensive training will be implemented under the project for improvement of management and human
resource development.
5. Social:
The social impacts of this project are largely related to land acquisition. Guangdong component would
impact on 24 hectares of land (including fish ponds), of which 18 hectares are cultivated, affecting 128



Page 12
people. Jiangsu component would require the acquisition of 75 hectares of land, the borrowing of 287
hectares of land, and the demolition of 91,839 square meters of houses. The number of people affected is
1594, of whom 224 are planned to be reemployed in either agriculture or rural enterprises. 60 rural
enterprises would be affected by losing parts of their attached structures, but the majority of their
operations will not be affected. Extensive consultations have been undertaken in the design and
resettlement planning over the canal alignment to minimize adverse impacts. As a result, project impacts
have been minimized substantially. Resettlement action plans (RAP) have been completed and cleared
by the Bank. The RAPs provide an elaborate process of consultation with and participation of the various
stakeholders in the RAP planning, adverse impact analysis, legal framework for resettlement, strategy
and implementation program for compensation, relocation and livelihood development, budget and
financing arrangements, institutional setup, monitoring and grievance mechanisms. An institution is
already in place at different levels of government in both Guangdong and Jiangsu Provinces to
implement the RAPs. The project is expected to open up more economic opportunities to the population
in the project area. Women's role and access to resources are expected to remain the same in the project
area. They would benefit directly from the improved housing conditions and living environment under
the project and their access to economic opportunities is expected to be much enhanced.
6. Environmental assessment:
Environmental Category    [X] A []B   []C
Environment assessment (EA) of the project components have been carried out by the Scientific Institute
of Pearl River Water Resources Protection (Guangdong component), and by the Second Harbor
Engineering Investigation & Design Institute of Ministry of Communications, in association with Hehai
University (Jiangsu component). Preparation of the EA was based on national procedures, including
Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for Construction Projects
Financed by International Financial Organizations (June 1993, NEPA), and the Bank Operational
Directives 4. 01.
The draft EA documents such as Environmental Impact Assessment Reports (EIAs), Environmental
Action Plans (EAPs) and Executive Summary were submitted to the Bank in December 1997.
Subsequent to the appraisal, the revised EA documents were submitted to the Bank in March 1998 and
found satisfactory.
The major findings and discussions in these documents are summarized below. More detailed
information about the EA is provided in Annex 10* to this document.
(a)    Guangdong Component
Potential Impacts. Major potential impacts during the construction phase include: short-term
degradation of water quality due to dredging and shoreline construction activities; noise pollution due to
construction work; and loss of aquatic habitat. Those during the operation phase include long-term
increase in shipping traffic noise and increased volume of ship wastes. The EIA determined there are no
cultural/heritage properties, environmentally sensitive or protected areas nor endangered fauna/flora in
the project area. The EIA determined that concentrations of key contaminants in sediments proposed for
dredging are less than the national Class II Soil Quality Criteria and therefore suitable for on-land
disposal or use for general fill or farmland.
Mitigation Measures. Measures have been identified to mitigate potential impacts. These are similar to
measures adopted for the China Inland Waterway I Project and which have been found to successfully



Page 13
reduce impacts. These measures include: (a) excavation of much of the channel widening/straightening
in the "dry" rather than dredging, (b) construction of temporary coffer dams and/or other water control
structures to protect key water intakes, (c) strict regulation of construction work during nondaylight
hours, (d) enforcement of stricter shipping regulation of wastes from ships and (e) environmental
monitoring at major environmentally sensitive points, including water intakes.
Public Consultation and Feedback Public consultation has been carried out during the preparation of
the project. The following activities were conducted: (a) a series of workshops with participation by
experts; (b) receipt of comments from key decisionmakers; (c) interviews with local people and
representatives through a public opinion survey and questionnaire; and (d) public availability of EA
documentation. The EA documents were made available to the public at GPWB in November 1997. The
documents were also sent to the Public Information Center.
Feedback from the consultation included: (a) issues of flood control and potential impacts on fisheries;
(b) potential impacts on water intakes during the construction phase; and (c) waste disposal of increased
volume of ship during the operation phase. These were addressed in the EIA and EAP.
(b)   Jiangsu Component
Potential Impacts. The EIA identified several potential major impacts during the construction phase:
short-term degradation of water quality due to dredging and construction activities along the shoreline,
and noise pollution due to construction work. Those during the operation phase include noise and
increased volume of ship waste. The EIA determined no cultural/heritage property, environmentally
sensitive or protected areas nor endangered fauna/flora are observed in the project area. The EIA
determined the concentrations of key contaminants in sediments proposed for dredging are less than the
national Class II Soil Quality Criteria and therefore suitable for on-land disposal or use for general fill or
farmland.
Mitigation Measures. Measures have been identified to mitigate potential impacts. These are similar to
measures adopted for the China Inland Waterway I project and which have been found to successfully
reduce impacts. The measures include: (a) excavation of soils for new shiplocks in the "dry", (b)
construction of temporary coffer dams and/or other water control structures to protect key water intakes,
(c) strict regulation of construction work during nondaylight hours, (d) enforcement of stricter
regulations of wastes from ships and (e) environmental monitoring at major environmentally sensitive
points, including water intakes.
Public Consultation and Feedback. Public consultation has been carried out during the preparation of
the project. The following activities were conducted: (a) a series of workshops with participation by
experts; (b) receipt of comments from key decisionmakers; (c) interviews with local people and
representatives through a public opinion survey and questionnaire; and (d) public availability of EA
documentation. The EA documents were made available to the public at JPWB in January 1998. The
documents were also sent to the Public Information Center.
Feedback from the consultation included: (a) potential impacts on water quality during the construction
phase; and (b) environmental management needs to be implemented in an appropriate manner. These
issues were addressed in the EIA and EAP.



Page 14
7. Participatory approach
(a) Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups. The primary beneficiaries of the project are
the Inland Waterway shipping companies and river port authorities in Guangdong and Jiangsu
Provinces. However, the project will also benefit shipping companies outside of the project
provinces that will access to the project Inland Waterways. Cargo owners and consumers of goods
will also be beneficiaries after the improvement of Inland Waterways Transportation. They were
broadly consulted during project preparation on the occasion of provincial committee meetings,
workshops and general consultations for environmental and social assessment.
(b) Other Key Stakeholders. These include: (i) the related local government agencies (i.e., Provincial
Planning   Commission,   Construction   Commission,   Environmental   Protection   Bureau,
Municipalities), which require project coordination during both project preparation and
implementation, and (ii) villages and persons affected by the project. Extensive coordination was
carried out with the local agencies. In the process of formulating resettlement policies and preparing
the RAP, special attention was provided to consultation with affected communities and people.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
It is expected that the project will be designed so that the impact of the user charge will be absorbed by
the transport cost saving from the increased vessel size and waiting time reduction. Proper and realistic
financial and institutional reforms would also be carefully designed and implemented in the project. This
project is expected to be a significant step for sustainable IWT development in China.
2. Critical risks:
Risk                                     Risk Rating   Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to development objectives
1. IWT mode will remain uncompetitive        N        1. Borrower will set user charges within an appropriate range
altough it is the least cost mode for much           based on careful comparison with rail/road costs and tariffs.
traffic.
2. Vessel size conversion with increased size  M      2. Study to promote vessel size increase will be implemented
is not realized                                       and measures will be recommended
3. IWT agencies will be financially          N        3. New tariff and institutional structures will be aimed at
unsustainable.                                        giving cost reduction incentives to IWT agencies, and revenue
potential to ensure their financial sustainability.
Project components to outputs
1. Implementation quality is unsatisfactory.  N       1. Quality of engineering supervision groups will be ensured.
2. Reform action plans are not sufficiently  N        2. TORs and Plans will be reviewed carefully.
realistic and applicable.
Overall Risk Rating                          N
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 15
3. Possible controversial aspects:
None likely.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions:
Standard conditions for effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
Agreement to be reached with MOF, MOC, GPWB and JPWB
*  Account/Audits. GPWB and JPWB should appoint independent auditors which are acceptable to the
Bank and make financial audit reports available to the Bank within six months after the close of each
fiscal year.
* Monitoring, Review and Reporting. GPWB and JPWB shall: carry out satisfactory procedures for
monitoring the progress of the project in terms of physical execution and financial reports and
furnish quarterly progress reports to the Bank.
-  Financial Performance. GPWB and JPWB shall: beginning 1999, prepare annually a rolling five-
year financial plan satisfactory to the Bank.
* Guangdong Province will: (i) prepare under guidelines acceptable to the Bank a plan for the
collection of additional revenues for GPWB, including a channel construction fee, for the purpose of
raising the annual revenues of GPWB; (ii) by no later than July 1, 1999 furnish to the Bank for its
review and comments said revenue collection plan; and (iii) take all action necessary on its part to
put into effect said revenue collection plan for the fiscal year starting January 1, 2000, taking into
account the Bank's views thereon.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X]   The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and the project is
ready for implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[X1   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and are ready for
implementation.
[X]   The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[1 ]  The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



Page 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[1 ]  [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Manager: Toshiro Tsutsumi
Sec        reffreyS.Gutman



Page 17                                                 ANNIEX I
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary              Key Perfornance Indicators Ln    Monitoring and Supervision  Critical Assumptions and Risks
CAS Objective                                                                                   (CAS Objective to Bank
Reduce infrastructure                                                                                Mission)
bottlenecks by modemizing
IWT subsector
Project Development Objectives                                                              (Development Objectives to 4CAS
Provide more efficient and                                                                          Objective)
productive IWT services      * Reduction in cost per ton-km    * Monitor and assess the transport * Industry will respond by
* Increase in average vessel dwt    cost  .                    increasing vessel cargo capacity
* Assess the transport cost for  (size)
IWT and railway             * Capital investment in fleet will
* Monitor vessel size increase  be available
Project Outputs                                                                                (Outputs to Development
* IWW are upgraded in         * Traffic of vessels in design size  * Monitor and evaluate via         Objectives)
Guangdong and larger size of   * Shiplock waiting time is reduced  progress reports and supervision * Upgraded channels are properly
vessels are navigable        * Average tonnage per lockage at   missions                    operated
* Shiplock capacity in Jiangsu is   each shiplock increases  * Financial conditions are     * Shiplock is properly operated
increased                   * Specific recommendations are   monitored by five-year rolling   * Barge size increase is profitable
* Competition with railway is   made for vessel size increase  plans                         to users
appropriate after the possible    * Financial monitoring indicators
user charge increase          in five-year rolling plan are
* Vessel size increase study is  agreed
completed
* MIS database is established
* Computerized financial
accounting is established
Project Components            Cost of components, including    Inputs are monitored and        (Components to Outputs)
Guangdong Provin              contingencies, (in $'000)      evaluated via progress report and  Implementation quality is
* Upgrading Xijiang Channel               90,084             disbursement report            satisfactory
(168 km long)
* Upgrading L-S-R Channel                 25,710
(90 km long)
* Navigational Safety                     23,284
Improvement
* of which
* Renovation of Maintenance             5,766
Stations
* Procurement of equipment,            17,369
including one dredger,
maintenance equipment, GPS
System, and maintenance
and work boats
* Navigational Safety Study               148
* MIS and computerized finan-               368
cial accounting system devel-
opment
* Training                                   868
Jiangsu Province
* Expanding shiplock capacity            105,159
along Grand Canal (5 shiplocks)
* MIS and computerized financial
accounting system development              181
* Training
1__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   550         ___
La Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and
full impact.



Page 18                                                ANNEX I
ANNEX 1A: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010
I Average Vessel Size (dwt)
Guangdong (Provincial WWs)         310.0 325.5 341.8 358.9 376.8 395.6 415.4 436.2 458.0 480.9 505.0 530.2 556.7
Jiangsu (Provincial WWs)            84.2  86.6  89.0  90.4  91.8  93.2  94.6  96.0  96.8  97.6  98.4  99.2  100.0
2 Shiplock Waiting Time (hours/vessel)
Jiangsu
Xietai                           1.1   1.3   1.5
Suqian                           0.6   0.8   0.9
Huaiyin                          0.8   1.0   1.2
Huaian                           0.8   1.0   1.2
Jianbi                           0.6   0.8   0.9
3 Financial
Guangdong
Working Ratio(%)                  88    82    71    71    70    70    70    70    70
Self-financing Ratio (%/e)     -10.0   2.5  10.4   8.7  30.2  -3.6  -3.2   0.4  100.0
Debt-service Coverage Ratio (%)  -0.3   1.4   3.0   2.2   2.1   0.7   0.7   0.7   1.3
Jiangsu
Working Ratio (%)                 51    48    47    47    47    47    47    47    47
Self-financing Ratio (%)         131    90    70    71    59    53    49    63    63
Debt-service Coverage Ratio (%/6)    46.8  33.3  18.4  12.9  12.5   5.4   7.4   7.7   9.2



Page 19                                ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
GUANGDONG PROVINCE
Component 1-US$121.3 million
(Renovation of Zhaoqing-Huatiaomen (Z-H) and Lianhuashan-Shawan-Ronggui (L-S-R) Waterways)
(a) Renovation of Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen (Z-H) Waterway. Z-H waterway will be renovated, by
widening, deepening and short-cutting (100 m wide, 6.0 m deep and 650 m radius of bend) to
accommodate up to 3,000 dwt oceangoing vessel. This component would include: (i) stone works
(2,097,000 mi3), (ii) dredging- (8,984,000 m3), (iii) slope protection with stone (217,000 mi3), (iv)
shoal explosion (569,000 m ), (v) short-cutting (earth works 3,373,000 m3, slope protection with
stone 258,000 m3, and shoal explosion 19,000 m 3).
(b) Renovation of Lianhuashan-Shawan-Ronggui (L-S-R) Waterway. L-S-R waterway will be renovated,
by widening, deepening and short-cutting (80 m wide, 4.0 m deep and 500 m radius of bend) to
accommodate up to 1,000 dwt oceangoing vessel. This component would include: (i) stone works
(145,000 mi3), (ii) dredging (1,032,000 m3), (iii) slope protection with stone (120,000 mi3), (iv) shoal
explosion (265,000 m ), (v) short-cutting (earth works 2,111,000 m3, slope protection with stone
20,000 m3, and no shoal explosion).
(c) Construction of Channel Markers. 107 markers (48 water and 59 land markers) on Z-H and 58
markers (19 water and 39 land markers) on L-S-R waterways with control station and remote
monitoring system will be constructed.
(d) Renovation of Waterway Maintenance Station. Stations at Zhaoqing and Jiangmen for Z-H and at
Chencun and Rongqi for L-S-R will be renovated.
(e) Construction of Docks. 4 terminals for Inland Waterways work boats will be constructed at Zhaoqing
and Jiangmen for Z-H and at Chencun and Rongqi for L-S-R.
Component 2-US$17.7 million
(Enhancement of maintenance dredging capacity and operational management)
The following will be procured under the project:
(a) Suction Hopper Dredger. One suction dredger for emergency channel dredging with capacity of
1,000 m3/h.
(b) Channel Marker Work Boats. Two channel marker work boats with 300 kW power.
(c) Channel Maintenance Work Boats. Four maintenance work boats with 140 kW power.
(d) Speed Boats. Four speed boats with 60 kW power.
(e) GPS Survey System. One set of GPS survey system.
(f) Maintenance Equipment. Four sets of maintenance equipment and battery chargers for four
maintenance stations.
(g) Telecommunication Network System. Telecommunication system for vessel navigation and
management.
(h) Traffic Vehicle. Six cars.



Page 20                                ANNEX2
Component 3-US$2.4 million
(Technical assistance for institutional development and implementation support, and training)
(a) Construction Supervision. Supervision consultants will be appointed.
(b) Development of Management Information System. Software development and hardware will be
procured to create a new database. Data would include the following: (i) vessel registration number,
(ii) owners name, address, telephone, (iii) number etc., (iv) date the vessel was constructed or rebuilt,
(v) size of vessel (length, width, draft), (vi) horsepower fuel type, (vii) deadweight ton (dwt), (viii)
net registered ton (NRT), (ix) maximum speed, (x) type of vessel (bulk dry, bulk liquid, container),
(xi) provinces in which vessel registered, (xii) crew size, (xiii) other relevant factors.
(c) Navigational Aids Development Study. Consultants will be engaged in study for designing
navigational aides at the congested entrance channels.
(d) Training Program. An extensive domestic and overseas training program will be implemented.
JUANGSU PROVINCE
Component 4-US$97.6 million
(Civil works for construction of the five shiplocks)
(a) Construction Shiplocks. Five shiplocks (four on the North Grand Canal and one on the South Grand
Canal) would be constructed. The four shiplocks on North Grand Canal (at Xietai, Suqian, Huaiyin,
and Huaian) will be able to accommodate 2,000 dwt barges and are 23 m wide, 260 m long (only
Xietai has 230 m) and 5 m deep. One on the South GC at Jianbi is to accommodate 1,000 dwt barges
and width of 23 m, a length of 230 m, a depth of 4.0 m.
Component 5-US$7.6 million
(Goods for the five shiplocks)
(a) Equipment for Shiplocks. Shiplocks equipment (gates, hoists, computerized control systems, etc.)
would be procured.
Component 6-US$1.7 million
(Technical assistance for institutional development and implementation support, and training)
(a) Construction Supervision. Supervision consultants will be appointed.
(b) Study on the increase in vessel size and Development of Management Information System.
Consultants will be engaged to: (i) review the outcome of the first phase study which was
implemented by local funds; and (ii) implement the second phase study, including development of a
database which would include information similar to Guangdong Province's.
(c) Training Program. An extensive domestic and overseas training program will be implemented.



Page 21                                         ANNEX 2
Training Plan for Guangdong [Component 3-(d)]
Domestic                      Foreign
Nature of Training                                        Number   Month               Number   Month
1. Policy Support:
Inland Waterway Development, Planning and Financing     0         0                 10         0.5
Inland Waterway Management                              0         0                  8         0.5
Environmental Monitoring and Protection                10         0.5               10         0.5
Subtotal                                         10                           28
2. Implementation Support:
Waterway Construction and Maintenance                  20         1.0               20         1.0
Design                                                 10         1.0               10         0.5
Construction Supervision                               15         1.0               20         0.5
Procurement and Contract                               10         1.0                5         1.0
Subtotal                                         55                           55
3. Institutional Development:
Financial Management                                   20         1.0               15         1.0
Economic Analysis and Evaluation                       10         1.0               10         0.5
Project Management                                     10         1.0               20         0.5
Computerization                                        10         1.0                0         0
English                                                10         3.0                0         0
Subtotal                                        60                            45
Grand Total                                     125                          128
Training Plan for Jiangsu [Component 6-(c)1
Domestic                      Foreign
Nature of Training                                        Number   Month               Number   Month
1. Policy Support:
Inland Waterway & Shiplock Operation & Management        0         0                  5         1.0
Environmental Monitoring & Protection                   10         0.5                6         1.0
Subtotal                                          10                           11
2. Implementation Support:
Shiplock Design                                          0        0                   5         1.0
Construction Supervision                                12         1.0                8         1.0
Procurement and Contract                                 5         1.0                6         0.5
Subtotal                                          17                           19
3. Institutional Development:
Financial Management                                    10         1.0                8         1.0
Economic Analysis and Evaluation                         5         1.0                0         0
Project Management                                       8         1.0               30         0.5
English                                                  8         3.0                0         0
Subtotal                                                   31                            38
Grand Total                                       53                           68



Page 22                                         ANNEX 3
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Y'000                       US$'000           % foreign
Local   Foreign    Total      Local  Foreign   Total   exchange
(A) Guangdong Component
Civil Works                            462,403  353,712    816,115    55,913  42,771   98,684    43
Zhaoqing to Hutiaomen Waterway (WW)   383,066  224,268    607,334    46,320  27,118   73,438    37
L-S-R WW                              64,948  105,967    170,915      7,853  12,813   20,667    62
Maintenance Stations and Terminals    14,389   23,477     37,866      1,740   2,839    4,579    62
Equipment                                2,101  124,804    126,905       254  15,091   15,345    98
T/A and Training                         8,211    8,868      17,079      993   1,072    2,065    52
of which:
Policy Support                           391    1,423       1,814       47     172      219
Implementation Support                 6,737    2,727      9,465       815     330    1,144
Institutional Development              1,083    4,718      5,801       131     570      701
Resettlement                            35,065        0     35,065      4,240      0    4,240      0
Monitoring, IWW maintenance            134,966        0    134,966    16,320       0   16,320      0
Base Cost                      642,746  487,384  1,130,130    77,720  58,934  136,654    43
Physical Contingency                    54,023   52,614    106,637      6,532   6,362   12,894    49
Price Contingency                       77,346   38,898    116,244      -',353   4,703   14,056    33
Tax and Duties                          18,559        0      18,559     2,244      0    2,244      0
Total Project Cost             792,674  578,896  1,371,570    95,849  70,000  165,849    42
(B) Jiangsu Component
Civil Works
Shiplock Construction                 190,889  311,451    502,340    23,082  37,660   60,742    62
Channel Construction                 146,970        0    146,970    17,771       0   17,771      0
Equipment                                    0   51,890     51,890         0   6,274    6,274   100
T/A and Training                        10,440    3,950      14,390     1,262    478    1,740    27
of which:
Policy Support                           133      549        682        16      66       82
Inplementation Support                 9,263      671      9,934      1,120     81    1,201
Institutional Development              1,044    2,730      3,774       126    330       456
Resettlement                            62,520        0     62,520      7,560      0    7,560      0
Base Cost                      410,819  367,291    778,110    49,676  44,412   94,088    47
Physical Contingency                    38,524   32,556     71,080      4,658   3,937    8,595    46
Price Contingency                       75,282   38,463    113,745      9,103   4,651   13,754    34
Design and Monitoring                   55,679        0     55,679      6,733      0    6,733      0
Tax and Duties                           2,000        0      2,000       242       0      242      0
Total Project Cost             582,304  438,310   1,020,614    70,412  53,000  123,412    43



Page 23                                ANINEX 4
ANNEX 4: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Objective
1.    The objective of the proposed Project is to increase the efficiency, improve the quality and
reduce the costs of inland waterway transport on the Grand Canal in the province of Jiangsu and oni the
Pearl River waterway in the province of Guangdong. Between them, these two provinces account for
more than 50 percent of the freight transported by waterways in China, and in total they account for rnore
waterways transport than any country other than the United States. Although the Grand Canal is; the
oldest man-made waterway still in operation, its has suffered from lack of development and it shiplocks
now act as bottlenecks to its maintaining its share of freight transport. The project in Jiangsu will reduce
rapidly increasing congestion at the major shiplocks, while in Guangdong the project will allow the use
of ships of up to 3,000 dwt on the Z-H waterway and up to 1,000 dwt on the L-S-R waterway.
Alternatives Considered
2.    Although congestion in Jiangsu, and the use of inefficient small ships in Guangdong, already
increase transport costs, the operational and cost impacts will escalate as demand increases. The
alternatives considered included using different modes to transport the expected increases in freight
traffic, and improving the waterways to different standards.
3.    Waterways need less investment per unit of additional capacity than other modes, and the
potential to operate at lower costs, particularly for bulk products transported over distances of about 500
km (the higher costs of access and transshipment make waterways more expensive over shorter distances
and for nonbulk products). Through previous lack of investment in new capacity, these benefits are not
presently being realized
COMPARISON OF FREIGHT TRANSPORT COSTS BY MODE AND DISTANCE (US cents per ton-km)
Mode/Distance   300 km      500 km    1,000 km   2,500 km
Inland waterway    5.0        3.0       1.2        0.8
Railway            4.5       3.5.       2.5        2.2
Road               4.6       4.4        4.2        4.0
Notes: Estimates are for bulk products transported door to door using 500 dwt vessels, 1,000 net ton unit trains or
3S ton semitrailers. Bank estimates
4.    Jiangsu. The proposed Jiangsu subproject will provide for a capacity increase of approximately
50 million tons per year on the Grand Canal, at a total cost of about US$124 million. Providing the same
capacity increase in the railway would require an investment of at least US$500 million (250 km of
single-track railway at US$2 million per km) and rather more for equivalent road capacity. Providing
new shiplocks with a capacity for vessels of only 500 dwt instead of 1,000 dwt would block the future
operation of these larger vessels, needed both to maximize the capacity of the Canal and to minimize
operating costs. However, the present average vessel size is less than 100 dwt, and unless additional
measures are taken to encourage the use of larger vessels, neither the cost advantages of waterway
transport of the potential benefits of the new shiplocks will not be realized.



Page 24                                 ANNEX 4
5.    Guangdong. Improvements to Guangdong subproject are aimed more at reducing transport costs
than increasing capacity. It would no be possible to the same potential cost savings by investing in other
modes of transport. In addition, the alternative road and rail modes are already operating at or over
capacity and further costly investment would be needed to accommodate the waterway traffic. The
alternatives considered were to increase the maximum ship size to 5,000 dwt on the Pearl River and to
3,000 dwt on the L-S-R waterway. Improving the waterways to a higher standard would not bring any
worthwhile additional benefits, while lower standards would not allow sufficient cost savings to justify
the investment. In addition, several alternative accesses to the sea from the Pearl River delta were
examined, and rejected as being more expensive than the selected option while offering no operational
advantages.
Method of Economic Evaluation
6.    The economic evaluation of the subprojects in the two provinces was undertaken independently
since the benefits of each are of a different nature and there is no operational connection between them.
The basic data on which the simulation models model were calibrated, the model specifications and
calibration results, as well as the detailed results of their application, are available in the Project Files.
7.    Jiangsu. The evaluation of benefits of this subproject was based on the outputs of a shiplock
queuing model, which estimated the queue lengths, vessel waiting times and delay costs that would arise
with and without the proposed investments. The model also took account of the distribution of vessel
sizes using the locks, the projected increase in waterway traffic and the changing pattern of demand
throughout the year.
8.    Capacity at shiplocks has an impact on delays similar to that of an intersection on the capacity of
a highway. Until a critical point is reached, increases in traffic cause few delays, but once that point is
passed, delays increase rapidly and queue lengths become very long and unstable. Average waiting time
not only increases rapidly, but becomes subject to large variations. The five shiplocks that would have
their capacity expanded under the project are already operating close to or beyond this critical point, with
average demand to capacity ratios in excess of 1.0. However, the large variation in traffic between
different days of the month and seasons of the year, allows these delays to dissipate quickly. As traffic on
more days of the year approaches the critical point, dissipation of the delays becomes more difficult and
delay costs escalate quickly. Three of them have already passed the optimum timing for capacity
increases, and the other two will reach that point within two years of the opening of the proposed
capacity increases. Although the investment in each of the shiplocks was evaluated separately, their
development should be considered as a single project. Increasing the capacity of one of them without
addressing the others, would simply transfer the queue to the next unimproved shiplock, and few benefits
would accrue.
9.    Guangdong. The benefits of this subproject were estimated from the outputs of a shipping
operations simulation model. It took account of the origins and destinations of more than 200 traffic
flows, the operating costs of vessels of different sizes and the projected composition of the vessel fleet.
The model determined the least costly movement with and without the proposed project, including ship
type and waterway route, for each traffic flow, and the total cost in each case. Since no impact of the
subproject on the size and orientation of trade flows was not taken into account, the method of evaluation
was one of cost minimization.
10.   At present, many shipments, particularly of coal and containers, are made in small vessels for the
waterway part of the voyage, with transshipment to or from a larger seagoing vessel near to the mouth of



Page 25                                   AN1NEX 4
the River for the sea voyage. Increasing the size of vessel that can use the waterway would allow these
shipments to use a seagoing vessel from origin to destination and avoid the costs of transshipment,
although the seagoing part of the voyage would be in a smaller and less efficient ship. The benefit would
therefore only apply to voyages involving relatively short sea movements, such as those of coal from
Vietnam and ports on the South China Coast, or of containers to Taiwan or Korea. Most containers for
more distant destinations are presently transshipped at Hong Kong or ports near the mouth of the Pearl
river, and these movements are unlikely to change their pattern, although the river part of the voyage will
be able to take advantage of the larger vessel capacity. The present ship sizes on the Pearl River delta are
much less than the maximum permitted, since many movements are for local products such as cement,
transported over short distances for which small vessels are more appropriate. Even with the project
these movements will continue to be made in small vessels, so the average ship size will only increase to
a little more than 300 dwt.
11.    The estimated benefits of the project are subject to assumptions about:
*  the rate of growth of the economy,
*  changes in the infrastructure and methods of operation of transport modes competing with the
waterway;
D  the rate of change of the vessel fleet to take advantage of the increased depth of water, and;
*  the operating costs of ships of different sizes.
All these parameters were investigated through sensitivity tests made with the simulation model.
12.    The proposed improvements to the Pearl River waterways are interdependent. Allowing for
3,000 dwt vessels to use the Z-H waterway will divert some traffic from the L-S-R waterway, while
improvements to the latter to allow vessels of up to 1,000 dwt will attract some traffic that would
otherwise have to use the Z-H waterway. The benefits from undertaking both improvements together are
therefore greater than the sum of doing them both independently, and this is reflected in the application
of the simulation model and in the evaluation results.
Basic Assumptions
13.    The most important of the large number of assumptions been made to explore the impact of
many variables on the two subprojects are shown in the following tables:
WATERWAY TRAFFIC GROWTH RATES (%)
1995to2000 2001to2010 2011to2020
Low waterway traffic growth rate
Jiangsu                   4.0       4.0       3.0
Guangdong                 5.0       4.0       3.0
Basic waterway traffic growth rate
Jiangsu                   5.0       5.0       4.0
Guangdong                 5.8       4.6       4.0
High waterway traffic growth rate
Jiangsu                   6.0       6.0       5.0
Guangdong                 6.9       6.0       5.0



Page 26                                                  ANNEX 4
AVERAGE VESSEL SIZES (dwt)
Without project     With project
Jiangsu (all shiplocks on northem
section of Grand Canal)
1995                                66.0               66.0
2000                                70.6               70.6
2005                                75.6               88.3
2010                                83.1               110.3
2015                                91.4               137.9
2020                                100.6              172.4
Guangdong (2010)
Upper reaches of Z-H waterway           194                327
Lower reaches of Z-H waterway            184               381
L-S-R waterway                          199                342
VESSEL OPERATING COSTS
Generic ship operafing costs-        Low              Basic               High
US cents per ton-km
50 tons                            10.78            13.54              16.25
1OOtons                            7.91             9.31              10.43
300 tons                            4.35             5.12               5.74
500tons                             2.38            2.80                3.14
1,000 tons                          1.23            1.46                1.62
3,000 tons                          1.00             1.17               1.31
Guangdong                      Upper reaches of  L-S-R waterway    Lower reaches of
US cents per ton-km             Z-H waterway                          Z-H waterway
Average without project
2000                                9.29             9.19               9.46
2005                                9.20             9.15               9.40
2010                                9.15            9.10                9.35
2015                                9.10             9.05               9.30
2020                                9.05            9.00                9.25
Average with project
2000                                8.63             8.46               8.46
2005                                8.43             8.24               8.24
2010                                8.23             8.03               8.03
2015                                8.10             7.88               7.88
2020                                7.96             7.73               7.73
Jiangsu,
US cents per vessel hour       Without project    With project
Average without project
1995                               12.19           12.19
2000                               11.98            11.85
2010                               11.34            10.80
2020                               10.67            10.12
Evaluation Results
14.      The overall economic rate of return (ERR) of the two components of the project taken together is
21.4 percent and the economic net present value is US$207.2 million. The Jiangsu subproject has an



Page 27                                   ANNEX 4
indicated ERR of 21.9 percent and an ENPV of US$106.7 million. The indicated economic rate of return
(ERR) and a net present value (ENPV) of Guangdong subproject are 21.0 percent and US$100.5 million
respectively. If the two parts of this subproject were to be made independently, the Z-H Waterway
improvements would show an ERR of 17.5 percent and an ENPV of US$45.5 million, while the 1S-R
Waterway improvements would have an ERR of 20.2 percent and an ENPV of US$42.2 million.
SUMMARY OF ECONOMIC EVALUATION RESULTS
ERR    NPV    Invest
(%/6)  (US$ mln)- (US$ min)
Jiangsu Shiplocks
XietaiNo.2    28.7  55.1     12.0
HuaianNo.3    17.8   7.4     19.1
Huaiyin No.3    22.8  17.4   17.2
SuqianNo.3    20.6  18.1     20.6
Jianbi No.2   15.9   8.7     17.4
Subtotal    21.9  106.7     86.3
Guangdong
Z-H Waterway    17.5  45.5   95.3
L-S-R Waterway  20.2  42.2   27.5
Subtotal    21.0  100.5    112.8
Total        21.4  207.2    199.1
Results of Sensitivity Tests
15.   Jiangsu. The evaluation results for this component are very sensitive to the growth in traffic and
inversely related to increases in vessel size. If the rate of growth of traffic were to be at the lower levels
indicated, the ERR would fall to 11.5 percent and the ENPV would be slightly negative at -US$3.1
million. Conversely, if waterway traffic increased at the higher rates show, the ERR would increase to
33.3 percent and the ENPV to US$509.0 million. The capacity of the shiplocks depends on the mix of
vessel sizes that use them. A given volume of freight transported in smaller vessels would take more
time to pass through them than the same volume of freight transported in larger vessels. So the benefits
of the project would be reduced (although the cost of transport would also be significantly reduced) if the
fleet comprised larger vessels.
16.   The impact of vessel size had been tested in two ways. First, the average vessel size might
increase more slowly than assumed, whether or not the project is implemented. A slower increase would
result in an ERR of 33.6 percent and an ENPV of US$591.1 million. A faster increase in vessel size,
while being beneficial in terms of vessel operating costs, would reduce the subproject's ERR to 16.3
percent and its ENPV to just US$7.6 million. Second, it is hoped that implementation of the project
would itself lead to a faster increase in average vessel size than would occur otherwise. If this comes
about, the ERR would increase to 22.6 percent and the ENPV to US$108.9 million, whereas is there were
to be no impact of the subproject on ship size, the ERR would reduce to 21.4 percent and the ENPV to
US$100.2 million.
17.   These increases would be the result of two counterbalancing effects, the larger vessels would
reduce the delays at the shiplocks, and also the benefits of the project, while the lower operating costs of



Page 28                                          ANNEX 4
the larger vessels would be an additional benefit attributable to the project. Even under the most
optimistic assumptions about the introduction of larger ships, most of the freight on the Grand Canal
would still be transported in small ships since these are the only ones that have access to the feeder
canals. Only increasing the maximum vessel in these canals or introducing a system of transshipment
from large to small vessels, would the use of larger vessels increase significantly. The evaluation results
are therefore relatively insensitive to assumptions about the operating costs of larger vessels compared to
smaller ones. Even with a large range of assumptions about these costs, the ERR does not vary by more
than one percentage point above or below the basic value, and the ENPV varies only within a range of
+/- US$2 million.
18.    Projecting how delays at shiplocks will increase as more vessels try to use them  is an inexact
science and highly dependent on the mathematical formulation of the model used. The model used here
assumes that vessels will arrive at the shiplocks according to a Poisson distribution, and that the service
rate, the time that it takes a vessel to pass through the system, will follow a Rectangular distribution.
Small variations in the values of the parameters of these models can have a large impact on the size of
the projected delays. Several different forms of delay model were testedI with a wide range in their
parameter values. The evaluation results were found to highly sensitive to both the form of the model and
its parameter values. However, the existing delays at three of the five shiplocks are sufficient to justify
the proposed investments with no increase in demand. For the other two, all the models with parameter
values that reasonably representation delays with the present level of traffic, indicated acceptable levels
of ERR and positive values of ENPV.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY TESTS FOR THE JIANGSU SUBPROJECT
ERR             ENPV           Probability
(%/0)        (US$ min)          (%)
Basic                                      21.9           106.7             50
Lower demand for IW transport              11.5            -3.1             30
Higher demand for IW transport             21.1            101.1            20
Probability weighted result                21.1            101.3
Slower growth in vessel size               33.6           591.0             20
Faster growth in vessel size               16.3             7.6             20
Very fast growth in vessel size            13.2            31.6             10
Probability weighted result                22.3           123.1
Larger vessel size through project         22.1           108.9             30
No increase through project                21.4            100.2            20
Probability weighted result                21.9            106.6
Higher operating costs of larger ships     21.8           106.3             30
Lower operating costs of larger ships      22.1           108.9             20
Probability weighted result                21.9           107.0
Slower growth of congestion                17.9            52.1             30
Faster growth of congestion                30.4           282.4             20
Probability weighted result                22.4            72.4
Alternative model specifications
Random arrivals                            22.4            110.6            25
Independent service times                  22.6           114.7             25
Probability weighted result                22.4            109.7
Axrivals distributed according to a Poisson or random pattern and service rates according to Erlang or
independent distributions. See The Optimum Number of Berths at a Port, WB Staff Working Paper No.29,
1968.



Page 29                                       A1NNEX 4
19.    Guangdong. The evaluation results for the Guangdong component are most sensitive to
assumptions about the benefits of lower operating costs of larger vessels. This component of the project
would have an ERR of 15.1 percent and an ENPV of US$29.0 if the operating costs of larger vessels
were to be higher than assumed, but 23.7 percent and US$130.3 million respectively with lower costs
(that is, higher subproject benefits) for larger vessels. The benefits are also sensitive to the rate at which
existing smaller ships would be replaced by the larger ships needed to take advantage of the improved
waterways. At present less than 20 percent of the ton-km are transported in ships that take advantage of
the existing limits, so additional incentives would be needed to encourage the conversion of the fleet to
the even larger vessels needed to maximize benefits of the subproject. If after ten years only 40 percent
of the traffic that could take advantage of the improved waterway to be transported in larger ships had
made the change instead of the 80 percent assumed in the base case, the ERR would be just 12.1 percent
and the ENPV close to zero.
20.    A high proportion of the benefits of this component of the project would accrue to existing
traffic, so the economic rate of return is relatively insensitive to the assumed growth in traffic. With the
lower rates of growth of traffic indicated in the above Table, the ERR would be 17.9 percent and the
ENPV US$59.0 million. If there were no growth in traffic, the ERR would fall to 4.5 percent and the
ENPV to US$6.1 million.
RESULTS OF THE SENSITIVITY TESTS FOR THE GUANGDONG SUBPROJECT
ERR           ENPV          Probability
(%/6)       (US$ min)         (%)
Basic                            21.9%           100.5           50%
Lower demand for IW transport    17.9%           59.0           30%
Higher demand for IW transport   22.8%           126.9          20%
Probability weighted result     20.4%            93.3
Slower growth in vessel size     12.1%            1.0            10%
Faster growth in vessel size     18.1%           60.3           40%
Probability weighted result      20.9%           97.9
Higher operating costs of larger ships  15.1%    29.0           30%
Lower operating costs of larger ships  23.7%     130.3          20%
Probability weighted result      19.3%           76.6



Page 30                                    ANNEX S
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Major Financial Reforms
1.     Provincial governments assume most of the responsibilities for waterways in China through the
provincial IWW authorities, which handle day-to-day management, operation, construction and
development. Major projects or plans affecting the long-term development of the provincial IWW sector,
however, require the approval of MOC.
2.     During the last few years, some major changes have been made to improve the effectiveness of
the provincial IWW financial administration and reporting procedures. These included the following:
(a) New Accounting Standards. Beginning July 1, 1993, the MOF introduced accounting reforms to all
government agencies and State-owned Enterprises (SOE) by issuing revised accounting standards.
The reforms were also part of the Government's efforts to deepen its "Open Door" policy, and was
an initial step to transform the planned economy to a market-oriented economy. The first step of the
accounting reform was to link the Chinese accounting practices with general international accounting
standards. Further accounting reforms will be necessary to fully convert the Chinese standards and
practices to the international standards.
(b) Changing the Sources of Project Financing. The grants from the State to finance capital
construction of projects have been replaced by a mixture of grants and commercial loans. The PWBs
are now required to repay these loans from their internal cash generation. The impacts of this policy
are: (a) reduced budgetary appropriation from the State; and (b) the need to repay loan (principal and
interest) pressurizes fund recipients to maximize the profitability of projects through better business
management practices.
(c) Tariffs. There are two sets of tariffs: (a) the basic tariff which is regulated by the State and is
national in scope, such as the channel maintenance fee; and (b) the provincial tariff which is
regulated by the province such as channel construction fee and may not be consistently applied
throughout the country; for example, while JPWB collects such a fee, GPWB has not promulgated
one. Beginning 1998, the channel maintenance fee payable by SOEs was reduced from 8 percent to 6
percent. This would result in a lower profit margin for the WBs, particularly for GPWB which may
even incur occasional losses during the construction period.
Past and Present Financial Positions
3.     The financial results for each provincial WB (1993-96) are summarized below:
Guangdong Province                   Jiangsu Province
1993   1994   1995   1996           1993   1994   1995   1996
Traffic (million tons)      162.73  177.59  154.86  161.00      259.15  272.97  271.61  288.00
Total revenue (Y million)   185.68  214.84  225.33  226.60      370.44  569.36  723.10  730.29
Operating costs, tax and expenses  155.21  185.13  190.66  199.34  286.38  360.25  391.67  422.50
(Y million) La
Net cash surplus (Y million)  30.47  29.71   34.67  27.26        84.06  209.11  331.43  307.79
Working ratio (%)            71     73     72     75             64     52      43     45
/a Jiangsu has a very low depreciation while Guangdong has none at all.



Page 31                                       ANINEX 5
4.     Between 1993 and 1996, the net cash surplus for Guangdong has been diluted as there waes no
major tariff increase. The average growth of operating revenue (6.9 percent a year) was slower than the
growth of operating expenses (8.7 percent a year).
5.     For Jiangsu, revenues grew faster than traffic between 1993 and 1996 due to the introduction of a
new tariff item (channel construction fee) in 1994. During this period, average revenue per ton of cargo
handled increased from Y 1.43 to Y 2.54 (or 21 percent annually). Despite the increase in fees, there was
no decrease in shipping traffic indicating that the industry could successfully absorb increases. Operating
cash surplus, assisted by the lower growth in operating costs (increased by 11.4 percent annually), has
consequently tripled during the period.
6.     Both JPWB and GPWB have proven very effective in controlling operating costs. For exarnple,
between 1993 and 1996, average operating cost increases in these two provinces (8.7 percent for
Guangdong and 11.4 percent for Jiangsu ) were lower than the general price inflation in the nation (14.2
percent). In particular, GPWB managed to lower operating cost increases to an annual average of 8.7
percent in spite of the province being one of the fastest-growing areas in China with economic growth
averaging nearly 20 percent per year since 1980, and recent data indicates no slackening in this lpace.
IWW traffic in Guangdong has almost doubled during the last ten years.
7.     Besides their sound financial performance, it should be noted that profits for the PWBs are
generally overstated since depreciation, which is a part of the operating costs, has not been properly
accounted for. For example, Guangdong has no depreciation while Jiangsu has a very low provision. To
better reflect operating costs, the PWBs agreed to increase the amount set aside for depreciation umder
the project.
8.     The two WBs are financially sound. As of December 31, 1996, current assets substantially
exceeded current liabilities, with over two-thirds of the current assets in the form of cash. The cuTrent
ratio was in the comfortable range of 3.2 and 1.6 for Guangdong and Jiangsu, respectively. There are no
long-term debts for the two provinces. The salient points of the balance sheet for 1995 and 1996 are as
follows:
Guangdong (Y million)                      Jiangsu (Y million)
1995          1996                        1995          1996
Assets:
Fixed assets/_a                      153.53        173.10                     1,123.48      1,496.12
Current assets                        191.5        230.13                      375.87         585.05
Other assets                             0             0                         9.62          9.89
Total                     345.03        403.23                     1,508.97      2,091.06
Equity                                 298.38        331.63                     1,140.31      1,728.06
Long-term debts                            0             0                            0             0
Current liabilities                     46.65         71.60                      360.34        355.06
Other liabilities                          0             0                         8.32          7.94
Total                     345.03        403.23                     1,508.97      2,091.06
Current ratio                             4.1           3.2                         1.0            1.6
Debtl(debt + equity) ratio                 -             --                           --           --
La Net value based on historical cost.



Page 32                                  ANNEX 6
Future Financial Performance
9.     To forecast future financial projections of the PWBs (1997-2006), it is assumed that (a) cost of
depreciation would be increased gradually from 0 percent and 0.84 percent to 6.19 percent and 2.63
percent of total operating costs for Guangdong and Jiangsu, respectively; (b) overall operating costs
would increase by 3 percent per year in addition to the general price increase; and (c) GPWB will collect
a channel construction fee for the project areas. In relation to total fixed assets, the overall depreciation
rates would increase from 0 percent and 5.7 percent to 5.8 percent and 8.1 percent for Guangdong and
Jiangsu, receptively.
10.   The Guangdong Provincial Government intends, starting in the year 2000, to collect a channel
construction fee in the project areas. The fee only applies to general cargo and container ships over
1,000 dwt because these are the biggest beneficiaries of the proposed project. The fee ranges from 8 to
17 percent of estimated total transport costs savings and should not deter potential users.
GUANGDONG: THE PROPOSED CHANNEL CONSTRUCTiON FEE
Over 1,000 dwt and under
3,000 dwt ships                     Over 3,000 dwt ships
General cargo (Y/ton)          0.5         (3.0)                      3.0         (40.0)
Container (Y/teu)              5.0        (60.0)                    150.0       (1,600.0)
Note: The figure in parenthesis represents the estimated total transport cost savings for the IWW users.
11.   With the project, the average growth of fixed assets during the project construction period would
be 15.7 percent for Guangdong and 13.5 percent annually for Jiangsu. As a result the investment in fixed
assets in 2006-the first operating year after completion of the project-would be 4.3 times and 3.6
times greater than the level in 1996 for Guangdong and Jiangsu, respectively. The FIRR of the project is
estimated at 8.3 percent ( 9.3 percent for Guangdong and 7.8 percent for Jiangsu). Working ratio for
Guangdong would be in the range of 70-88 percent; for Jiangsu, it would be 47-51 percent.
Financial Sensitivity Analysis and Risk Assessment
12.   The financial condition of the WBs depends on the capital investmnent and the amount of annual
operating revenue they generate which is directly related to (a) the volume of traffic volume, and (b) the
amount of channel construction fee for Guangdong. Several financial sensitivity scenarios were carried
out to examine the impact on the viability of the project, namely, reducing the level of traffic by 10
percent, increasing capital cost by 10 percent, reducing the channel construction fee by 50 percent and
the omission of the collection the fee. The results show that not collecting of the fee has a much greater
impact than the changes of traffic volume. Without the collection of the fee, GPWB will not be able to
fully support its daily operating cost from its operating revenue.
13.   If the IWW traffic is reduced by 10 percent, the FIRR of the project would drop to 4.7 percent
(8.1 percent for Guangdong and 2.8 percent for Jiangsu). Increasing the capital cost by 10 percent has the
least effect on the project. It should be noted that the lower traffic forecast used in the financial
evaluation is the outcome of Guangdong province implementing a very extensive highway construction
plan which would compete with waterways on short distances. Jiangsu province has decided to build a



Page 33                                          ANNEX 5
railway line in Subei. The railway will compete with waterways on long distances in the area. The best
estimate average first 10-Year annual traffic growth (1997-2007) of 2.6 percent for Guangdong and 3.0
percent for Jiangsu was adopted.
14.    The results of the financial sensitivity analysis for 2006 is shown as follows:
FINANCIAL SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS-2006 (in %)
Guangdong                                    Jiangsu
Base   Traffic    Capital   The Fee   No          Base      Traffic   Capital
Case  10%/oless cost +10%   50%1less  Fee         Case    10% less  cost +10%
Profitability:
RatereturnonANFAla          3       -1.9       3        -0.5    -4.3          39        35         38
Operating ratio            75       82        75         80      86           48        50         48
Working ratio              70       77        70         75      81           47        49         47
FIRR                       9.3      8.1       8.3       6.2      2.7          7.8       2.8        7.8
Liquidity:
Current ratio              1.5    -0.1        1.5       -0.5    -0.5          3.9       3.4        3.8
Leverage:
Debit service coverage     1.3      0.3       1.3       0.6    -0.3           9.2       8.4        9.2
Debt / (debt + equity) ratio    43.8    48.1  50.0      46.4    49.3         16.7       17.3       16.7
La Average net fixed assets (historical value).
15.    To ensure that the project will be successful financially, an assurance was obtained from the
PWBs that beginning in 1999, the WBs will prepare annually a rolling five-year financial plan which
would include the projected traffic, revenues, costs, capital expenditures and have it discussed with the
Bank.
16.    For monitoring the financial performance, the working ratio, self-financing ratio and debt service
coverage ratio were selected as financial indicators. During project supervision, these finarncial
performance indicators would be closely monitored by the Bank. A variance of less than +/- 15 percent
would be acceptable. The WBs would be required to improve their financial performances by increasing
tariffs or reducing costs or capital expenditures in the event that the selected targets are not achieved.



Page 34                                      ANNEX 5
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (in %)
Guangdong                                            Jiangsu
Working  Self-financing   Debt Service             Working  Self-financing   Debt Service
Ratio       Ratio      Coverage Ratio              Ratio        Ratio      Coverage Ratio
1998       88          -10           -0.3                     51           131           46.8
1999       82          2.5            1.4                     48           90            33.3
2000       71          10.4           3.0                      47          70             18.4
2001       71          8.7            2.2                      47          71             12.9
2002       70          30.2           2.1                      47          59             12.5
2003       70          -3.6           0.7                      47          53             5.4
2004       70          -3.2           0.7                      47          49             7.4
2005       70          0.4            0.7                      47          63             7.7
2006       70          100            1.3                      47          63             9.2
Notes: Working ratio = (Operating Costs - Depreciation ) / (Operating Revenue - Business Taxes)
Self-financing ratio = Average of the last three years' total investments / (Net profit + Depreciation)
Debt service ratio = (net profit + depreciation) / (principal + Interest)
Training
17.    To introduce modern financial techniques to the provinces, a technical assistance and training
program were prepared and agreed with the Borrowers. The training has three modules: (a) domestic
training, (b) overseas training, and (G) foreign experts assistance in China.
18.    The contents of the training include, but are not limited to, the following: (a) domestic training:
international accepted accounting standard and practices, business English, computer training; (b)
overseas training: marketing, financial management, business strategies, fund flow management; and (c)
professional financial experts to be engaged to help the IWW staff in implementing above in China.
19.    Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a)    the Government,
(i) will onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to the PWBs on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank;
(b)    the WBs will:
(i) submit to the Bank, the audited financial statements not later than six months after the end
of each financial year;
(ii) beginning in 1999, prepare annually a rolling five-year financial plan and discuss it with the
Bank; and
(c)    GPWB will:
(i)  prepare under guidelines acceptable to the Bank a plan for the collection of additional
revenues for GPWB, including a channel construction fee, for the purpose of raising the
annual revenues of GPWB;
(ii) by no later than July 1, 1999 furnish to the Bank for its review and comments said revenue
collection plan; and
(iii) take all action necessary on its part to put into effect said revenue collection plan for the
fiscal year starting January 1, 2000, taking into account the Bank's views thereon.



Page 35                                ANNEX S
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
PROCUREMENT
All procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, revised in January and Auguist of
1996 and September 1997. The bidding documents for civil works and goods will follow the Model
Bidding Documents published by MOF.
Domestic Preference. In the procurement of civil works and goods, domestic preference may be granted
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55, and Appendix 2 of the
Guidelines.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
About 83 percent ($102 million) of the loan would be used for financing civil works and goods procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). About 14 percent ($18 million) of the loan woulld be
used for financing civil works procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB), and about 3
percent ($4 million) for TA and training.
Civil Works. Dredging works for Xijiang (from Zhaoqing to Hutiaomen) and L-S-R channel for
Guangdong component, and construction of the five shiplocks for Jiangsu would be procured through
ICB. Since the nature of the works is not complicated, other minor works for Guangdong (e.g. bank
protection, short-cutting of shoals, shoal blasting, minor channel excavations, etc.), costing less than $10
million and would not attract foreign bidders, will be procured through NCB (estimated aggregate
amount of $28.8 million).
Goods. Major equipment (dredgers, boats and shiplock equipment) would be procured through ICB. For
each of Guangdong and Jiangsu, small pieces of equipment (e.g. survey equipment, maintenance parts)
of which the contract price would be less than $200,000 per contract with an aggregate not exceeding
$1,000,000 would be procured through International or National Shopping procedures. International
Shopping will be applied to contracts of over $100,000 and below $200,000 per contract (estimated
aggregate amount of $600,000 for each Province). Goods costing less than $100,000 per contract with an
aggregate amount up to $400,000 for each Province may be procured through National Shopping.
TA and Training. TA for both Guangdong (MIS development and navigation safety study) and Jiangsu
(2nd phase study the increase of vessel size) would be small with each contract estimated to cost less
than $100,000 and will be procured through Consultants' Qualifications or Others (selection of
individual consultants). Training will be implemented on an annual basis in accordance with the
requirement of the Central Government. Training will be carried out mainly at training institutions that
offer general training courses, following a comparison of training courses offered by institutions.
Not Bank-financed components would include: (a) Xijiang (B-H) construction for Guangdong which
requires advanced implementation ahead of the Bank-financed components, and entrance channel
construction for five shiplocks whose construction are small in scale but would require a step-by-step
program in line with the resettlement and land acquisition schedule.



Page 36                                 ANNEX 6
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
Civil works contracts estimated to cost over $1.0 million, and contract for goods with a contract price
more than $500,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Prior review for civil works and
equipment would cover 77 percent and 19 percent of the total Bank loan, respectively, and in aggregate
would amount to 96 percent of the loan. Contracts for consultant services exceeding $100,000 for firms
or $50,000 for individuals will be subject to the Bank's prior review. However, Terms of Reference for
all consultant services will be subject to the Bank's prior review. For the contracts that do not require
Bank's prior review, a post review will be carried out on the basis of one out of four contracts.
DISBURSEMENT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
The loan would be disbursed against: (a) 62 percent of works for Guangdong and Jiangsu components,
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditure, 100 percent of local expenditure (ex-factory cost) and 75 percent
of local expenditures for other items procured locally, (c) 100 percent of expenditure for consulting
services and training.
Use of Statements of Expenses (SOEs)
Withdrawal from the loan account would be made on the basis of SOEs for expenditure for: (a) civil
works under contracts costing less than $1.0 million, (b) goods under contracts costing less than
$500,000, (c) services provided by consulting frms under contracts costing less than $100,000, and (d)
services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000.
Special Account
Each of Guangdong and Jiangsu would have a separate special account with an amount of $4.0 million.
Advance Contracting
Guangdong and Jiangsu Provinces requested advanced contracting and retroactive financing. The amount
subject to retroactive financing is estimated at about $12.3 million. This amount would apply to
payments made after March 30, 1998.



Page 37                                ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6, TABLE A: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Method                      Total Costs
Expenditure Category        ICB       NCB       Other    NBF   (including contingencies)
Guangdong Component
1. Civil Works             56.8       28.8               35.7          121.3
(34.0)    (17.5)                            (51.5)
2. Goods                    16.4                 1.0      0.3            17.7
(16.4)              (1.0)                    (17.4)
3. Services                                      1.4       1.0            2.4
(1.1)                    (1.1)
Jiangsu Component
1. Civil Works             75.3                          22.7           98.0
(44.9)                                      (44.9)
2. Goods                     6.6                 1.0                      7.6
(6.6)              (1.0)                    (7.6)
3. Services                                      0.6       1.4            2.0
(0.5)                    (0.5)
Total               155.1       28.8      4.0      61.1          249.0
(101.9)    (17.5)    (3.6)     (0.0)        (123.0)
Notes: (1) NBF = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items).
(2) Other includes: (a) procurement of goods through International/National Shopping, and (b)
consultant services.
(3) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit



Page 38                                           ANNEX 6
ANNEx 6, TABLE Al: CONSULTANT SELECTION ARRANGEMENTS (OPTIONAL)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                         Selection Method                               Total Cost
Expenditure Category    QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS        CQ       Other     NBF    (including contingencies)
A. Firms                                                  0.3                0.2             0.5
B. Individuals                                                     0.1                       0.1
Total                                            0.3       0.1      0.2              0.6
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  = Quality-based Selection
SFB   = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  = Least-Cost Selection
CQ   = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
NBF  = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
ANNEX 6, TABLE B: THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
Expenditure               Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to Prior Review/Estimated
Category                   (Thlshold)               Method              Total Value Subject to Prior Review
(US$'000)                                             (USS million)
1. Works
Guangdong and Jiangsu         1,000                ICB, NCB          All contract, except for shopping items
totaling US$157 million of contract price
2. Goods
Guangdong and Jiangsu          500                ICB and NCB        All contracts, except for shopping items
totaling US$25 million of contract price
200-100          International Shopping   No prior review is required
100             National Shopping    No prior review is required
3. Services
Training               100 for firms and 50 for                      Terms of references totaling US$0.45 million
individual consultants                       of contract price
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: S182 million
($119 million)



Page 39                               ANNEX 6
ANNEX 6, TABLE C: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$ million    Financing Percentage
Guangdong Component
1. Civil Works                                43.0                     62
2. Goods                                      15.0                 100/100/75
3. Consultant Services and Training            1.0                    100
4. Unallocated                                11.0
Subtotal                               70.0
Jiangsu Component
1. Civil Works                                38.0                     62
2. Goods                                       6.0                 100/100/75
3. Consultant Services and Training            0.5                    100
4. Unallocated                                 8.5
Subtotal                               53.0
Total                                  123.0



Page 40                                 ANNEX7
ANNEX 7: INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND REFORMS
A. GUANGDONG COMPONENT
Present Organization
The Guangdong Provincial Waterways Bureau (GPWB) is a unit of the Guangdong Provincial
Communications Department (GPCD) and is responsible for construction, maintenance and management
of waterways within Guangdong Province. Part of the GPWB organization includes bureau in Dongjiang,
Xijiang, Beijiang, Yuezhong, Yuexi, Yuedong, Meizhou, Shenzhen, Zhuhai and a Waterway Station at
Guangzhou.
The GPWB fee collection system is based on vessel ownership: fees from state-owned, multimodal,
joint-venture and foreign-owned units are collected directly by GPWB; fees from collective and
individually owned vessels are collected by local communications department offices. At present, the
system cannot keep up with increasing waterway traffic demands.
To increase inland waterway transportation efficiencies and better make use of the extensive natural
waterway resource in the Province, the following five-point reform program is proposed to be
implemented during the Second Inland Waterway Project.
Objective of Institutional Reform
(a) Waterway Management System Reform. The Guangdong Provincial Government has decided to
promote GPWB from divisional level to deputy director level status within GPCD. At the same time,
building on the existing regional system, GPWB is planning to establish, by the end of 1998, five
additional waterway bureau at Zhongshan, Dongguan, Jiangmen, Yangjiang and Shaoguan.
(b) Human Resource Development. To improve the competency and quality of waterway management,
GPPWB will implement a training program to include foreign study tours and domestic and overseas
training. In particular, the program will focus on waterway financial management experience in
developed countries to further strengthen the proposed financial reforms and waterway financial
management expertise.
A total of 123 person (139 person-months) will receive domestic training; 92 persons (81 person-months)
will take part in overseas training. Estimated training cost is US$0.7557 million (equivalent to Y 6.205
million), of which US$0.6885 of the Bank Loan will be used. Detailed information is provided in
"Training Plan for Proposed Second Inland Waterways Project-Guangdong Province."
(c) Establishing a Dredging Corporation. To better utilize the proposed purchase of a new suction
hopper dredge, GPWB proposes to establish a limited liability financially independent corporation. The
trailing suction hopper dredge will have a capacity of 800-1,000 m3/hr, with annual production of
1,500,000 m3 and staffing of 60-70 people.



Page 41                                ANNEX7
TIME SCHEDULE FOR DREDGING CORPORATION
Content                                           Time
Order equipment                                   1998
Put auxiliary equipment into use; technical crew training    1999
Trailing suction hopper delivered and commissioned  2000
Put dredge into general operation                 2001
ESTIMATED DREDGING ACTIVITY
Volumes                     Time
300,000 m3                  2000
1,500,000 m3                2001
1,880,000 m3                2002
(d) Financial Information System (FIS). The purpose of an FIS will be to share data source, enhance
cooperation among departments and increase work efficiency and overall management. The FIS reform
will focus on computerization of the accounting, financial management and waterway fee collection
systems. The computerized accounting will replace manual accounts recording and preparation of
fmancial statements. Computerization of the financial management system will provide a greatly
improved means for overseeing the financial status and generating financial information and analysis
reports. Computerization of the fee collection system will permit: (i) automated ticket issuance and
account settlement; (ii) setting up a vessel registration system to provide information on vessel
operational characteristics (e.g., ship owner's name, address, telephone, date of manufacturing of
renovation, ship type (length, width draft) horsepower, net tonnage, maximum speed and place of
registration.
FIS IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Item                                  Time
System design and installation      1998-2001
Accounting computerization system   1998-2000
Financial management system         1999-2002
Fee collection system               1998-2002
(e) Financial Reform Plan. Through the proposed training and other human resource development,
modem financial techniques and approaches would be applied to increase departmental efficiency. The
work is scheduled to be completed by 2000. Access to additional financial resources, in particular use of
domestic ftnds, will be explored to improve the financial condition of the Waterways Bureau.



Page 42                                  ANNEX 7
B. JIANGSU COMPONENT
Technical Assistance for Designing of a Basic Capability for Inland Navigation Systems Analysis
(Second Phase Vessel Size Increase Study)
Outline Terms of Reference
1.    Subject. A Program to Improve the Operating Efficiency of the Inland Waterway Fleet of China.
2.    Introduction. It has been identified that an increase in the average vessel size of the Jiangsu
inland waterway fleet is critical to accomplish an increases in Inland Water Transport (IWT) efficiency
and reduction in the congestion of channels, shiplocks and ports. The Government of China (GOC)
recognizes this importance, and Jiangsu Province Waterway Bureau (JPWP) has recently completed a
study for vessel size increase. The study provides a review of the current situation and includes
recommendations for future IWT development. It is indicated that although the number of larger (i.e.
1,000-3,000 dwt) vessels is expected to increase, projections reported by the government show that by
the year 2010, over 84 percent of the fleet will still consist of these very small vessels of less than
500 dwt. More importantly, the number of these vessels are projected to increase from their current level
of 25,400 to nearly 40,500 by the year 2010, and to over 45,600 by the year 2020. The JPWP recognizes
that this situation cannot be permitted to continue, and is well along in completing research and
formulation of a definitive program which will result in a much more efficient IWT fleet.
3.    Objectives: The major objective of the proposed study is to establish a basic analytical
capability within the JPWB for inland navigation systems analysis for project planning and capital
investment decision making. To achieve these objectives the following must be accomplished:
(a) Develop computerized tools for analysis of an optimum IWW fleet, and install on a JPWB computer;
(b) Establish a JPWB capability in inland navigation systems analysis;
(c) Identify the socioeconomic, financial and cultural issues to realize this fleet composition;
(d) Provide recommendations, regulations and incentives to encourage shipping companies to increase
the average vessel size of their fleet.
4.     Scope of Work
(a) Develop a Detailed Plan of Study for the successful completion of the study, including specific
program recommendations for improving the operating efficiency of the Jiangsu Province Inland
Waterways System. The proposed study should lead to a specific government program for assuring
that the number of very small vessels (e.g. less than 500 dwt) not be permitted to increase beyond
that necessary to transport cargo over segments of inland waterways where larger vessels cannot
transit, or where the market is so small as to prohibit the efficient use of large vessels. The size and
nature of such vessels should be specified, and "larger vessels" should include the use of barges and
push-tows as well as self-propelled vessels. The final program should include one or more,
regulations, prohibitions, incentives and/or subsidies to facilitate the implementation of this program,
since social and economic deterrents will otherwise undermine its success. Recommendations should
include social, as well as economic, mitigation.
(b) Conduct a Traffic Flow Analysis, river origin to river destination, by major commodity types. It
should include only those commodity groups which make up the majority of the total cargo, such as
coal, logs, building materials, etc.
(c) Inventory and Evaluate IWW Characteristics and constraints of the inland waterway system as
they affect the use of vessels, especially vessels greater than 100 dwt, within the boundaries of the



Page 43                                  ANNEX 7
origin-destination Study Component I above. This would include a computerized representation of
the inland waterway system over which this traffic is transported, and include as a minimum, channel
width, depth, and radii of bends, bridges and their characteristics, as well as locks and other water
oriented structures or activities which might represent a constraint on the safe or efficient operation
of commercial navigation.
(d) Inventory and Evaluate Vessel Characteristics including vessel dimensions, horsepower, cargo
carrying capacity, crew size, fuel consumption, operating cost, vessel users fees, etc. Most of these
data should already exist.
(e) Match Current Vessel Types, by Commodity T, by Origin/Destination. Inventory a variety of
larger vessel types which might service these markets in the future. Coordinate with members of
study components III and IV, and prepare data in proper computer input format.
(f) Input and Run the IWW Model, and identify those segments of inland waterborne commerce
where the volume of traffic is sufficient to use larger vessels, both current and projected. Where
constraints are identified, they should be specified, along with estimates of the solution and cost of
removing the obstacle. Optimize current and projected traffic flows and present the most
economically efficient fleet operation for this traffic. Identify costs and savings in both operating
costs, capital improvements and maintenance costs (e.g. the delay of lock replacements, etc.).
(g) Formulate Alternatives and Identify the Current and Future Optimum Fleet Size and Their
Vessel Characteristics, identify the socioeconomic, financial and cultural impacts and barriers to
the replacement of these segments of the fleet. Formulate specific alternative programs which could
be used to minimize negative impacts and maximize positive impacts. Write final report and make
specific program recommendations to meet the Study Objectives.
5.    Current Status of the First-Phase Study. The first-phase study (detailed above) is currently
being conducted and supervised by JPWB. JPWB has agreed that upon completion of their study, all of
the study components outlined above may be reviewed in detail by an international consulting company
with experience in inland waterway planning, systems analysis, port and vessel operations, and computer
simulation modeling. Consulting firm will evaluate the appropriateness of the models and verify its
application in this study. Any differences, be it in the model, the data, or the analysis and conclusions
will be addressed at that time.
6.    Study Schedule. The diagram below provides a proposed time outline for the study.
Comp.       Component         Month   Month   Month    Month   Month    Month    Month
No.          Name              1       2        3        4       5        6        7
I  Plan of Study & Mgmt                       _       _ -
II  Traffic Flow Analysis
III  IWW Characteristics
IV  Vessel Characteristics
V   Match Characteristics
VI  Input and run IWW Model
VII Formulate recommendations
& Write Final Report



Page 44                                 ANNEX 8
ANNEX 8: MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (MIS)
In preparation for the introduction of a modem computerized accounting system, GPWB should create a
Management Information System (MIS) database for vessel operations. Under this project Steps 1 and 2,
as described in the following text, are recommended to be implemented.
Step 1.  Create a computerized database of all vessels registered in Guangdong or Jiangsu Province.
Step 2.  Develop basic analytical capability of this computerized database. Data would include the
following:
* vessel registration number
* owners name, address, telephone number etc.
* date the vessel was constructed or rebuilt
* size of vessel (length, width, draft)
* horsepower
*  fueltype
* deadweight ton (dwt)
* net registered ton (NRT)
* type of vessel (bulk dry, bulk liquid, container)
- other Provinces in which vessel registered
The additional steps have been provided to assist JPWB in future enhancements of their MIS:
Step 3.  Add operating statistics to the Step 1 database. For example, when loading cargo, the vessel
registration number would be recorded along with type of cargo (e.g., coal), amount of cargo,
origin, destination, cargo owner and specific routing information, as appropriate. This would
give the Government and the company basic tonnage and operating data.
Step 4.  Create a computerized database of the Jiangsu Province inland waterways, channels, major
ports, rail/highway links, system constraints (e.g., bridge clearance, channel bends, etc.).
Step 5.  Integrate the databases created in Steps 1 and 4 and create basic computer programming
capability to conduct origin/destination tracking of vessels throughout the system.
Step 6.  Develop a simplified inland waterway fee collection system based on Step 5 computerization.
Step 7.  Simulate a provincewide waterway fee collection system.
Step 8.  Pilot test the new fee collection system.
Step 9.  Modify and implement the new fee system.
Step 10. Create a database on commodity flows handled on Jiangsu inland waterways.
Step 11. Expand database to include ocean ports and transshipment points (if not already included in
Step 4 database).
This inland waterway system should be developed with the objective of eventually integrating it into a
complete Inland Navigation System Analysis, suitable for inland waterway planning, project evaluation
and design.



Page 45                                ANNEX9
ANNEX 9: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
GPWB and JPWB (the executing agencies) will establish financial management acceptable to the Bank
as below:
Accounting. The executing agencies modified their accounting system under the instruction of MOF and
maintained the new system since July 1993. The purpose of the modification was to link Chinese
accounting system with general international accounting standard. The proposed project will be managed
by the new accounting system which has been proven adequate. The executing agencies have their own
financial departments with the experienced capable financial staff. Their capability has been proven
through implementation of similar (but smaller) project to the proposed project.
Auditing. The executing agencies will be audited by Provincial Auditing Bureaus under the
authorization of State Audit Administration (SAA). Both of them have been experienced in auditing
Bank-financed projects. Jiangsu Provincial Communication Department also has Audit Division which
will periodically audit financial situation of JPWB. Auditing report will include:
(a) Project Financial Statements to oversee progress of the project
(b) Executing Agency Financial Statements to ensure the project is financial viable and may warrant
continued funding
(c) Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) to verify that claimed expenditures were properly supported
(d) Special Accounts to verify that funds were properly disbursed for project-related expenditures
throughout
(e) Reports on Internal Control to report outlining any recommendation for improving internal
accounting controls identified as a result of a financial statement audit
Financial Reporting. It was agreed that the executing agencies will submit the following three types of
financial reports not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year following the format
acceptable to the Bank:
I. Financial Statements consisting of:
(a) Statement of Sources and Uses of Fund;
(b) Statement of Cost by activities, showing the actual against budgeted costs with variances (Cost
Variance Report);
(c) Statement of unit Variance comparing the actual and planned physical output with the actual and
planned cost for each unit of output;
(d) Project Expenditure forecast for six months by activity;
(e) Special Account Reconciliation Statement, which will be the basis for replenishment; and
(f) Expenditures by disbursement categories.
II. Project Progress Report
III. Procurement Report for prior review contracts for goods, works and consultants' services.
Although GPWB and JPWB have no experience in borrowing the Bank loan, Guangdong and Jiangsu
Provinces have good records in complying the Bank's financial covenants.



Page 48                                ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND ACTION
PLAN SUMMARY
Background
1.    Environment assessment (EA) of the project components have been carried out by Scientific
Institute of Pearl River Water Resources Protection (SIPRWRP) for the Guangdong component and by
the Second Harbor Engineering Investigation & Design Institute of Ministry of Communications in
association with HeHai University for the Jiangsu component.
2.    The draft final Environmental Impacts Assessment Reports (EAIs), draft final Environmental
Action Plans (EAPs) and draft final Summary Environmental Impact Assessment Reports (ES) were
submitted to the Bank in December 1997. After Bank review, conditional clearance was provided.
Remaining environmental issues were resolved during the appraisal in February 1998. Revised EA
documents were submitted to the Bank in March 1998 and found satisfactory.
3.    During the EA work in the two provinces, the local people and governments concerned were
consulted and their opinions have been reflected in the project design and environmental mitigation
measures, as appropriate.
4.    The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of development
projects in China were followed on the basis of the project being classified by the Bank as category A,
including Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment Management for Construction
Projects Financed by International Financial Organizations (June 1993, NEPA) and Bank Operational
Directives 4.01.
Brief Project Description
5.    The Second Inland Waterways Project includes the following physical components:
Guangdong Component
(a) Upgrading (widening, straightening, and deepening) the navigational channel of the Xi Jiang
between Zhaoqing and Hutiaomen, consisting of the river channel section between Zhaoqing and
Baikingtou (123 km) and the Hutiaomen Channel between Baikingtou and Hutiaomen (45 km). This
improvement will permit navigation by 3,000 dwt vessels.
(b) Upgrading (widening, straightening, and deepening) of the L-S-R Waterway to provide navigation
by 1000 DWT vessels. The L-S-R waterway provides an important cross-delta link from the
Xizhiyang to the east and the Xi Jiang to the west and consists of three linked waterway systems
totaling approximately 90 km.
Jiangsu Component
Augmenting existing investments for the upgrading of the Grand Canal north of the Chang Jiang by
constructing new additional shiplocks at Jietai (second lock), Suqian (third lock), Huaiyin (third
lock), Huai'an (third lock) and Jianbi (second lock).



Page 47                                ANNEX 10
Baseline Environmental Description
Guangdong Component
6.    Natural Environment. The Pearl River Delta is located in a semitropical climate with strong
monsoons in the May-October period. Mean annual rainfall is 1648.9 mm with an annual mean
temperature of 21.8C.
7.    The lower reaches of the Xi Jiang are affected by incoming seawater with an irregular
semidiurnal tide. During the wet season, with high river flow, the tidal current boundary is generally
below Hengmen; in dry season, it reaches to Tianhe. All of the L-S-R Waterway is tidally affected.
Siltation dominates in the lower reaches of the Xi Jiang with extensive sand shoals. These are actively
dredged for construction materials. There are only limited areas with sufficient current to have scouring.
The surrounding lands are mostly undeveloped and often low-lying with flooding during periods of high
river flow. In contrast, the L-S-R Waterway is mostly subjected to scouring with minimal siltation.
8.    According to the EIA, no significant fish spawning areas were observed. As an estuary, the lower
reaches of the Xi Jiang contain a good fishery and abundant aquatic resources. There are minimal natural
land areas remaining along the lower Xi Jiang project area. There are no national parks or special
conservation zones within the impact zone of the project.
9.    Aquatic Environment. Monitoring data indicate water quality in large sections of the Xi Jiang
is relatively low in contamination, with the exception of the Beijie section in Jiangmen City. Overall
water quality meets National Surface Water Class 1-2 standard. In contrast, the L-S-R Waterway has
poorer water quality due to limited flushing action, particularly during the dry weather period.
Contamination was attributed mostly to petroleum hydrocarbons and, in the Lijiasha Section, to
ammonia, with both contaminants exceeding National Surface Water Class 3 standards.
10.   Upriver industrial activities, combined with sediment deposition due to estuarine processes, have
resulted in elevated concentrations of many trace metals in the sediments of the lower reaches of the Xi
Jiang. While elevated, the concentrations are about two orders of magnitude less than the Agricultural
Soil Criteria and therefore can be considered acceptable for land-based disposal. Similarly,
concentrations of contaminants in the sediments of the L-S-R Waterway, while higher than background
indicating an accumulation of ongoing contaminated discharges, were consistently less than the
Agricultural Soil Criteria and therefore acceptable for land-based disposal of dredged materials.
11.   Critical to defining the need to maintain water quality in the study zones is the use of river water
for drinking water supply. There are four drinking water intakes on the lower Xi Jiang and nine on the
L-S-R Waterway. These will require protection during construction activities in the near-field area or
directly upstream.
12.   Air Quality. As the project includes both rural and urbanized areas, the air quality throughout
the project zone varies from excellent to fair. To assess air quality, monitoring was undertaken at various
representative sites and the data combined with more detailed monitoring being undertaken in the urban
centers on a routine basis. As with other Chinese urban centers, the major source of air pollution is from
the combustion of coal (heating and generation of electricity), followed by vehicle and shipping exhaust.
13.   Acoustic Environment. The Xi Jiang subcomponent mostly passes through open rural areas
which presently have low ambient noise. Some sections of the Xi Jiang and most of the L-S-R Waterway
pass through developed urban areas, having ambient noise levels typical of urban and industrialized



Page 48                                ANNEX 10
areas. Ambient noise measurements in Lianhuashan and Yongqi towns (both along the L-S-R Waterway)
have nighttime ambient noise levels within Class 2 urban standard.
14.   Cultural and Historical Aspects. There are no significant cultural or historical sites or artifacts
along any of the proposed project areas.
Jiangsu Component
15.   Natural Environment. Jiangsu Province is a coastal province divided into northern (Subei) and
southern (Sunan) regions by the Yangtze Jiang. While within the monsoon belt, there are four distinct
seasons with an average annual temperature of 14C and rainfall of 800-860 mm.
16.   Sunan District (36,933 km 2) is interlaced with numerous waterways, both natural and man-made
linking the Yangtze Jiang (to the north) with Tai Lake (to the south) and thence to waterways within
Zhejiang Province and Shanghai. The land shape is relatively flat and low-lying with 12 percent of the
area consisting of waterways and lakes. Subei District has less waterways with the Huai River and
Qimushi system forming the main drainage. The central feature of the northern waterway system is the
Grand Canal, linking Beijing with Hangzhou.
17.   Areas to be impacted by the project sites within Subei District have minimal remaining natural
areas, as the result of a long history of land development, intensive agriculture and the Grand Canal
having built many hundreds of years ago. Simnilarly, the natural environment in the project areas within
the Sunan district are also well-developed, with most lands being devoted to agricultural use and some
medium-heavy industry within the small communities. There are no natural preserves, conservation areas
or national parks within the impact zone of the project.
18.   Aquatic Environment. Assessment of existing water quality in the shiplocks subcomponent
indicate they meet Class 3 or 4 of the National Surface Water Standards, with primary contamination due
to hydrocarbons (indicative of oil-contaminated bilge water from ships) and biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD) (indicative of sanitary sewage as discharged from ships and from land-based sources).
Contaminant loading in the soils to be excavated for lock construction generally meets Class II of the
Soil Quality Criteria, permitting on-land disposal.
19.   Air Quality. As the project includes both rural and urbanized areas, the air quality throughout
the project zone varies considerably. As with other Chinese urban centers, the major source of air
pollution is from the combustion of coal (heating and generation of electricity), followed by vehicle and
shipping exhaust.
20.   Acoustic Environment. The assessment was based on measurements and potential sensitive
receptors along a corridor of 200 m width to either side of the waterway. Most sites met the criteria of
Category 4 of the Urban Environmental Noise Standard (70 dB during day; 55 dB at night). However, in
areas near highways or railways, noise levels often exceeded 70 dB level in daytime.
21.   Cultural and Historical Aspects. There are no significant cultural or historical sites or artifacts
along any of the proposed project areas.



Page 49                                ANNEX 10
Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures-Alternatives Analysis
Guangdong Component
22.   The "no project" alternative was rejected. Both the railway and highway alternatives are
operating at serious overcapacity. Furthermore, the current waterways are also operating at or greater
than design capacity. The lower Xi Jiang is the last link in the upgrading of waterway navigation from
the South China Sea to the inland areas of Guangxi Zhuang (City of Nanning), thus providing for a
relatively cheap and efficient means of moving bulk and manufactured goods from the coastal cities to
the inland provinces. Not proceeding with the project would have significant economic consequences
without significant environmental protection.
23.   With respect to the L-S-R Waterway, three alternatives were evaluated: Scenario #1-3.5 m
depth, Scenario #2-4 m depth, and Scenario #3-4.5 m depth; all with 80 m width and 500 m minimum
curvature radius of bends. Each scenario was evaluated for cost, volumes of dredged material generated
and noise/blasting requirements. Scenario #2 was the selected option. While Scenario #3 would provide
the greatest flexibility for ship traffic and permit the longest periods between maintenance dredging,
capital costs were high and considerable shoal blasting would be required. Scenario #1 provided too little
safety margin for adequate navigational depth during dry weather.
24.   Three alternatives were also reviewed for the Lower Xi Jiang based on three potential river
entrances from the South China Sea: Scenario #l-Modaomen Entrance, Scenario #2-Hengmen
Entrance and Scenario #3-Hutiaomen Entrance. Irrespective of the selected entrance channel, the large
volume of suspended sediments transported downriver results in deposition within the estuarine section
and formation of navigation-impeding shoals. Thus each scenario had a requirement for dredging and
shoal regulation. Scenario # 1 has a significant problem with sand bar formation, the mechanism of which
is poorly understood and therefore would require considerable modeling and study before a plan and cost
estimate could be prepared. Scenario #2 has several major shoals (Lanshan, Ermao, and Qi'ou) of which
the Qi'ou Shoal is mostly clay, representing deposition of flocculated and coagulated materials and
representing considerable dredging difficulties. The process of shoal formation is not well understood
and will likely require considerable investments to provide for adequate scouring by river regulation or
maintenance dredging. Scenario #3 (Hutiaomen Entrance) provides the best alternative, having minimal
operational requirements to meet project specifications.
Jiangsu Component
25.   The "no project" alternative was rejected. The significant increase in economic growth in eastern
China, particularly the southeastern coastal provinces has placed tremendous stress on all modes of
transportation. While considerable investments have been made in rail and road, these modes do not
provide sufficient capacity for bulk cargoes and improvements are still underway. MOC has promoted
increased waterway investments to reduce traffic congestion, providing for more economical transport of
bulk cargoes and reduced rates of accidents.
26.   There are no direct alternatives to the project within the waterway context. The proposed
investments in the Subei will provide for additional shiplocks at various sites, thereby permitting
increased two-way traffic and enhanced cargo transport on the Grand Canal. Improvements resulting in
alternative investments in the railway and highways will take much longer to achieve and will require
greater investment for the same bulk cargo carrying capacity. Further, investments in the waterway
sector will provide for lower energy consumption for quantities of cargo hauled.



Page 50                                ANNEX 10
Construction Phase
Guangdong Component
27.   Three impacts have been identified as potentially significant during the construction phase: (a)
degradation of water quality due to sediment disturbance and shoreline construction activities; (b) noise
and traffic associated with construction; and, (c) loss of aquatic habitat. A detailed monitoring program
has been developed to assess these impacts and evaluate the proposed mitigation measures. These are
similar to measures adopted for the China Inland Waterway I Project (CN-PA-3493) and which have
been found to successfully reduce impacts.
28.   Water. During construction, particularly during dredging, shoal blasting  and bank
removal/cutting, there will be increased suspended solids. However, the effect will be short-term and
related to actual activities only being conducted along a particular stretch of the Waterway.
29.   In order to mitigate the impact, several measures have been recommended. These measures were
first adopted during China Inland Waterway I and have been found to successful in meeting
environmental objectives. For lock construction, much of the material will be excavated in "the dry" with
a limited quantity to be removed by dredging. Bank protection is also constructed for the new channel
sidebank before opening to the channel. During dredging or construction within 3 kilometers upstream or
500 m downstream (allowing for flow conditions) of a water intake, work will be coordinated with the
local water authorities so as to not impact on drinking water intakes. Through agreements with the water
utilities, all intake water will be monitored to ensure acceptable quality. As necessary, water utilities and
other water users (e.g., aquaculture facilities) will be protected through construction of temporary coffer
dams and other water control structures.
30.   Fishery Resources and Habitat Loss. During construction on the lower reaches of the Xi Jiang,
both dredging and shoal blasting may impact on fish migrations due to temporary changes in water
quality or noise from the blasting. Impacts will be mitigated through three actions: (a) timing of activities
to avoid migration seasons, (b) strict limits on blasting activities and timing, and (c) addition of
replacement juvenile fish from fish hatcheries.
31.   Any impacts on fish migrations or habitat loss must be taken within the context of significant
existing practices of sand reclamation dredging of the river. Twelve to fifteen dredges were noted in
1997 within the proposed project area.
32.   To achieve the new channel alignment of the L-S-R Waterway, widening is designed to impact
only one side of a waterway. Excavation of materials will be undertaken in small stages, appropriate to
select sections of the project. This process also considerably reduces the release of suspended solids.
33.   Noise. Noise activities will be transient and limited to temporary impacts for short duration
during construction. During the construction phase, use of heavy equipment and associated construction
noise will be restricted to daylight hours.
34.   Dredging and Disposal of Sediments. Any excavated or dredged materials are proposed to be
used on land for soil ameliorant or infilling of low-lying areas. Assessment of existing channel sediments
indicated concentrations of key contaminants were less than the national Class II Soil Quality Criteria
and would not create an impact. Also, if the material is mostly sand, it could be used for construction
purposes.



Page 51                                ANNEX 10
Jiangsu Component
35.   During construction, two potentially significant impacts have been identified: (a) changes in
water quality due to sediment disturbance and shoreline construction activities; and (b) noise and traffic
associated with construction. A detailed monitoring program has been developed to assess these impacts
and evaluate the proposed mitigation measures. These are similar to measures adopted for the China
Inland Waterway I project and which have been found to successfully reduce impacts.
36.   Water. During construction work, there will be increased suspended solids. However, this effect
will be short-term and transient. To mitigate the impact, several measures, similar to those proposed in
Guangdong component, will be used.
37.   Noise. Noise activities will be transient and limited to temporary impacts for short duration
during construction. During the construction phase, use of heavy equipment and associated construction
noise will be restricted to daylight hours
38.   Dredging and Disposal of Sediments. Any excavated or dredged materials are proposed to be
used on land for soil ameliorant or infilling of low-lying areas. Assessment of existing channel sediments
indicated concentrations of key contaminants were less than the national Class II Soil Quality Criteria
and would not create an impact. Also, if the material is mostly sand, it could be used for construction
purposes.
Operation Phase
Guangdong Component
39.   Two impacts have been identified as potentially significant during the operations phase: (a) noise
and (b) increased volumes of ship wastes. To assess the extent of these impacts and proposed mitigation
measures, the Provincial Environmental Bureau, in cooperation with the Municipal Environmental
Protection Bureaus, will continue their existing routine monitoring program, conducted about three times
per year.
40.   Noise. To mitigate noise pollution mostly from ship engines and horns/whistles, various
mitigation measures have been identified. The conversion to larger and newer vessels should result in
noise reduction through less noisy engines and better mufflers. GPCD will work with the shipping
companies to reduce noise related to shipping traffic and, in particular, the use of horns at night.
41.   Ship Wastes. GPCD will work with appropriate agencies to implement various measures to
minimize water pollution from operation phase activities, including: (a) provision of additional reception
and treatment facilities for oily wastes and waters and solid wastes from shipping and port facilities; (b)
stricter enforcement of shipping regulations with respect to discharge of wastes from ships; and, (c)
prevention of accidental spill of hazardous substances ("dangerous goods") through an approval and
emergency response plan. With respect to the latter, MOC has established a detailed response plan and
set of implementation protocols to ensure timely response and clean up.
42.   Reception and treatment facilities for ships wastes will include oil/water treatment separators at
ports or terminals. The facilities will be implemented and operated by other agencies within GPCD.
These facilities will also serve port operations and ensure that oily discharges meet the national
freshwater standard of 10 mg/L petroleum hydrocarbons. Garbage and solid wastes will be collected at
the ports or terminals and disposed through municipal facilities.



Page 52                                ANNEX 10
43.   Air. GPCD will work with the shipping companies to reduce air pollution attributed to vessel
exhaust. As the size of vessels is increased, the use of the more polluting small vessels, with exterior
diesel engines, will be reduced and eventually eliminated. In the long term, the increased vessel size will
yield reduced air pollution attributable to ships emissions.
Jiangsu Component
44.   During operations phase: (a) noise and (b) increased volumes of wastes from ships. To assess the
extent of these impacts and proposed mitigation measures, the Provincial Environmental Bureau, in
cooperation with the Municipal Environmental Protection Bureaus, will continue their existing routine
monitoring program, conducted about three times per year.
45.   Noise. JPCD will work with the shipping companies to reduce noise related to shipping traffic
and, in particular, the use of horns at night. During the operational phase, the conversion to larger and
newer vessels should result in noise reduction through less noisy engines and better mufflers.
46.   Ship Wastes. JPCD is or has implemented various regulations and measures to minimize water
pollution from navigation activities, including: (a) provision of reception and treatment facilities for oily
wastes and waters and solid wastes from shipping and port facilities; (b) stricter enforcement of shipping
regulations with respect to discharge of wastes from ships; and (c) prevention of accidental spill of
hazardous substances ("dangerous goods") through a prior approval and emergency response plan. With
respect to the latter, MOC has established a detailed response plan and set of implementation protocols to
ensure timely response and clean up.
47.   Reception and treatment facilities for ships wastes will include oil/water treatment separators at
terminals along the Grand Canal to serve vessels. These facilities will be implemented and operated by
other agencies within JPCD. These facilities will ensure that oily discharges meet the national freshwater
standard of 10 mg/L petroleum hydrocarbons. Garbage and solid wastes will be collected at the ports and
disposed through municipal facilities.
48.   Air. JPCD will work with the shipping companies to reduce air pollution attributed to vessel
exhaust. As the size of canal vessels is increased, the use of the more polluting small vessels with
exterior diesel engines will be reduced and eventually eliminated. In the long term, the increased vessel
size will yield reduced air pollution attributable to ships emissions.
Environmental Benefits
Guangdong Component
49.   Several environmental benefits have been identified:
(a) Reduction of traffic congestion and rates of accidents on road and rail, through provision of
increased capacity for bulk cargo traffic on the waterways.
(b) Improvements to waterway operations providing reduction in congestion and rate of or potential for
accidents;
(c) Improved navigational access by larger oceangoing vessels upriver to Zhaoqian, reducing need for
transshipment activities and thus improved economy of transport.
Jiangsu Component
50.   Several environmental benefits have been identified:



Page 53                               ANNEX 10
(a) Reduction of traffic congestion and rates of accidents on road and rail, through provision of
increased capacity for bulk cargo traffic on the waterways.
(b) Improvements to waterway operations providing reduction in congestion and rate of or
potential for accidents;
Environmental Monitoring
51.   Environmental monitoring plans are summarized in Tables 1 and 2.
Institutional Arrangements
Guangdong Component
52.   GPCD will establish an environmental management unit within the Project Office. The
environmental office will be responsible for administering all aspects of land resettlement and
compensation (in cooperation with municipal counterparts) and environmental monitoring and project
supervision related to environmental issues. There will be one group responsible for the lower Xi Jiang
and one group responsible for the L-S-R Waterway.
53.   Environmental monitoring during the construction phase will be contracted to the SIPRWPR.
Future operational phase monitoring will be a continuation of existing programs as undertaken by the
Provincial Environmental Monitoring Center, assisted by the Municipal Environmental Monitoring
Centers.
Jiangsu
54.   JPCD will establish an environmental management unit within the Project Management Office
(PMO). The environmental office will be responsible for administering all aspects of land resettlement
and compensation (in cooperation with municipal counterparts) and environmental monitoring and
project supervision related to environmental issues.
55.   Monitoring during the construction phase will be conducted by the respective municipal
Environmental Monitoring Centers, under contract to the PMO. Future operational phase monitoring will
be a continuation of existing programs as undertaken by the Provincial Environmental Monitoring
Center, assisted by the Municipal Environmental Monitoring Centers.
Public Consultation and Information
Guangdong Component
56.   Public consultations have been carried out during the preparation of the project. The following
methods were adopted: (a) a series of workshops with participation of experts; (b) receipt of comments
from key stakeholders; (c) public opinion survey of local people and representatives; and (d) public
release and access to EA documents.
57.   Feedback from these consultations identified the following concerns: (a) flood control and
potential impacts on fisheries; (b) potential impacts on water intakes during the construction phase; and
(c) waste disposal of increased volume of ship during the operation phase. Those issues were addressed
in the EIA and/or EAP as appropriate.



Page 54                               ANNEX 10
Jiangsu Component
58.   Public consultations have been carried out during the preparation of the project. The following
methods were adopted: (a) workshop with participation of experts; (b) receipt of comments from key
stakeholders; (c) public opinion survey of local people and representatives; and (d) public release and
access to EA documents.
59.   Feedback from these consultations identified the following concerns: (a) potential impacts on
water quality during the construction phase; and (b) environmental management needs to be
implemented in an appropriate manner. Those issues were addressed in the EIA and/or EAP as
appropriate.



Page 55                                     ANNEX 10
TABLE 1A: ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORNG PROGRAM FOR GUANGDONG COMPONENT
(CONSTRUCION PHASE)
Water Quality        ___
Primary Paraneters     temperature, pH, DO, COD, BOD, NO2, NO3, SS, ammonia, phenol, oil, cyanide,
chlorophyll, fecal and total coliform
Key parameters         SS, oil, DO, pH, total bacteria
Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen     * at S existing river monitoring stations
Waterway (lower Xi     * at 8 locations where tributaries join the River
Jiang)                 * one station at 3 km upriver, at and at 500 m downstream from water intakes.
L-S-R Waterway         * at 9 existing monitoring stations
* one station 3 km upriver, at and 50 m downstream of 6 water intakes.
Frequency and period   * for all items and all stations, at high tide and at low tide for each of wet, dry and
normal seasons
* for SS, oil, pH and bacteria: once per week in the section under construction and once
after completion and at 3 km upcurrent and 500 m downcurrent of the site. (relative to
water intakes)
* for pH, SS, cyanide, phenol and oil: at low tide and high tide for each water intake
potentially impacted.
Noise
Parameters             continuous noise, abrupt noise, background noise
Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen     * at densely populated areas within the primary townships
(lower Xi Jiang)
L-S-R Waterway         * at densely populated areas within the primary townships
Frequency and period   * at 50 & 100 m from activity
* two times per day before construction
* two times per day, two days per season during construction
Sediment Qualt
Parameters             lead, cadmium, mercury, copper, zinc, oil, BHC, DDT
Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen     * for dredging volumes of >I 00 m', one sample per section in 8 sections.
Waterway
(lower Xi Jiang)
L-S-R Waterway         * for dredging volumes of >100 i, one sample per section in 5 sections.
Frequency and period   one sampling event before each engineering operation



Page 56                                     ANNEX 10
TABLE 1B: ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM FOR GUANGDONG COMPONENT
(OPERATION PHASE)
Water Quality                                                                            -
Priinary Parameters    temperature, pH, DO, COD, BOD, NO2, NO3, SS, ammonia, phenol, oils, cyanide,
chlorophyll, fecal and total coliform
Key parameters         SS, oil, DO, pH, total bacteria
Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen     * at 5 existing river monitoring stations
Waterway               * at 6 water intakes.
(lower Xi Jiang)
L-S-R Waterway         * at 9 existing monitoring stations
* at 6 water intakes.
Frequency and period   * for existing river and waterway stations, all items and all stations, at high tide and at
low tide for each of March, August and November.
* for water intake stations: once per month at each intake to be analyzed for SS, oil, DO,
_ COD, BOD and pH.
Noise
Parameters             continuous noise, abrupt noise, background noise
Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen     * within terminals and the four most densely populated areas
(lower Xi Jiang) &
L-S-R Waterway
Frequency and period   * at 100 m from shorebank
* twice during one day per season times per day before construction
* two times per day, two days per season during construction
TABLE 2A: ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM FOR JIANGSU COMPONENT
(CONSTRUCTION PHASE)
Locations                        Parameter         Frequency
Air quality
Sites at hospitals, schools, libraries,  TSP       * once before start;
residential areas within 200 m                     * seasonally during construction;
* three days continuous per event
dust              . monthly
Water quality
Within zones proposed for lock   pH, DO, oil, COD   * before excavation in any one area; (once per day for
construction and at key protection    and SS        two days);
points                                             * once per week (SS and DO) or once per month (pH,
oils, COD) during construction (two days of
monitoring);
* once per day at water intakes during construction
* after construction in any one area (once per day for
two days)
Noise
Same sites as for air quality                      one day before construction; once per month during
construction



Page 57                                     ANNEX 10
TABLE 2B: ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING PROGRAM FOR JIANGSU COMPONENT
(OPERATIONS PHASE)
Water Quality
Parameters            temperature, pH, DO, COD, BOD, NO2, NO3, SS, ammonia, phenol, oil, cyanide,
chlorophyll, fecal and total coliform
Subei locks           at 1 inside, 1 upriver, i in ship waiting area, 1 in ship mooring area at each lock and 5
existing monitoring stations.
Frequency and period    * for existing river and waterway stations, all items and all stations, for two continuous
days in each of March, August and November.
* for water intake stations: once per month at each intake to be analyzed for SS, oil, DO,
_   COD, BOD and pH.
Noise
Parameters            continuous noise, abrupt noise, background noise
Subei Locks           at locks
Frequency and period    * at 20 and 50 m from shorebank
* twice during two days every two months



Page 58                                 ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND
SCHEDULE
Planned                Actual-
(At final PCD stage)       (to date)
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                        $323,700               $289,100
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)               04/29/1996             04/29/1996
Appraisal mission departure                       01/20/1998             02/06/1998
Negotiations                                      04/24/1998             04/13/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     09/26/1998             08/28/1998
Prepared by: Guangdong Provincial Waterway Bureau, and Jiangsu Provincial Waterway Bureau
Preparation assistance: Japanese PHRD funds
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Toshiro Tsutsumi                         Team Leader/Engineering
Robin Carruthers                           Transport Economy
Han-Kang Yen       .                      Financial Evaluation
Doris Pappas                               Task Assistance
Anil Somani                                 Environment
Takashi Matsumura                               Environment
Chaohua Zhang                                 Resettlement
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                                   Legal
Hyung Min Kim                                 Disbursement



Page 59                                  ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE*
A. Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
PIP, Guangdong Province Waterway Bureau, March 1998
PIP, Jiangsu Province Waterway Bureau, February 1998
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Environmental Evaluation for Guangdong and Jiangsu Provinces, March 1998
C. Other
Feasibility Reports for Guangdong
Feasibility Reports for Jiangsu
Guangdong Environmental Impact Assessment Reports, March 1998
Jiangsu Environmental Impact Assessment Reports, February 1998
Guangdong Environmental Action Plans, March 1998
Jiangsu Environmental Action Plans, February 1998
Guangdong Environmental Assessment Summary Reports, March 1998
Jiangsu Environmental Assessment Summary Reports, February 1998
Guangdong Resettlement Action Plans, August 1996
Jiangsu Resettlement Action Plans, February 1998
Physical Laboratory Test Reports for Guangdong Component
*Including electronic files.



Page 60                                                                  ANNEX 13
ANNEX 13: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
A. IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio, as of February 28, 1998
Difference between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                  nd actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                Cancel-     Undis-          disbursementsh L
Project ID   Credit No.  Year           ofrrower                  Purpose              IBRD         IDA        lations     bursed       Orig.       Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 207
Active Loans
CN-PE-40185   EBRD42370  1998 PRC                         Shandong Environment               95.00        0.00       0.00        95.00        5.00            0.00
CN-PE-34081  IBRD42000   1997 PRC                         XiaolangdiMulti. H                230.00        0.00       0.00       230.00       53.34            0.00
CN-PE-34081  lBRD4200I  1997 PRC                          Xiaolangdi Multi. 11              200.00        0.00       0.00       192.17       53.34            0.00
CN-PE-3590   IBRD41870  1997 PRC                          Qinba Mts. Povty Red               30.00        0.00       0.00        30.00        12.40           0.00
CN-PE-3590   IDAN0280   1997 PRC                          Qinba Mts. Povty Red                0.00      150.00       0.00       141.56        12.40           0.00
CN-PE-3635    IBRD4063A   1997 PRC                        Voc. Ed. Reform Proj               10.00        0.00       0.00        10.00        4.34            0.00
CN-PE-3635   IDA28980    1997 PRC                         Voc. Ed. Reform Proj                0.00       20.00       0.00        16.65        4.34            0.00
CN-PE-3637   IDAN0270   1997 PRC                          Natl Rur Water III                  0.00       70.00       0.00        69.42        5.23            0,00
CN-PE-36405  IBRD41790  1997 PRC                          Wanjiazhai Water Tra              400.00        0.00       0.00       367.51       60.84            0.00
CN-PE-3643    1BRD40990   1997 PRC                        Xinjiang Highways ll              300.00        0.00       0.00       268.81       27.48            0.00
CN-PE-3650   IBRD41720   1997 GOC                         Tuoketuo Power/Inner              400.00        0.00       0.00       400.00       29.58            0.00
CN-PE-3654   IBRD41240   1997 PRC                         HunantGuang Hwy2-NH2              400.00        0.00       0.00       400.00       53.34            0.00
CN-PE-36952  IDA29540    1997 PRC                         Basic Ed. IV                        0.00       85.00       0.00        77.14       -3.24            0.00
CN-PE-38988  IBRD4I1610  1997 PRC                         Heilongjiang ADP                  120.00        0.00       0.00       117.00        8.40            0.00
CN-PE-44485  IBRD41970   1997                             Shanghai Waigaoqiao               400.00        0.00       0.00       400.00        8.74            0.00
CN-PE-34618  IBRD3967A   1996 PRC                         Labor Market Dev.                  10.00        0.00       0.00        10.00        16.07           0.00
CN-PE-34618  IDA28000    1996 PRC                         Labor Market Dev.                   0.00       20.00       0.00        15.64        16.07           0.00
CN-PE-3507    IBRD3933A   1996 GOC                        ErtanHydroll                      177.68        0.00       0.00        51.64       -53.86           0.00
CN-PE-3507   IBRD3933B   1996 GOC                         Ertan Hydro n                      88.84        0.00       0.00         4.08       -53.86           0.00
CN-PE-3563   IBRD40010  1996 PRC                          Animal Feed                       150.00        0.00       0.00       150.00       52.44            0.00
CN-PE-3569   IBRD39290  1996 PRC.                         Shanghai-Zhejiang Hi              260.00        0.00       7.75       149.58        11.68          -1.32
CN-PE-3589   IDA27940    1996 PRC                         Disease Prevention                  0.00      100.00       0.00        80.94       40.72            0,00
CN-PE-3594   IDA28700    1996 PRC                         GansuHexi Corridor                  0.00       90.00       0.00        70.67        9.12            0.00
CN-PE-3594   EBRD40280   1996 PRC                         Gansu Hexi Corridor                60.00        0.00       0.00        60.00        9.12            0.00
CN-PE-3599   EBRD40550  1996 Yunnan Prov. Gov.            Yunnan Environment                125.00        0.00       0.00       125.00         .70            0.00
CN-PE-3599   IDA28920    1996 Yunnan Prov. Gov.           Yunnan Environment                  0.00       25.00       0.00        16.58         .70            0.00
CN-PE-3602    1BRD39660   1996 PRC                        Hubei Urban Env. Pro              125.00        0.00       0.00       125.00       52.98            0,00
CN-PE-3602   IDA27990    1996 PRC                         Hubei Urban Env. Pro                0.00       25.00       0.00        15.36       52.98            0.00
CN-PE-3638    IBRD40440   1996 PRC                        Seeds Sector Commer.               80.00        0.00       0.00        80.00       16.12            0.00
CN-PE-3638   IDA28860    1996 PRC                         Seeds Sector Commer.                0.00       20.00       0.00        10.07       16.12            0.00
CN-PE-3646   IBRD40450  1996 PRC                          Chongqing Ind Pol Ct              170.00        0.00       0.00       170.00       53.34            0.00
CN-PE-3648   IBRD39870  1996 Shangha Mun. Govt            Second Shanghai Sewe              250.00        0.00       0.00       219.29       63.70            0.00
CN-PE-3649   IDA28340    1996 CHINA                       Shanxi Poverty Allev                0.00      100.00       0.00        49.32      -20.53            0.00
CN-PE-3652   IBRD39860   1996 PRC                         2nd Shaanxi Prov Hwy              210.00        0.00       0.00       178.56       40.21            0.00
CN-PE-36950  IDA28310    1996 PRC                         Basic Ed. Poor HI                   0.00      100.00       0.00        40.01      -23.18            0.00
CN-PE-40513  IBRD40270  1996 PRC                          2ndHenanProvHwy                   210.00        0.00       0.00       198.00       30.66            0.00
CN-PE-3493    1BRD39106  1995 PRC                         Inland Waterways                  210.00        0.00       0.00       150.45       27.24      0.00
CN-PE-3571   IBRD38976  1995 PRC                          Railways Vll                      400.00        0.00       0.00      392.00        90.67            0.00
CN-PE-3585     BRD37880   1995 GOC                        Shenyang bnd. Reform              175.00        0.00       0.00       122.24       27.91            0.00
CN-PE-3596   IBRD3874A   1995 PRC                         Yangtze Basin Water                97.26        0.00       0.00        67.18      -22.84            0.00
CN-PE-3596   IDA27100    1995 PRC                         YansgtzeBasinWater                  0.00      110.00       0.00         9.47      -22.84            0.00
CN-PE-3598   lB3RD37810  1995                             Liaoning Environment              110.00        0.00       0.00        79.53       45.49            0.00
CN-PE-3600   1BRD3847A  1995 PRC                          Technology Developme              194.99        0.00       0.00       179.78       35.69            0.00
CN-PE-3603    IBRD3773A   1995 PRC                        Ent. Housing Soc. Se              262.51        0.00       0.00      240.11       128.29            0.00
CN-PE-3603   IDA26420    1995 PRC                         Ent. Housing Soc. Se                0.00       75.00       0.00         6.21      128.29            0.00
CN-PE-36041   3BRD38736  1995 MOF                         Fiscal & Tax Ref. &                25.00        0.00       0.00       25.00        36.01            0.00
CN-PE-36041  IDA27090    1995 MOF                         Fiscal & Tax Ref. &                 0.00       25.00       0.00        17.78       36.01            0.00
CN-PE-3612    EBRD37870  1995 PRC                         Xinjiang Highway I                150.00        0.00       0.00        95.75       50.76            0.00
CN-PE-3634   IDA26550    1995 PRC                         Maternal Child Healt                0.00       90.00       0.00        33.51        9.90            0.00
CN-PE-3636   IDA26510    1995 PRC                         BasicEduclnPoor&                    0.00      100.00       0.00        17.69       -1.96            0.00
CN-PE-3639   IBRD39066  1995 PRC                          SouthwestPov. Reduc                47.50        0.00       0.00        35.80       19.50            0.00
CN-PE-3639 *lDA27440    1995 PRC                          Southwest Pov. Reduc                0.00      200.00       0.00       100.53       19.50            0.00
CN-PE-3642   lBRD3846A  1995                              ZhejiangPowerDevt                 154.15        0.00       0.00       102.65       15.73            0.00
CN-PE-3642   IBRD3846B   1995                             ZhejiangPowerDevt                 215.67        0.00       0.00       183.49       15.73            0.00
CN-PE-3647   IDA26540    1995 PRC                         Economic Law Reform                 0.00       10.00       0.00         6.03        4.36            0.00
CN-PE-36947   1B1RD3848A  1995 GOC                        Sichuan Trnsmission               270.00        0.00       0.00      204.26       139.37           45.80
CN-PE-37156  IBRD3914A   1995 PRC                         lodineDef. Disorder                 7.00        0.00       0.00         7.00       19.30            0.00
CN-PE-37156  IDA27560    1995 PRC                         Iodine Def. Disorder                0.00       20.00       0.00        11.39       19.30            0.00
CN-PE-3502   IDA25390    1994 MOH                         Rur HealthManpower                  0.00      110.00       0.00        40.40       22.42            0.00
CN-PE-3504   IBRD37480  1994 PRC                          HebeitHenanNat'lHways             380.00        0.00       0.00       115.10       10.07            0.00
CN-PE-3540   IDA26160    1994 PRC                         Loess Plateau                       0.00      150.00       0.00        42.00      -34.84            0.00
CN-PE-3557   IDA26230    1994 PRC                         ForestResourceDev                   0.00      200.00       0.00        95.10       39.64            0.00
CN-PE-3562   IBRD37270  1994 PRC                          Xiaolangdi Multipurpose           460.00        0.00       0.00        23.36        19.21           0.00
CN-PE-3586   EBRD3711S  1994 PRC                          ShanghaiEnvironment               160.00        0.00       0.00        79.76       60.62            0.00
CN-PE-3593   IDA25710   1994 PRC                          Songliao Plain ADP                  0.00      205.00       0.00        58.85       -12.16           0.00
CN-PE-3595   IDA25630    1994 PRC                         Red Soils li Develop                0.00      150.00       0.00       46.86         5.34            0.00
CN-PE-3609   IBRD3716A   1994 GOC                         Sichuan Gas Dev& Conserv          175.45        0.00       0.00       151.79       63.46            0.00
CN-PE-3622    IBRD36525  1994 Shanghai Mun. Govt          Shanghai Mtp 11                   150.00        0.00       0.00        10.39       10.40            0.00
CN-PE-3626   IBRD3681A  1994 GOC                          Fujian Prov Highway                80.33        0.00       0.00        60.53        1.18            0.00
CN-PE-3633   IBRD3687A  1994 Government of PRC            Telecommunications                132.76        0.00       0.00        89.23       87.72            0.00
CN-PE-3641   IBRD37I8A   1994 PRC                         Yangzhou Thermal Power            248.16        0.00       0.00        93.20       23.92            0.00
CN-PE-3644   IDA26050    1994 PRC                         Xiaolangdi Resettiement             0.00      110.00       0.00        37.74         .11            0.00



Page 61                                                             ANNEX 13
Difference between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions              and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                          Cancel-    Undis-          disbursements in
Project ID  CreditNo.  Year         Borrower                  Purpose            IBRD         IDA       lations    bursed       Orig.      FrmRev'd
CN-PE-3473   IDA24750   1993 P.R.C.                    Zhejiang Multicities             0.00      110.00      0.00       47.40       46.83           0.00
CN-PE-3509   IDA24570   1993 PRC                       Changchun Wat Supp &             0.00      120.00     27.55       24.21       43.20           0.00
CN-PE-3512   IBRD3552S  1993 GovtofPeoples Rep. of C   Shanghai Port Rest             124.26        0.00      0.00        5.11        7.00           .76
CN-PE,351S   IfBRD3530S  1993 PRC                      GuangdongProv. Transp          240.00        0.00      0.00       21.43       -3.59           0.00
CN-PE-3526   IBRD35l5A  1993 GOC                       Shuikou 11                      43.86        0.00      0.00       18.40       18.40          18.40
CN-PE-3533   IBRD3572A  1993                           Tianjin Ind. 11                 82.68        0.00      0.00       56.09       46.43           -.16
CN-PE-3559   IDA24620   1993 PRC                       Agric. Support Servi             0.00      115.00      0.00       10.45      -13.75           0.00
CN-PE-3561   IDA24110   1993 PRC                       Sichuan ADP                      0.00      147.00      0.00       22.65       10.36           0.00
CN-PE-3567   IDA24710   1993 PRC                       Effective Teaching Srvces        0.00      100.00      0.00       48.35       46.25           0.00
CN-PE-3570   IBRD35810  1993 PRC                       Railway VI                     420.00        0.00      0.00      136.54      109.55           0.00
CN-PE-3580   IBRD35820  1993 PRC                       So.Jiangsu Environ Protect     250.00        0.00      0.00       29.05       12.31           0.00
CN-PE-3581   IBRD35310  1993 PRC                       Henan Prov. Transport          120.00        0.00      0.00       16.15       14.83           0.00
CN-PE-3592   IDA24470   1993 PRC                       Ref. Insftl.&Preinvest(CRISP)    0.00       50.00      0.00       21.62       21.07           0.00
CN-PE-3597   IBRD3560A  1993 PRC                       Taihu Basin Flood Control       88.65        0.00      0.00       64.71       62.09           0.00
CN-PE-3597   EDA24630   1993 PRC                       Taihu Basin Flood Control        0.00      100.00      0.00        4.93       62.09           0.00
CN-PE-3616   IBRD3606A  1993 PRC                       Tianhuangping Hydro            196.60        0.00      0.00      100.86       62.77           0.00
CN-PE-3623   IDA24230   1993 PRC                       Financial Sector T.A             0.00       60.00      0.00       35.52       20.21           0.00
CN-PE-3627   IBRD3624A  1993 PRC                       Grain Distribution P           325.00        0.00      0.00      325.00      339.99        -104.01
CN-PE-3627   IDA25180   1993 PRC                       Grain DistributionP              0.00      165.00      0.00       59.71      339.99        -104.01
CN-PE-3632   IDA25220   1993 ROC                       Environment Tech Ass             0.00       50.00      0.00       15.21       14.95           0.00
CN-PE-3486   IBRD3406A  1992                           Railways V                      33.73        0.00      0.00       29.05       26.61           0.00
CN-PE-3492   EBRD3412S  1992 GOC                       Daguangba-Hainan                28.88        0.00      0.00        2.83        .97            0.00
CN-PE-3492   IDA23050   1992 GOC                       Daguangba-Hainan                 0.00       37.00      0.00         .42        .97            0.00
CN-PE-3503   EBRD3462A  1992                           Zouxian Tbermal Powe            26.78        0.00      0.00       14.02        4.49           0.00
CN-PE-3534   IBRD3471A  1992 PRC                       ZhejiangProvTransp              70.13        0.00      0.00       26.59       21.93           0.00
CN-PE-3544   EDA23390   1992 People's Republic of Chin   EducfDevInPoorPro              0.00      130.00      0.00        4.07       -4.50           0.00
CN-PE-3555   IDA23070   1992 PRC                       Guangdong Ag. Devt.              0.00      162.00      0.00       11.70       -2.30           0.00
CN-PE-3564   IBRD3415A  1992 BeijingMunicipality       BeijingEnvironment              32.90        0.00      0.00       28.58       27.04           0.00
CN-PE-3564   IDA23120   1992 BeijingMunicipality       Beijing Environment              0.00       80.00      0.00        3.70       27.04           0.00
CN-PE-3565   IDA22960   1992                           Shanghai Metro Tran              0.00       60.00      0.00        3.75        .69            0.00
CN-PE-3568   IDA23870   1992 RO.C.                     TianjinUrbDev&En                 0.00      100.00      0.00       32.40       26.18           0.00
CN-PE-3587   IDA23360   1992 PRC                       Rural WatSupp&San                0.00      110.00      0.00        1.80        -.71         -11.50
CN-PE-3624   IDA23170   1992 Min. of Publ.Health      Infectious Diseases               0.00      129.60      0.00       54.82       43.70          34.87
CN-PE-3478   IDA22100   1991 PRC                       Key Studies Developm             0.00      131.20      0.00         .83        -.79           0.00
CN-PE.3560   IDA22420   1991 PRC                       Henan Agric. Devt.               0.00      110.00      0.00        3.23       -3.51           0.00
CN-PE-3582   IBRD3337T  1991 PRC                       Irrig. Agric. Intens            45.05        0.00      0.00        2.37       -5.15           0.00
CN-PE-3472   IBRD29685  1988 PRC                       Railway IV                     171.30        0.00      0.00        2.04        2.05           0.00
Total                                                                            10,907.12    4,426.80     35.30    8,982.75    3,211.02       -121.17
Active Loans                 Closed Loans              T1tal
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                           6,315.76                     12,595.82             18,911.58
of which has been repaid:                                 15.71                      2,105.44              2,121.15
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                           15,282.90                    10,133.96             25,416.86
Amount sold                                                   0.00                         0.00                  0.00
Of which repaid                                             0.00                          0.00                  0.00
Total Undisbursed                                          8,952.75                        1.59               8,954.34
/a Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Page 62                                      ANNEX 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC's COMMTTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
(As of January 31, 1998, in US$ million)
IFC Committed                      IFC Disbursed
FY Approval      Company         Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1987/92/94   China Bicycles         8.50    3.39     0.00     0.00     8.50    3.39     0.00     0.00
1993        Shenzhen PCCP          3.76      .99     0.00     0.00    3.76      .99     0.00     0.00
1993       Yantai Cement           15.60    1.95     0.00     8.33    15.60    1.95     0.00     8.33
1994        China WaldenJV          0.00    6.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     3.53     0.00     0.00
1994        China Walden Mgt        0.00     .01     0.00     0.00     0.00     .01     0.00     0.00
1994       Dalian Glass           20.50     2.40     0.00    40.50    20.50    2.40     0.00    40.50
1994       Dynamic Fund             0.00    12.35    0.00     0.00    0.00     9.46     0.00     0.00
1994       Plant. Timber           10.00    1.00     0.00    20.00    10.00    1.00     0.00    20.00
1995       Dupont Suzhou           24.92    4.15     0.00    52.00    19.34    4.15     0.00    30.66
1995       Newbridge Inv.           0.00    10.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    6.70     0.00     0.00
1995        Suzhou PVC             22.00    2.48     0.00    22.20     0.00    2.48     0.00     0.00
1996        BeijingHormel           5.00     .50     0.00     5.50     4.64     .50     0.00     5.11
1996        Fairyoung Ports         0.00    4.98     0.00     0.00     0.00    4.98     0.00     0.00
1996       Jingyang                40.00    0.00     0.00   100.00    34.29    0.00     0.00    85.71
1996       Nanjing Kumho           16.00    3.81     0.00    45.50    13.63    3.81     0.00    38.75
1996        Tianjin Kumho          11.17    0.00     0.00    33.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1996        Weihai Weidongri       4.29     0.00     0.00     0.00    4.29     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997        Orient Finance         10.00    0.00     0.00    20.00     3.33    0.00     0.00     6.67
1997       PTP Leshan               4.20    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997        Rabobank PTPC           2.40    0.00     0.00     2.40     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1998       Rabobank SHFC           2.75     0.00     0.00     2.75     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:               201.09    54.01     0.00   352.18   137.88    45.35    0.00   235.73
Approvals Pending Commitnent
Loan    Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996       CALTEX Ocean            31.33    0.00     0.00    66.00
1998       Chengxin-IBCA            0.00     .36     0.00     0.00
1997       Chinefarge              12.80    0.00     0.00    20.00
1998       Eureca                  0.00     3.00     0.00     0.00
1997       Liaocheng Jiamin        18.00    0.00     0.00    18.00
1996       Nanjing Huining         4.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997       Ningbo                  0.00     2.00     0.00     0.00
1997       Nissan/Dongfeng        20.20     0.00     0.00    27.00
1997       PTP Holdings             0.00    1.50     0.00     0.00
1997       PTP Hubei               13.00    0.00     0.00    25.00
1998       PTP Hubei Blinc         0.00     0.00     0.00     1.50
1998        ScanaLeshan             6.10    1.35     0.00     0.00
1996        Shandong Sand          17.00    0.00     0.00    25.00
1998        Shanghai Coline        13.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997        SMC                    14.00    0.00     0.00    14.00
1997        Suzhou PVC Add.         7.90    0.00     0.00     6.40
1996       Tianjin                 9.10     0.00     0.00     9.10
1996       Xiamen Xian             10.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      176.43     8.21     0.00   212.00



Page 63                                                      ANNEX 14
ANNEX 14: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 .East   ; Low-                      -
China      Asia  income  -   Development diamond
Population inid-1996 (milDlons)                       1215      11726    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                              750       890       S00                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                              906.1      1,542    1601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population ()                                            1        1.3      1.7      GNP                               Gross
Laborforce (%)                                          1.1       1.3      1.7
per                             primary
Most recenit estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (f of populatfon)               9
Urban population (%.of total population)                31        31    i 29.-
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        70        68        63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 rive bIrths)  -33                    40        69               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (96 of children under 5)             1        B
Access to safe water (% of population)                  90         49       53
Illiteracy ({ of populatbon age 15+)                    19         17       34
Gross primary enrollment (X of school-age population)  118        117      105          -Chna
Male                                                 119       120       112                Low-income group
Female                                               117       116        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                          160.3   378.1       755.9    916.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                30.3      37.8      40.8     39.2             Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP             5.2       9.9      21.0     19.3             O
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   30.6      33.7      42.5     41.3
Gross national savings/GDP                   30.6      34.0      41.0     40.0
Current account balanceeGDP                   -0.2    -3.9        0.1      0.4                        Ns,
Interest paymentslGDP                           ..      0.2       0.7      0.6     Savings                      Investment
Total debtUGDP                                  ..      5.5      16.9     15.6
Total debt service/exports                      ..      8.4       9.9      9.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                           - *   14.1
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        ..        ..    72.3                   Indebtedness
197545  1986-96      1995.     1996  1997405
(average annual growth)                                                                      China
GDP                                  8.3      9.9      10.5       9.6      8.5
GNP per capita                       7.5      8.3       7.9       8.6      7.7               Low-ncome grup
Exports of goods and services       17.2      13.6     13.2       8.3      8.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1985      1996     1996      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                   32.0     28.4      20.5     20.2    30.
Industry                                     42.8     43.1       48.8     49.0                            20. 
Manufacturing                               31.6     35.4      38.1      38.1
Services                                     25.2      28.5      30.7     30.8      10
'
Private consumption                          61.9      53.1      46.0     47.6             91   92   93   94   95   99
General govemment consumption                 7.6      13.2      11.4     11.1
Imports of goods and services                 5.0      14.0      19.3     17.1                  Got        GDP
1976-85  1986-96      1996     1996                        _
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports l%I
Agriculture                                    5.4      4.3       5.0      5.1      40
Industry                                      10.4     13.5      13.9     12.1
Manufacturing                               13.0     13.0      13.3      11.7     20
Services                                      9.8       9.0       8.3      7.9
Private consumption                           8.2       8.8       9.7     11.9       o
General govemment consumption                 9.0       9.2      -6.3      8.3            991   92   93    4    95   99
Gross domestic investment                     9.8      10.8      16.2      7.6    -20
Imports of goods and services                22.1      11.7      10.8      8.8                   Exports  -*Imports
Gross national product                        9.0       9.8       9.0      9.7
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 64                                                         ANNEX 14
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                    Inflation
(% change)                                                                        30
Consumer prices                                 ..     9.2       17.1      8.3    20
Implicit GDP deflator                        -0.9     10.1       13.2      7.0
10
Government finance
(% of GDP)                                                                         0 .         ,
Current revenue                                 ..    25.5       11.2     11.3            91   92   93   94   96   93
Current budget balance                          ..     6.7       0.5       0.6             -     GDPdef. --0-CPI
Overall surplusidefiit                         ..    -0.5        -1.7     -1.5
TRADE
1975    1985      1995     1996
(millions USs)                                                                     Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                             ..  27,350   148,770  151,073      200,000
Food                                         ..   3,803       9,954   10,232
Fuel                                         ..   7,132       5,335    5,929     150,000
Manufactures                                 ..  13,522   127,283  129,141
Total imports (cif)                            ..  42,252   132,078  138,828       100,0-.
Food                                          .    1,86       9,126    7.86r6
Fuel and energy                                      172      5,127    6,877      so,
Capital goods                                 ,.  18,694    57,481   63,901          o
Export prce index (1987=100)                    ..      92       133      132             90  51  92  93  94  s6  96
Import price index (1987=f00)                  ..       78       132      131                  Exprt         Impors
Termsoftrade(1987=100)                          ..     118       101      100                   p         imr
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratlo (')
Exports of goods and services               7,828   28,163   147,240  153,740      4
Imports of goods and services               8,097   41,149   135,284  141,340
Resource balance                            -269  -12,986    11,956   12,400
Net income                                     0       932   -11,774  -10,370
Net current transfers                          0       171       810    1,580      o  _                          -  F- l
Current account balance,                                                              90      S2          14   95   96
before official capital transfers          -269  -11,883       992    3,610    -2
Financing items (net)                          ..   9,443    21,477   28,030
Changes in net reserves                         .    2,440   -22,469  -31,640     4
Memo:                                                                                    _
Reserves including gold (nilL. USS)             ..  16,853    80,312  111,690
Conversion rate (ocaULJ.S$)                   1.9      2.9       8.4       8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995     1996    I
(mtillfons USS                                                                   ) Conipoation of total det  1996 (milL US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  16,696   118,090  128,817
IBRD                                         ..     498      7,209    7,616              G         7616  B
IDA                                          ..    431       7,038    7,579            25407            7579
Total debt service                             ..   2,478    15,066   15,756                                    2501
IBRD                                         ..      26        810      840
IDA                                                   4         63       73                                      E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                21737
Offidal grants                               ..      117       328      248
Offidal creditors                            ..   1,117      7,902    4,359
Private creditors                            ..   2,867      5,013    6,454
Foreign direct investment                    ..   1,659    35,849   40,180
Portfolio equity                             ..       0      2,807    3,466                  F
63977
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..   1,092      2,850    1,900      A- IBRD                     E- Bilaeral
Disbursements                                ..    565       2,269    2.097      B-IDA    D- Other multilatersl  F. Private
Prncipal repayments                           .        0       364      364      C-IMF                       G - Short-temm
Net flows                                           565      1,905    1,734   1
Interest payments                            ..      29        509      549
Net transfers                                ..      536      1,396    1,185
Development Economics                                                                                                314198
Note: The dollar estimates for Chinas GNP per capita, GNP and GDP are preliminary figures based on an on-going World Bank study of
China's GDP. They were calculated to facilitate inter-country comparisons. Official statistics are used as the basis for all other economic
analysis contained in this document.



MAP SECTION



IERD 29238
75n                  \   80'                      90'                    10                      110                      120-                     130
50\                                        RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
N                ~~~~~~~~50-
KAZAKHSTAN                                              .                                                                  I
._ -            ~      . ~,j'           s_5     .  .J' '  N.-.is
FUZBEKISTAN
FUEKSA                                                                              M  O  N  G  O  L I A                           j              
,;KYRGYZ  \_ r   URUhAOI   ,                                                              .               r\- C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HANGCHUN>
,dO     REPUBLIC                        -
,AO~~~~~~~~S
'  )   )~~~~~>   ''~~''"'     \       ~~~~'~                  'o'   '                     c           r  //Ying  \AP/~~~~~~~EOPLE'S        O
zZon.2E cLa > > i TAltUAN<)0F rf <3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REP. OF
SO~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KR
INLAND WATERWAYS II PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HII                                                     -
Th.                                                                                                                                                            REP OFrew            .          ,^ 
Tr                                            nYIedleelo  NZOT  '1 , .Oigo/
-d.~~~\ r,--' -,                      ,                                             sZH .
CLASS I RO    -             -      >             k      }             _      ;            l     t            <SSAD SHAI                             3W
CHINA                                      .               .                    NsI G  .:             ,p          A
INLAND WATERWAYS 11 PROJECT                                                   V; a> H                               N               FZO
MAJOR NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS                   X           :                           
;1  JEVER PORTS                                    *  --,        M                          /          "        ' '    me
CLASS II ROADS
- CLASS 11 ROADS L ;  nF20
RAILROADS                                                         
O    SE ECTEDCTES                Z   ;9,j    )  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VIETNAM    0.                            100  200  300  400  5?00MILES
181   PROVINCE CAPITALS                             <                                                  a 1    .5         10    0    50 40 SO  IE
8     NATIONAL CAPITAL                             20 34 i                                            see B7292LE'0 0      260   400    600   800 KILOMETERS
- . - . - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                             'It qEP E PI
THA LAN    ,J.i                                                                   PHILIPPINES
THAILAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I   ~~~~~~~~~ ~120'
APRIL lOPS



EBRG 29239
S~~~~~~~~~ 1 20                                                                          11 23                                                                                 5
_  ~~                      SHANDONGCHN
-  .                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~INLAND WATERWAYS II PROJECT
-   ~~~5~~AqFF      4/             '-I                                 L~~~~~~~~~esy~~~ong ~~JIANGSU  PROVINCE
f  I,-.                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT SHIPLOCKS   EXISTING TRANSPORTATION:
*  'No  -                                          C  iy.    -           ,.                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING SHIPLOCKS  NANJING  SHANGHAI EXPRESSWAY
HE NAN                      T.,ho                               For     \                                                                                                                MAJOP PORTS                           MAJOR RAILROADS
(  N  Tko.~~~~~~~~~~~~~  N  U            os            f,                .                                            4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVER TORTS           NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
-     -                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYS  3
N  '0 qI.o'i                                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER ROADS
N   -                   .                                F                                                                                                       0 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SLCTD IIE ADTON
-  -~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~                     Fg                   6SRO0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FX                                             ~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPITALS
RIVERS AND CANALS
-   .                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRAND CANAL
A    N    H    U    I                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 000~
'N                           osooo2~~~~~~ ~h-                                                                                                                                PREPECTURE  BOUNDARIES
I                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE ROUNDARIES
..-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
p",                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(INSET)
-                                                                                     Dgfo
B-9                                                                                                                                                                                                         33'-~~~~-   .
75  1 oc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                0os
--~~~~N~ ~~~~75             DLA-
32,                                                                                                                                                                                                      22 -~~~ r r  .  a.n
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               / ~       ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~' -9100
,  a~~~~~~     N~~~~                              120 9~~~T  L210                           111213
TIANJNO  SN  2\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ / --  Noo,ooo ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~A    11



IBRD 29240
1130                                                                                -
CHINA                                                              RUSSIAN FEDERATION    '
INLAND WATERWAY 1I PROJECT                                                                 _ s    .7.--
PEARL RIVER DELTA                                 I                                  - -   i.              t           '
*      . * @ PROJECT CHANNELS                      /                    MONGOLIA               j
0    SELECTED CMITES                                                                        , 0
@  PROVINCE CAPITALSPLR
-MAIN ROADS
-~~RAILROADS                                                                                                  KRA
240                    2I4 ERS                                                 24'O
--  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                  ASU tA          ENAN     JAG)
-. - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                     Fogong
\      V               9           00   ~~~~~~~~~     ~     ~~~SICHUAN    HJ A    0
Zh_> v 9 8goo |ng                                                                             HAN
Toisinbon4
~~ nfonnaso., shoan,  Hut,o ~~~~.i;  ZDnumeng,                                           J O
~ *h;s mop do not                     K
APRIL 1 998



