pq  4'zxp2/7
Grade A Environmental Impact Assessment Certificate No.0224  V44    P
Environmental Assessment Report (EIA)
of Waterway Regulation Project On Lower Xijiang River
by Using World bank Loan
Scientific Institute of Pearl River
Water Resources Protection
November 1997



National Environmental Assessment Certificate
Serial No.0224
Environmental Impact Assessment Certificate
Name of Unit: Scientific Institute of Pearl River Water Resources Protection
Class of Certificate: Class A
Serial No. of Certificate: 0224 of National Environmental Assessment Certificates
Authority of certificate Issuing: National Environmental Protection Bureau
30 December,1989
2



Head of Institute:   Wu Yadi(Senior engineer of environmental management)
Deputy Head of Institute: Li Xueling(Senior engineer of Environmental science)
Luo Shusong (Senior engineer of Chemical engineering)
Deputy Chief Engineer: Yan Lianhe(Professor of agriculture and hydrology)
Lin Fangrong(Professor of chemistry)
Wu Qianzhao(Senior engineer of environmental science)
Manager of Project:   Luo Chengping(Engineer of environmental impact assessment)
Work Group:   Luo Chengping                Translators:   Wu Renhai
Liu Xinyuan                                    Zhang Zhongquan
Huang Aizhu                                Gong Ying
Lin Weihua                                 Luo Chengping
Chen Yubo                                  Wu Zhijun
Zhu Yuansheng
Wu Zhijun
3



Table of Contents
1. Introduction
1.1 Objectives and Origins
1.2 Basis for Preparation
1.3 Grade. Scopes and Standards of Assessment
1.4 Assessment Processes
1.5 Main Work Contents and Methods
1.6 Assessment Conductor and Working Staffs
1.7 Assessment approval
1.8 Note
2. Description of the Project
2.1 Properties, Aims and Significance of the Project
2.2 Description of the Waterway
2.3 Dimension and Standards of Waterway Construction
2.4 Main Engineering
2.5 Budgetary Estimate and Investment Arrangement
2.6 Engineering Analysis
3. Investigation and Assessment of Current Environmental Situations
3.1 Physical Environment
3.2 Biological Environment
3.3 Socio-Economic Environment
3.4 Living Quality
3.5 Current Scouring and Silting Situations
3.6 Current Water Quality and Its Assessment
3.7 Current Water Supply and Drainage Facilities
3.8 Harbors and Docks
3.9 Current Environmental Noise and Its Assessment
3.10 Investigation of Ship Pollutants
4. Environmental Impact Prediction and Analysis, and Mitigation Measures
4.1 Environmental Impact Prediction and Analysis
4.1.1 Water Quality Impact Prediction and Analysis
4.1.2 Impact Analysis on Aquatic Organisms and Fishery Resources
4.1.3 Rise of Flood Level and Impact on Flood Control
4.1.4 Analysis of Impact on Scouring and Silting
4.1.5 Analysis of Impact on Water Supply and Drainage Facilities
4.1.6 Analysis of Noise Environmental Impact
4.1.7 Analysis of Other Environmental Impacts during Construction Stage
4.1.8 Socio-Economical Environmental Impact Assessment
4.1.9 Environmental Impact Prediction and Analysis of Ship Pollutants
4.1.10 Analysis of Ship Pollution Accident Risk
4



4.2 Project Alternatives
4.3 Countermeasures of Environmental Protection
4.3.1 Measures to Mitigate Water Quality Impact of SS from Dredging
4.3.2 Aquatic Organism and Fishery Resources Protection
4.3.3 Flood Raising
4.3.4 River Erosion and Sedimentation Mitigation
4.3.5 Water Supply and Sewerage
4.3.6 Noise Control Measures
4.3.7 Environmental protection measures during construction stage
4.3.8 Measures to Mitigate Impact of Construction on Waterway Traffic and Harbor Operation
4.3.9 Shipping Pollution Control
4.3.10 Accidental Shipping Pollution Prevention
S. Analysis of Toxic Residues in Fish
6. Environmental Management, Monitoring & Training
6.1 Environmental Management Organization
6.2 Environmental Management during Construction Phase
6.3 Environmental Management during Operational Phase
6.4 Environmental Monitoring
6.5 Training Programs
7. Public Participation
7.1 Methodology
7.2 Workshops and Conclusions
7.3 Public Opinion Survey
7.4 Bulletin in Newspaper
7.5 Response to Public Concerns
7.6 Conclusions
8. Analysis of Environmental and Economical Benefits and Costs
8.1 The Social Benefits of the Project
8.2 Project Investment and Economical Benefits
8.3 Environmental Loss and Environmental Protection Investment
8.4 Environmental Benefits
8.5 Cost-Benefits Analysis of Environmental Economics
9. Conclusions and Suggestions
Appendix 1. Entrusted Letter of Environmental Impact Assessment Work
Appendix 2. TOR of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of the Regulation Project on the
Lower Xijiang River Channel (Guangdong Province) by Using World Bank Loan
5



Appendix 3. Review Opinions on the. TOR of Environmental Impact Assessment for the
Waterwav Regulation Project on the Lower Xijiang River (Guangdong Province) Assisted with
World Bank Loan
Appendix 4. Reply Correspondence of Review Opinions on the TOR of Environmental Impact
Assessment for the Waterway Regulation Project on the Lower Xijiang River (Guangdong
Province) Assisted with World Bank Loan
Appendix 5. Reply Correspondence on the Assessment Standards of the Environmental Impact
Assessment for the Waterway Regulation Project on the Lower Xijiang River (Guangdong
Province) Assisted with World Bank Loan
Appendix 6. Official Reply Correspondence for the Environmental Impact Assessment Report of
Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen Waterway Regulation Project on the Lower Xijiang River
6



1. Introduction
1.1 Objectives and Origins
The waterway regulation project for lower Xijiang river by using World Bank loan consists
of two sub-projects: (1) 3,000 dwt seagoing waterway from Zhaoqing to Hutiaomen (simplified as
LXR(Z-H) or (Z-H)), (2) 1,000 dwt waterway from Nanhua to Lianhuashan within the branch
Liansharong (simplified as L-S-R).
Z-H waterway in the lower Xijiang river refers to the seagoing waterways from Zhaoqing
to Hutiaomen in the western part of the Pearl river delta, in which the section from Zhaoqing to
Baiqingtou with a total length of 123 km is called as the lower reach section of Xijiang river, and
the section from Baiqingtou to Hutiaomen (through Maxi channel) with a total length of 45 km is
called as Hutiaomen waterway.
L-S-R waterway with a total length of 90 km locates in the river network of Pearl River Delta,
composing of  Lianhuashan waterway, Shawan waterway and Ronggui waterway. The
waterway is one of the main waterways to link Guangzhou with Pearl River Delta, the coastal
areas in the west of Guangdong Province and the mainstream of Xijiang river, and it reaches
Shizhiyang to the cast and connects with the mainstream of Xijiang river to the west.
The current maintenance standards of Z-H and L-S-R waterways can no longer satisfy the
requirement of regional economic development and the connection with outside. In order to
change the rather closed inland water transportation system in Pearl River Delta, and improve the
comprehensive transportation network with the coordinate development of waterway, road and
railway so as to promote the economic development in the delta and even the whole basin of
Pearl River, Guangdong provincial government has put forward the concrete Schemes to develop
Pearl River Delta water-borne transportation network, which is based on the General Scheming of
Inland Navigation Development formulated by the Ministry of Communications of the People's
Republic of China. The present project is put forward according to the above background.
Guangdong provincial government attaches great importance to the present project. Under
the circumstance of fund shortage, extensive investigation was still carried out and a great deal of
data collected. In the meantime much survey and research were conducted. All these have laid
sound technical-economic foundations for the implementation of the present project. In 1994,
Guangdong Provincial Waterway Bureau considered the Hutiaomen waterway regulation project
as the critical project of water-borne transportation development in short tern. In the spring of
1995, the bureau conducted the feasibility study for the project, and commissioned the Scientific
Institute of Pearl River Water Resource Protection (SIPRWRP) to carry out the environmental
impact assessment work for the project. In May of 1995, Environmental Assessment Report for
Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen Waterway Regulation Project in the Lower Xijiang River (2nd phase)
was completed by the Scientific Institute of Pearl River Water Resource Protection, and was
7



approved by Guangdong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (see Appendix 6).
With the further progress of the work, and for the convenience of seeking for the World Bank
Loan, the regulation projects of LXR(Z-H) and L-S-R waterways were combined into Waterway
Regulation Project for Lower the Xijiang River by Using World Bank Loan.
The project is directed by the Guangdong Province Communications Department, which has
established a leading group of using World Bank Loan and its executing agency-The World
Bank Finance Office of Guangdong Province Communications Department. Meanwhile the
project was commissioned to Guangdong Province Waterway Bureau (GPWB) to undertake.
Commissioned by Guangdong Provincial Waterway Bureau, the Scientific Institute of Pearl
River Water Resource Protection undertook the work of preparing environmental assessment
report for the project. In the course of report preparation, the requirements of the Regulations on
Environmental Protection for Development Projects, and the Notice about Strengthening the
Management of Environmental Impact Assessment of Development Projects using the Loan of
Financial Organizations, and Environmental Assessment Guidelines of World Bank (OD4.01)
have been taken into full consideration.
The objectives of the preparation of environmental assessment report are, according to the
relevant regulations of China and World Bank, to maximize the positive effects and to mitigate the
negative effects as far as possible so as to obtain economic, social and environmental interests
simultaneously. The main points are as follows:
(0) To determine whether the measures to mitigate the negative effects need to take or not,
based on the magnitude and the significance of the negative effects and the environmental
carrying capacity. When needed, Schemes to mitigate negative effects or protection measures
would put forward.
(O) To identify potential long-term environmental effects, and to work out environmental
protection measures, the intensity of investment and supplementary routine monitoring Scheme.
) To answer the main environmental issues which the public will much concerns with.
(tI To put forward an environmental management action Scheme in regard to the
engineering characteristics of the project so as to ensure regional sustainable development.
1.2 Basis for Preparation
(I) Commission Letter of Environmental Impact Assessment issued by Guangdong
Provincial Waterway Bureau (the first party), and Technical Service Contract on the
Environmental Impact Assessment Work for Z-H and L-S-R Waterways Regulation Project in the
Lower Xijiang River signed by Guangdong Provincial Waterway Bureau and Institute of Water
Resources Protection and Science of Pearl River (the second party).
8



(2) TOR of Environmental Impact Assessment of Waterway Regulation Project for Lower
the Xijiang River by Using World bank Loan, prepared by Institute of Water Resources Protection
and Science of Pearl River.
(3) Reply Correspondence of Review Opinions on the TOR of Environmental Impact
Assessment for Waterway Regulation Project in Lower the Xijiang River by using World Bank
Loan issued by National Environmental Protection Agency, and its annex Review Opinions on the
TOR of Environmental Impact Assessment for Waterway Regulation Project in Lower the
Xijiang River by Using World Bank Loan
(4) The First Screening Group of World Bank, Memorandum on the Inland Waterway Project
in Guangdong Province of China (1996.4.30-5.5),  and its Appendix 3 Environmental
Documents to be Submitted to World Bank before 1996.8.30.
(5) The Second Screening Group of World Bank, Memorandum on the Inland Waterway
Project in Guangdong Province of China (1996.5.20-5.21)
(6) Guangdong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau, Reply Correspondence on the
Assessment Standards of Environmental Impact Assessment of Waterway Regulation Project in
Lower the Xijiang River by Using World Bank Loan
1.3 Grade, Scope and Standards of Assessment
1.3.1 Grade of Assessment
According to the classification principle in the Environmental Assessment Guidelines of
World Bank (OD4.0 1), the environmental assessment of the project is determines to be class A.
1.3.2 Scope of Assessment
According to the specific locations of the regulation work, the scopes of assessment for
water-body and noise are defined as follows.
(1) The extent of water environmental assessment: the whole regulation waterway, that is, Z-
H waterway and L-S-R waterway (Nanhua-Lianhuashan).
(2) The extent of assessment of noise, vibration and terrestrial plants: the regions within 200
m on both sides of the waterway.
1.3.3 Assessment Standards
(I) Surface Water Environmental Quality Standards (GB 3838-88)
(2) Portable Water Hygiene Standards (GB 5749-85)
9



(3) Fishery Water Quality Standards (GB 11607-89)
(4) Environmental Noise Standards for Urban Harbor and both Sides of River (GB 11339-
89)
(5) Environmental Noise Standards for Urban Areas (GB3096-93)
(6) Comprehensive Wastewater Discharge Standards (GB 8978-88)
(7) Ship Pollutants Discharge Standards (GB 3552-83)
(8) Pollutants Control Standards of Contaminated Soil Used by Agriculture (GB 4284-84)
(9) Wastewater Pollutant Discharge Standards of Guangdong Province ( DB 4426-89)
1.4 Assessment Process (Figure 1-1)
After accepting the commission of Guangdong Provincial Waterway Bureau, Scientific
Institute of Pearl River Water Resources Protection had extensive and deep contact with the
specialists and officials of World Bank screening group. In the same time, field surveys were
performed immediately, data collected and relevant specialists consulted. On these bases, TOR of
Environmental Impact Assessment was prepared and was submitted to National Environmental
Protection Agency for approval.
Since the assessment work was heavy and time was limited, investigation of current
environmental situations, data collection, and chemical determination and analysis were conducted
before the approval of the TOR. In the meantime analysis of current environmental situations and
part of environmental impact prediction were also performed. After the approval of the outline, we
made some amendments and modifications to the outline according the review opinion and its
reply Correspondence. Appropriate control countermeasures and mitigation measures were put
forward against the negative impacts. In final the environmental assessment report for the project
was prepared.
Since environmental impact assessment for Z-H waterway regulation project had been
completed in 1995 and approved by Guangdong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau, the
present report, after having consulted with the relevant responsible departments and negotiated
with the specialists of World Bank, mainly focuses on L-S-R waterway. For Z-H waterways, the
following three aspects are supplemented: analysis of toxic residues in fish, environmental
protection action Scheme and public participation.
1.5 Main Work Contents and Methods
1.5.1 Preliminary Work of the Project
Since this is a project supported by World Bank, loan, environmental assessment must meet
both the standards and requirement of environmental protection in our country, and related
regulations of environmental protection of World Bank. Therefore, during the preliminary
10



accept commission
negotiation with preparation group of World Bank
field survey, data collection and consulting specialists
prepare TOR of assessment
environmental quality investigation,
data collection, and determination
and chemical analysis
review and approval
ofTOR              [| analysisofcurrent                 public participation
[environmental situations
amendment         impact prediction and analysis   supplement
[control or mitigation measures
preparation of environmental action Scheme
ipreparation ofreport       su r
|submit to review and approve
Figure 1-1 Working process of environmental impact assessment
stage of assessment, we had extensive and deep contacts with the officials and specialists of
World Bank, and we also invited resource and environmental experts at home to guide our work.



1.5.2 Collection and Analysis of Existing Data
During the preliminary stage of assessment, we went to the related cities and counties to
conduct field investigation for many times, and collect data of the local physical environment and
social and economic situations. We also made environmental investigation along the waterway
and on both sides.
1.5.3 Monitoring and Assessment of Current Environmental Quality
Due to the limited time, we only conducted water quality monitoring in the flood season of
1996. For dry season and ordinary season, we adopted the monitoring results obtained by local
environmental protection agencies. Current water quality was assessed with the assessment
method of single factor according to the assessment standards confirmed by Guangdong
Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau. Noise level was recorded in daytime and at night at
three noise sensitive points, and was assessed with the assessment method of single factor
according to the assessment standards approved by Guangdong Provincial Environmental
Protection Bureau.
1.5.4 Environmental Impact Prediction and Analysis
(1) Social-Economic Environmental Impact Assessment: Impacts on regional economic
development, social progress, public living quality and landscape etc. are discussed with the
assessment method of investigation.
(2) Prediction and analysis of fishery resources impact: The analysis would mainly focus on
the impact on fishery resources and their reproduction, habitats and migration caused by such
construction activities as reef-blasting during the construction stage.
(3) Analysis of flood control impact: According to computational results of mathematical
model and experimental results of hydraulic model, the change of flood level after the project are
analyzed, and its impact on flood control of both sides is discussed.
(4) Prediction and analysis of water quality impact: The prediction focuses on water quality
impact caused by the increase of suspended substance (SS) from dredging. With two dimensional
dynamic model, the distribution of SS concentrations under different flow pattem are calculated,
and the impact on water quality of the water intakes is analyzed.
(5) Analysis of impact of waste earth and dredged materials: waste earth and dredged
materials results from such activities as dredging, shoal-cutting and reef blasting etc. The analysis
focus on the possible environmental pollution resulting from the disposal of waste earth and
dredged materials.
(6) Noise prediction and analysis: 0 The impact of noise from the construction machines on
the sensitive points would be analyzed according to the noise exposure level of the machines; ®)
12



levels of ship noise at different receiving points are calculated with the modified empirical model
on the basis of noise exposure level obtained by field monitoring, and the scope and extent of
noise impact on the sensitive points are assessed through comparing with the related standards.
(7) Analysis of water quality impact caused by ship pollutants: The amount of oil wastewater,
sewage and garbage from ships are predicted with empirical equations for the year of 2010, and
their probable unfavorable effects on water quality are analyzed.
(8) Other environmental impact analysis: including impact on scouring and silting, impact on
harbor facilities, analysis of ship pollution accidents and impact on human health during the
construction stage etc.
1.5.5 Measure of Environmental Protection
For various negative environmental impacts during the construction stage and the operation
stage, appropriate environmental protection and mitigation measures are put forward, and
environmental and economic benefit-loss analysis are conducted in the meantime.
1.5.6 Public Participation
Through topic discussion meetings and questionnaire investigations, attitudes, opinions,
suggestions and demands of public to the project and its environmental protection programs were
collected.
1.6 Assessment Conductor and Working Staffs
(1) Assessment Conductor
Scientific Institute of Pearl River Water Resources Protection , subsided to the Water
Resources Protection Bureau of Pearl River Basin, is a holder of Grade A Environmental Impact
Assessment Certificate from National Envirommental Protection Agency, and is also a qualified
unit of measuring recognition.
(2) Main Working Staffs
1.7 Assessment approval (see Tab. 1.2)
1.8 Note
The Z-H Waterway would be simply analyzed because the EIA report for Z-H Waterway
regulation project was approved by Guangdong Province Environmental Protection Bureau (see to
Appendix 6).
13



Table 1. 1 Working Staffs
Name               Position                  Specialty
Project technical responsible     Li Xueling   Associate director of institute,  Environmental Science
senior engineer                                                       4
Project responsible             luo Chengping           Engineer          Environmental Assessment
Assessment of current Environmental  Hang Aizhu      Senior engineer             Chemistry
qualitv
Socio-economic environmental      Liu Xinyuan    Director of Environmental  Economy of water re
assessment                                      Assessment Group, senior          sources
engineer
Fishery resources impact assessment   Lin Weihua     Senior engineer        Biological protection
and countermeasures
Environmental impact of           Chen Yubo          Senior engineer        Chemical engineering
construction stage and
countermeasures__
Environmental action Scheme        Wu Zhijun            Engineer           Water resources planning
Table 1.2 Assessment Approval
item                    Time                           Institution
Commission of ETA work                1996.5                          GPWB
Preparation of TOR                1996.5-1996.7                      SIPRWRP
Approval of TOR                       1996.8                   Transport Mini. & NEPA
Modification of TOR                   1996.9                         SIPRWRP
Preparation of EIA report         1996.8-1996.12                     SIPRWRP
Preparatory approval of EIA report    1997.1.21                Transport Mini. & NEPA
Approval of EIA    rt                1997.6.25                         NEPA
14



2.       Description of the Project
2.1 Properties, Aims and Significance of the Project
Based on the General planning of Inland Navigation Development formulated by the
Ministry of Communications, Guangdong provincial government has put forward concrete
Schemes for the construction of Pearl River Delta waterway network. That is, within Pearl River
Delta, a waterway network composed of 17 waterways (a total length of 851 km) will be
developed, of which seagoing waterways and 1,000 dwt waterways are critical. The network will
form a pattern of "three longitudinal waterways" and "three transverse waterways".
Three longitudinal waterways are:
* Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen seagoing waterways in lower Xijiang River
* Bainishui-Hengmen seagoing waterway
* Guangzhou (Xiji-Guishandao) seagoing waterway
Three transverse waterways are:
* Dongping waterway (Sixianjiao-Daweijiao)
* L-S-R waterway (Lianhuashan-Nanhua)
_ Xiaolan-Jun'an waterway.
The present project was put forward on the above background. Its aims are, through such
regulation works as dredging, damming and reef blasting etc., to raise the navigation standard of
Z-H waterway (168 km) from the existing only navigable for 1,000 dwt inland barges to that
navigable for 3,000 dwt marine vessels, and to raise the navigation standard of L-S-R
(Lianhuashan-Nanhua) waterway from the existing only navigable for 500 dwt inland river barges
to that navigable for 1,000 dwt river and seagoing vessels.
With the rapid economic development in Pearl River Delta in recent years, the present
transportation system, especially the water-borne transportation system, can no longer meet the
requirement. The upper  Xijiang river connects with those provinces (regions) such as Yunan,
Guizhou and Guangxi etc., and the lower reaches with Pearl River Delta. It also links with
Beijiang river and Dongjiang river. The three rivers are linking up, with 8 outlets entering sea.
The lower Xijiang river and L-S-R waterway of Pearl River Delta have excellent natural
conditions for developing water-borne transportation. The waterway regulation within the lower
Xijiang river will create a convenient water-borne transportation environment for the economic
development of Pearl River Delta, will break the rather closed inland water-borne transportation
pattern in this region, and would improve the comprehensive transportation network with the
coordinate development of waterway, road and railway. That will help the enterprises in the region
join in the international trade, introduce capitals and techniques, strengthen the development of
"export-oriented" economy, enhance the competitive ability of regional import and export trades,
and promote the extension of productivity along the coast and the shore, so that the economy in
Pearl River Delta or even in the whole Pearl River basin will be brought into full play.
15



2.2 Description of the Waterway
2.2.1 Location of the Project
The waterway regulation project for lower   Xijiang river consists of two parts: (1) 3,000
dwt seagoing waterway from Zhaoqing to Hutiaomen ( Z-H waterway), (2) 1,000 dwt waterway
from Nanhua to Lianhuashan within the branch of Liansharong waterway ( L-S-R waterway). The                      4
locations are shown in Figures 2-1 and 2-2.
2.2.2 Current Situations of the Waterways
(I) Z-H waterway
Currently, Z-H waterway (168 km) is only navigable for 1,000 dwt inland barges, and its
channel grade belongs to Class 3. The waterway from Hutiaomen to Hebao island is a seagoing
channel with a navigation depth of 6 m, which is navigable for 3,000 dwt seagoing vessels. The
maintenance dimensions of Z-H waterway at the present are shown in Table 2.1.
Table 2.1 Cutrent maintenance dimensions of the waterway in lower Xijiang river (Z-H)
____._____ Length  Maintenance dimcns   (m)|
Channel               From            To       (km)    Depth   Width Bend radius
Lower Xijiang River    Zhaoqing (2nd    Sixianjiao   45.0    2.5      80      S00
bridge)                _                             -
Lower Xijiang River      Sixianiiao    Baiqingtou   78.0     2.5      50      360
Hutiaomen Waterway       Baigingtou    J Hutiaomen   45.0    2.5      50      360
(2) L-S-R waterway
L-S-R waterway navigable for 500 inland waterway ship is composed of Lianhuashan
channel, Shawan channel, and Ronggui channel, and its navigating guarantee rate is 98%, and its
channel grade is Class 4. Its current maintenance dimensions are listed in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2 Current maintenance dimensions of L-S-R waterway
.______________  __ _Length  Maintenanc'e dima ions (mi)
Channel               From            To       (Iam)    Depth   Width  Curvature
______________ ________m___  radius
Lianhuashan          Lianhuashan     Batangwei   17.0     2.5      50      360
Shawan              Batangwei     Huoshaotou   24.0     2.5      50      360
Ronggui            Huoshaotou       Nanhua         49.0   2.5     50      360
2.2.3 Main Facilities along the Waterway
16



The facilities are shown in Table 2.3.
Table 2.3 Main facilities along the waterway
Channel   Bridges  Cables across   Water pipelines  Water gates   Bank-protection
river       across river              works (left + right)
LXR (Z-H)    l4(l)        28              0            94(2)    (28.09+39.16) km
Liansharong    8(3)       27              3             77       (24.98+29.35) km
Waterway      -
(I) including 3 bridges under construction and 7 bridges planed to be built.
(2) all water gates are the gates of the branches on both side of Xijiang river mainstrm.
(3) including I bridge Planed to be built.
2.3 Dimension and Standards of Waterway Construction
The standards of waterway construction adopt Standard for Inland Navigation Waterway
(GBJ 139-90) of People's Republic of China.
Through regulation, Z-H waterway will reach the standard navigable for 3,000 dwt seagoing
vessels, and L-S-R waterway (Lianhuashan to Nanhua section) navigable for 1,000 dwt inland and
seagoing vessels. The design maintenance dimensions are listed in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4 Design maintenance dimensions of Z-H waterway and L-S-R waterway
Channel             Width (m)            Depth (m)       Curvature radius (m)
Z-H waterway             100                   6                   650
L-S-R waterway             80                   4                   500
2.4 Main Engineering
The main engineering's include damming, dredging, underwater reef blasting, navigation
marks and communication (Tables 2.5 and 2.6). In addition, 62.4 ha (936 mu)of land is required
by the project.
On the Lower Xijiang River, the regulation project is divided into 13 sections as follows:
(1) Moyamzhou Shallow Reach
The planned navigation line is located at the left bifurcation with a minimum depth of 3.5
m. The length of shallow reach is 1330 m. At the end of the reach, there are some scattered reef-
obstacles .The regulated measure is the construction of five groynes in left bank and three groynes
in right bank, at the head left bifurcation, and blasting the reef obstacles in Wuma and Hengcha.
17



(2) Dianshuizhou Shallow Reach
The planned navigation channel is located at the left bifurcation with minimum depth of
5.3m. The regulated measure is to construct a submerged lock-dam at the islet head. two
submerged dam in the left deep channel with crest level of 7.16m.
(3) Qinsha-Fuwan Shallow Reach
The planned navigation channel is located in the main channel at right side of Qinsha, and
affected by complicated currents of the Beijiang and the Xijiang River. The channel is too wide
with a minimum depth of 4.3m, and length 850 m. The regulated measure is the construction of 9
groynes in right bank of right bifurcation end .Fuwan shallow reach is as long as 530 m with less
than 6 m depth, and three groynes will be constructed in right bank.
(4) Taipingsha Shallow Reach
The planned navigation line is located at the left bifurcation with a minimum depth of 2.8
m, length of shallow reach is 2370 m with some reef. The regulated measure is to construct 2
groynes in the right bank and blast the reef-obstacles at Emao and Sangyan, construct 9 and 2
groynes respectively in the right bank and left bank at the islet tail and dredge the channel at the
tail of islet.
(5) Haishousha Shallow Reach
The planned navigation channel is located at the left bifurcation with a minimum depth of
2.9m. The length of the left bifurcation is 2430 m., and the minimum depth in islet tail is 3.7 m.
The length of reach is 1520m, there are some reef-obstacles in the bifurcation. Regulation
measure is to construct dividing dam at the islet head, and construct 4 groynes of teeth-type
along the dividing dam, and 11 groynes and 3 submerged dams in the opposite bank, dredge the
navigation channel, blast the reef-obstacles, construct 4~ groynes in the left bank at islet head,
850m levee in the right bank.
In addition, in the opposite bank of Ganzhutan reach, there are 500 m shallow reach with
minimum depth 5.2 m, construct 3 groynes and blasted 2 scattered reefs.
(6) Tianhe Shallow Reach
Located at the biggest bifurcation of the mainstream of Xijiang River, there is a shallow
reach in the right bank of the opposite, with a minitnum depth of 2.9m and length of 1060 m.,
regulation measure is to construct 3 groynes in the right bank of bifurcation head, 4 groynes and I
lock dam in the left bank at islet head, blast the reef-obstacles.
(7) Chaolianzhou Shallow Reach
The planned navigation channel is located at the left bifurcation with a minimum depth of
3.6m. The length of upper shallow reach in the head of inlet is 2000 m; and the minimum depth of
middle shallow reach is 3.7 m with length 2120m, and along with some reefs. Regulation measure
is to construct dividing dam and 4 teeth type groynes and 3 groynes in the opposite bank along the
dividing dam, 9 and 3 groynes in the left and right bank of the middle shallow reach respectively,
blast the reef at Hetang.
18



(8) Baiqin Shallow Reach
The length is 2420 m with a minimum depth of 5.0m. Regulation measure is to construct
14 shoft-groynes in the right bank at the islet head, 2 submerged dams in the opposite bank, a
dividing dam with a length of 1370 m at the head. 2 teeth-type groynes along the dividing dam; in
the right bank at opposite of teeth-type groynes, construct 13 groynes, blast the reef at Xinsha.
(9) Shibansha Shallow Reach
The flow is sharp divided in this reach. After the bifurcation, silt is deposited in the slow
velocity zone. The length of the beach is 700 m with minimum depth 3.0 m ,with some reef-
obstacles. Regulation measure is to construct I lock dam,9 groynes in the left and right bank, 950
m levee in the left bank. Dredge the channel of inadequate depth, blast the reefs at Xinsha,
Dajutou, Guancai and Muzhou.
(10) Siqin Shallow Reach
The reach is straight, wide and shallow with seriously inadequate flow volume, maximum
width in the reach 325m and minimum depth 2.5m , with some reef-obstacles. Regulation measure
is to construct 43 groynes in the left and right bank, 3650 m levee in the scouring course, dredge
the channel of inadequate depth, blast the reef in Dongji.
(11) Hengkeng Curved Reach
Hengkeng Reach is connected in sharp curvature with the Hemaxi Waterway, the angle of
axial-line is 600, curvature radius 256m .The reach is sharp-curved and narrow, dangerous in
navigation. Big ship through is very difficult. Regulation measure is to excavate a new channel to
increase the curvature radius, block the old river inlet, and blast the reef at Hengkeng.
(12) Yongyezhou Reach
The width in this reach varies in interval and the depth in wider part is less than 5.5 m..
Regulation measure is to construct 17 groynes in the right bank of the reach from Hengkeng to
Yongyezhou, dredge the channel of inadequate depth, 4700m levee in the scoured course.
(13) The reach from Nanmenchong to the Estuary
The course is widening and deepening progressively, in the midstream, and the flow is
retarded by the stones of Chizimei and Huniao. Under the action of tidal current, silts deposited
and became a beach with minimum depth 2.8 m. Regulation measure is to dredge the left side
channel of the stones, blast the stones , construct 10 groynes , I lock dam in the right side, and
1270m levee in scoured course. In the lower reach of Xipaotai, construct groynes in both banks, 9
groynes in the left bank and a dividing dam in the right bank of the estuary. Along the dividing
dam construct 10 groynes upstream toward Xipaotai.
On the L-S-R waterway, there are five wide shallows and four sharp bend way one sharp
bend way on one-way river course, two bend way on the lower end of the shoal and one on the
upper end of the shoal, five narrow shallows, 11 dangerous sections, 18 reefs. The regulations,
19



dredging, straightening, reef blasting and bank protecting will be taken as the works measures for
the project and they are as follows:
(I) The regulation works
The regulating is taken as the measure combining the dredging for the wide shallows. This
type of shallows are: the inlet of the Lianhuashan, Dawutpou and Guanyinsha on Shawan
Waterway, Nanhua and Ximaning on Ronggui Waterway.
(2) The widening and dredging works
* The dredging
9 sections are needed to be dredged in the works, and they are the upper end of Ruisheng
shoal on Lianhuashan Waterway, Guanyin and Dawutou shallows on Shawan Waterway, and
Lijiasha Waterway(for details , see to Fig.2.6 & Fig.2.7)
*   The straightening
Four places should be straightened, and they are Batangwei, Huoshaotou, Banshawei and
Erjiao. According to the design standards, three plans is offered, and the water depth by dredging
is 3.5m, 4.Om and 4.5m. On Batangwei it is only needed to be straightened by excavation under
the water, no bank protection and dam is needed. The bank protection and dam are needed after
the excavation on Banshawei and Erjiao. On Huoshaotou the old bank protection is concrete erect
retaining wall, and it should be blasted out and the new concrete hollow block retaining wall will
be constructed.
* The reef blasting
The reef blasting is on Shawan and Ronggui Waterway, and there are total 18 reef blasting,
including 24500 mn reinforced concrete retaining wall blasting on Huoshaotou.(see to Fig.2.6 &
2.7).
*   The bank protection
The eroding bank on L-S-R Waterway should be protected. The old slope protection on
Shawan Waterway is erect revetment, so the new is the erect slope protection. The sloping mound
type revetmnent is used on Ronggui Waterway. The total length of the bank protection is 8,375m,
the stone filling 75,756 m3, the stone facing 24,723 m3, the crushed stones 20,858 m3 , and the
concrete 3,246 m3.
The total engineering quantities of the regulation project is given in Tab. 2.5 and 2.6.
The general layouts of the project are shown in Figures 2-4, 2-5, 2-6 and 2-7.
2.5 Budgetary Estimate and Investment Arrangement
Budgetary estimate consists of the following 4 kinds of expense: regulation engineering
expense , other expense, land use expense and expense put aside.
20



2.5.1 Summary of Investment (Table 2.7)
Table 2.5 Engineering volumes of Z-H waterway regulation project
Engineering   Amount Length (m) Volumes of earthworks           Remarks
and stonework (m3)
Damming        207    31,765        184.13 X I04
Dredging                           886.55 X 104
Spit-cutting    3                   337.29 X 104        Cutting at Hengkengkou,
Nanzhen and Gouweishan
Reefs blasting   12      3655         58.8 X 10I
Bank                 11,500        35.8 X 104
protection
Navigation marks   107                                  2 remote control centers, and 12
docks for operation ships
Table 2.6 Engineering volumes of L-S-R waterway regulation project
Engineering   Amount Length (m) Volumes of earthworks          Remarks
and stonework (m3
Damming        18      5,100        14.70 X 104
Dredging                           314.28 X 104
Spit-cutting    4                   211.05 X 104          Cutting at Batangwei,
Banshawei, Huoshaotou and
Er'jiao
Reefs blasting   18                   26.46 X 10'
Bank                 8,375        15.32 X 104
protection
Navigation marks   58                                   2 remote control centers, and 12
docks for operation ships
21



Table 2.7  The project budget
NoJItem                        .Amount
RMB (X  104 Yuan),         Correspondingto USS (X  104).
I  iProject ex ense            380,583.24                  .9,744.05
K  Construction_engineernn   79,159.24                 :9,571.86
3a Purchase of equipment    1,424.00           -       .172.19
2  .Other expense               . 13,393.83                 1,619.56
Expense for land use        3 982.00                   481.50
4   Expense reserved             29,404.22                 3 555.53
Total                            127,363.29                :15,400.64
* The currency exchange rate assumes to be RMB 8.27/WSS.
2.5.2 Scheme of Annual Investment
Total construction period is proposed to be four fiscal years. The allocation of the investnent
is listed in Table 2.8.
Table 2.8 Annual investment plan
jTotal      iIst fiscal year 32nd fiscal year 33rd fiscal year 34th fiscal year
ilUnvestment             1
Radio Q'                .3100         32S         130           30          31S
RMB (x le Yua)           3127,363.29  ,33l,40.84   338,209.02    338,209.02    119 104.51
Coresponding to USS (X 104):15,400.64    13.860.16    14,620.19  14,620.19   !2310.10
2.6 Engineering Analysis
2.6.1 Principle of Engineering Analysis
According to the Technical Guideline of Environmental Impact Assessment, and Operational
Directives of World Bank (OD4.01), the pollutant discharges are analyzed and quantified on the
basis of the characteristics of L-S-R waterway regulation project.
2.6.2. Objects and Contents of Engineering Analysis
2.6.2.1 Construction Stage
All the followings during construction stage will have some impact on regional environment:
dredging, the construction activities of damming, underwater reef blasting, spit-cutting and
damming, and noise from the construction machines, underwater reef blasting and transportation
vehicles, and random discharge of building garbage, living garbage and sewage etc. However, the
impact resulting from those factors is local, short-term and reversible.
22



(I) Impact of Waterway Dredging
Impact of suspended substances (SS) resulting from dredging on water quality and fishery
resources is local, short-term and reversible.
The amount of SS from dredging can be calculated with the following formula:
Q =Wox R x T
Ro
in which: Q- amount of SS from dredging (tlh);
W- coefficient of SS production (t/m3);
R- accumulated percentage of SS particle size at the given Wo (%);
Ro- accumulated percentage of SS particle size at the field-measured velocity(%);
T- dredging volume (m3/h)
When dredging volume is 1,000.83 m3/h, and the coefficient of SS production takes 1.45 X
1 03 t/m3 ,the amount of SS is estimated to be 16.71 t/h with the above formula.
(2) Impact of underwater reef blasting
There will be 18 reef blasting, and a total volume of reef blasting will be 26.46 X 104 m3.
Noise and vibration (shock pressure in water) from reef blasting will have some influence on
buildings along the sides of the waterway and on fish. The extent of influence depends on the
quantity of explosives used. The scope of impact generally limits within 200 m from both sides.
(3) Impacts on Aquatic Organisms
Such activities as operating of the construction ships, dredging, damming, reef blasting will
damage the habitats of aquatic organisms and benthos, and change their migration behavior and
distribution pattern. These impacts are temporary, and after regulation they will recover very soon.
(4) Impact of Land Requisition on Agriculture
The project will make a requisition of 136 mu of lands, which will certainly have some
impact on agriculture.
(5) Impact of Noise from Construction Machines
The intensity of noise resulting from ships, machines and vehicles used during the
construction stage are ( monitoring at the distance of Im) is as follows.
Ship (tugboat): 65 dB(A)
Major powered ship: 94 dB(A)
Truck: 67-104 dB(A)
23



Dredging craft: 70 dB(A)
2.6.2.2 Operation Stage
(1) Water Quality Impact of Ship Pollutants
After the completion of the regulation project, the transportation volume will increase greatly
since the waterway will have been improved and will be navigable for larger tonnage of ship. The
resulting oil wastewater, sewage and garbage will have certain impact on water quality.
(2) Ship Noise
After the completion of the regulation project, the traffic flow of ships will increase, and
noise from navigation will change. The noise level of whistling is 85 dB(A) ( monitored at the
distance of 200 m from the ship), which will have some impact on residents on both sides of the
waterway.
24



3.    Investigation and Assessment of Current
Environmental Situations
3.1 Physical Environment
3.1. I Topography
The project area situates in the plain region with river network, and along both sides of the
project waterway are extensive plains. The landform is slightly higher in the northwest, and
somewhat lower in the southeast. Three kinds of landforms dominate on both sides: high plain,
low plain and low wet fields, and among them some small residual hills are randomly distributed.
The altitude in most areas is between 0.2-2.0 m.
Low wetlands consists of mulberry field and fish ponds etc., which is an artificially modified
landform of low plain. High plain locates in the middle and northern parts of Xijiang and Beijiang
river deltas with the altitude between 0.5-0.9 m. Low plain, also called sandy land or low sandy
land, mainly composes of clays and silts.
3.1.2 Geology
Base rocks in Pearl River Delta are mainly composed by granite, conglomerate, sandstone,
shale and argillite formed in different times. Granite distributes in southern and eastern parts of
Xijiang and Beijiang river deltas, and other base rocks mainly in northern and middle parts of the
delta. Base rocks along the shores of L-S-R waterway are mainly composed by red bed rocks in
Cretaceous system and Paleogene system, metamorphic rock in Sinian period and granite in
Yanshan period. Weathering crust is 3-4 m thick, with the thickest being 10-20 m.
3.1.3 Soil
Most of lands in the project region are covered with alluvial deposit. Soil types consists of
artificial cumulous soil, paddy soil and krasnozem. Artificial cumulous soil, being fertile and acid,
sufficient of water, rich of N and P, and lacking of K, is suitable for growing many kinds of crop.
Paddy soil is thick and fertile, has strong capacity of keeping fertile and water, distributes in
patches, and is easy to be irrigated and convenient for cultivating, but is slightly acid, of high
ground water table and lacking of P. Krasnozem is less, distributing on hills and table lands.
3.1.4 Climate
The project region is south to the Tropic of Cancer, with a typical subtropical marine
monsoon climate. Winter is short while summer is long, and spring and autumn are near equal.
Summer is nearly half year long, from the mid of April to the second half of October. It is warm
all the year, and rich of heat. Mean annual temperature is 21.8 0C, the extreme low temperature
was -1.3 °C, and the extreme high temperature 36.7 OC. The sunshine is rich, and the rainfall is
abundant with the mean annual rainfall of 1648.9 mm. Rainy season is distinguished apparently
25



from dry season. Monsoon changes apparently. In winter north and northeast winds prevail,
while in summer south and southeast winds prevail.
.3.1.5 Ground Water
Ground water of the shallow layer in project region belongs to pore water ( mixing phase of
sea and land) in alluvial layer with a depth of about 20-50 m, and ground water of deep layer
belongs to pore water and crevice water between layers with a depth of about 105 m.
3.1.6 Hydrological Characteristics and Silts
Z-H and L-S-R waterway locates in the tidal area. Water level, flow velocity, discharge and
direction change in a very complicate way. Whether in flood season or in dry season, or at high
tide or at low tide, they are always different.
According to the statistical data from Rongqi hydrological monitoring station (2) on Yang
waterway, the maximum tidal difference of this waterway was 2.0 m, and tidal difference in flood
season is small. The highest water level is 3.46 m recorded in 1968, and the lowest -1.lOm. The
maximum velocity is 1.72-2.06 m/s.
Silts of Z-H waterway mainly come from Xijiang river, and Silts of L-S-R waterway mainly
come from Xijiang river and Beijiang river.
3.2 Biological Resources
It is revealed that there are no critical natural habitats or natural protection zones along the
waterway in field investment. From Zhaoqin to Sixianjiao of the lower Xijiang River, there are
hilly land and lower mountain at the left bank, and fluvial plain at the right bank which are utilized
as agricultural land. From Sixianjiao downstream, both sides of the project waterway are delta
fluvial plain, and all land is utilized as farming land and fish pool except some towns and harbors.
3.2.1 Aquatic Organisms and Fishery Resources
The waterway is rich of organic materials. In associate with the tidal effects, special
ecological environment forms. Aquatic plant, aquatic animal and benthos are all abundant. Fishes
of upper, middle and bottom layers are relatively rich. Ecological communities are very
complicated, with the mixture of pure fresh water fish, estuary fish, migration and semi-migration
fish.
Records about fish species existed in some historical books. From 19th century to 40's of
20th century, lots of investigation reports were published. After the liberation, fishery
development was paid great importance, and there had been many high-level papers published.
Especially in 1980's, a systematic research on the aquatic environment in the Guangdong sections
of Pearl River was conducted and a monograph was edited based on the results of investigation,
26



which was leaded by Pearl River Institute of Aquatic Product, Chinese Academy of Aquatic
Product in associate with Department of Biology in South China Normal University, Zhanjiang
Aquatic Product College and Department of Biology in Jinan University. Fishery production
statistical data and fishery planning's conducted by various fishery administration departments at
the county or city levels provided sound foundations for our environmental assessment.
3.2.1.1 Food Organisms
Phytoplankton, zooplankton, benthos and aquatic vascular plant are main natural foods for
fish, all of which are called as food organisms.
(I) Phytoplankton
Lianhuashan of the project waterway locates in the interfacing point of saline water and fresh
water. Salinity of Shawan waterway is great due to the influence of tidal intrusion from Humen.
Nanhua-Tianhe is one of the tidal meeting points in the delta. Influenced with both the tidal
intrusion and the runoff from upper reaches, phytoplankton includes not only fresh species but
also saline species. Its amount and species have different distribution at different times and
locations, and dominant species also change with time and space. When runoff is greater and
salinity is lower in flood season, fresh species are dominant. However in dry season when runoff
is less and salinity is greater, saline species are dominant. Both number and species in
Lianhuashan waterway are greater than that in other waterways. Species composition of
phytoplankton is listed in Table 3. 1, and their biomass are given in Table 3.2.
Table 3.1 Species composition of phytoplankton in L-S-R waterway
Chlorop- Cyanop- Chryso- Florideo- Xantho- Crypto- Phyrrop- Eugleno- Bacillariop- Total
hyta    hyta   phyta  phyceae  phyta   phyta    ha            phyta  hyta
past    29       16       2       0        1       2       1       4         30      82
records                 ____
sampling   14      8        I       /        I       2        /       3        I       39
in June
18.96                    _  __
Table 3.2 Biomass of phytoplankton in L-S-R waterway           unit: mg/kg
Channel   Chlorop- Cyanop- Baccillar Chryso- Xantho- Crypto-  Phyrrophyta Euglenophyt
hyta     hyta   -iophyta  phyta   phyta   phyta                a
Xijiang (upper   2.9   2.0    80.0    1.4      /        /        2.1         5.8
section)    ._
Hutiaomen &    4.9     1.9    87.4    0.4      /       I         1.5        7.8
Liansharong   -       -
The available data indicate that annual mean number of phytoplankton in the waterway was
360,000 IL, and biomass was 1.628 mg/L. Measured results in 12 sampling stations in 1996
27



showed that the number was 512,000-4,290,000 IL, and the maximum value was recorded in
Lianhuashan waterway.
From these two tables it can be seen that the three most abundant groups of phytoplankton
are Bacillariophyta, Chlorophyta and Cyanophyta in decrease order. The biomass is
Bacillariophyta, Euglenophyta and Chlorophyta in decrease order. Bacillariophyta is excellent
foods for fry and some adult fish, Euglenophyta is also a kind of algae easy to digest, and
Chlorophyta is the foods for some benthos and plant-eating fish as well as the main foods for
zooplankton.
In addition, the concentration of Chl-a in the waterway was also determined from June 13 to
20,1996 so as to estimate the primary productivity. The range of primary productivity for 48 water
samples are 1.03-7.70 mglL, and the maximum record also appeared in Lianhuashan waterway.
These data indicates that current water quality is between poortrophic to mesotrophic. What is
worth to mention is that there are much Cryptomonas and Cyclotella in each sampling station,
which indicates that water quality has been polluted in some degree.
(2) Zooplankton
The species composition and biomass of zooplankton are summarized in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3 Number of species and biomass of Zooplankton
_________    Protozoa         Rotifea      Co  oda       Cladoce__       Total
Channel   number biomass number biomass number biomass number biomass nunber biomass
(mg/      ~       (gL)   (mg/L)    (mg/L)        (mgn _  mgL).
Upper part of   28    0.3    41    2.1    25    7.5    20    90.2   114   0.061
Lower part of   40    0.18    38    5.4    26    3.1    49    91.2   153   1.66
waterwav
Present    4              I         I          I      I       I      I      I
observation
Samnpling was conducted in summer. Consequently there were less species due to the effects
of seasonal changes of flood, silt, transparency and foods. The seasonal changes of biomass are
given in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4 Seasonal changes of Zooplankton biomass
unit: mg/L
Season          Protozoa         Rotifera         Copepoda         Cladoceva
Spring          0.012            0.067            0.039            2.428
Summer          0                0                0.083            1.080
Autumn          0                0                0.055            0.81
Winter          0.02             0.32             0.36             1.53
28



(3) Benthnic Animal
The project waterway is the meeting region of fresh water and saline water. Ecological
conditions are very complicated, which provide fine habitats and rich foods for benthnic animals.
The composition of benthic animals is given in Table 3.5. The seasonal changes of benthos
biomass are presented in Table 3.6.
Table 3.5  Species composition of benthic animals
Channel    Annelida  Mollusca Aquatic    Crustacea  Platyhelm- Heteron-  Total
insecta             intes      emertini
Upper    8           15         12        7          0         0          44
reach     I ___I__I
Lower    11          26         12        16         0         1          66
reach    I  _ _ _ __   _I__  _   I__ __ _   __ _ __ _   I__ __ _   ___ __ _
Table 3.6 Seasonal changes of benthos biomass
unit: g/m3
Channel          Spring          |Summer           Autumn           Winter
Upper reach      35.67            1.72             39.03            30.72
Lower reach      25.70            30.31            17.34            58.44
The dominant species include: C.Fluminea.LiMnopernaBellamya,Bithynia Fuchsina.
Corbulide, Odonata,   Nerdis Sp. Dytiscidae, Chironomidae (Tendidae), Macrobrachium
Nipponensis, Palaemon (Exopalaemon), Carinicauda,Seylla Serrata (Forskal) ,Sesarma.
Each year, from July to September is the growing period of the larva of many economic fish
and shrimp from South China sea. Cryster and shrimp fry often enter Lianhuashan waterway with
tidal currentfor finding food and growing. In the composition of the capture, shellfish, shrimp and
cryster occupied over 1/3.
(4) Aquatic plant
99 species of aquatic vascular plants were recorded in literature, which were distributed in
spots. Due to the effects of human activities, there are no much aquatic plants in the project
waterway now.
In summary, foods organisms in this section of waterway are rich, which lay sound
foundation for fishery development.
3.2.1.2 Fishery Resources
Fishery resources of the project waterway are rich. Special ecological environment provide
various kinds of habitat for fish, and consequently there exist many different ecological types of
fish.
29



(I) Species Composition
According to the literature, in the studied waterway there were a total of 197 fish species in
19 orders and 54 families. Among them, order Cypriniforns had 65 species, accounting for
32.99% of the total species, order Perciformes 64 species, 32.48%, order Siluroidei 13 species,
6.6%, order Clupeiforms 9 species, 4.57%, orders Anguilliforms and Mugiliformes 8 species
respectively, 4.06% of each, and the other 12 orders with 9 species, accounting for 4.57%.
Different natural conditions and ecological environment in the waterway make these fish
have different distribution characteristics. Generally speaking, the species of family Cyprinidae
dominate in quantity in the upper sections and are the main components of fresh fish production.
Such lower sections as Lianhuashan waterway and Shawan waterway are the habitant regions of
salt and fresh water fish, where there are 119 migratory species of which most are in orders
Perciformes and Clupeifornns. In the section near the estuary, sometimes the salinity can reach
0.90 %a and even  up to 10 %a because of the influence of tide, but there still exist 28 species of
family Cyprinidae. These species belong to migratory species, and those habitant in upper and
middle layers are of high quantity while those in bottom layer can still account for over 1/3.
(2) Important Economic Species, Fish Catch and Spawning Field
There are more than 40 important economic fish species, included: Macrura Reevesi
(Richardson) ,Coilia Mysms, Mylopharyngodon Piceus (Richardson) ,Ctenopharyngodon Idellus
(Cuvier Et Valenciennes) ,Erythroculter Recurvicrps, Megalobrama Hoffinanni Herreet Myers,
Cyprinus Carpio Linnaeus ,Carassius Auratus (ainnaeus) Aristichthys Nobilis (Richardson), and
et al. Fish catch in upper section is mainly composed of fresh water species. Fishery production in
lower section such as Lianhuashan fishery harbor in recent years reached about 3 X 104 tta, of
which fresh water species and fresh-salt water species occupy nearly same proportion.
Every year about 1,000 fishing ships on average operate in L-S-R waterway. According to
the present investigation, Panyu city has over 300 fishing ships to operate here, with more than
1,000 fishing workers and annual fishery production of 2,000-3,000 t Shunde city has 6004800
fishing ships working here and their annual fishery production was 1,200-1,800 t
There exist many of high economical value fish species here, included: Pthchidio Jordani
Myers, Siniperca Knern, Acipenser Sinensis Gray, Macrura Reevesi, Megalobrama Hoffinanni
Herreet Myers, Chana Asiatica. et al. No spawning fields for semi-migratory large and middle-
size fish were found in the project waterway, where there only found some small reproductive
fields for some fish of family Cyprinidae which has no strict requirement for spawning conditions.
The spawning fields of salt-fresh water fish species mainly locate in the estuary of Pearl River and
shallow coastal areas. However, fish fry, shrimp larva and crab larva from esturine areas often
enter Lianhuashan waterway for growing, finding food, and habitant etc.
In order to stabilize fishery resources, fishery administrative department put artificial fish fry
into rivers. At the present nearly 100,000,000 fries were put into Guangdong reach of Xijiang
river each year, and 1,000 X 104 fry and some crab larva into L-S-R waterway each year.
30



3.2.1.3 Biological Pollution
Because lots of urban domestic sewage and industrial wastewater discharge into the
waterway, certain degree of pollution has been caused.
(I) Bacterial Pollution
Wastewater generally contains a great deal of bacteria and colibacillus, which become the
main sources of bacterial pollution in the waterway. 26 water samples at ebb and flood tides from
13 stations were analyzed. Bacterial count was between 290 and 16,400  /ml, and colibacillus
count between 2300 and 23,800 /L, which are much greater than that in pure river water (generally
bacteria count is 100-1000  /ml, coli count 10000 /L). Thus, bacterial pollution in the waterway
is apparent.
(2) Toxic Residues in Fish ( details in 5.1)
3.2.2 Vegetation
Because of the influence of regional development and human factors, natural vegetation along
L-S-R waterway was damaged heavily. The vegetation coverage is relatively high on hills. There
is basically no bare land, and flat land was covered with grass and sugarcane etc. Soil loss was
slight. Both sides along Shawan waterway and Ronggui waterway were basically covered with
artificial vegetation or crops.
3.2.3 Terrestrial Animal
No rare and precious animals were found within 500 meters of both sides along L-S-R
waterway.
3.3 Socio-Economic Environment
3.3.1 Communities and Population
The direct economical tributary area of LXR(Z-H) waterway includes 20 municipal districts
of four local cities of Yunfu, Zhaoqing, Foshan and Jiangmen associated with their jurisdiction
counties.The total area is 3.44 X 104 m2 and the total population is 1,115.6 X 104 showed by the
1994 census , accounting for 19.3% of Guangdong's geographic area and 16.7% of the
Guangdong's population.
The assessment region involves 8 towns. 4 of these towns belong to Panyu city, namely,
Lianhuashan, Shilou, Shawan and Lanhe, and the other 4 belong to Shunde city, namely, Dailiang,
Rongqi, Guizhou and Jun'an.
Total population in the assessment region is about 53.5 X 104 persons, of which
31



agricultural population is 25.5 X 1o0 persons, accounting for about 47.66% of total population.
Total population in the 4 towns of Shunde city is 34.5 X 104 persons, of which agricultural
population is 16.9 X 10 persons, accounting for 48.90%. Total population in the 4 towns of
Panyu citY is 19.0 X 104 persons, of which agricultural population makes up 45.26%.
3.3.2 Social Economics
The tributary area of LXR(Z-H) is abundant in natural resource. Major mineral resources
consist of limestone, gypsum chernozem, granite, marble, iron sulfides etc. Being a important
agricultural production base of Guangdong province, the tributary area has rich forest resource
either  Places of natural scenic beauty , such as "the One River, Two Lakes, Three Gorges,
Four Pogodas n in Zhaoqin City and the " Bird Paradise " in Xinhui County are the precious
tourism resources of the area.
Geographically, the tributary area of LXR(Z-H) channel, locating at the west margin of the
PRD, belongs to the boundary of developed region in Central Guangdong Province and the
developing area in West Guangdong Province. Its economical status is within the developed and
under-developed level. The Jiangmen district, as more close to the seashore, is economically more
developed than Zhaoqing and Gaoming Districts.
According to the statistics in 1995, Total Industrial and Agricultural Output (TIAO) in the
region along L-S-R waterway was RMB 78.81 X 10', of which Total Industrial Output(TIO)
was RMB 42.2 1 X 10', and Total Agricultural Output (TAO) RMB 36.60 X 108.
TIAO in the 4 towns of Shunde city was RMB 33.89 X 10' , of which TIO is RMB3.09 X
10a (accounting for 9.18%), and TAO RMB 30.80 X 10 (accounting for 90.92%). TIAO in the
4 towns of Panyu city was RMB 44.92 X 10', of which TIO was RMB 39.12 X 10' (accounting
for 87.09%), and TAO RMB 5.80 X 10' (accounting for 12.11%).
3.3.3 Water Conservancy and Transportation Facilities
At present, in LXR(Z-H) channel, the flood control is chiefly depended upon the dykes
along river banks, and flood controlling pivotal engineering in upstream is insufficient. Since
1949, through reparation, consolidation and combining of dykes, the flood - preventive capacity
has been being increased gradually. Now, the principal dykes for flood prevention are: Jingfeng
combined dyke, Zhongshun Dyke, Jiangxin Combined dyke and Qiaosang combined dyke. The
area of protected agricultural land is 1.34 million Mu with a capacity of against the recurrence
flood of 50 year interval. The requirement of flood prevention for middle and small dyke is
against recurrence d o 10 - 20 year interval, the dykes in the vicinity of the estuary could be
against 10th class typhoon and storm surge. Most of the dykes are made of stone, some of small
dykes protecting less than 10 thousands Mu are made of earth.
According to relevant reports, there are 24.98 km of dikes along the left bank and 29.35 km
of dikes along the right bank of L-S-R waterway (Table 3.7). A total of 7 bridges have been built
32



over the waterway. A new bridge ( Maning Bridge ) is pending on approval to build for the
Guang-Zhu expressway (Table 3.8).
Table 3.7 Current flood protection dikes from Lianhuashan to Nanhua
Section            Length (km)    Average crest level (m)                  Length of dikes
=__________________ |left bank                                right bank       left bank       right bank
Lianhuashan-Batangwei             13             2.82            3.04             9.65            11.95
Huoshaotou-Nanbian               I1             3.48            3.89            3.78            4.41
Nanbian-Batangwei               13             2.81            2.91            4.25             3.29
Huoshaotou-Banshawei              10             3.92            3.96            3.90             1.70
Nanhua-Yingezhu                16             6.40            6.40              0               0
Yingezhu-Banshawei              23             4.84             4.75            3.40            8.00
Table 3.8 Clearance dimensions of bridges across over Liansharong waterway
Section    Name of bndge Highest navigable water level Clearance dimension  Location               Remarks
Recurrence    Water level Clear  width Clea 
interval (years) (m)     (m)         headway (m)                                   l
Lianhuashan Hai'ou bridge  20          2.00       110         Is          300 m  above Lianhuashan in use
-Batang wei                                                               harbor
Huoshaotou- New   Shawan 20            2.59       so          Is          400 m east to the north bank  in use
Batangwei  bridge            ___
Shawan bridge  20           2.59       so          I s         300 m eut to the south bank  in use
Huoshaotou-                                                               Dailiang-Daige road      in use
Banshawei  Wusha bridge  20                        110         I          700 m below the vehicle dock in use
Nanhu -    Qijiso bridge   20                     80          18          300 m above Nanhua brick in use
Banshawei                               l l____                           plant
|________ Ronggi bridge  _20           355        90          la          1.7 kmn below Rongqi town   in use
r_______ IDeshen bridge 120           13.55      190        16            300 m below Ronggi bridge  in use
3.4 Living Quality
3.4.1 Levels of Material and Cultural Lives
Since the economical reformation and open-door polices of China . the export-oriented
economies in the PRD developed rapidly. As the east central part of the PRD enters into extensive
development stage , their comparative economical advantages begins to decrease gradually.
Meanwhile , the comparative economical potential in the tributary area along the lower Xijiang
river waterway becomes more obvious day after day.
Furthermore, with the transformation and updating of industrial structures in economical
33



zones of the PRD . the labor intensive enterprises will doubtlessly shift to and spread in the
western marginal area.
With progresses in economy, this area will gain gradual improvements in social culture,
civil construction, medical services and public health sanitation. Subsequently t the population
quality will also be improved towards higher education level.
According to the socio-economic statistical data of Panyu city and Shunde city in 1994,
current situations of material and cultural lives in assessment region are summarized in Table 3.9.
Table 3.9 Main index of levels of material and cultural lives
Items                                    Unit                       PanyU city                   Shunde city
1. Income                                RMB    _
mean income per farmer                                              4652                          3788
average annual                                                      9072                        13909.22
income per workcr
annual income per capital                                                                       10668.95
2. consumption level                     RMB                              __
fanner    ______ __4119
on-fanner *                                                                                      t27.01
3. accommodation  area                    Out______________                              ______________
urban area                                                           26.2                          28.9
countrvside                 _                                        33.9                          31.5
4 saving deposits                        RMB
savings per capita                                                    14333                        12722
5. Culture                                acts                                       ,
number of TV sets/100 persons                                   _      30                            130
6. Education
% of school enrollments                    %                            99 .9                         999
1Hygiene                                 .
Number of clinic                                                        27.3                          27.8
beds / 10.000 persons
numbers of doctor                                                       11.3                          13.1
110.000 persons               _
8. Employment                            persons                         2.0                           1.7
34



It can be seen from the table that levels of material and cultural lives in the assessment region
is evidently higher than that in the other region, and that in Shunde city is higher that in Panyu
city.
3.4.2 Public Health
Epidemic prevention agencies are well developed in the assessment region. Hospitals at the
various levels distribute all around the region. On average, number of hygiene agencies in Shunde
city is greater than that in Panyu city. However, number of patient beds and clinic medical
workers in Shunde city is less than that in Panyu city.
3.4.3 Places of Historical Interest and Scenic Beauty and Tourism
There are no many places of historical interest and scenic beauty. Lianhuashan in Panyu
city is a very attractive touring site.
3.5 Current Scouring and Silting Situations
Based upon the topographic mapping of the Xijiang River Course from Zhaoqing to
Baiqintou in 1978 to 1992, which is provided by the Guangdong Provincial Scientific Institute of
Waterway, the scouring and siltation of the whole river reach were calculated through method of
dense section measuring. The results show that the silted reaches are m uch more than the
scoured reach, and the river tends to be silted in summary. The total silting accumulation from
Zhaoqing to Baiqintou is 9800 x 10 M, the scouring is 5790 x 10 M, and net siltation is 4090 x
10 M. Annual mean siltation is 292104 M', accounted fbr 3.6% of sediment yield. During the
period of 14 years from 1978 to 1992, the average silt height is 0.287m and the annual silt height
is 2cm/a.
In the Hutiaomen Waterway, the silt sedimentation (including natural and artificial appears
as the silting in branch but scouring in mainstream, and such a situation is very evident in the
water gates in Jiangmen and Muzhou River. On the basis of topographic mapping of the channel
from 1970 - 1989, the changes in scouring and siltation can be appraised as that the 9.6 km of
Hemaxi Waterway from the -Baiqintou to the Muzhou Water Gate has received 41.1 X 104 M silt
- The annual mean siltation is 2.2 x 10 M, and annual siltation height is 0.4 cm/a. In the
Hutiaomen Estuary, the boundary of the river spreads wider, and the river bed becomes more
gentle and the velocity becomes slower. All these factors combined with the back and forth of
tidal current and the flocculation of saline water cause a lot of silt deposition in the estuary.
On the whole, along the upstream and downstream of Baiqintou, the entire river bed appears
to be silted except scouring in some local reaches.
L-S-R waterway is runoff-dominated. 40% of runoff from mainstream of Xijiang river
(discharge at Makou) flows through Nanhua-Banshawei section of Ronggui waterway. Generally
35



speaking, scouring takes place in the narrow sections or the sections with large flow, while silting
occurs on shores of the broader river section and on shoals where flow is slow. Results of scouring
and silting analysis are listed in Table 3. 10. The results show that there are more scouring sections
and silting sections in L-S-R waterway. Scouring is greater than tilting, Overall the waterway is
on the state of scouring.
Table 3.10 Results of scouring and silting computation for L-S-R waterway
Section        Scouring voiume  Silting volume Netvalue of scouring Averap thickness of  Data period and
(101m3)       (104mt)    and silting (10 ml)  scouring and silting   number of yeas
(mn)
Lianhuashan waterway     405.9          256.9         -349.0             .0.36         1971A096.3
(Lianhuashan-Dashawei)   _                                                                   (a)
Shawan waterway       .924.4          105l1          419.3             .0.94         1984.10-96.03
(Huoshaotou-Batangwei)                                                                       (11)
Ronggui waterway       .75.7           19.5          -56.2             .0.31         1985.10-96.03
(Huoshaotou-Banshawei)                                                                       (10)
Ronggui waterway (Nanhua.    .5735.6      106.3          4929.3           -2.000         19U6.10496.05
Banshawei)                                                                              (9)
The comparison between the sections show that scouring in the section Nanhua-Banshawei is
strongest, the second is Shawan waterway. The other two are less.
There are 11 main shoals in L-S-R waterway, where silting mainly takes place. These shoals
to which the waterway departments often conduct dredging are the main targets of the waterway
regulation project.
3.6 Current Water Quality and Its Assessment
3.6.1 Monitoring of Water Quality
(1)      Sampling stations
24 sampling stations were selected, and samples were collected for analysis along the
regulated waterway. The location of sampling stations is shown in Figure 3-1 & 3-2.
(2) Monitoring items and analysis methods
14 monitoring items were selected in L-S-R Waterway, namely Water temperature, pH, DO,
CODm,, BOD5, NH4 f-N, NO2 --N  NO3 -N, SS, CN, Oil, Coliform, Bacteria count and Algae etc.
12 items in LXR(Z-H) Waterway, and they are CODw,,, NO2 -N, N03-N, phenol, CN, As, Cr",
Cd, etc.
Analysis methods are all based on the standard methods specified  in Surface Water
36



Environmental Quality Standards.
Water sampling and analyzing were conducted by the Monitoring Center of Water
Environment of Pearl River Basin. Samples were taken in each station at low tide and high tide .
3.6.2 Water Quality Assessment
Surface Water Environmental Quality Standards (GB 3838-88) is chosen as the standard for
classifying the grade of single item. For the sections having defined functions, and their protection
objectives was taken as the assessment standards.
The following 10 items are chosen as the assessment parameters: pH, DO, COD)M, BOD,
non-ionic ammonia, NO2 -N, N03-N, phenol, oil and SS.
Water quality class for each assessment parameter is determined by the method of comparing
with the standard. Index method was used in assessing water quality at different seasons.
Results of single parameter assessment are listed in Table 3.1 la & 3.1 lb. In LXR(Z-H) Waterway,
all items are within class I or 2 , and satisfy the requirement of assessment standard. In L-S-R
Waterway, the concentration of oil, and the concentrations of non-ionic ammonia and NO2 -N in
some stations are within class 4 of surface water environmental quality standard. The
concentrations of other parameters are within class I or 2. The pH value and the concentration of
SS in all the waterway can satisfy the requirement
Table 3.1 la Assessment of Current Water Quality
Channel   CODme   |NO .N   |NO3-N    Phenol    CN           As        Cr        I Cd
I_         g   class     class     class ma/  ciass mg// mcl ss        g   c s m mg/L    class
Moyanzhou  1.2   1   0.018 1   0.73  1   *    b    I =    b           *1    1   0.00022  1
Makou     1.4   1   0.019 1   0.70  1         I _  .    I   /    /   .    1   0.00009  1
Taipingsha  15   1   0.023 1   0.68  _   .    I s         I _          0.004 1   0.00008  I_
Haishousha  1.4   _   0.024 1_  0.70  1   .    1   .    1   /    1   0.004 1   00.00011  1_
Tianhe    1.5    _  0.026 1   0.681 _         1 _       1   / I             1   0.00007  1
Chaolian-  1.6   1   0.027 _   0.72  _1                 I _   .   /   0.004 1   0.0000S  I
zliou-
Baiqintou  1.9  I__  0.030 1   0.79  1   _    1       I__ I  /         0.004 1   0.00010  _
Muzhoukou 3.9  II  0.004 I   1.10  I   .                I         I          I   0.00005  I
ShanghCn, 3.9  II  0.003 1   0.97  1   .    I          .    _   .    _   .    1   0.00005  I
Hengshan  3.4  II  0.003 1   0.96  1          1   *    1           1         1   0.00006  1
Yonezhu 4.0 _ 0.0041 _1.00 _  _  I  _  _ _                             _  _ 000003 1
Xi=aotai  3.6           I 0003 1 094 I    __  _  _  _  _  _  _ 000004 I_ 
u Undetected
37



Table 3.11 b Assessment of Current Water Quality
Channel       pH  SS4" non-ionic  NO].N    NO2 -N   CODt    BOD         CN         Phenol   oil
ammonis
mg/L mg/L class mg/L Glass mg/L  clas mg/L class mg/L class mg/L clus mg/L class mg/L cass
Lianhuashan   1 3  11.0 0.01  _  1.35  _   0.302 IV  3.1  II  2.2  I    /2       1 0.00X 1   0.11 IV
Htuoshaotou-    7.S  5.5  0.02 _   0.60 1   0.026  1  1.2  1   0.7  I   /   I   I    I   0.11 IV
ftatangwel             I   I                        I         I   I              I
Huoshaotou-    S.1  2.0  0.05 IV  0.71 l   0.024 l  1.1  1   0.6  I   /   I         I l   0.05 III
Banshawei          I   I _                                    I
Nkabua        8.0  1.9  0.02 ti  1.17 1   0.024 1  1.1  I   0.6  I           I   /    I   0.11 IV
Ranehawel (lower
Nanhua.       8.1  7.5  0.02 II  1.20 1   0.20  I  I.1  I   1.0  I        1       0.002 1   0.10 IV
Banthowei (upper
(I) . adopt the recommended standard in Technical Replation of Envionmental Quality Report Prepion
(2) undetected
The concentration of oil in 70 % of the samples, that of NO2 -N in 8% of the samples, and
that of non-ionic ammonia in about 20%/o of the samples are within class 4 of surface water
environmental quality standards. Therefore, water quality in most parts of the waterway bas been
polluted by oil.
Water quality in each channel summarize as follows.
Lianhuashan waterway: The concentrations of oil and NO2 -N belong to class 4 of Surface
Water Quality, and the concentrations of the other items are within class I and class 2. Compared
with the monitoring results in the past years, the conclusion is basically the same. Water quality in
dry season or at flood tide is worse than that in wet season or at ebb tide.
Shawan waterway: It is the main sources of drinking water of Panyu city. Water quality
protection objectives are that water quality around the water intake must within class 2 standard,
and that in other sections within class 3 standard. In the present investigation, the concentrations
of all monitoring items did not exceed the standards and could meet the requirement. In water
resources protection area, monitoring results show little changes among different years, or among
flood, ordinary and dry seasons, or between flood tide and ebb tide. However, in Guanyinsha
section at the lower Shawan waterway, the concentrations of all monitoring items are higher at
flood tide than at ebb tide because of the tidal effect. The concentration of oil is 0.06 mg/L (within
class 4 standard).
Lijiasha waterway ( that is, from Huoshaotou to Banshawei): It is the drinking water sources
of the villages and towns in the southern part of Panyu city. The concentrations of nitrogen-kind
38



substances are with class 4 standards. the concentration of oil within class 3, and the
concentrations of other items within classes I and 2. Comprehensive assessment results indicate
that water quality in this waterway can meet the requirement of drinking water sources.
Ronggui waterway (that is, from Nanhua to Banshawei): It is one of the drinking water
sources of Shunde city and its administrative villages and towns. The concentration of oil is
between 0.07 and 0.15 mg/L, being within class 4 standards, and the concentrations of other
monitoring items are within class I and class 2.
Results of water quality assessment are summarized in Table 3.12.
Table 3.12 Water quality assessment of different seasons (L-S-R)
Channel             Seasons         pH   DO   COD  BOD  non-    NO2 - NO3 - Phe- oil
MD         ionic    -N   -N   nol
_   ammonia
Lianhuashan         dry season      0.50  0.81  0.98  0.49  0.50    0.66 0.14  0.40  1.6
wet season     0.30  0.63  0.52  0.29  0.50    0.23  0.07 0.40  1.8
_________________ ordinary season   0.53  1.15  0.45  0.34  0.50    0.82  0.07  0.60  1.4
Huoshaotou-         dry season      0.18  0.77  0.41  0.07  0.50    0.16  0.11  0.50  0.40
Batangwei           wet season      0.42  0.52  0.60  0.02  0.50    0.20  0.12  0.50  0.40
ordinarv season   0.50  1.00  0.79  0.26  0.50    0.13  0.09  0.50  0.40
Nanhua-             dry season      0.58  0.52  0.45  0.53  0.50    0.05  0.09 0.05  0.50
Banshawei           wet season      0.57  0.68  1.00  0.13  0.50    0.10  0.10 0.50  0.50
(Ronggui section)   ordinary season   0.58  0.73  0.75  043  0.50    0.17  0.08  0.50  0.50
Nanhua-             dry season      0.58  0.72  0.75  0.27  0.50    0.10  0.09  0.50  0.50
Banshawei           wet season      0.55  0.89  0.90  0.23  0.50    0.07  0.10  0.50  0.50
(Donghai waterway)   ordinary season                        0.50 00.18  0.08         0.50
In summary, water quality pollution is evident in Lianhuashan waterway and Guanyinsha
section of Shawan waterway. Most parts of L-S-R  waterway was polluted with oil. The
concentrations of non-ionic ammonia in Lijiasha waterway were within class 4 standards. Besides
land pollution sources, pollutants from ships navigating on the waterway should not be overlooked.
Monitoring results of all items in water resources protection areas could all meet the appropriate
requirements.
3.6.3 Investigation on Sediments
3.6.3.1 Monitoring of Sediments
Locations of sediment sampling stations are shown in Figure 3-2.
(1) Monitoring Items and Date
39



Monitoring items for sediment samples are Cd, Pb, Zn, Cu. Hg and DDT. Samples were
collected on June 18, 1996. One sample was collected for each station.
(2) Monitoring Results of Sediments
The results are listed in Table 3.13.
Table 3.13 Monitoring results of sediments
Channel     Station    Cd (mg/kg)  Pb (mg/kg)  Cu (mg/kg)  Zn (mg/kg)  Hg (mgtkg) DDT (ug/kg)
Lianhuashan   Hai'ou      0.20        44.S       5.32        1.08       0.017        2.1
bridge
Shawan   Guanyinsha     0.40        14.8       5.12        37.3       0.021        1.9
Lijiasha   Banshawei    0.20        11.2       10.0        35.2       0.023        1.8
Rongeui    Rongai       0.30        12.9       8.62        35.3       0.017        1.3
Xiiiang river   Xijiang   1.83       77.8        48.9        192        0.345        3.0
Assessment  pH a 6.5      20         1000        S00        1000         iS
standards                      -
3.6.3.2 Assessment of Sediments
(I) Assessment items, standards and methods
Assessment items include Cd, Pb, Cu, Zn and Hg: Since there is no assessment standard for
DDT, only some general comment are made for DDT.
Assessment standards are listed in Table 3.14.
40



Monitoring items for sediment samples are Cd, Pb, Zn, Cu, Hg and DDT. Samples were
collected on June 18, 1996. One sample was collected for each station.
(2) Monitoring Results of Sediments
The results are listed in Table 3.13.
Table 3.13 Monitoring results of sediments
Channel     Station    Cd (mg/kg)  Pb (mg/kg)  Cu (mglkg)  Zn (mg/kg)  Hg (mg/kg) DDT (ug/kg)
Lianhuashan   Hai'ou      0.20        44.5        5.32        1.08       0.017        2.1
bridge
Shawan   Guanyinsha     0.40        14.8        5.12        37.3       0.021        1.9
Lijiasha   Banshawei     0.20       11.2        10.0        35.2       0.023        1.8
Ronggui    Ronggi        0.30        12.9       8.62        35.3       0.017        1.3
Xijiang river   Xiiiang    1.83       77.8        48.9        192        0.345        3.0
Assessment  pH > 6.5       20         1000        500        1000         15
standards
3.6.3.2 Assessment of Sediments
(1) Assessment items, standards and methods
Assessment items include Cd, Pb, Cu, Zn and Hg. Since there is no assessment standard for
DDT, only some general comment are made for DDT.
Assessment standards are listed in Table 3.14.
40



Table 3.14 Assessment standards of sediments*
Items    I     Cd  A          Pb      I       n -o         Cu      I    AR
Standards        20            1000           1000           500            15
* from Pollutant Control Standards of Contaminated Soil Used in Agriculture (GB4284-84)
The index method is adopted as the assessment method.
(2) Assessment results
Pollution index of each item is calculated with the assessment method. Results are listed in
Table 3.15. It can be seen that contents of heavy metals in sediments are much smaller than the
assessment standards, being suitable for agricultural use. As for various waterways, pollutant
contents were greater in Xijiang waterway and Lianhuashan waterway than in other waterways.
Since DDT is hard to solve in water, of high stability and high residue, and is not easy to
decompose (with half-life period of 2.15 years). Therefore, dredged materials should not be
dumped in water resources protection areas so as to prevent from polluting water quality of
drinking water sources.
Table 3.15 Pollution index of single factor of sediments
Channel      Station      Cd         Pb         Cu        Zn         H
Lianhuashan   Hai'ou     0.01       0.05       0.01       0.11      0.001
_________ bridge   __ _ _ _   __ _ _ _   __ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _
Shawan     Guanyinsha    0.02       0.02       0.01       0.04     0.001
Lijiasha    Banshawei    0.01       0.01       0.02       0.04       0.002
Rong,ui      Rongqi      0.02       0.01       0.02       0.04       0.001
Xifiang river   Xiiiang  0.09       0.08       0.10       0.19       0.023
3.7 Current Water Supply and Drainage Facilities
3.7.1 Water Gates
Water gates have the functions of irrigating, preventing saline tides, and draining water-
logging, and part of them even have the function of discharging wastes. According to the result of
uncompleted statistics, along the riparian area of waterway in the regulation project, there are 94
water gates in middle and small scale with total passing volume below 100OM3 /s, 56 along the
mainstream of the Xijiang River, 38 along Hutiaomen Waterway, Among these gates, the largers
are Shaping Gate, Beijie Gate and Muzhou Gate, etc. The detail of the gates is listed in
Tab3.16a and Tab3.16b. According to the statistics, there are a total of 81 small water gates, of
which 42 are on left bank and 39 on right bank. Besides, there are 3 small ship gates (locks), of
which one is between Nanhua and Banshawei, one between Huoshaotou and Banshawei, and one
41



between  Huoshaotou  and  Batangwei.  Details  of water  gates  along  L-S-R   waterway  are
summarized in Table 3.16c.
3.1 6a Water gates for irrigation and drainage from Zhaoqin tQ Baiqintou in the LXR(Z-H)
Waterway
Name of the   Dimension ofthe water_gatefm)                   Name  of  Dimension ofthe water ate(m)
water gate    Leng   Wid    Height    Hole         Level of  the  water  Leng   Width         Height    Hole       Level
th     th                 number   bottom      gate         th                           number   of
bonom
Left bank:                                                    Right bank:
Luoyin        5       5.4     3          2         0.3        Di-rhui      3.5     2       |I         |.2
Shizui        5       3.2     3.2        I         1 7        Dia.yi       10      14           _         _
Changli       16.5   25.2    7           I         5.8        Shwei        3.5     2         1          17
Guangli       2.6    2.8      3.9                 | 3.9      jinli         2.5    2.3         I         2.4
Heng-cuo      3       3                  2                    Sheli        2       3.5          -       I         17
Shixi         2.8    2.8 S                                    Jinzhou      3.5     3 5                           _-1.3
| Boloduo   | 2.5     3       3          -0.7                 Chang.       37      3 8       3.8        I         2.2
-                             -         - |  _ §    l   _   keng        -                              -
Beishui       3       2.8     2          -11                  Ximul
Yongfeng-     2.5     3       I          -1.0                 Tawei
duo_____                                                                _
Honging       2.2     2.2      I   |      15          -       Shaping      14      8          84       7          .18
Wuganding    4        7   |              -1.0                 Shatian      3       4         4.1        1    4     .7
Jiefangsha    34.5    7        5         1          .1.5      Dakeng       5       4                    -041 
Heqin         40      32      5.5        I         -1.9       Tianhe       5.3     3          5.5       I          0.3
Zhuyuan-      4       3        I         .0| 6                Xingwo       4       3.5        4         2          1.2
chun
Nanpu          10     3.7      5.3       -1.6                 Hengiuang   3.6      4.4        44        1          -1.0
xiza           15     3.5      5.4       1          -1.6   R|_ bou         6.5      84        2         .03
Tagan          11     42       6.5       1          1.0      | Zhouqun      8       52        38         2         -0_8
Lontian        12      2.6     4.21                 07         Shawei       4.6     5         5          I         -1.0
Leibu         3.6     4S       I         06            -       linizi     | 5.5     4         50                   .0.6
Hegan         63       59        -        I         1.5        Hengii       5.2     5.7       77         I         -2.2
Choulian      6.5      4.2   |I                     1.         Sankong      5       58         1          1.1
|2Nange       -2                 -          -                  Yuewan       3.7     3.6       -1.0
Zhishan       4        3_6    .08                              Chiaoziao    2.4     5         -1.0
Ekou          44       5.2     1         -1.0                  Henghai-    4.3      6.8        2         -0.5
nan
Baimaotou     2        2.6   |                      0I        Sizhou       6.4     4.5        I                    2.5
Jindu
i50nglSongloag   |2   7          8.8 t                -1.7
42



... ... ....... . . . .. ....... ....... ....... ......
IV
to
....... ........ ....... ....... ....... .......
........ ..... . ....... . . .. . ........ ........ ... . ..
0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -t           It        It         01
-W  -N V
%C    %o                                                                                   vi    W;                       W;                  4                                                                                                                                                 .. ........ ....... . . ...
....... ............. ..... . .... .. . ..... ....... .... .. . .....
CK                            at                                                                                                    1                             .2
4u                                                                                                                                                           im                                       0                                                 04                             1                     ;  i  i   1  1  7
co                                                     00                                                             to                                                                                        ix
2",                                                               :2                  am
At                                                                                                             fm
bt                                                                                                                                                                U
.......  ...  .... .....  ....... .......  ... . ..  .......  .......   ......
60
'a                                            .......  .......  .. . . .  .......  .......
ti  In   0   n    "I                                                  cn  Iq   r,  t%l r%,  -l                                                                                                                                cc                                      0:                  Ci    Vi   C!
9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11   14   ce
9                                                                               Cl  ".  NO  1r;l                                                                 C4.                                        II
... . . ........ .. . . . ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
S
C4        m         In        Ci        llq       In                   on        Wi                                                                                                                                                                      .... .  .  .......  .......  .......  ........ .......   ......
%A  No                        %n  %n  VI# %O                                                                   in
C4                                                                                                                                                                         ......  .......  .......  .......   ......
IIARI Ci                      R   Ci  Ti  laq  q   IR                                                Qq  In
C14  tn  %O  tn  4n  %O  WI  on  in                                                                            WI  WI  WI  %o
fA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ........  ........ .......  .......    .....             ....  .......
a
64                                                                                gn                                        gn
it                                       Ill  Xi
.............. .  ... . ..  .......  .......                      .....  .......
CF                                                                                                                                ju6                                                                      Ir.,
-B                                                                                                                                                                                x                   cn
Z                                                                                     z, z xz'



13-    -                                                -                                      - -I-                        - -                     -- 
.1 .3  .    .{,..~~~       ~     ~      ~~.. ...    .......    .......    ...         .    ................ ..                ..      ..      ..      ..  .....
t..  03  -                                           *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*N                                                    I                                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ..~~~~.............v...............*.......  ..  ................    ........
*1  iii.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  I:! t- I                                                                                                                     1 n I' 
r4 -                                                                                      w               a                                        -       -       e            a;                          C    C                                   0                VV4                     N
1    :               10 1                                                                                                                                                              ,x -                                        ..                                                
.........   .... -...    ...    ........-..   ...... . I..1..                                                                                                                                                                                                   ..f. ...          ..   ....i....  ....  ..................
'       C99*                                                   I         T                                                                                                                                                           -;                      I                     K                   1 1
Q-  *       n..                              -7                              a                                         ,      "        ,I  11-                                                                                    ! -t            "O                                                      -0               - 
10  of                          1                                                                                   I  0 w "      ""                                                                                       40a                                               C:c:%
....    ...    ..I.........    .......    ...    ....................    ...    .......    ....................    ...    ...    ...                                 ..   .... ...............    ...    ...............I...    .......  .......    ...    ...
515        .                      3                                                                                                          .,.I
.........    ........   ...I........................  ....  ........    .............    ....  .............    ........   ....  ........     ...   ....    ........   .         ....  ......................    ........   ...........   .....
14 ~      ~           ~         ~            u                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SO 
.......    .......    ...............    .......    ...............    .......    .......    .......    .......    ...............    .......   .......  .....    .......  ...    .......   .......    .....                                      .......     ..............    ...............    .......    .......~~I 1.........-1....I.-...-i  a:  .
on 00 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iis I    i



~Zeag ;ao  1IS3.      S14  1.I2    1      iacon5       2014    16           -'81.
Sishe    15    4    6.5   13      I   jShacon I  20 4.   5.8              -2.0 I,  I
Yucong* 16   3.2  4.2  .1.0        I     Dongsheng    2'    35      6      -1.8 
.S .ta5                   64-Shatou6   6    .5  I    _ _
Weti-    C      .      4    46   -05      I__                    *_
3nsa...E.,i,.4 ............ _ .  ..             .------
SilaDaiskan   to    2    3.8  -.08     I
wel_  Shagao   11 5.76.9-2.3    I :            *
Ishagao   I 1.81 3.4  6.5  -2.3 12 
ULiangshen 1tS    5    5.7  -16      I t.                                .
3.7.2 Water Plant
There are 4 drinking water intakes along Z-H waterway which location is shown in Fig.2-2.
Shawan section and Nanhua-Banshawei section of L-S-R waterway are the drinking water sources
for some towns administrated by Panyu city and Shunde city. There are a total of 9, of which 7
locates along Nanhua-Banshawei section, 2 along Shawan waterway. Distribution of water plants
is listed in Table 3.17, and location of water intakes is shown in Figure 2-3.
Table 3.17 Water plants
Channel           Name of water plant                    Position                     Remarks
Nanhua-Banshawei  Xideng water plant   200 m in lower reach of Ximaning waterway station   left bank
Yuanfa water plant       600 m in upper reach of the meeting      right bank
_-_____ -   ___ _______________ _                point of Jun'an channel
I_________ rTong'an water plant               1.2 km in lower reach of yingezhu      right bank
Longcong water plant           1.0 km inlower rech of the           right bank
diversion point of Jiya channel
__ _ _7______    Guizhou water plant        1.2 km in upper reach of Rongqi town     right bank
_____________  Daishan wat plant            70 m in upper rch of Deshen bridge        left bank
___________ 0rXiaohangbu water plant    250 m in upper reach of Deshen bridge     right bank
Shawan waterway   Shawan water plant      300 m in upper reach of Shawan water gate   left bank
Panyu                 600 m in lower reach of Shawan         right bank
3.8 Harbors and Docks
There are a total of 12 main harbors and docks along the waterway, of which 4 are in
Lianhuashan waterway, 2 in Shawan waterway, and 6 in Ronggui waterway (Nanhua-Banshawei).
Relatively large harbors are Lianhua harbor, Shunde harbor, and Rongqi harbor. Their distribution
is shown in Table 3.18.
Table 3.18 Harbors and Docks
Channel         Harbors and docks                       Location                     Remarks
Lianhuashan-        Lianhua harbor            300 m in lower reach of Hai'ou bridge    right bank
Batangwei       Dock for containers          500 m in lower reach of Hai'ou bridge   riBht bank
45



Dock of ship-dismantling    1.5 km in lower reach of Hai'ou bridge  right bank
company
Dock of Guangzhou lindao     2.5 km in lower reach of Hai'ou bridge  right bank
Container Plant
Huoshaotou-  Dock of Dongcong oil stock    400 m in lower reach of Dongcong water gate    right bank
Batangwei  Dock of Dongcong foodstuffs      around Xiadongcong water gate       right bank
stock
Dock of Shetou touring zone   1.0 km in lower reach of the diversion point of   right bank
Jiya channel
Dock of Degao electric  1.0 km in lower reach of the diversion point of   right bank
appliance plant                    Jiya channel
Nanhua-    Dock of Baiyan food and oil  200 m in lower reach of Sishe water gate  left bank
company                    _
Banshawei   Dock of Shunde sugar plant     at diversion point of Shunde branch   left bank
Ronggi harbor                     Ronggi town                  right bank
Shunde harbor                      Banshawei                   left bank
3.9 Current Environmental Noise and Its Assessment
3.9.1 Assessment Standards and Amount
(I) Assessment Standards
According to the Reply Correspondence on the Assessment Standards of Environmental
Impact Assessment of Waterway Regulation Project for.the Lower   Xijiang River by Using
World Bank Loan (Guangdong Province Environmental Protection Bureau), and the   Technical
Regulations of Environmental Noise Regioning in Urban Areas (GB/T 15190), the assessment
standards of environmental noise are determined and listed in Table 3.19.
Table 3.19 Environmental noise standards for the regions along the waterway
dB(A)
Standard value Permissible value of abrupt noise
Regions                   daytime night  level at night (ship whistling etc.)
<30 m from the grate of protection levee   7                           70
>30 m from the grate of protection levee    760     o                   65
(2) Assessment Amount
Assessment amount adopts Equal Efficient Continual Noise Level (LAq). L.q is calculated
with the following formula:
LAqg = 10gFIgT   110    Ad                        (3-1)
In which: LA(t) - Instant A noise level, dB (A);
46



T- Monitoring period, second (s).
3.9.2 Investigation and Monitoring of Current Environmental Noise
(1) Monitoring points of noise
A total of 5 monitoring points were set up (Figure 3-2). Among them, four points were on the
shore and in residential in both Lianhuashan town and Rongqi town. For these four points,
monitoring was conducted once both in daytime and at night. Only one monitoring point was set
up on the river bank in Nanhua village so as to monitor the ship noise at peak hours (in daytime)
and  number of ship passages was also recorded.
(2) Monitoring equipment and method
A. Monitoring equipment
In the monitoring HY-105 Noise Detectors were used. The electic-sound property of the
detector meets the requirement of international standard IEC[651](1979). Sound calibration was
conducted before and after monitoring.
B. Monitoring method
According to relevant regulation of Monitoring Method of Regional Environmental Noise in
Urban Areas (GB/T14623), monitoring should be conducted in principle in case of no rain and
that wind velocity was less than 5.5 m/s. The monitoring point in residential areas was placed
witbin I m of residential apartment. The monitoring point at the bank stretch out im, and was
vertical to navigation direction. Monitoring lasted for 20 minutes.
(3) Monitoring results
The monitoring results for the 5 monitoring points are presented in Table 3.20.
Table 3.20 Monito    results of noise
No.                 1            2            3            4            5
Position of station   on shore of  in residential  on shore of  in residential   on shore of
Lianhuashan    area of      Rongqi   area of Rongqi   Nanhua
__________ Lianhuashan                     __
Width of waterway(m)             550                       420                 920
daytime    Leg (dB(A))      57           55           63           48           59
passages of   IS ships/ 20   15 ships/ 20   15 ships/ 20   15 ships/ 20   23 shipsl 20
ship       minutes      minutes      minutes      minutes      minutes
main nois sources        ship    regional traffic    shio      livinet       ship
night     Leg (dB(A))      52           S0           48           45
passages of   5 shipsl 20    5 shipsl 20    0 shipsl 20    0 ships/ 20
ship       minutes      minutes      minutes      minutes
main noise sources       ship        living       waves        natural
47



I  I        I           I            I environment
(4) Current noise environmental quality assessment
From the monitoring results, all background noise levels in the residential areas of
Lianhuashan town and Rongqi town had been within class 2 of GB3096 in daytime or at night.
The noise sources were traffic noise near the residential area and socio-living noise, but not the
ship noise from the ships sailing on the waterway, since these residential areas were far from the
waterway. Background noise levels for the river-side monitoring point were within class 4 of
GB3096. In summary, sound environmental quality in the assessment region at present was quite
fine.
3.10 Investigation of Ship Pollutants
3.10.1 Oily wastewater from vessels
According to the relevant information, discharge coefficients for the amounts of oily
wastewater and oil were determined by comparative method, which are listed in Table 3.21.
Table 3.21 Coefficients of oil wastewater discharge from ships
Items        Passenger ships Containers ship Miscellaneous cargo ship   others
Oil wastewater         0.5     J      0.7                 2                1.5
(kg/h.ship)
Oil amount (kg/h.ship)   0.005          0.008              0.009             0.009
Amount of oily wastewater and its oil contents were calculated with the following equation:
W =QiAiBi                                           (3-2)
In which: W-amount of oily wastewater and its oil contents from vessels (kg/a)
Qi-annual passages of certain kind of vessels ( tankers/a)
Ai-sailing time of certain kind of vessels on the waterway (h)
Bi-discharge coefficients of oily wastewater or oil from certain kind of vessels
(kg/h.tanker)
Sailing time of various kind of vessels on L-S-R waterway was estimated and listed in Table
3.22.
Annual passages of vessels were predicted and presented in 3.23.
Table 3.22 Navigation time of various kinds of ship on L-S-R waterway
Items         Passenger ships I Containers ship Miscellaneous cargo ship I  others|
48



Time (h)      |      2              5                5.25               7
Table 3.23 Ship flow
Items        Passenger ships IContainers ship i Miscellaneous cargo shipI  others
Ship flow (ships/a)    10,200         15,820            51,042            17,522
Based on the above parameters, it is estimated that total amount of oily wastewater was
785.49 tla, and oil amount was 3.38 tta (Table 3.24).
Table 3.24 Amount of oil wastewater discharge from shi s
Items        Passenger ships Containers ship Miscellaneous   others   others
cargo ship
Amount of oil         10.2          55.37         535.94      183.98     785.94
wastewater (t/a)               I
Oil amount (tla)  T    0.102        0.633           2.41       0.237       3.381
3.10.2 Investigation of Sewage from Vessels
Sewage from vessels are important pollution sources for the waterway. According to the
investigation, at present most of sewage discharges directly into the waterway without any
treatment, and pollute water quality.
Amount of sewage-can be estimated with the following formula:
G=YQAiCi/24 x10                                             (3-3)
I-I
In which, G-amount of sewage or garbage from vessels (t/a)
Qi-annual passages of vessels of type i (tankers/a)
Ai-navigating time of vessels of type i (h)
Ci-coefficients of sewage or garbage from vessels (kg/h.tanker)
Various coefficients are presented in Table 3.25, which are based on previous investigation
or statistics of 1995.
Table 3.25    Dis harge coefficients of sewage from vessels
Type of vessels            number of passages number of crewmen coefficients
(kg/h.tankers)
Passage ships                500                15                 1030
container ships              .                  15                J30
49



Imiscellaneous freight ships    l- lo                               120
others                                          17                 114
With the equation of (3-3) and the coefficients in Table 3.25, it can be estimated that total
amount sewage from vessels in 1995 was 1,213.405 t/a, of which that from passage vessels was
875.5 t/a, from container vessels 98.875 t/a, from miscellaneous cargo vessels 167.482 t/a and
from other kinds of vessels 71.548 t/a. Therefore, sewage was mainly from passage ships.
3.10.3 Investigation of Bargages from Vessels
According to the investigation, one person on ship produce about 1-1.5 kg garbage per day.
With the method of comparison, coefficients of garbage production for various types of vessels
can be determined (Table 3.26).
Table 3.26     Discharge coefficients of garbage from vessels
Type of vessels  number  of number of crewmen Amount of garbage coefficients
passengers  _                   per capital (kg/d.p)  (kg/h.tankers)
Passenger       500         15                 1.5                 1030
container       |_          | 15               1.5                30
mixing freight   _10                           1.5                20
others           ________17                    1.5                 14
Total amount of bargage was 951.92 t/a, of which 65.6.63 t/a from passenger vessels, 98.875
tla from container vessels, 167.482 t/a from mixing cargo vessels, and 53.66 t/a from other types
of vessels. Currently, these bargages directly discharged into the waterway without any treatment.
50



4. Environmental Impact Prediction and
Analysis, and Mitigation Measures
4.1 Environmental Impact Prediction and Analysis
4.1.1 Water Quality Impact Prediction and Analysis
4.1.1.1 Impact prediction and Analysis of SS in L-S-R waterway
Table 4.1 summarizes total engineering volume of the regulation project of L-S-R waterway,
which is abstracted from the feasibility report of the project. The analysis focused on the negative
effects of dredging engineering on the water quality of the regulated waterway, while for other
engineering they would have less impacts on water quality according to their properties.
Table 4.1    Engineering amount of the regulation project
Types of Engineering   Damming Dredging   Spit-cutting  Reef-blasting Levee engineering
number of Construction   18        9           3            18             11
sites (sections)
Construction ranges   |5,100 m   20,100 m  4.67 X l0'm2   5l,155 m       8,375 m
Volume of rock          13.93      /         2.6818          I            7.576
dumping(X 104 m3)
Volume of sand and       /          /        0.4165          /           2.0858
stone filling (X 104m3)
Volume of stone        0.765        /        0.1813          /           2.4703
building (X 104 m3)
Volume of rock digging                    7                26.46            /
(X Io' MI)
Volume of mud             /      103.23      211.05          /              /
dredging(X 104 m3) M
(I) Analysis of Pollution Source
According to the TOR  of assessment, the emphasis of water environmental impact
assessment placed on predicting the effects of SS from the regulation project on water quality, and
51



analyzing the feasibility and rationality of the project from the point of water environmental
protection, and putting forward mitigating measure for negative effects.
According to the characteristics of project, SS would mainly from dredging works. There
would be dredging works both during construction stage and during operation stage. The amount
of SS produced during construction stage can be estimated with the following formula:
M  = WoRT/Ro                                 (4-1)
where  M:  amount of SS resulting from dredging works (t/h)
Wo: coefficient of SS production, taken as 1.49 X 10 3 h/m3
R:  ratio of accumulated particle sizes of SS at given Wo (%)
Ro: ratio of accumulated particle sizes of SS transported along the waterway (%)
T:  volume of dredging per kilometer (m3/h.km)
Based on formula 4-1, the amount of SS resulting from dredging works during construction
stage could be estimated. The results are presented in Table 4.2.
During the operation stage, the sources of SS would change as scouring and silting
conditions would have changed after the regulation works. For the scouring sections, scouring
amount from river bed can be directly presumed as the pollution source. For the silting sections,
dredging is needed. Therefore, SS can still be estimated with formula 4-1. The results are listed in
Table 4-2.
From Table 4.2, it can be found that volume and intensity of dredging works would be
greatest within Lijiasha section of Ronggui waterway, with the dredging length accounting for
41.57% of total length of the project, and the dredging volume accounting for 65.99 % of total
dredging volume. Volume of sediments to be dredged per kilometer in Lijiasha section is 7.638 X
104 m3/km, being 17.46 times of maximum dredging volume in Shawan waterway (0.44 X 104 m3
/km), and also being slightly greater than that in Lianhuashan waterway (6.993 X 104 m3/km).
The Comparison of the hydrological dynamic conditions and river characteristics between
L-S-R waterway and Lijiasha waterway shows that tidal-average water surface width and area of
water carrying section of L-S-R waterway is 2.31 times and 4.00 times greater than that of Lijiasha
waterway respectively. Tidal current of L-S-R waterway is 3.08 times at flood tide and 5.65 times
at ebb tide greater than that of Lijiasha waterway (Table 4.3).
It can be concluded that whether during the construction stage or operation stage, impact on
water quality of Lijiasha water would be most evident, since its source of SS would be the greatest,
and both tidal current and runoff would be smallest. Consequently, the assessment focus on
Lijiasha section.
52



Table 4.2 Properties of regulation Project and Amount of SS
_DOdging engineering             Max. vol. in opeation    Amount of SS*
_____-____    ____________        penod
No Waterway   Position   Length of construction Volume of project             mIb.km               tlh.km
In         %       X tO'm'  X 10nm/km %        Scouring   Silting  Consmucti Opertion
(dry     (tlood  on period  period
_                -                   -        -          -              penod)   season)      -
I  Lianhuashan Ruishenzb 4.200     19.40   29.37     6.993      26.45            1.103     15.069    0.0394
_             outou
2  Lianhuashan Gusnyinsh 1,000     4.62    4.65      4.650       4.50            1.196      10.020    0.0428
_             a shoal                                                                                .
3  Shawan    Liugang  500          2.31    0.22      0.440       02        -     1.196     0.948     0.0428
4  Shawan    Daiwutou  1,800       8.31    0.00            /             I         .196              0.0428
S  Shawan    Dadaosha 2,200        10.16   004       0.122      0.04             1.196               0.0428
6  Shawan    Guanyinsh 400         2.85    0.00      /                            1 ,196   /         0.0428
_   ~~                                     ~~a,
7  Shawan    Modietou 50          2.31    0.19      0380        0.18             1.196    0829 010428
0.341
8  Ronggui   Lijiasha  9,000       41.57   68.74     7.638      166.59  0.099     I .778    16.459    0.2376
9  Rongpui   Dasbanda- 500         2.31    0.02       .040       0.02            0.260      0.086     0.0093
owei                 _
-         1__lTotal  12000    1924   103.23   .136         '4Z0.00 l0,0      0.121      11.067    0.0467
*   (1) 1,550 m of waterway broadening project was classified into the short-cutting  engineering, but it does
not included in this table since the project would be conducted mainly on the shore.
(2) According to the investigation of bed sediments in the project waterway, volume-weight takes as 2.40
tIm3.
(3) Pollutant load of Lijiasha waterway in opemtion stage adopted the scouring in dry period.
(4) For the computation in construction stage, working hours was 8 hours per day.
Table 4.3 H    ological dynamic conditions
Waterway             Length        Breadth        Depth          Ax           Runoff           Tidal current
(or section)           (m)           (m)            (m)         (m2)            (M3S)              (m3/s)
I. Lianhuashan          17           500           3-7          2500                           -1800-2350
2.Shawan                24           370            3-6         1665             175           -1360-1740
3.Rong ui               39           520            5-9         3640            275            -1238-2632
4.Lijiasha              10           160            2.6          416             140             -402-308
(1+2+3)/4                        2.31-3.25    1.15-3.46    4.00-             1.25-1.96         >3.08->5.65
(times)                                                  _       8.75
(2) Hydrodynamic Characteristics
53



For the feasibility study of the regulation project, synchronous hydrological observation of
over 27 consecutive hours was conducted at three points in L-S-R waterway from 1996.6.14 to
6.18. The observation items include tidal flow ( velocity, direction and tidal current) and tidal
characteristics. At the same time, hourly observation data for the 3 appropriate days in 5 routine
tidal observation stations were collected, and samples were also collected to analyze the
characteristics of silt transportation and particle-size distribution of bed sediments. Figures 2-6 and
2-7 shows the position of observation stations. Figure 4-1 depicts the observation results of tidal
level at the two ends of Lijiasha section.
At ebb tide, tidal level at Rongqi and Sanshanjiao (Chini )observation stations is much higher
than that at Banshawei observation station, which indicates that water flows out from Ronggui and
Shunde waterways to Hongqimen waterway. At flood tide, tidal level at Banshawei station is
slightly higher than that at Rongqi and Chini stations, indicating that flow of flood tide directs
from Hongqimen waterway to Rongqi and Shunde waterways.
Discharge of flood tide at Banshawei station (D-D station) in the lower end of Lijiasha
section is in the range of 1,640 - 688 m3/s, while that of ebb tide 883-2940 m3/s. Discharge of
flood tide at E-E station in the upper end of Lijiasha section is in the range of -5.44 - -402 m3/s,
while that of ebb tide 21.8-308 m3/s. Discharges of flood and ebb tides at Huoshaotou station (F-F
station) in Shawan waterway are in the ranges of 142 - -1360 m3/s and 122 - 1770 m3/s
respectively.
Based on the above characteristics of tidal flow and tidal level, simulating computation of
hydrodynamic conditions and water quality prediction can be conducted.
(3) Water Quality Prediction
The assessment river section (Lijiasha section) can be classified as broad and shallow waters
of tidal river network. In case of that boundary conditions are telatively defined, two dimensional
shallow water tidal wave formula and convection-diffusion formula are chosen to simulate the
transferring and diffusing characteristics of pollutants. The formula are presented as follows.
du    a      a      a        gu(u2 +V2)1/2
a   du+ v+ g-  H+                          =°                  (4-2)
a gV(U2 +v2)1/2
a     a u+g + fuc+ H2                       =°                  (4-3)
-+--a(Hu) +- (Hv) =                                              (4-4)
-gH) +HuS) +AHvS) = - (E Ha)+-(EYH-)+S  (4-5)
54



where  1, x and y are time (s), horizontal ordinate (m) and vertical ordinate (m) respectively;
u and v  are flow velocity at x andy directions respectively (m/s);
z is the tidal level (m);
g is the gravitational velocity (m2/s);
f is Coriolis coefficient;
c is the coefficient of friction resistance;
S is the concentration of pollutant to be transferred (mg/L);
S. is the pollutant load (g/s.m2);
H is the water depth (m); and
E, and Ey are diffusion coefficients at x and y directions respectively.
* Estimate of coefficients
Fornula 4-2 - 4-4 are called as two dimensional shallow tidal wave formula. Coriolis
coefricient (J) and the coefficient of friction resistance (c) are estimated with the following
generally used equations.
f= 2osinmp                                         (4-6)
c =   H6                                          (4-7)
n
0.032(H 5 1.Om)
{0.061(1 + -)(H >.Om)                          (48
Where ai is angular velocity of earth's rotation (rT); and
47 is latitude.
Formula 4-5 is two dimensional convection-diffusion formula. Es and E. can be estimated
with the following equations.
E  = 0.6HU.                           (4-9)
E. = 0.01 1(UB)2 / HU.                (4-10)
Where U. is shear velocity (m/s).
For suspended substances (SS), S. should be treated specially. Besides the discharge source
strength, the ability and the current situations of water-borne silt should also be taken into
consideration. It might be done with the following equation.
55



S,, =aw(S + SO-S.)                                         (4-l)
Where a is the calibration coefficient for the matching calculation;
w is the motion fall velocity (m/s);
So is the increment of SS concentration caused by the silts stimulating at the source point;
S. is saturated rate of water-borne silt (mg/L).
Fall velocity (w) is related to the mechanical composition of silts, and can be estimated with
the following empirical equation.
w=-4 =              k2  v    3 g(k (4)                         (4-12)
k1  d       ki k  d    4    k1r
Where kl, k2 and v are empirical coefficients and kinematic viscosity coefficient (104 m2/s)
respectively; and d, r and r, are particle size (mm), volume weight of water (t/m3) and volume
weight of silt (t/m3).
S. can be estimated with the following equation of hUM,,N.
S. = UU.4 i Tjgw                                 (4-13)
*   Conditions of solution
ADI method is used for solving equations 4-2 - 4-5, with the following initial conditions and
boundary conditions.
(  Initial conditions:
V(x,y,t),.,o = Const                           (4-14)
Where V represents the initial values of tidal level (Z), flow velocity in x and y directions and SS
concentration. Const is a group of constants given according to environmental conditions of
Lijiasha section and computational coefficients.
(©) Boundary conditions:
V(x,y,t)-n = 0                                 (4-15)
Where n is the vector on closed boundary.
V2(x,y,:) = Vap(XIY't)                         (4-16)
Where V, is the process of tidal level (z), flow velocity in x and y directions (u and v);
V0 is the measured process curve.
For Lijiasha section and its upper and lower related river nets, F-F cross-section and D-D
cross-section are taken as the open boundaries for tidal flow control, and E-E cross-section as the
56



boundary of branch control. Chini station and Banshawei station are taken as the control stations
of tidal level in open boundary.
( Computation scope and coordinates
The directions of longitude and latitude are chosen as x and y coordinate directions.
Computation scope and selection of coordinates are presented in Figure 4-2. Since the waterways
of Ronggui, Shunde-Shawan and the lower part of Lijiasha go basically in the direction of east,
the space step length of grid is taken as 200m ( A x) X 50m (A y). However, the upper part of
Lijiasha section goes roughly in the direction of south, so the space step length of grid is taken as
50m    x) X 200m    y).
* Model verification
Figure 4-3, the comparison between the measured and the computational results of tidal level
for Rongqi station, shows good coincidence with slight difference. The difference between the
simulated tidal wave phase and the measured tidal wave phase is less than 30 minutes. The
characteristic values of tidal level are basically consistent. The difference is mainly due to the
conceptualization of the model, and the negligence of small inward and outward channels. It can
be considered that the computational results of the model is basically credible.
Figures 4-4 - 4-7 present simulation results of flow under four kinds of typical tidal
situations. At ebb tide, water from Shunde waterway would run out through Shawan waterway
and Lijiasha section, while at flood tide, tidal waves introduced from Shawan waterway and
Hongqimen waterway would influence the flow pattern in Lijiasha section. In the whole, tidal
waves from Hongqimen would govern the flow pattern at flood tide. in Lijiasha section.
*   Impact prediction and assessment
With formula 4-5 and its related formula 4-2 - 4-4 and the estimated coefficients, the impact
on water quality of the project can be predicted, whether during the construction stage or the
operation stage. The impact of construction from the engineering works at Banshawei (point to
link with Hongqimen waterway at the lower end), Daliangycong mouth ( the middle part ) and
Huoshaotou ( point to connect with Shunde-Shawan waterway at the upper end ) was predicted
respectively. At the given construction conditions, each construction point can be considered as a
point source. Due to its relatively fixed position, accumulation of pollution by the linear source
between grids can be ignored. Figures 4-8 - 4-13 and Table 4.4 summarize the results of water
quality prediction from the above engineering positions.
(4) Impact Assessment
Fishery Water Quality Standards (GB 11607-89) is chosen as the assessment standard. It
defines that artificial increment of SS must not exceed 10 mglL, and it must not cause harmful
effects on fish, shrimp and shellfish (mulluscs) when it seditnent on bottom layer".
57



*   Construction stage
XL Banshawei construction point
From Figure 4-8, it can be found that at rising tide maximum scope of impact on water
quality of Lijiasha section caused by the engineering works at banshawei is 3.6 km. Within the
scope, increment of SS concentration is in the range of 1.00 - 11.41 mg/L. The maximum
incremenml value slightly exceeds the assessment standard, but the scope of exceeding the
assessment standard is very small, being limited in a small area with a length of 400 m and a width
of 50 m near to the construction point (Table 4.4). Out of the standard-exceeding area, SS
concentration is less than 1.0 mg/L. Figure 4-9 shows that at ebb tide silts from the construction
will transport toward Hongqimen waterway mainly along the left side. The area with the
incremental value of SS concentration being over 1.2 mg/L. is about 1200m. The range of SS
incremental value is 1.2 - 7.64 mg/L. There is no exceeding standard area (Table 4.4).
(©) Daliangcongkou construction point
Water quality in Daliangcongkou section is easy to be polluted due to its poor hydrological
conditions. Figures 4-10 and 4-11 summarize water quality prediction results for Dailiangyounkou
construction point. Figure 4-10 indicates that at rising tide silts from the dredging works may
moves up to the waters near Huoshaotou. The increment of SS concentration is in the range of 0.5
- 22.4 mg/L. The maximum increment occurs in waters around the dredging point. The increment
of SS concentration exceeds the assessment standard in an area with a length of about 1.6 km and
a width of 150 m. However, the prediction results also show that within a tidal day the situation
of exceeding the assessment standard would not last for more than 2 hours.
Figure 4-11 shows that at the ebb tide, silts from the dredging works will mainly influence
the right side of the section. The increment of SS concentration is in range of 1.5 - 14.99 mg/L in
a 4.2 km-long section. The maximum increment occurs near the dredging point. The area of
exceeding the assessment standard is about 1,000 m X 100m.
®) Huoshaotou construction point
Water quality prediction results present in Figures 4-12 and 4-13. Since Huoshaotou is a
intersecting point of flows and silts from dredging is easy to be transported elsewhere, SS
concentration would have apparent increment only in a section of 2.0 km around the dredging
point. Table 4.4 summarizes the water quality prediction results for this construction point.
© Other construction point
From the previous analysis, SS source strength of Lijiasha section is 17.36 to 191.5 times
greater than that of other construction points ( except of the construction point at the outlet of
shallow and wide Shawan waterway), while the tidal current of Lijiasha is 3.08 to 8.55 times less
than that of other waterways. That means that both dilution and diffusion abilities in Lijiasha
58



section are relatively poor. Therefore, based on the analysis of water quality prediction for the
upper, middle and lower sections, it can be deduce that silts from other dredging works would not
have apparent influence on water quality, and there would be no waters exceeding the assessment
standard.
Table 4.4 Summary of water qua ity prediction results (SS2
Stage           Point     Tide  Max. increment Area of exceeding tankards Length with SS >1.0
(mg/L)      (length x width)(m2)   mg/L. (kn)
Banshawei   Flood      11.41          400 X 500              3.6
Ebb       7.64               0                  1.2
Construction   Daliangycong  Flood   22.41          1600 X 150             4.2
stage                     Ebb        14.99          1000 X 100             4.2
_  Huoshaotou   Flood     17.93           500 x S0              1.2
__________   __________   Ebb     11.99          200 X 50               1.8
Operation    Daliangycong  Flood     0.242              0                 <0.20
stage                      Ebb       0.162 0                             <0.20
*   Operation stage
The previous analysis shows that SS source strength would be very small during the
operation stage. Prediction results for Daliangcongkou section, which is relatively easy to suffer
water quality impact and has relatively great source strength, indicate that silts from the operation
after regulation project would have little impact on water quality. The maximum  possible
increment of SS concentration would be less than 0.25 mg/L, only accounting for 25% of the
assessment standard. Therefore, such impact can be considered as very slight.
* Comprehensive assessment
In summary, the proposed regulation project would have, during the construction stage,
temporary impact on water quality of very small areas in some sections and in some time, while
during the operation stage, there would be basically no negative impact on water quality. The
project is environmental sound in view of water environmental protection, provided that water
environmental protection measures put forward in this report are measured and executed during
the construction of the project, the operation and the administration.
4.1.1.2 Impacts of Saline Intrusion in Z-H waterway
As shown in the results of hydraulic model test after the construction of groynes and
excavation, in the estuary part of Hutiaomen Waterway, the flow velocity and dynamic force
would be increased . In dry season, movement of rising and failing tides will be strengthened, and
the saline tide changes with sea tide. Therefore, the construction will render a impact on the
movement of saline tide in the lower reach of Hutiaomen Waterway. In this section, by using the
historic data of chlorinity measured by water quality monitoring stations along Hutiaomen
Waterway, after the moving condition of saline tide in Hutiaomen Estuary has been established,
59



and by the aid of mathematics model of averaged saline intrusion in one - dimension tide the
changes of saline intrusion after the project are calculated.
(1)     Analysis of Historic Date and Information
There are two permanent hydrologic stations along the Hutiaomen Waterway, the Xipaotai
Station and Hengshan Station, a set of rather complete measurement on chlorinity been recorded
in the Hydrological Annual 1962 - 1965. By using these four - year historic data on chlorinity, a
general understanding of the movement of saline tide can be obtained -The movement of saline
tide is controlled predominantly by two factors-the runoff from upstream and the tidal current
from downstream - During the dry season, the upstream inflow decreases and the moving of saline
tide is strengthened. Thus we selected January and February as the observation period at first as
in these period the moving of saline tide is more active.
The characteristic data of the saline tide and the corresponding runoff in upstream in the four
years (Makou Station) are listed in Tab 4.5, and those at Hengshan Station in 1963-1965 are listed
in Tab 4.6.
As shown in Tab 4.5, the chlorinity in Hutiomen estuary is related tightly with the value of
runoff of Makou Station in upstream, In general, the chlorinity of the estuary decreases with the
increasing of river flow in Makou Station.
In views of the data of these four years, during the dry season in January and February, the
averaged maximum chlorinity of Hutlaomen Estuary in flood tide is 6.8, and 2.7 .In average; the
maximum chlorinity in ebb tide is 1.5, 0.34 in average.
Tab 4.5 Characteristic value of chlorinity at Xipaotai in dry Season (Jan. & Feb.)
Flood tide               Ebb tide          Monthly flow
Date        Max   Average   Min   Max   Average   Min   of Makou
I__________   _____I____   __________          Station
Jan.1962    4.74     1.08     0.01   0.16     0.02     0.01       4060
Feb.1962    6.19     2.64     0.02   0.68     0.14     0.01       2130
Jan.1963    8.32     3.74     0.11   2.44     0.74     0.01       1380
Feb.1963    7.39     3.76     0.26   2.05     0.64     0.03       1720
Jan.1964    6.03     1.78     0.01   0.79     0.09     0.01       2890
Feb.1964    6.81     2.27     0.01   1.30     0.17     0.01       2830
Jan.1965    7.27     3.36     0.05   2.45     0.51     0.01       1780
Feb.1965    7.13     3.12     0.02   2.34     0.40     0.01       1530
Average     6.74     2.72     0.06   1.53     0.34     0.01       2290
The chlorinity date data is the average value of vertical measuring points.
Tab 4.6 Characteristic value of chlorinity at Hengsha station during the dry season
(January and February)
Date          Flood tide                  Ebb tide
60



Max.  Average   Min.   Max.   Average    Min
Jan.1963     0.16     0.02    0.01   0.03      0.01      0.01
Feb.1963     0.21     0.03    0.00   0.02      0.01      0.00
Jan.1964     0.02     0.01    0.00   0.01      0.00      0.00
Feb.1964     0.03    0.01     0.00   0.01      0.00      0.01
Jan.1965     0.10    0.02     0.00   0.01      0.00      0.00
Feb.1965     0.04             0.01 O   0.01   0.0        0.00
As shown in Tab 4.6, the impact of saline tide at Hengshan Station is small. Even in the
driest year of 1963, the maximum chlorinity is 0.02 1%, lower than the requirement in national
Standard of Surface Water Quality 0.025%. Therefore the water quality in Hengshan Station is not
affected by the saline tide.
In order to investigate the monthly variation of chlorinity in the estuary section, we selected
the chlorinity data in the driest year 1963 (P  99 % ) and the corresponding monthly. flow at
upstream Makou Station listed in Tab 4.7. As shown in the table, during the period of a whole
year, the chlorinity in estuary changes with the flow variation in upstream Makou Station. In dry
season of January and February, the inflow from upstream Makou decreases to the minimum and
the chlorinity increases to the maximum, In the flood season of July and August,
Tab 4.7 The monthly characteristic value of chlorinity at Xipaotai Station in 1963
Month   Flood tide                 Ebb tide       I           Flow of
Max.    AveL ge  Min.    Max.    Avemae  Min.    Makou
1       8.32     3.74     0.11     2.44     0.74     0.01     1380
2       7.39     3.76     0.26     2.05     0.64     0.03      1720
3       4.75     2.09     0.02     0.60     0.13    I 0.02    2300
4       3.53     0.91      0.01    0.09     0.02     0.01     3430
5        1.40    0.21     0.01     0.02     0.01     0.00     3770
6       4.48      1.33     0.01    0.17      0.01    2580    _
7        1.59    0.15      0.01     0.04     0.01     0.01     8000
8        1.42    0.07      0.00    0.01      0.00    0.00      8140
9       3.94      0.51     0.01     0.44     0.02     0.00     3750
10      4.28     2.05     0.02      1.03    0.08      0.01     2680
11      3.31      1.03    0.00     0.09     0.02     0.00     4460
12      4.54      1.36    0.01     0.07     0.02      0.00     3610
the inflow from Makou increases to the maximum, and chlorinity sharply decreases to the*
minimum, the averaged value is only 0.01%, lower than the requirement of National Surface
Water Quality Standard of 0.025%. Although the maximum chlorinity in flood tide may be
exceeded the standard during the period of flood season, the whole Hutiaomen Waterway is
predominantly controlled by the runoff, the impact of saline tide are negligible.
In order to further understand the daily variation of chlorinity during dry month a graph of
61



chlorinity and flow of runoff at the Makou Station is analyzed. It is found that the chlorinity has an
inverse relation with the flow at Makou Station. Meanwhile, the influences of tide are significant
either.
In summary, By the analysis of historic data, it could be concluded as following: The
chlorinitv in Hutiaomen estuary is depended upon the integrated action of flow form Makou and
tidal current from downstream, chlorinity has a clearly inverse relationship with the inflow from
Makou Station, the moving of saline tide in spring tide is more active than in neap tide.
The activity of saline tide is concentrated mainly in dry season. During the dry season, the
maximum chlorinity at Xipaotai Station in flood tide is more than 0.6%, the average is 0.3%, the
averaged value in ebb tide is 0.03%, Lower than the requirement of the National Quality Standard
for Surface Water. At Hengshan Station, which is located 16 km upstream from Xipaotai Station,
there is almost no saline tide influence.
During the period of flood season, Hutiaomen Waterway is controlled by river runoff, the
influences of saline tide are negligible.
(1)     Project impact estimation by mathematical model simulation
In this section, by the aids of one dimension averaged saline intrusion model, the impacts of
the construction after the regulation on saline intrusion are quantitatively estimated.
A.      Basic equation
las    a3s   a     as
- +U-=-(E  -)                                                  (4-17)
at    a     -x 8 
where
s-chlorinity
U-averaged flow velocity (m/s)
E.-vertical dispersion coefficient (m2/s)
t-time (s)
x-distance (m)
In average model of one dimensional tide, U is taken as average velocity of flood tide,
equ.(4-17) becomes
U-=-(E -)                                                       (4-18)
dx dxza
Supposed x E [0,L], boundary condition is
S(O)-So
62



S(L)SL
And then, the exact solution of equ. (2) can be obtained analytically,
S -S0    exp(Px/ L)-I                                       (4-19
SL - s0    exp(P) -1
P-UL / E,                                                   (4- 20)
B. Computation paameter and boundary condition
The main parameters in equ. (4-19 ) & (4-20 ) are U, the averaged flow ,velocity in flood
tide, and E, the vertical dispersion coefficient. The value of U can be obtained experimentally by
hydraulic model test
U t 0.7 U,=                                                  (4- 21)
Where U,,, is the maximum velocity of flood tide in estuary
According to the characteristics of Hutiaomen Waterway, E, is obtained
E. 620.8U,,,2 (4- 22)
Select the averaged flood tide velocity of the spring tide in dry season, 3 Dec 1982, as the
reference, U.. - 0.69(m/s), then,
E. =296m2/s                                                  (4-23)
In boundary condition, the upper boundary is at Hengshan and the lower boundary is at
Xipaotai, with a distance 16.4km, and the boundary concentration is the averaged chlorinity of
flood tide.
C. Designation of hydrological condition
In order to emphases the impact of the construction on the saline intrusion, a typical year
when the saline tide was most active should be selected as the observation year, and this year is
1963 according to the hydrological data at Makou Station. In the calculation, the velocity is the
one of spring tide in dry season, and the chlorinity is the average value between the highest tide to
the lowest tide within one day -The boundary chlorinity can be obtained by statistical average of
the chlorinity data in January and February of 1963.
D. Results of computation
Results of computation are listed in Tab 4.8. As shown in the table, the distance of saline
intrusion after the construction is only 6m increase, therefore the Impact is negligible.
63



Tab 4.8 List of parameter boundary, condition and results of computation
Phase                Before the         After the
construction      construction
Parameter         Es(m3/s)         296               296
U(m/s)         0.46              0.51
Boundarv          Xipaotai         2.79              2.79
condition    of  Hengshan          0.03              0.03
chlorinitv (o0-3)        .
Distance of Saline intrusion    16346             16352
(2.5x 1I0')
4.1.2 Impact Analysis on Aquatic Organisms and Fishery Resources
4.1.2.1 Impact on Food Organisms
After the completion of the proposed project, there are no direct impacts on water chemical
and physical properties, acidity or alkalinity, and contents of various kinds of nutrients. In flood
season, submerged dams forms complicated flow pattern, which will be favourable for the growth
and reproduction of food organisms. In dry season, water concentrates relatively to the center of
the river. Relative static waters form between dans. On the shallow waters of both sides, since
sunshine is plentiful and water temperature is relatively high, phytoplankton reproduce very fast.
Nearly 20 km of L-S-R waterway need to dredge. Amount and species of benthos on the river
bed are not much since sediments around the middle part of the bed are mainly composed of
middle- or small-sized grain. Although benthos would be damaged to some extent during the
construction stage and bottom sediments tend to be poor, aquatic organisms would generally
recover in 3-5 years due to their strong adaptive ability. Therefore such impact means insignificant.
The dredged materials would not place on the banks, but transport to the dumping areas to dump.
In overall, the project would have more positive impact on the growth and the reproduction of
food organisms than negative impact.
4.1.2.2 Impact on Fishery Resources
Ecological environment would restore nearly to normal state in some time after the
completion of the project. Food organisms would be more abundant. There would be no impact on
the species composition of fish. Dams would provide some kind of favorable ecological
environment for fish whether in dry season or wet season.
(I) Impact on fish breeding
No spawning fields of middle to large-sized semi-migration fish exist in the project waterway,
and spawning fields of salt and fresh water fish mainly distribute out of the Pearl river estuary.
64



Therefore the project would have no impact on fish spawning fields. Although some small
spawning ftelds of fish in order Cyprinidae scattered in the project area, they require no strict
spawning conditions and they can find new places to spawn even if their existing field's would be
damaged by the construction.
In order to stabilize the fishery resources, artificially reproduced fish fry are thrown into the
rivers by the aquatic production department from May to October in recent years. The fry enters
into Lianhuashan waterway for living and developing. For minimizing the loss, no fry should be
artificially put into the sections with reef-blasting and dredging, or construction works should be
done in winter.
(2) Impact on migratory fish
There are six species of migratory fish in the project waterway. The spawning fields of these
fishes distribute in the upperstreamS in Guangxi. Long distance migratory species have some
preference for their migratory route, generally following the route of their ancestors. The project
would not block their migratory route. No such impact exists for other semi-migratory fishes.
4.1.3 Rise of Flood Level and Impact on Flood Control
4.1.3.1 L-S-R Waterway
(I) Current Levees and Their Standards
Protection standards of the levees along L-S-R waterway are high. There are 10 levees with
the highest protection standard of 100-year recurrence interval and the lowest standard of 20-year
(Table 4.9).
(2) Flood (Tidal) Level
According to the statistical information of flood levels of many years, design flood (tidal)
levels for the main stations along L-S-R waterway can be determined (Table 4. 10).
(3) Flow Division Ratio along Waterway and Change of Water Surface Height after the
Completion of the Project
I) Mathematical model, determination of coefficients, model verification and method of
solution.
Table 4.9 Current levees and their standards
Current ability of flood control
65



Name of levee       Recurrence interval(Y) Representative station  Design water level (m)
Shishi              20                   Sansha               2.33
Jiaodon /           20                   Nansha               2.72
Yuwotou             50                   Lingshan             2.90
Longzhen            50                   Shawan               2.91
Da'ao               50                   M4odietou            2.99
Panshun             20                   Sanshan              3.42
Diyi                20                   Dazhou               3.23
Ronggao             20                   Rongqi               3.55
Qixing              20                   Xinchong             4.36
Zhongshun           50                   Niaozhou             3.90
Table 4.10 Design flood (tidal) level
waterway Station                            Freque cy (%)
0.5       1         2          5         10         20
Shawan   Sanshan   3.65        3.60      3.51      3.42       3.22      3.11
Sansha    2.33      2.26       2.21      2.12       2.05      1:95
Ronggui  Rongqi    4.08        3.92      3.70       3.55      3.39      3.17
Yinggezui 5.31       5.12      4.96      4.72       4.55      4.20
_ Nanhua    6.51     6.28      6.03       5.72      5.36       4.92
The Saint-Venant equations are used to simulate the characteristics of flow changes and
water level changes before and after the project.
t6Z &Q
B-F+ C- = O
(4-24)
61  2Q~ Q6Q$2QF
-+ (gF -    B)- +                 _=  g F2    Q2
&          F2    H    F e  F          R413   F2 2 z
Where
Z is water level;
Q is discharge;
X is the distance along the waterway;
t is time;
g is gravitational acceleration;
F is effective area of water crossing;
R is hydraulic radius;
n is Manning resistance (roughness) coefficient;
B is the width of the waterway.
66



Boundary of the model is placed in the region without the impact of project. Boundary
conditions of flow in the upperstream include the flows from Xijiang river, Beijiang river,
Dongjiang river and Liuxihe river. The upper boundary conditions are listed in T4ble 4.11. The
lower boundary conditions chose the low values of annual mean tidal level.
_________ __    Table 4.11  Upper boundary conditions (mn3Is)
___________________     Frequency_(%)
Station                      1                 2                       5
Makou                             46,736               43,747               40,203
Sanshui                            15,506              14,514               12,630
Ganzhu                             4,510                4,222                3,879
Tianhe                            23,064               21,589               19,841
Laoyagang                          3,200                3,200                3,200
Fanwu                             14,400               13,100               11,300
Zhenjiang                          4,180                3,520                2,340
Verification computation is based on the measured flood process from 12:00 of 1994.6.19 to
4:00 of 1994.6.21, from which comprehensive roughness coefficients for various sections are
obtained, generally being in the range of 0.020 - 0.030. Verification results are presented in Table
4.12. Difference between the measured and computational results is mostly less than 5 cm, with
the exception of 12 cm difference at Banshawei station.
Table 4.12  Results of flood level verification computation on the "94.6" flood
Station        Tide   Measured (m) Computed (im) Difference (m)
Nanhua       H-H tide     6.05          6.03          -0.02
L-L tide       _                        _
Xiaolan      H-H tide     4.78          4.77          -0.01
L-L  tide    _        _  _ _ _ _
Rongqi       H-H tide      3.96         3.91          -0.05
L-L tide    3.71          3.71          0.00
Banshawei    H-H tide      3.16         3.16          0.00
___________  L-L tide    2.77         2.89           0.12
Sanshanjiao   H-H tide     3.78         3.79          0.01
L-L tide    3.50          3.54          0.04
Design dimensions of the regulated waterway are 80m broad and 500m of curvature radius,
but there are three designed schemes for the depth of the channel, that is, 3.5 m, 4 m and 4.5 m.
Therefore, three regulation scenarios can be formed, namely scenario 1, scenario 2 and scenario 3.
For each scenario, water level changes and flow division ratio changes after the completion of the
project can be simulated.
2) Water level changes
67



The simulated results (Table 4.13 ) show that water level changes very slightly after the
completion of the project, with maximum rising level of 3 cm and maximum falling level of 5 cm.
The reason is that most of the regulation works are dredging and there are no much of damming
works. Comparison between three scenarios indicates that Scenario I would result in slightly
greater water level change than Scenario 2 and Scenario 3. Figure 4-14 presents water levels along
the waterway based on Scenario 2.
3) Variation of discharge
Table 4.14 summarizes the variation of discharge after the completion of project, which is
equal to (Qf,, - Qbef,t) / Q/f,,o x 100% . The variation is very small, generally being within
± 3%. It is correspond with the variation of water level. The discharge variation in Lijiasha
waterway is relatively great, and after the regulation project, discharge will increase 5.8 - 6.5%
for Scenario 1, 7.5 - 8.4% for Scenario 2 and 9.6 - 10.4 % for Scenario 3. For Shawan waterway,
discharge will decrease about 2%, but in its branch- Xijian channel discharge will increase about
2%. Discharge of Liugang waterway will decrease about 3.5%, and discharge in Lianhuashan will
remain unchanged. Therefore, Scenario 2 is better than Scenario I or Scenario 3, from the point of
view of avoiding the discharge changes too much and ensuring relatively better benefits of
waterwav.
(4) Analysis of Impact on Flood Control
I) After the regulation project, discharge changes every small (less than 1%) in all waterways
with the exception of Lijiasha waterway which have a discharge change of over 5% for all the
design frequencies and scenarios. Such small discharge changes will have no much impact on the
flood control conditions of both shores.
2) After the regulation project, changes of water level are different along the waterway. From
Xiqiaokou downward to Lianhuashan waterway, water level after the project lowers mainly, with
the maximum lowering of 0.05 m, which will benefit for flood control. From Xiqiaokou upward to
Nanhua, water level are mainly rising, but with the maximum of only 0.03 m, which will have
little impact on flood control.
68



Table 4.13 Variations of water level after the project          unit: m
-   P-1%   -                   P=2%              P-5%
Position       Scenari Scenari Scenar Scenari Scenari Scenari Scenario Scenario Scenar
ol      o2      io3   o I      o2      o3      1        2        io3
Nanhua         0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
Ximaning       0.01    0.01    0.01   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00       0.00
Yinggezui      0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
Jiyakou        0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
Ronggi         0.00    0.01-   0.01   0.01    0.01    0.01   0.00    0.00    0.00
Banshawei      0.01    0.02    0.02   0.01    0.01    0.01   0.01      0.01     0.01
Huoshaotou    0.02    0.01    0.01   0.02    0.01    0.01    0.02      0.01     0.01
Modietou       0.01    0.00    0.00   0.02    0.01    0.00   0.01      0.01     0.00
Zinikou        0.03    0.03    0.03   0.03    0.03    0.03   0.02    0.02       0.02
Dawutou        -0.05   -0.05   -0.05  -0.04   -0.04   -0.05  -0.03   -0.03    -0.04
Sanshakou      0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   -0.01   -0.01    -0.01
Lianhuashank   0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
-ou                    _-
Table 4.14 Variations of discharge after the completion of project (%)
Waterway or               Pel%                   Ps2fY    =              P-5       =
section           Scenario Scenario Scenario Scenario Scenario Scenario Scenario Scenario Scenario
1      2       3       1      2       3       1       2       3
Upper Xijiang river  000    0.0    0.0     00      00     0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0
Lower Xiiiang river    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0 0    0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0
Nanhua section of   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0     0.0
Ronggui waterway                                                           -       -
Rongeui channel     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.0
Jun'an channel      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.0
Xiaolan waterway    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    01           0.1     0.1
Xiaolan-Jiya section    0.0    0.0    0.0  0 0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0
Jivasection         0.0     00     00      00      00      00      0.0     0.0     00
Dai-Erjiao section o   -0.1   -0.1   .0 1    -0.1  0.1   -0.1    -0.1    -0.1    -0 I
Ronggui                                     -                                       -
Shunde branch       0.2    0.0    -0.2    0.1    0.0   -0.2    0.2         0.0    -0.2
Ronggi-Banshawei    0.0    -0.1   -0.1    0.0    -0. I    -0.1    0.0    -0.1    -0. I
Hongtimen           0.6    07       08     06      07      08      0.5     0.7     08
Lijiasha            5.8    7.5    9.6    6.0    7.8    10.0    6.5         8.4    10.4
Shavan waterway    -2.0   -2.0   -2.0   -2.0   -2.0   -2.0   -2.1    -2.1    -2.0
Lianhuashan         0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1          0.1     0.1
3) For the same frequency, water level changes for different regulation scenarios are nearly
the same, and the amount of changes is also similar. For the same regulation scenario, water level
69



change at different frequency has same tendency. Such tendency exists that the greater the
recurrence interval, the greater water level change, but this tendency is not apparent. From the
simulation results, water level change in most of sections has no difference for different
frequency.
Therefore, it may be considered that the regulation project of L-S-R waterway has no much
impact on flood control. Those sections where water level lowers or levee engineering needs
would be favorable for flood control. For those sections where water level rise after the project,
negative impact can be mitigated by optimizing the project design, organizing construction
scientifically and reinforcing levee protection. At the same time, observation of water level during
the construction stage and after the completion of the project should be enhanced, and the
measured data should be conveyed to the Command and Control Center of Flood Protection.
4.1.3.2 Z-H waterway
(I) Impact Factor on Flood Prevention
Many engineering measures such as groynes, damming, lock-dam, dredging (excavation), levee
protection, short - cutting and reef - blasting are used in the regulation of the Lower Xijiang River
-The regulation is based upon the function of groynes to concentrate river flow to wash the
siltation; the second measure is to excavate with complement of the levee protection, short -
cutting and reef - blasting. The principal measure is the construction of groynes, which is
divided into two phases - In fir-st phase, the required navigable depth is 5.Om and navigable width
is iOOm, dredging of 40 km, I I levee protection of total length 15km, I short cutting ( Hengkeng),
11 reef - blasting, the amount of blasted - stone is 300 thousand cubic metres In second phase,
upon the basis of the first phase, navigable depth is 6.0m, most groynes and submerged dams will
be added.
Above engineering measures have different actions Double - direction grouped 9,oynes are
capable to prevent the scouring of flood to the dyke base, and protect flood control dyke . The
single direction grouped groynes has the action of levee revetment; in the upper course of Xijiang
mainstream as the river is Wider within this course, the scouring to the opposite bank is relatively
small. In Hutiaomen waterway, however, the river is relatively narrow, the single direction
grouped groynes could cause some scouring to opposite bank.  In order to diminish the
unfavourable action of the single direction grouped groynes in the Hutiaoment Waterway, levee
protection of 15km is to be constructed. The measures of dredging, reef blasting and short -
cutting increase the cross sectional area straighten and widen the river course, which is very
helpful to decrease the flood level, The construction is divided into two phase. The Ist phase
mainly consists of dredging and reef blasting to deepen the river course up to 5.Om and widen the
river bottom up to lOOm, and a small part of groyne and lock-dam construction.
After the scouring and silting reaches a new balance, the 2nd phase, which mainly consists of
groyne and lock dam constrUction and excavation to 6. Om depth, begins to put into action. In
comparison to the regulation project of Dongping Waterway, the two phase construction of this
projects has less influence on the flood level.
70



(2) Analysis of Hydraulic Model Test and Mathematical Simulation Results.
1) Introduction To Hydraulic Model and Mathematical Simulation.
The rising of flood level is the key point of the project . In the feasibility study of the project, the
hydraulic model test and mathematical simulation has been used - Since fixed - bed condition in
the hydraulic model cannot reflecte the evolution of scouring and siltation, and the mathematical
model simulation is constrained by the boundary conditions, the results of both studies have some
limitation. But it can be used to estimate the impacts on flood prevention.
Hydraulic model test was conducted on the scheme of navigable depth of 6.0 m, and the
mathematical model has been simulated the flood hydrograph in both proposals of 5.Om and 6.0 m
navigable depth respectively.
2) Analysis of Variation in Flow Division Radio
Variation in flow division, ratio could change the distribution of flood peak discharge in different
bifurcations, an excessive variation is unfavorable to the flood control. The variation of flow
division ratio in proposal of 6. 0 m has beem simulated in hydraulic model, and the results are
shown in Tab 4.15. and Tab 4.16.
Tab 4.15 Variation of flow division ratio in the regulation project of the lower Xijiang River
waterway
Hydro-     Variation    Shibansha   Muzhoukou   Hukeng    Chifen
logical    of Flow
frequency              ___        l__           .    ___
P=5%       Division    36.5        0            0.6       -1.1
ratio (m3/s)
Variation    OA9       0             0.09      -0.14
Rate (%)0__
P=2%       Division    31.0        0.3           0.4       -1.0
ratio m3/s             __
Variation    0.38       0.04         0.06      -0.11
Rate (%) 0__ __
P=1%       Division     19.2       0-1           0         0
ratio (m3/s)                      ,
Variation    0.22       0.01         0         0
Rate (%)
71



Tab 4.16 Variation of flow division ratio in the regulation project of the lower Xijiang River
waterwav
The changes of flow division ratio of Chaolianzhou Reach before and after regulation
Location  of Q=40203m3/s            Q=43747m3/s              Q=46737m3/s
waterwav-
AQi/Qi    AQi/Qi    AQUQi          AQi/Qi    AQi/Qi    AQi/ Qi
Guzhe.        0.5        5.1        0.7           6.9        0.8        8.5
Chiaolia.     -2.2       -4.5       -3.3          -6.9       -5.5       -10.7
Beijie        1.7        4.1        2.7           6.4        4.7         12.0
The changes of flow division ratio of Haishousha before and after the regulation
Left         -0.6        -1.0       -0.8         -1.4        -1.6       -2.7
bifurcation
Middle        /          /          /            /           l          /
Right         0.6        1.4        0.8          2:0         1.6        4.0
bifurcation             I          I                                   I
The changes of flow division ratio of Taipingsha before and after the regulation
Left          -1.5       -2.4       -0.9         -1.5        -1.2       -2.0
bifurcation                                                 I
Right         1.5        3.9        0.9           2.3        1.2        3.0
bifurcation
Note: Q-Discharge in Tianhe or Makou Station.
Qi-Discharge in different bifurcation.
AQi-Difference of the discharge before and after the regulation.
The ariation of flow division ratio during the regulation of the lower Xijiang River can be divided
into two cases. A. The variation of flow division ratio in the regulated and other waterways in
the river network of the lower course. B. The variation of discharge division ratio in both left and
right bifurcation or left, middle and right bifurcations of islets in the upper river course.
Shebansha, Mozhoukou, Hukeng and Chifen belong to the first Case. According to the results of
hydraulic model test, the variations of flow division ratio in above four sections are very small.
The maximum variation occurring in Shibansha is only 0. 49 % (P = 5 % ), the discharge increase
is less than 40m3/s, and the impact on flood prevention is negligible. The results of hydraulic
model test are shown in Tab 4.15.
The main river islets are Taipinsha, Haishousha and Chaolianzhou. As shown in the results of
hydraulic model test, variation of flow division ratio in different bifurcation of Haishousha and
Taipingsha is small and the impact on flood prevention is negligible. The variation of flow
division ratio in the left, right and middle bifurcation of Chaolian Zhou are relatively higher and
increase with the increasing of flood discharge, The maximum increase is 12 % in the right
bifurcation of Beijie.
Because the above results were Obtained under the fixed - bed condition, and the real variation
72



would be smaller. Therefore, it is convincible that the impact of flow division ratio varies on
flood prevention of left and right bifurcation is relatively small.
3) The Analysis of Variation of Flood Level
The variation of flood level after the construction undoubtly becomes the focus of flood
prevention along the river. The hydraulic model test and mathematics simulation -ere conducted
upon the fixed river bed conditions such as groynes, short cutting and reef - blasting, other varying
factors such as scouring & siltation, and variation in flow division ratio has not been included.
However, from the analysis of the result, the variation tendency of flood level can be evaluate
3) The details of the result of hydraulic model test and mathematical simulation of flood level
along the river can be referred to the relevant report of the Scientific Institute of Hydraulic
Engineering of Guangdong Province on the hydraulic model test and mathematical model
simulation, some of the results are cited and shown in Tab 4.17.
As seen in the result, some conclusions can be reached as follows:
Under the condition of fixed - bed, there is a rising of flood level along the river for 5. 0 m and 6.0
m navigable depth proposals except in some sections, it means the groynes have some action on
the rising of flood level. However, the results are constrained by the fixed - bed condition, the
combined actions of other factors such as scouring, siltation and dredging are not reflected, the
real impact would be smaller the calculated result.
In the comparison of results of mathematical simulation, the maximum flood level in the 5.Om
depth proposal is 0.09m, occurring nearly Hengshan in the lower course of Hutiaomen waterway.
But in the proposal of 6.0m navigable depth, the maximum rising of flood level increases up to
0.16m in Dianshuizhou. The rising of flood level in the 6.Om proposal is related to the
construction of much more groynes.
The short - cutting at HengKeng, widening and deepening of the river course have remarkable
action to decrease the flood level for the upstream river course. The results of hydraulic model
test and mathematical simulation show the velocity in each regulated course after the regulation is
higher than that before the regulation, that in turns increase the scouring of river bed. Variation
of flow division ratio is favorable to decrease the flood level either. Since the construction is
conducted from downstream to upstream in a way of section by section, that is helpful for the
securing of river bed -After 5 years construction, the river bed will reach a new balance of
scouring. On the other hand, the mathematical simulation of the 6.Om proposal was finished by
one step of calculation, and failing to be revised upon the falling of flood level after 5.0 m depth
construction in the first stage. Therefore, the real flood level should be much lower than the
calculated value.
(3) Analysis of the Impact on Flood Prevention
From above analysis, it is known that the maximum flood level after the first stage construction of
5.Om navigable depth will have 0.09m rise, mainly occurring between Hengshang and
73



Yongyezhou. The real flood level rise is probably less than 0.09m as analyzed in above, and the
first stage construction has less influence on the flood control.
The flood level rise of the second stage construction of 6.0m navigable depth should occurs
upstream from Dianshuizhou, and the maximum is 0.16m Since the present flood prevention
levels of Jingfeng Combined Dykes and shapuwei Dyke, which are the principal dykes in
upstream of Dianshuizhou, are lower than the highest flood levels in history (See Tab. 4 - 3 - I for
detail), the dykes along the whole lower Xijiang River -ill be re,etted up to higher criteria of flood
prevention in the Flood Prevention Plan of The Pearl River Ualley. For example, Jingfeng
Combined Dykes will be consolidated to against 50 year interval recurrent flood, Shapu Dyke 20
year interval recurrent flood, dykes along Hutiaomem Waterway 20 year interval recurrent flood.
Moreover, two water conservancy constructions of total reservoir volume of 9.0 billion M3,
Longtan and Datengxia Water Conservancy Construction, have been planned in blueprint of the
Flood Prevention Plan of the Pearl River Valley, that will double the flood prevention capabilities
of above dykes.
(4) Conclusion
A .Groyne groups can raise the resistance of dykes against the scouring, showing favorable
impact.
B. Variation of division ratio of each bifurcation is relatively small to cause unfavorable impact on
the flood prevention level of each bifurcation.
C. The first stage constraction of 5.Om navigable depth has less influence on the flood level rise.
D. The second stage construction of 6.Om navigable depth may cause clear flood level rise in the
upper course.
E. The short - cutting at Hengkeng has remarkable action on falling of flood level.
F. After the construction the two water conservancy constructions in the upper course of Xijiang
River and revetment of dykes along the river, the impact of flood level rise will be decreased
further.
Tab4.17 Results of mathematical model computation of the flood level changes in two proposals
before and after the regulation construction (m)
NO.  Name of the section    Navigable  depth  Navigable  depth  Navigable depth
(p  I%) _I         (p -2%) 2  _    (p = 5 %)
5.0     6.0      5.0      6.0      5.0     6.0
1     GaoYao               0.03     0.05     0.03     0.05     0.03   0.05
29    MoYanZhouTou          0.03    0.04     0.02     0.03     0.03   0.04
42    MoYanZhouWei          0.03    0.04     0.03     0.04     0.03   0.04
53    DianshuiZhouTou      0.03     0.16     0.03     0.16     0.02   0.16
58    DianshuiZhouWei      0.02     0.16     0.02     0.16     0.01   0.15
61    Qinshatou             0.03    0.16     0.02     0.16     0.02   0.16
67    Qinshawei             0.02    0.16     0.02     0.16     0.02   0.16
71    Xichiaokou            0.02    0.13     0.02     0.13     0.02   0.13
78    Makkou                0.02    0.13     0.01     0.13     0.01   0.13
74



91    Fuwan              0.02    0.12    0.02    0.12      0.0!   0.11
93    Xi-17i             0.02    0.12    0.03      0.13    0.02   0.12
98    TaiPinshaZhouTou    0.04    0.14    0.04    0.15    0.04   0.14
110   TaipingshaZhouWei   0.05    0.14    0.05    0.14    0.05   0.14
112   Xij15#             0.05    0.09    0.06    0.10    0.06   0.10
114   Gaoming Bridge (Xi- 0.06    0.13    0.05    0.13    0.05   0.13
14)
116   GuLauXi 13#        0.06    0.14    0.05    0.13    0.05   0.13
119   Haishaoshatou      0.05    0.12    0.04    0.12    0.04   0.11
122   Xi-12U-Left & Mid.  0.03    0.11    0.02    0.11     0.02   0.11
126   Xi-12"-Right       0.05    0.12    0.05    0.12    0.04   0.11
129   Haishoushawei      0.05    0.10    0.04    0.10    0.04   0.10
131   Shakouxi-I l       0.05    0.10    0.04    0.10    0.04   0.09
135   GanZhuXi-10"       0.04    0.09    0.03    0.08    0.03   0.08
144   NanhuaXi-9#        0.03    0.10    0.03    0.09    0.03   0.09
146   TianheXi-8"        0.03    0.09    0.03    0.09    0.02   0.08
150   GuZhenShuiXi-7'    0.02    0.09    0.03    0.10    0.03   0.09
153   Xi-6U              0.02    0.10    0.02    0.10    0.02   0.10
154   ChaoLianZhoutou    0.00    0.06    0.01    0.07    0.00   0.07
159   BeiJiiXi-4#        0.00    0.06    0.00    0.06    0.01   0.06
172   HetangXi-5"        -0.03   -0.02   -0.03   -0.01    -0.02  -0.01
176   ChaoLianZhouWei    0.00    0.04    0.00    0.04    0.00   0.04
177   WaihaiXi-2#        0.00    0.04    -0.01    0.04    0.00   0.04
180   Baigintou          0.00    0.00    -0.01    0.00    -0.01  0.00
183   Baiginhu-1"        0.02    0.05    0.01    0.05    0.02   0.05
187   Shibanshashangkou    0.04    0.07    0.04    0.07    0.03   0.07
192   MuZhoukouhu-3#     0.00    0.02    -0.01    0.02    -0.01  0.01
196   Laolaoxikou        -0.02    0.03    -0.02    0.03    -0.02  0.02
200   Hu-5'              -0.04    0.04    -0.04    0.04    -0.03  0.04
205   Hu-6'              -0.03    -0.04    -0.02   -0.04   -0.02  -0.03
208   Hu-7'              -0.05   -0.03    -0.05   -0.03   -0.03  -0.02
212   Chifenhu-1# I       0.00    -0.02    0.01    0.00    0.02   0.00
215   Hu8-2"              0.07    0.05    0.08     0.05    0.08   0.05
218   Hengshanhul3'_      0.08    0.06    0.09    0.07    0.09   0.07
227   YongyezhouTou       0.06    0.03     0.07    0.04    0.07   0.05
234   YongyezhouWei       0.06    0.04    0.07    0.05    0.08   0.06
237   Hu-14'              0.06    0.05    0.06     0.05    0.07   0.06
243   Xipautai-15"        0.01    0.01     0.02    0.02    0.03   0.03
4.1.4 Analysis of Impact on Scouring and Silting
4.1.4.1 Impact of Waterway Engineering on Scouring and Silting
75



The waterway regulation aims to raise, by artificial means, the depth of waterway for
navigation so as to have a better navigation conditions. Therefore, to remove the shoals and avoid
silting is one of the main aspects of the regulation project. According to the characteristics of L-S-
R waterway and the result of analysis on its evolution, the project design department put forward
appropriate design principle: firstly dredging, and then damming in some sections, in order to
reduce silting and keep the waterway stable.
In fact, after dredging, waterway bed will have the tendency of silting again according to the
evolution rule of itself. But after dams in some sections are set up, overall discharge will change
due to the effect of dams. Consequently, natural silting in the regulation waterway would be
influenced.
Firstly, silting again after dredging will mitigate the original scouring tendency. Naturally,
scouring dominates in L-S-R waterway, and after dredging such tendency may change for some
period. In such shallow sections with silting, the demand of silting again would be more strong.
Secondly, dams will enhance the scouring effects in the sections near to the dams since they
can increase flow velocity. However, relatively stable waters would be produced in the section
between two dams, where flow velocity is small and silting will occur again. Damming will
mainly be performed in the section with shoals. On 94km of L-S-R waterway, 18 dams will be set
up, with a total volume of rock placing 13.93 X 104m3. Impact of dams on the scouring or silting
would not be great.
Thirdly, with the completion of the project, discharge in each section or waterway will
change, which will also influence scouring and silting. Variation of discharge for Nanhua-
Banshawei section of Ronggui waterway will be very small (in range of 0 - -0.2%), which has
little impact on scouring or silting. Discharge will increase about 10% in Lijiasha waterway, and
scouring effect will possibly be strengthened. Discharge in Shawan waterway will change little
with a decrease of less than 3%, and with the associate effects of dam group in the section the
possibility of silting on mainstream will not be great. Discharge in Lianhuashan waterway will
basically have no change.
In summary, the following conclusions can be made. The original overall scouring or silting
effects will be mitigated. Volume of silting on the navigation channel will not be great in a short
time after dredging. The possibility of silting or scouring on main shoals will be small. Silting will
occur on the shores between dams. Scouring will be promoted in Lijiasha waterway.
Along the whole river course from Zhaoqing, Baiqintou to Hutiaomen, over 100 groynes will be
constructed within the distance of 170.7 km. The direct results of groynes are the decrease of the
cross sectional area and increase of flow, velocity, acting to concentrate the flow to wash the
siltation and scour the river bed to maintain the normal navigable depth in the waterway.
Meanwhile, sediments tend to deposit between groynes due to the formation of back flow, which
shifts the siltation in midstream of the channel towards the river beach and maintains the normal
76



navigable depth. From the investigation to the constructed groynes in the Sixianjiao Reach,
which connects the Xijiang River and the Beijiang River, siltation between groynes is very
obvious in a time span of less than one year after the damming of groynes. That confirms the
effectiveness of groynes in realization of the purpose of the waterway regulation project.
4.1.4.2 Impact on Shore Scouring
Impact on shore scouring would mainly result from the following factors: (1) spur dike group;
(2) the increase of discharge; and (3) navigation generating waves.
Most of dikes to be built are spur dikes of single direction. The establishment of such dikes
will forces water to the opposite side, and possibly cause scouring of the shore base. However, in
the section with shallow and broad water surface, such scouring possibility in dry season is very
small due to protection effect of broad water surface and the side shore forming by flood. For the
proposed regulation project, most of the spur dikes locate in the sections with shallow and broad
water surface, so they would have very little impact on scouring of the opposite shore.
At the Siqing Shallow Beach and Yongyezhou Reach of the Hemaxi Waterway in LXR(Z-
H) waterway, the project has designed densely distributed single direction groyne groups, and the
river is relatively narrow in these sections. Thus, the scouring caused by the spur flow is rather
remarkable. However, the project has also designed levee measures on the opposite banks, and
the scouring caused by the single direction groyne groups will be effectively controlled and has
less impact on the opposite banks.
With the completion of the proposed regulation project, discharge would have apparently increase
only in Lijiasha waterway, the ratio being about 10% (P-5%/). Since Lijiasha waterway is narrow
and shallow, discharge increase will certainly promote the scouring effect on the shore base.
However, levee of about 3,800 m along the left shore has been designed in order to eliminate the
scouring effect.
Navigation generating waves (especially those from express vessels) will enhance the
scouring effects on river shores, especially in such narrow and shallow sections as Lijiasha. In
order to reduce such effects, levee protection measures and management for all the waterway
should be strengthened appropriately. The designed 8,375 m of levee will mitigate the scouring
effects on the shore base to some extent.
From the above analysis, it can be concluded that spur dikes will not cause great scouring
effects, the effects resulting from the increase of discharge will be counteracted by levee
engineering, and navigation generating waves will have some scouring effects on shores.
4.1.5 Analysis of Impact on Water Supply and Drainage Facilities
The LXR(Z-H) and L-S-R waterway regulation project, during its construction or after the
77



completion of the project, will change some of hydrological factors temporarily or permanently.
The analysis will focus on the possible impact of the project on the conditions of water intake.
4.1.5.1 Impact Factors
According to the feasibility study report of the project and the results in the previous parts of
this report, the project would mainly cause changes in water quality, discharge, water level and
scouring and silting conditions. The followings analyze the impact on water supply and drainage
facilities of these factors.
4.1.5.2 Impact of Water Quality Changes
Results of water quality impact of SS from dredging have been presented in the previous part
4.1.1.1 and summarized in Table 4.4. Water quality impact of SS from dredging is temporary.
From the point of view of long term, flow pattern and velocity of the waterway will be improved
after the completion of the project, which will be favourable for both the sewage discharges and
the improvement of water quality in the region of water sources. At the present Shawan waterway
is the drinking water source for Panyu city, and many water plants distribute along Ronggui
waterway. Improvement of water quality will be of importance to water supply of related water
plants.
4.1.5.3 Impact of Scouring and Silting Changes
Changes of scouring and silting of the navigation channel in the middle of waterway have no
influence on water supply and drainage facilities, but changes on shores will have impacts.
According to the analysis of part 4.1.4, silting will occur in waters between spur dikes due to
slow velocity. Such silting will influence water supply and drainage facilities between them.
Spur dikes should be constructed where there are no water supply and drainage facilities.
However, since there are too many such facilities along the regulation waterway, it is inevitable
that some facilities are still located between the group of spur dikes. There are 4 water gates
(Table 4.18a) to be affected in L-S-R Waterway, and there are 13 (Table 4.18b) in LXR(Z-H)
Waerway. Major impact is that silting between dikes will be possible to influence water flowing in
or out smoothly through the gate. Such impact may be mitigated by building introductory dike.
78



Table 4.1 8a Spur dikes and water gates among them
________________________  Locations of    Number of   Water gates among the dikes
No.         Waterway            dikes           dikes         Number        Name of gate
I         Lianhuashan   RuiShenzhoutou           5               1           Shaxing
2           Shawan          Guanyinsha           3       7                    _        - _
3           Shawan           Dawutou             4               2        Daliang, Xiapo
4           Shawan           Modietou    |        1      7_                             1
5           Ronggui         Ximaning             3               1           Qingyun
6           Ronggui           Nanhua             2                                       1
Total                                               18           4         _
Table 4.1 8b Affected water galogth LXR(Z-H) Waterway
Name of the  Dimension of the water I a(m)  -  Name of the  Dimension ofthet water p t(m)   -
water gate   Lang  Wid  Heig  Hole    Level of wster 8ste    Leng  Width   Height   Hole    Level
th     -    ht    number  bottom               th                     number  of
_                             ___th                              num      bonom
Leh bank:                                      Right bank
Hegang     6.3   5.9          I |1.5    Shadian            3     4        4.1     I       .0|7
Xi an       -    5.2   6.0            -16      Tianhe      5.3   3        55      1       0.3
Shanglen         4 4.    4.0          -2.1     Qiaojiao    2.4  75                 1    71.0
Xialen            5.5   5.0     -      2.0     Heughainan   4.3   68        -     1 1      0.5
-_-                  -       - _ _Shizbou       6.4   4.5                      -2 .5
-         -     Donhengwei        _4.6     6_0   -          .5
Bhqin             5.0     5.0              -2.4
-  _   .         Hengchong         5.0      5 0             -2.0
-        -       -     Sbadui             5.0     6.0              .1.6
4.1.5.4 Impact of Discharge Changes
Since discharge has no much changes after the completion of the project (refereed to part
4.1.3.3), water supply facilities in various sections may still have enough water to take. Therefore,
discharge changes have no negative impact on water supply facilities.
4.1.5.A Impact of Water Level Changes
Water.taking pump station has certain requirement of water level in dry season, while
drainage facilities have certain requirement of water level in flood season. According to the design
scenario, design lowest navigation water level of L-S-R water adopts the value issued by
Guangdong Province Waterway Bureau (Table 4.19). The design recurrence interval is 5 years,
and P=98%. The computation of lowest water level in dry season for water taking is generally
based on the same standard. There is no much difference.
79



Table 4.19 Comparison between design lowest navigation water level (DLNWL) and lowest
water level for water taking in dry season (LWLWTDS)
Station       Nanhua    Yingezui    Rongqi   Banshawei Sanshanjiao  Sanshakou
DLNWL          -0.45       -0.59       -0.79      -0.96       -0.91       -1.60
LWLWTDS        -0.41       -0.60       -0.85      -0.98       -0.91       -1.49
Therefore, there will be no negative impacts for current water taking facilities. After the
completion of the project, flood level along L-S-R Waterway changes very small with maximum
rising level being 3.0cm, and 16.0cm in LXR(Z-H) Waterway, and maximum falling 5.0cm, so
there will be no negative impact for drainage in flood season.
4.1.5.6 Conclusion
In summary, SS from dredging in Lijiasha waterway during construction period would have
some impact on Wusha water plants, but such impact would be small and temporary. Water gates
among the spur dike group will be affected, since water can not flow fluently out of or into the
gate due to silting around the gate. However, such impact would not be great in scope and extent,
and could be mitigated by some engineering measures.
4.1.6 Analysis of Noise Environmental Impact
4.1.6.1 Analysis of Noise Environmental Impact during Construction Stage
(I) Noise Source Strength of Mechanical Equipment
Main equipment used during construction include: dredging craft, bulldoser, concrete mixer,
tug, concrete pump, etc. Table 4.20 gives the values of noise level resulting from the commonly
used equipment while operating during construction stage.
(2) Prediction of noise environmental impact during construction stage
Noise sources during construction stage can be simplified as point source. Noise level at
various distance from the source can be estimated with the following equation.
Lp = Lpo -20 log[]                  (4-25)
Where Lp is the predicted value of noise level at distance of r m (dB(a)); and
Lpo is reference noise level at distance of ro m (dB(A)).
Table 4.21 presents the predicted values of noise level at various distance for different kind
of equipment.
80



Table 4.20 Value of noise level of various equipment in operation
No.         Equipment          Distance from monitoring point to the equipment    LA (dB(a))
I          bulldoser                                   5                                    86
2     general power ship                                I                                   94
3           tugboat                                     1                                   65
4        dredging craft                                 I                                   70
5       concrete mixer                                  5                                   84
6       concrete pump                                   5                                   85
7            truck                                     5                                    78
8           spanner                                    5                                    85
Table 4.21   Predicted values of noise level at various distance for different euipment
Distance(m)       3   10   20   40   50   60   70   30   90  100  110  120  130  140  150  160  200
bulldoser         S6   S0   74   68   66   64   63   62   61   60   59   58   5S   57   56   56   54
general power ship   S0   74   61   62   60   5S   57   56   55   54   53   52   52   51   50   50  _
tugboat           5S   55   52   49 .
dledging craft    63   60   57   54   53   52   St   50
suck              73   72   66   60   5S   56   55   54   53   52   51   s0
concrete taker    34  7S   72   66   64   62   61   60   59   5S   57   56   55   54   53   52   5I
concrete puTmp    t5   79   73   67   63   63   62   61   60   59   5 57   56  55   34 _3   52
spsaner  3T_   t5   79   73   67   65   63   62   61   60   59   55   57   56  55   54   53   52
(3) Noise environmental impact assessment during construction stage
From the results of table 4.21, it can be seen that noise level caused by the operation of
construction equipment will not exceed the standard of class 2 (GB3096-93) in daytime at the
distance of over 100 m and at night at the distance of over 250 m. In the project regions, such
sensitive places as schools, hospitals and residential areas are far from the construction sites, so
noise resulting from the operation of construction equipment will not cause negative effects on the
sensitive points along the waterway.
4.1.6.2   Prediction and Assessment of Ship Noise Environmental Impact during Operation
Stage
(1) Prediction of ship noise
A. Model selection and determination of coefficients
At present no formal regulations exist in our country concemed about inland ship noise
environmental impact assessment. Here we use the following model to predict noise impact from
the navigation of ship in 2010 on main sensitive points of Lianhuashan town and Rongqi town
in peak hours, in daytime and at night.
81



Lep =   1oig[\  Ni10Iw(P)l lOIg T- lOlg D  _AS               (4-26)
Lep =                  I       T,       2r
Where m is the kind of ship, m=3, classifying as engine-driven concrete boat, container vessel,
and engine-driven barge and passenger ship;
Ni is the number of ships of kind i in time T;
T is monitoring time, s;
Tr is reference time, Tr= I s;
LA,,(r) is average noise level at the distance of r for the ships of kind i, dB(a);
D is width of the river, m;
r is the distance from the prediction point to waterway, m; and
A S is attenuation value in the air, dB(A).
Ship whistling noise can be considered as point source. Its environmental impact can be
estimated with the following formula.
Lp = Lp0- 20 ogF-1                      (4-27)
LroJ
Where Lp is predicted noise level at the distance of r m from the source, dB(A);
Lpo is reference noise level at the distance of ro m, dB(A), when ro=200m, Lpo =85 dB(A).
B. Determination of coefficients
The kinds of ship and their flow in 2010 are predicted and presented in Table 4.22. Through
comparative monitoring and investigation, average reference noise level at the distance of 25 m
from the source for each 'kind of ships are determined and presented in Table 4.23. For
Lianhuashan town and Rongqi town, A S  assumes to be 0 for open areas and 10-15 dB(A) for
residential areas due to the protective effects of buildings.
Table 4.22 Ship flow prediction in 2010                      unit: ships
engine-driven   Container vessels and  Passenger ship     Total
concrete boat   engine-driven barge
Whole day            98                170                   30             298
Daytime, 85% of       83               144                   25             252
the whole day
Night, 15% of         15                26                   5              46
the whole day
Peak hours, 25%       25                42                    8              75
of the daytime   I
82



Table 4.23 Average reference noise level ( sailing speed 7-24 km/h)
unit: dB(A)
engine-driven concrete boat               Container ships and                     Passenger ship
enginedriven barge
98                                   94                                    89
C. Model verification
In order to verify the above model, comparative monitoring was conducted in Nanhua village
during the peak hours. The comparison between the measured and the computed results is shown
in Table 4.24. The difference is only 0.5 dB(A). Thus, the above model is appropriate for
predicting ship noise impact of the project.
Table 4.24 Comparison between measured and computed results
Position of  engine-driven Containcr ships nd Passeng- Total number of Measured  Computed  Difference  Notes
monitorng   concrete boat   engine-driven    er ship   ships in 20  value   value dB(A)  dB(A)
point      ----------          barge                  minutes      dB(A)
200 m from                                                                                        River width
navigation       17              5            1         23           59      5I.5         0.5     92m. sailing
channel                                                                                          speed of ship 7-
20 kmlh
(2) Prediction results and assessment
Prediction results of noise level at different distance in peak hours, daytime and at night for
Lianhuashan town and Rongqi town are given in Table 4.25 and 4.26.
Table 4.25 Prediction results of ship noise inpact in the section of Lianhuashan town
_   _   _ __                                                           u s~~~~~~~~~~~d(A)
Period      Distance from navigation channel, m (beside shore is open     Residential ara          Ship whistling
area)            -                          -
100       110       120      130    150   250   predicted  Background Accumulated  noise impact
value      value       value     on residential
ame
pesk hours     63        63        63       62      60    55        45         5S          55
daytime        S5        55        54       53             51       41          S5         55
night          51        51        So       50             47       37          50         50            73
Standards                daytime 70                daytime: 60              daytime 60                   6S
night 55                  night: 50               night 50
Assessment            within the Standard            within               withtin stndard             exeeeding
sandard                                        standad by S
dB(A)
83



Table 4.26. Predicting results of ship noise impact in the section of Rongqi town
dB(A)
Perod      Distance from navigation channel, m ibeside shore is open  Residential aas      Ship whistling
-  .       area)                          , -
50       60       70      So    160  250   predicted  Background Accumulated  noise impact
value     value      value    On residential
area
Peak hours   67        66       65      64    60    56       43         48         49
daytime      60        59       59      57           51      39         4S         58
night        56        55       55      53           47      35         45         45          70
Standards              daytime 70             daytime: 60            daytime: 60               65
night 55               night: 50             night: 50
Asessment       daytime: within the Standard    within             within standard          exceeding
nighttime: exceeding standaird by I dB(A) on  standard                          standard by 5
shore                                                               dB(A)
With the completion of the project, regional noise level around the project area in 2010
resulting from ship navigation, whether in peak hours, in daytime or at night, will generally be
within the appropriate standards. Only sudden noise caused by ship whistling will exceed the
standard by 5-8 dB(A). But, such impact exists at present. Therefore, noise environmental impact
after the completion of the project will be very small.
4.1.7 Analysis of Other Environmental Impacts during Construction Stage
4.1.7.1 Impact of Waste and Dredging Materials Dumping
According to project planning, dredging materials from Shawan waterway will be dumped
into the dike field of Dawu shoal, and those from the entrance section of Lianhuashan, Batangwei,
Lijiasha and Banshawei will be transported to Jiang'ou dumping place. Waste materials of reef
blasting will be dumped into deep channel nearby so as to protect levee. Locations of dumping
places are shown in Figure 2-6.
Dumping of waste and dredging materials will cause the following negative impacts.
(1) Dust resulting in the process of dumping will pollute air.
Dredging materials from underwater are rich of water, so no dust will result from the
dumping and there is little possibility to pollute atmosphere. However, waste materials from land
engineering will be possible to produce dust and pollute air, but amount of dust will depend on
moisture content and particle size of the materials, and impact scope and extent will depend on
84



wind velocity in the process of dumping and particle size. Particle size of bed materials in the
project area is relatively large, so air impact of dust will be very small.
(2) Impact of waste and dredging materials as secondary pollution source
A. Impact when dumping into waters
Dredging materials when dumping into waters will inctease SS concentration in water, will
lower photosynthesis of aquatic plants, and result in the decrease of DO concentration in water.
All those will have negative effects for fish reproduction and growth. The increase of SS
concentration will be unfavorable for industrial water use and human water use. However, such
impact is limited in scope and temporary. When dumping finish, such impact will disappear
naturally. Contents of harmful and toxic heavy metals in sediments are insignificant. Release of
heavy metals from dumping materials will be very small, and its environmental impact is also
small.
B. Impact when dumping on land
According to the result of sediment analysis, contents of harmful and toxic heavy metals in
sediments are very slight, and sediments are suitable for agricultural use. Therefore, dumping
dredged materials to reclamation areas would have no negative impacts on crops and other plants.
The favourable effects of dumping dredged materials mainly include:
(0 to create land and increase land resource
Dumping dredged materials into reclamation areas and dumping place will be helpful for
increasing land resource.
(2) to protect levee and increase safety coefficient of flood control.
Dumping waste materials of reef blasting into the shore of deep channel in the dangerous
section will benefit for levee protection and flood control.
4.1.7.2 Impact of Shock Waves of Reef Blasting on Fish and Nearby Buildings
(1) Impact on Fish
Reef blasting would produce strong shock waves, which will harm or kill fish. According to
the relevant test, generally blasting of 5 kg TNT in water made fish in an area with radius of 110
m die or injure, and in shallow water due to the reflection of bottom the impact scope was 1.3
times greater than that. Gas and remains of explosives due to the incomplete explosion would
cause pollution and have some impact on fish. Therefore, amount of explosives to be used should
be controlled, advanced explosion techniques should be employed and explosion should be
85



conducted in appropriate season (November to next April) so as to minimize negative effects.
After the completion of construction, fishery multiplication should be conducted with fishery
administrative agency.
(2) Impact on nearby constructions
Near to the points of reef blasting are some levees ( with flood protection standard of
recurrence interval 20 years), bridges and cables across river. Shock seismic waves resulting from
the reef blasting would possibly have some destructive effects on these constructions. Mitigation
measures should be taken in order to minimize negative effects.
There are two bridges which are nearer to the points of reef blasting. Shawan bridge is 950 m
away from the point of reef blasting in upper reach, and Desheng bridge only 150 m away from
reef blasting point in upper section. Blasting would have no much impact to Shawan bridge, but
would possibly influence Desheng bridge. Amount of explosives to be used should be controlled.
In addition, the cable nearest to reef blasting point locates around Dongmaning, only about 300 m
away. Protection measures should be taken during construction. If reef blasting would destroy
current levees, reparations should be made according to the original standard after the completion
of the project.
4.1.7.3 Impact on Human Health
The project has the following characteristics: engineering intensity is small, no many
construction works need, construction workers distribute in broad areas, construction period is as
long as 4 years, and construction points are more but scatteredly distributed. Most construction
workers live and work on ships which have better living conditions. Number of workers working
and living in the construction points with poor conditions is very limited. Therefore, diseases is
difficult to prevail and easy to control, and there will be no much impact to human health. Of
course, some protective measures would still need to be taken, since the incidence of infectious
disease is generally high in Panyu city and Shunde city.
4.1.8 Socio-economic Environmental Impact Assessment
4. 1.$.1 Impact on Economic Development
(1) LXR(Z-H) & L-S-R waterway connects directly with Yunfu city, Zhaoqing city, Foshan
city, Jiangmen city, Panyu city, and Shunde city, etc. With the rapid development of economy,
these cities have a ever increasing requirement for water transportation.  The waterway
regulation will provide favorable conditions to develop inland and international trade.
(2) Construction of LXR(Z-H) & L-S-R waterway will promote the rational modification of
comprehensive transportation net structure in Pearl River Delta and help to establish new transport
86



pattern of connecting with each other. In the same time, it will help to increase the competitive
ability of regional import and export trades, and promote regional economic development.
(3) Economic development will undoubtedly provide more employment opportunities for
local areas.
(4) The increase of handling capacities of the harbors along the waterway will help to lower
the cost of agricultural production, and to promote agricultural development.
(5) Waterway transportation will help lessen the pressure of road transportation and reduce
vehicle exhaust gas pollution.
4.1.8.2 Impact on Public Living Quality
The project would have no apparent direct effects on local public living quality, but would
bring some indirect effects.
(I) Economic development will increase the income of urban and rural residents.
Developments of industry, transportation and third production will provide more employment
opportunities. Advanced agricultural development will raise the income of resident in rural areas.
The increase of the income will help to raise accommodation areas of residents and increase the
amount of savings.
(2) With the economic development, more and more people are attracted to towns. The
increase of town population will require more cultural and educational facilities, and cultural and
educational developments will be promoted.
(3) With the improvement of investing environment, more foreign capitals will be attracted.
Financial income of local government will be raised. The government has the capability to raise
the investment on the aspects of public medical and health and education. Conditions of public
medical and health, and education will be improved gradually.
(5) The increase of ship transportation, and urban and industrial developments will result in
water pollution. If water pollution can not be controlled effectively, it would influence drinking
water quality and harm public health. Water pollution control will be a key issue in the future to
assure public living quality.
4.1.8.3 Impact on Cultural Relics, Historical Sites and Landscapes
Within the project region, there are no significant scenic spots, no important cultural relics
and historical sites. Therefore, there will be no impact on cultural relics and historical sites.
Spur dikes and dams will change natural landscape on the two shores. Artificial measures
should be taken to protect natural landscape or to improve the landscape.
87



4.1.8.4 Impact of Construction on Harbors and Sailing Ships
Since most of engineering works of the project will be conducted near to shore and relatively
far away from the main channel, the construction of the project generally would not hinder
navigation. Except that the regulation of RuiShenzhoutou section in Lianhuashan waterway is
closed to Lianhuashan harbor and Dongcong oil dock is on the right shore of Guanyinsha shoal in
Shawan waterway, all other harbors or docks are far away from the project sections. The nearest
spur dike will be 600 m far away from Lianhuashan harbor, and the construction is on the opposite
shore of the harbor, so its construction will have little influence on the operation of the harbor.
The regulation of Guanyinsha shoal is also on the opposite shore of Dongcong oil dock, so the
construction of spur dike will not influence the operation of the dock. However, there will reef
blasting at distance of 400 m in upper reach of the dock, and measures should be taken to ensure
the safety of the dock.
Reef blasting will influence safe navigation. Before blasting, notice should be issued as early
as possible. It is best to blast in the period with less ship flow or in same time, so as to reduce the
waiting time of other ships.
Operation of dredging craft will have direct impact to navigation. Appropriate measures
should be taken to ensure the normal navigation.
Main construction materials of dikes are stones, which will be obtained locally and
transported with ships. There will be no impact on land traffic, but it will increase the load of
waterway transportation and have some impact on waterway traffic. Therefore, transportation plan
should be formulated so as to evade the peak hours and mitigate the negative impacts on the
navigation.
4.1.8.5 Impact of Land Requisition and Removal on Community and Land Use
The project will make a requisition for 936 mu of land. No population need migrate, thus
there will be no issue of re-settlement involved. The amount of land requisition is small, which is
mainly composed of fluvial bog. Therefore, land requisition will have little impact on agricultural
production. If rational compensation is made for the farmers, such impact will be further small.
After the completion of the project, these lands will be resumed to use. Thus, impact from
requisition of land will be temporary, small and reversible.
4.1.9 Environmental Impact Prediction and Analysis of Ship Pollutants
4.1.9.1 Prediction of Ship Flow
According to the results of passenger and cargo forecast in L-S-R waterway for 2010, the
ship flow of the waterway for 2010 can be estimated (Table 4.27).
88



Table 4.27 Annual ship flow for 2010 in L-S-R waterway
Type of ship  | Passenger ship   Container cargo   Miscellaneous    Others
l                     ships -       cargo ships
Ship flow        11,200           62,222          13,778           17,440
The comparison of Table 4.27 and Table 3.29 shows that the amount of passenger ships have
no much changes, with an increase of about 9.8%, amount of container cargo ships increase
rapidly , the rate being 393.31%, and miscellaneous cargo ships decrease, accounting for only
about 26.99% of that in 1995. The amount of other ships remain nearly the same.
4.1.9.2 Prediction of Ship Oil Wastewater
The corresponding oil wastewater and oil contents discharged from ships in 2010 are
predicted related coefficients. The results are presented in Table 4.28.
Table 4.28 Oil wastewater discharged from ships into L-S-R waterway in 2010
tla
Type of ships Passenger ships  Container   Miscellaneous    Others     Total
I__________ __  ____ |___-   cargo ships    cargo ships             _
Amount of oil    11.20        217.78        144.66       183.12        556.76
wastewater   _            _
Quantity of oil  0.12          2.48          0.65          1.19         4.35
The total amount of oil wastewater in 2010 will be 556.76 t/a, being 228.73 t/a less than that
1995. The quantity of oil will be 4.35 t/a , which is 0.97 t greater than that of 1995. The reasons
are that in 2010 number of miscellaneous cargo ships decrease greatly, but that of container cargo
ships increase significantly.
4.1.9.3 Prediction of Ship Sewage
Ship sewage prediction results in 2010 are presented in Table 4.29. Total sewage amount in
2010 will be 1481.71 t la, being 268.3 t/a greater than that in 1995.
Table 4.29 Amount of shi sewage in 2010                         tla
Type of ships Passenger ships   Container   Miscellaneous  Others       Total
____________     ____________  cargo ships  cargo ships
Amount of oil    961.33       388.89         60.28        71.12        1481.71
sewage     _______     
4.1.9.4 Prediction of Ship Garbage
The results of ship garbage prediction in 2010 are presented in Table 4.30. Total amount of
89



ship garbage in 2010 will bel 111.29 t/a. which is 159.37 tla greater that that in 1995, accounting
for an increase of about 16.74%.
Table 4.30 Amount of ship garbage in 2010
t/a
Type of ships Passenger ships   Container   Miscellaneous  Others         Total
_____________    cargo ships    cargo ships
Amount of oil    721.00        291.67        45.21          53.41        1111.29
sewage
4.1.9.5 Environmental Impact Analysis of Ship Pollution
(1) Environmental impact analysis of oil wastewater
There will be no much changes in amount of oil wastewater and quantity of oil in 2010,
based on the above prediction results. Therefore, after the completion of the project, impact of
ships on oil contents in water remains basically at the existing level.
It is worth to mention that according to the measured results in wet season of 1996, oil has
become one of the main water pollution factors in the waterway. At present, L-S-R waterway has
been polluted with oil. So, effective measures should be taken to reduce the discharge of oil
wastewater into the waterway.
(2) Environmental impact analysis of ship sewage
The amount of sewage discharged from ships on L-S-R waterway in 2010 will be 1481.71
t/a, which accounts for only 0.091 %o of the amount of sewage from land regions along L-S-R
waterway in 1994 (1,618 X I0 4t/a). The sewage from ships will have little impact on water quality.
In fact, water quality of the waterway is mainly influenced by industrial and agricultural
wastewater and sewage on both sides, and by pollutants coming from upper reach. However,
within L-S-R waterway, all the sections except Lianhuashan section, Lijiasha section and the
eastern part to Dadaoweitou of Shawan section are classified as reserves of drinking water, and
there are 9 water plants within these reserves, which taking water directly from the waterway. If
sewage from ships discharges directly into the reserves without treatment, water pollution may
occur and water quality in water intake may be affected. Thus, proper measures should be taken to
treat sewage from ships.
(3) Environmental impact analysis of ship garbage (solid waste)
According to comparative investigation, ship garbage mainly compose of organic pollutants.
If these garbage discharge directly into rivers without any treatment, they would not only float on
water surface to destroy natural river landscape, but also influence water quality due to
decomposing of organic materials in water. Part of garbage would deposit to the bottom resulting
in sediment pollution, and some even remain on bottom mud for long term due to their properties
90



hard to decompose.
4.1 .10 Analysis of Ship Pollution Accident Risk
9 kinds of dangerous cargoes classified by the International Maritime Organization (IMO)
include:
First kind:  Explosives;
Second kind: Gas (compressed gas, liquidated gas and pressed-solved gas)
Third kind: Combustible liquid
Fourth kind: Combustible solid, combustible materials and materials releasing combustibles
if touching with water
Fifth kind: Oxides and organic superoxides
Sixth kind: Toxic materials and contagious materials
Seventh kind: Radioactive materials
Eighth kind: Corrosives
Ninth kind: Miscellaneous dangerous materials
There exists transportation of all the above 9 kinds of dangerous materials on L-S-R
waterway. Ships which are possible to have relatively great pollution accidents include oil tank,
ships of miscellaneous chemicals and ships of liquidated gas.
Although no great pollution accidents have occurred so far on the waterway, preventive
measures must still be taken. Otherwise, in case of ship pollution accidents, water quality of water
plants and aquatic organisms etc. would be threatened.
Safety management of navigation should be strengthened, especially the management of
ships transporting dangerous. Navigation mark system, communication facilities and other
complementary facilities should be established and perfected. Emergency response system to the
pollution accidents should be established. Special companies to prevent and treat pollution should
be established for different kinds of pollution accidents so as to satisfy the requirement in need.
4.2 Project Alternatives
4.2.1 Recommended Regulation Scenarios
Through the prediction of transportation development and the study of ship dimensions, it is
recommended that the dimensions of 1,000 dwt river-seagoing ship are overall length of 68.0 m,
breadth of 13 m and draught of 3.6 m.
There are three design scenarios for the waterway regulation project. After comprehensive
comparison between them, it is recommended that design dimensions of the waterway are width of
80 m, depth of 4 m and minimum curvature radius of 500 m.
91



4.2.2 Comparison of Design Scenarios
4.2.'.1 Design Scenarios
Three design scenarios of waterway were studied in the feasibility study report of the project.
(1) Scenario 1, 80m X 3.5m X 500m (width X depth X minimum curvature radius).
(2) Scenario 2, 80m X 4.Om X 500m (width X depth X minimum curvature radius).
(3) Scenario 3, 80m  X 4.5m  X 500m (width X depth X minimum curvature radius).
4.2.2.2 Comparison and Selection of Scenarios
L-S-R waterway situates in the river network region of Pearl River Delta. In dry season the
waterway is basically controlled by tidal flow, while in flood season the boundary of tidal flow
moves up and down within the waterway. Its average tidal level difference is 0.46 m. The tidal
level difference in Yingezui is 0.63m, Rongqi 0.86m, Banshawei 1.OOm, Sanshanjiao 0.93m and
Sanshakou 1.50m. Therefore, L-S-R waterway should make full use of tide for navigation.
However, navigation density in this waterway is great, and usable tidal water depth is limited due
to the influence of runoff. Scenario I needs 0.5-0.6 m of tidal water depth which is greater than
the average tidal level difference, and navigation of all year round can not be assured. Scenario 2
can meet the requirement for 1,000 dwt river-seagoing ship navigation, but there will be no depth
of silting. Tide can be employed to meet the requirement of depth of silting. Thus, tide would be
fully used, and the requirement of navigation of all year round would also be met. Scenario 3 does
not need to use tide, and there is also enough depth of silting. Although this scenario can satisfy
the requirement of navigation of all year round, it does not make full use of the favourable
conditions of tidal flow to lower the investment. Therefore, after comprehensive analysis, Scenario
2 is recommended.
4.2.2.3 Comparison of Engineering Volumes of Three Scenarios
The engineering volumes of three scenarios are listed in Table 4.31. Except that volumes of
dredging and reef blasting are different for various scenario, the others are same.
92



Table 4.31 Comparison of engineering volumes among three scenarios
Scen  Dredg  Reef blasting   Stone dike       level protecion (x 10'm3)     Requisition
-ario  -ine                (X 104m3)                                          of land
(x 104m3) (X 10'm3)  damm  dty stone damm   dry  gout brok conc  concrete   (mu)
-ing  masonry -ing  stone       -n. r-e  with steel-
-  -     -      -   nmasonry    stone         bar
1   224.62    16.95     -       -     -      -
2   314.28    26.46    13.93  .0.765  9.36  2.422 0.232 2.47 0.35   0.49      136
3   426.70    37.84      -       -
4.2.3 Comparison of Environmental Impact
4.2.3.1 Changes of Discharge and Water Level and Impact on Flood Control
The simulated results are summarized in Tables 4.13 and 4.14.
(1). The changes of discharge before and after regulation : Discharge in Ronggui waterway
for each regulation scenario nearly has no changes. Discharge in Lijiasha waterway will change
much, with an increase proportion being 5.8-6.5%, 7.5-8.4% and 9.6-10.4% respectively for
Scenario 1, Scenario 2 and Scenario 3. Discharges in Shawan waterway and Lianhuashan
waterway has small changes, with a decrease proportion of about 1-2%/e. Comparatively speaking,
changes of discharge of Scenario 3 will be relatively great, those of Scenario I small and those of
Scenario 2 rank at the middle.
(2) The changes of water level before and after regulation: The tendency of water level
change for each scenario is identical. Water levels of Ronggui waterway and Lianhuashan
waterway nearly have no change before and after regulation. Water level in Shawan waterway has
slight changes, with maximum increase of flood level being 3 cm and maximum decrease of 5 cm.
Comparatively speaking, change for Scenario I is greater than that for scenario 2 or scenario 3.
In summary, each scenario will have little impact on flood control. In some sections, flood
levels even decrease after regulation, which will be favourable for flood control. In addition, each
scenario has levee protection engineering, which is also helpful for flood protection.
4.2.3.2 Environmental Impact of Dredging and Reef Blasting
Dredging volumes for scenario 1, scenario 2 and scenario 3 are 224.62 X 104 m 3, 314.28 X
104 m3 and 426.70 X 104 m3 respectively. Generally speaking, the greater the dredging volume,
the greater the environmental impact.
Volumes of reef blasting for scenario 1, scenario 2 and scenario 3 are 16.95 X 104 m3 26.46
X 104 m3 and 37.84 X 104 m3 respectively. Generally speaking, the greater the volumes of reef
blasting, the greater the environmental impact. Among the three scenarios, volume of reef blasting
93



of the recommended scenario (scenario 2) ranks in middle place, and its environmental impact will
be smaller than that of scenario 3 and greater than that of scenario 1.
4.3 Countermeasures of Environmental Protection
4.3.1 Measures to Mitigate Water Quality Impact of SS from Dredging
(1) Rational arrangement of construction plans: Water dilution and diffusion conditions are
fine in most sections of the regulated waterway, but are relatively poor only in a few of sections
such as the middle part of Lijiasha waterway. In making the construction plans, working intensity
should be arranged appropriately in those sections with relatively poor dilution and diffusion
conditions, and go-and-retum frequency of working ships should lower as much as possible. It is
best to place at most one dredging craft with 2.0 m3 dredge bucket every kilometer in the project
area. Construction activities should be stopped when the concentration of SS exceeds controlling
standard (about 2 hours).
(2) Environmental protection engineering for short-cutting projects during construction stage:
Short-cutting projects are concentrated in space with large amount of earth excavation. Some
short-cutting projects are shore-excavating engineering. Construction plan should be arranged
according to the principle of minimizing the scouring of mud and sand from excavating. The
following suggestions are put forward:
D It is best to execute shore-excavating engineering on land;
(©) Around the operation place of shoal-cutting, dike for working and grid area for lower
speed should be established;
(  Waste earth should be properly disposed.
4.3.2 Aquatic Organism and Fishery Resources Protection
Fishery resources can keep good conditions if fish catch is equivalent to the supplementary,
residual increment of fishery resources when there is artificial input. Degradation may happen to
fishery resource quality when environmental damage to fishery is larger than the supplementary.
The project waterways possessed good environmental conditions with quick regeneration of
aquatic organism and abundant food organism. It is worthy of notice one third of fish catch is
shellfish. Dredging and damming will have impact on shellfish growth. Interval dredging is
recommended to prolong the period of time for engineering. This may benefit shellfish growth and
recovery.
Even though no large fish spawning field exists in project waterways, there are numerous
small spawning field for carp food fish and places for brackish adolescent fish, spawn and crab to
grow up, feed, dwell and paedomorphosis. Reefs blasting that has the most damage to fishery
resources should be arranged in winter and operated underwater. Mechanical blasting of reefs is a
94



feasible means to limit damage to fishery.
Over the years there were about one thousand fishing boats in the project waterways on
which the engineering may have some impact. The project should coordinate with fishery
authorities to distribute the boats over wider waters to prevent over-catching.
Engineering teams should make such agreement with fishery authorities concerned as putting
less or no fry into waters where engineering is going on, and putting in fly when the engineering is
over.
4.3.3 Flood Raising
(1) Dikes and Banks. Flood control standards applied to dikes and banks on L-S-R & LXR(Z-
H) Waterway are the minimum recurrence interval in twenty years and the maximum in 100 years.
So there is a need to brace existing dikes up to the requirements as prescribed in the master
planning for flood control in Pearl River Delta.
(2) Mitigation Measures. According to the modeling the dike rise may not be less than 3cm
to compensate the raising and keep the existing flood standard. Water level monitoring during
construction and operational phases will be reported to flood control center for taking appropriate
measures.
4.3.4 River Erosion and Sedimentation Mitigation
Based previous analysis adverse impacts of erosion and sedimentation come mainly from
increased flow division ratio and ship driven waves on zarrow and shallow Lijiasha waterway.
The recommended measures include the following:
(1) Bank Protection.
The project design has given consideration to erosion and adopted bank protection for
8,375m long. There is question about if this length is sufficient. For example Lijiasha is the
narrow waterway of Liansharong with large discharge. Combined with ship driven waves they
have substantial impact on bank erosion. The present design considered protection on left bank.
This EA suggests additional protection on the right bank.
(2) Speed Limit.
Traffic control may be imposed on high speed passenger catamaran to prevent too strong ship
driven waves. Speed limit can be set for catamarans running in Lijiasha.
(3) Monitoring On Bank Erosion.
How much is the bank erosion can be predicted during project design phase? When the
project comes into operational phase periodical monitoring is needed on discharge and ship driven
wave for taking additional mitigation measures.
95



4.3.5 Water Supply and Sewerage
We can see from previous analysis that adverse impacts of the project on water supply and
sewerage include congestion caused by sedimentation in waterway immediately upstream to the
dikes and water source quality problems with dredging. Strategies and measures are recommended
to mitigate the impacts as follows:
(I) Spur dikes should be located away from existing water gates or its structure design has
minimum adverse impact on the water gates.
(2) Water gate design in spur dike needs intensive analysis, for example, through hydraulic
modeling, to determine the extent of sedimentation and countermeasures.
(3) If the sedimentation in waterway upstream to the dike has too much impact on the water
gate, options can external relocation or restructuring of the gate, or construction of additional
steering dike. Periodical dredge may be feasible in the waterway with less sedimentation.
(4) Employment of engineering machinery with least disturbance to river bed sediment.
(5) Water plant should be notified about coming engineering operations and conduct more
frequent monitoring. According to the changes to source water quality, water plant may prolong
water treatment time for more times of precipitation and filtration, increase chemical dosage, or
take in source water at intervals when the engineering is not in operation. Construction activities
should be stopped when the concentration of SS exceeds controlling standard (about 2 hours).
(6) Peak hours of water consumption are in daytime. Dredging in night time can minimize
the impact on water supply.
4.3.6 Noise Control Measures
4.3.6.1 Noise Control Measures during Construction Stage
(I) Equipment with high noise level should not be operated during rest hours ( noon or
night).
(2) Mechanical equipment's with low noise level or with noise abatement facility should be
employed as much as possible.
(3) Construction departments should rationally arrange working hours and working places.
Working places with high noise level should be far away from noise sensitive points. Equipment
should be maintained and repaired regularly. Operation norms should be strictly followed.
4.3.6.2 Noise Control Measures during Operation Stage
96



(1) Land use along the shores should be rationally planned. In the regions near to the shores,
especially within 30 m of the shores, no noise sensitive buildings, such as hospitals, schools,
kindergartens, convalescent hospitals and large residential areas, should be allowed to establish. It
is suitable for industry, commerce, stock and transportation and dock development.
(2) Monitoring and management of navigation noise should be strengthened. Monitoring and
administration agency of navigation should be established and improved. Relative monitoring
regulations should be formulated.
(3) Management on ships without ship hold or noise abatement facilities should be
strengthened. All ships must equip with noise abatement facilities, otherwise they can not be
allowed to navigate on the waterway. Navigation region and hours of ships without hold must be
controlled, and in sensitive sections these ships can not be allowed to navigate at night.
(4) Greening belts are proposed to establish on the shores of sensitive sections, which will be
helpful for mitigating the impact of ship noises.
4.3.7 Environmental protection measures during construction stage
4.3.7.1 Excavated Earth
(1) Choice of Disposal Site
Liansharong waterway is straight and lacks wide shallow for earth disposal. Earth dredged in
Shawan waterway can be taken to Dawusha, 5km; Lianhuashan entrance and Batangwei's to
Jiang'ou, ISkm; Huoshaotou, Lijiasha and Banshawei's to-liang'ou , about 20 km. Blasting rocks
will be taken to deep water beside to cliffs to protect dikes and central island.
(2) Secondary Pollution Prevention
A. On Land
National standard the Limitations to Pollutants in Agricultural Land prescribed that earth
disposed of on agricultural land shall meet the limitations in the standard otherwise it has to be
covered with unpolluted earth. Analysis on sediment on river bed showed the dredging earth could
meet the limitations and be disposed directly on agricultural land.
B In Water
There are water plant intakes 2 km upstream and 2.5 km downstream to earth disposal site at
Dawusha shallow. It can comply with the relevant guidelines to choosing disposal site but needs
intensive monitoring.
4.3.7.2 Reefs Blasting
(I) Reefs Blasting Vs Navigation
9i



Reefs blasting in midstream line of the river may cause damage to properties and human life.
The blasting operation of this project is limited, 8 sites, 1500m long and 264,600 m3. The
affected area is small in short period of time at intervals. As long as explosion is over there is no
impact on navigation any more. For public safety, operation notice should be extensively
publicized to make the boats keep clear of the operation sites. Operation is coordinated with
navigation authorities to take safety measures. Operations are conducted in such a period of time
other than the peak hours of traffic to avoid interruption to navigation and unnecessary loss.
(2) Reefs Blasting Vs Residents
Explosive noise has certain impact on residents on both banks. The energy is in direct ratio to
explosive usage and in inverse ratio to distance. Explosive usage must be controlled to such a limit
that noise levels in daytime do not exceed 70 dBA, the limitation to trunk roads. Explosion during
06:00 - 22:00 can minimize noise on residents to some extent. Additionally explosion during
high tide can lower noise level by means of sound absorption.
(3) Reefs Blasting Vs Fishery
Explosive shock wave has significant impact on fishes. As to timing for blasting operation, it
should be consulted and coordinated with fishery authorities and producers not to put in additional
fish and crab fry. Each year May to October is the most productive period when blasting may not
be arranged. Blasting operation ought to pay attention to Chinese sturgeon and other precious
fishes to avoid damage to these migrants. To minimize damage to fishes explosive usage and
explosion technology needs careful selection. Damage to fishery resources may be compensated
through negotiation.
4.3.8 Measures to Mitigate Impact of Construction on Waterway Traffic and Harbor Operation
4.3.8.1 Measures to Mitigate Impact of Reef Blasting
There will be one reef blasting about I km from Rongqi harbor. Before the exception of
blasting, coordinate work should be done with the waterway administrative department and harbor
management department. Blasting should not be allowed to execute during the peak hours of
harbor operation, so as to mitigate the influence on ships using the harbor.
4.3.8.2 Measures to Mitigate Impact of Dredging
During dredging, dredge craft would be fixed by two pairs of anchors, in form of": ", at the
upper and lower ends, which would have direct influence on navigation of ships on the waterway.
(I) Dredging should be planed to conduct along the shore of one side in order to assure
normal ship navigation while conducting dredging.
(2) Related navigation notice should be issued before conducting dredging, so that ships
across the dredging fields would be well informed.
98



(3) Navigation inspection should be strengthened during dredging, and effective precautionary
measures should be taken, so as to avoid unfavorable effects of dredging on navigation and to
assure safety navigation and dredging.
4.3.8.3 Measures to Mitigate Impact of Damming
Main impact of damming is to make waterway trafTic more heavy due to the increase of ships
transporting stone. The mitigation measures are that transportation plan should be formulated, and
transportation of stones should not be conducted during the peak hours of navigation and harbor
operation, so that it would not bring much impact on harbor operation and waterway traffic.
4.3.9 Shipping Pollution Control
Forecast on shipping pollution load concluded in the year 2010 wastes, including oil and
domestic wastewater and garbage, will increase corresponding to larger traffic volume due to
enlarged channel and capacity. The wastes will produce additional pollution to the river if no
mitigation measures are adopted.
(I) Oily Water and Oil leakage from engine-room
There are two ways to deal with oily water and oil leakage from engine-room, on ship and onshore.
On ship means the oil water is treated by mobile wastewater treatment system and by on-site oil
separator. Onshore means the oil water is transited by shipping collectors to wastewater treatment
facilities on land. Both ways require installation of oil water collection tank (cabin) or tray.
*Scenariol MobileWastewaterTreatnentSysteai
A boat with wastewater treatment system collect oil wastewater from other ships on the
waterway. On board there are clarification and oil separation facilities that can treat the effluent to
the discharge standard and recover the oil to waste oil cabin. Provided one ship is assigned to treat
oil water and leaked oil from all the ships on the waterway the capacity of the treatment system
must be at least 1.53 t/d. If the mobile treatment system is refurbished from used ship it needs
capital investment RMB 200,000   and annual operation costs 50,000
*Scenario 2 Oil Separator on Board
If all the ships with set-in cabins, 2% out of the total shipping are required to install oil water
separator each worthy of RMB 2,000 , it needs total capital investment RMB 4.1856 million
and annual operation costs RMB 831,700 . But these ships can treat their own oil wastewater only.
*Scenario 3 Collected on Board and Treated on Shore
Collection ships suck in oil wastewater from other boats at harbors and stops and transit it to
treatment facilities on land. The collector can be refurbished from used ship by constructing oil
water cabin and installing pump system. The treatment facilities can be established in major
harbors or the existing systems. Collector refurbishment and onshore treatment systems need
99



capital investment RMB 80,000 and annual operation cost RMB 120,000.
*Scenario Comparison(see to Tab4.32)
To determine which scenario is the best, next table presents scenario details about capital
investment, operation costs, technical requirements, operation and maintenance.
Table 4.32  Comparative Analysis of Shipping Oil Wastewater Treatment Scenarios
Scenario I      Scenario 2       Scenario 3
Capital investment, RMB 104                  20             418.56             8
Annual operation costs*, RMB I04             5              83.71             12
Technical requirements                      High           General          General
Operation and maintenance               Complicated         Simple        Fairly simple
Ship weight                                Large            None             Small
Waste current collected                    Large            Small            Large
* exclusive of wages and salaries
Compared with other two, Scenario 3 is the most suitable way for inland shipping oil
treatment with features like large volume collection, investment saving and easy operation and
maintenance. Therefore Scenario 3 is recommended by this EA.
(2) Body Waste Disposal
The recommended portable toilet for ships is all plastic with flush water tank on top. The
flushed body waste is collected in special cabin to be emptied. Supposing 100  for a toilet,
installing this type of toilets on medium and small bulk ships in Liansharong channel needs
2.4329 million
(3) Garbage Disposal
All the ships must have containers for storing domestic solid wastes which will be taken to
onshore facilities for disposal of. Additional investmnent for the containers is 10.464 million .
(4) Shipping Pollution Control Strategies
A. All new ships shall install pollution control equipment as required by National Shipping
Inspection Bureau.
B. In short term oil wastewater from existing ships may be collected and transited to onshore
treatment facilities. According to relevant laws they shall be installed with oil separator. In long
run oil wastewater from small ships can be collected on board and treated onshore even though
other ships have oil separator.
C. Set up oil recovery station and refine the waste oil for reuse.
D. Portable flush toilet ( or ordinary toilet) is recommended for onboard body wastes to be
100



treated onshore.
E. Domestic solid wastes are collected on board and treated on shore.
F. Shipping management and supervision includes periodical inspection on oil wastewater
system, forbidding and penalizing direct discharge of body wastes, garbage and oil wastewater
into river, and cleaned food onboard for less sewage.
(5) Investment Estimates for Shipping Pollution Control (Table 4.33)
Table 4.33 Investment for Shipping Pollution Control
Waste Treatment                    Capital Investment       Annual Operation Cost
RMB 10,000                 RMB 10,000
Oil waste water treatment, Scenario 3     8           12 (exc. wastewater container costs)
Body waste disposal                    243.29
Garbage disposal                        52.32
Total                                   315.61
4.3.10 Accidental Shipping Pollution Prevention
(1) Navigation management. promulgation of administrative rules is aimed at improvements
to dangerous materials transport management procedures.
(2) Manifest system for toxic and hazardous materials transport. Ships loaded with this
type of materials shall declare to local harbor supervisory authority and then load and transport
the materials with package on the route and timing as required with approval by the authority.
After receiving the declaration, the authority shall notify the harbor supervisory authorities and
local governments on the route to be prepared to accidental pollution.
(3) Public Safety Education. The survey indicated that shipping accidents may happen easily
with medium or small ships owned by private or collective owners with least qualification and
safety knowledge. They are the major targets for public safety education.
(4) Emergency response system. It may consist of establishing specialized pollution
prevention and control companies, improving notification procedure , set-up of accident pollution
control authority and assignment of specific personnel.
(5) Emergency response procedure. Whenever accidental pollution happens it shall be
notified to Harbor Supervisory Authorities and local government. They will immediately organize
task forces for pollution prevention and control, inform water users to be prepared with the
coming pollution, require environmental protection agency and monitoring institution to do water
quality monitoring and take all the necessary mitigation measures.
101



(6) Responsibilities. Persons responsible shall be chaerged according to responsibilities and
damage and obliged to make compensations to losses and costs for pollution control and other
remedial measures.
102



5. Analysis of Toxic Residues in Fish
According to the TOR of Environmental Impact Assessment for the Waterway Regulation
Project in the Lower Xijiang River (Guangdong Province) Assisted with World Bank Loan and
the results of negotiation with the specialists of World Bank, Environmental Impact Assessment of
Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen Waterway Regulation Project in Lower Xijiang should be supplemented
with materials of analysis of toxic residue in fish, public participation and environmental
protection action plan. The followings are only concerned with the analysis of toxic residue in fish.
The remaining two parts are combined with those for L-S-R waterway project.
Institute of Aquatic Product of Pearl River conducted much analysis of toxic residues of fish
in Xijiang River and Peal River Delta from 1983 to 1985. Measured results at that time showed
that attention should be paid to the problem of pollution.
26 species of fish were collected in that investigation from Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen waterway
and Liansharong waterway. 14 species are of middle or upper layer, and 12 species of bottom
layer. Nearly 600 fish samples were analyzed. Parameters of toxic residues in fish and measured
results are presented in Table 5.1
The results of analysis of toxic residues in 14 economic species of fish from different river
sections are presented in Table 5.2.
Compared between river sections, Zhaoqing section was light polluted, Shunde section heavy
polluted, and Xinhui section slight polluted.
The order of pollution degree in fishes is follows:
Ctenopharyngodon Idellus (Cuvier at Valenciennes) > Lateolabrax Japonicus (Cuviere et
Valenciennes) > Cyprinus Carpio Linhaeus > Megalobrarna Terminalis (Richardson) > Sflurus
Asotus Linnaeus > Cultur Erythropterus > Chnna Maculata (Lacepede) > Mugil Cephalus
Linnacus > Chthys Nobilis (Richardson) > Hypophthalmichthys Molitrix (Cuvier et Valenciennes)
> Squaliobarbus Curriculs (Richardson) > Augnila Japonica (Termmick et Schlegel) >
Chupanodon Thrissa (Linnaeus) >Cirrhina Molitorella (Cuier et Valenciennes) > Coilia Mystus
(Linnaeus) > Macrura Reevesi (Richardson) .
Elopichthys bambusa (Richardson) and Salaux (Cuwier Valenciennes) were light polluted,but
the phenol content of Elopichthys bambusa (Richardson) and Chromium content of salaux
(Cuvier et valenciennes) were exceeded the standard.
103



Table 5.1 Parameters of toxic residues in fish and measured results
_____phenol  Cr    Hg   As    Cd       Zn     Cu   CN -  BHC
permissible level (mg/L)   0.4    0.5    0.3    2.0    1.0    10       7       5
% detectable             87.2   100    100   74.6    80        90      95    74.6   100
% exceeding standard     66.3    94      3.4    4.3     1       /      77      /      12
* The table was formulated in early 80's. At that time, China hadn't yet national standard on toxic
residual in fish, and the values of permissible level was obtained through combiling the standards
abroad and the data analyzed in China.
Table 5.2 Load ratio of toxic residues in fish (%)
river section    phenol    As        Hg        Cu       Zn        Cd       Cr      CN
Zhaoqing          3.3      47.78     6.57     0.05     0.354    0.213     41.8      0.24
Jiujiang          3.32     56.01     3.5     0.211     0.56     0.225     36.2    0.015
Shunde            2.47     81.69     0.99     0.72      1.92    0.092    11.11    0.152
Xinhui            4.6      66.4      8.43     0.78     2.29      0.576    15.67    1.125
Panyu             0.75     57.1      1.49     0.63     0.24     0.088    19.36    0.635
Pollution of Cr was heavy at that time for each river section, because fish has strong
accumulative ability for Cr. Following Cr is Phenol, As and Cu in order of decrease.
The extent of pollution was different for same species of fish living in different river sections,
especially for those fish in bottom layer.
Table 5.3 Result of analysis of toxic residues in fish and shrimp
section  |      itemns     |Cu        Zn      Cd      Pb      Hg      As      Cr   Phenol
permissibl level (mg/Kg)      10      10      0.3     2.0     0.3    2.0    2.0    0.25
number of samples    101    101    101    101      101    101    101       101
Average (mg/Kg)   0.933   5.721   0.021   0.540   0.063   0.126   0.244   0.029
Xijiang     Max. (mg/Kg)    10.596  16.889  0.127   2.083   0.376   1.934   1.065   0.122
river
% detectable     100    100    58.4   87.3    97.0   77.2   84.2    59.4
°% exceeding standard   1.0    7.0   0        1      2.0     0       0       0
number of samples    S0     50      S0      50      50      50      S0      50
average (mg/Kg)    0.647   5.300   0.049   0.676   0.040   0.108   0.162   0.046
Pearl
River       Max. (mg/Kg)     0.647   9.518   0.167   1.778   0.211   0.638   0.593   0.128
Delta
% detectable     100    100      90      78      88      76      74       78
% exceeding standard    0    0       0       0        0       0       0      0
Notes: Assessment standard of Hg adopts Food Hygienic Standards, and others adopt Assessment Standards of
Ocean Organism Pollution.
104



From 1990 to 1993, 151 samples of fish and shrimp were collected and analyzed from Pearl River
Delta and Xijiang river by Guangdong Fishery Environmental Monitoring Station and Pearl River
Watershed Monitoring Station of Fishery Environmental Monitoring Center of Ministry of
Agriculture. The results are presented in Table 5.3.
The results show that there are residues of all 8 pollutants of heavy metals and phenol in fish
and shrimp. Residues of Zn is greatest, and those of Cu, Pb and Cr rank in decrease order. Nearly
all monitored values are within assessment standards, which can be classified as slight pollution.
Since fish and shrimp have different accumulative abilities for heavy metals, residues in fish
and shrimp are different. Percentages detectable, detected values and percentages exceeding
assessment standards for shrimp are greater than those for fish. Especially, average value of
residue of Cu in shrimp is 26.6 times greater than that in fish (Table 5.4).
Table 5.4 Residues of heavy metals in fish and shrimp
items         Cu    Zn    Cd    Pb    Hg    As    Cr  Phenol
average (mg/kg)   0.221  5.179  0.021  0.588  0.056  0.117  0.203  0.037
Fish       % detectable     98.8   100   59.8  73.7   71.5  77.1   84A   87.4
% excecding standard   0    1.1     0     0.6    1.1     0      0      0
average (mg/kg)   6.101  9.445  0.052  0.893  0.043  0.139  0.353  0.032
Shrimp     % detectable      100   100   76.4  94.1   88.2  82A   76.5   70.6
% exceeding standard  5.9   47.1    0     5.9     0      0      0      0
Analysis of toxic residues in some fish was also conducted for the present assessment of L-S-
R waterway regulation project. The measured results are presented in Table 5.5.
Table 5.5 Residues of heavy metals in some fish In L-S-R waterway
mg/kg
species of fish              Hg          Cd          Pb         Zn          Cu
Lateolabrax japonicus      0.00075      0.018       0.050       3.25       0.405
Mugit cephalus Linnaeus    0.00085      0.002       0.002       0.48       0.063
Silurus asotus linnacus     0.0004      0.002       0.002       4.70       0.623
According to the investigation, river water in the regions around Nanhai city and Shunde city
is currently suitable for fishery, but is hard to use for fish egg hatching since hatching rate is
extremely low. Therefore, the issue of pollution can not be overlooked.
105



6. Environmental Management, Monitoring & Training
Environmental management is one of the important component of the project. It starts with
construction phase and lasts in operational phase. For such a long-term commitment and ever
changing circumstances, it is necessary to establish administrative bodies for environmental
management, make plans for environmental management, monitoring, and training programs for
monitoring and managerial staff.
6.1 Environmental Management Organizations
The Environmental Department of the Project Office shall be in charge of the overall
environmental management on the project. Please see Figure 6.1 for the organizational chart. The
implementation organizations under the Department shall have responsibilities as follows:
(1) Prepare monthly, quarterly and yearly environmental implementation reports and
report monitoring data, under direction of the Dept. and supervision and guidance of
provincial and local environmental protection bureaus;
(2) Supervise project engineering and implementation of pollution controls; issue notification
to construction teams violating environmental laws and improper implementation of pollution
control, and report to the Dept.; assist with response to accidental pollution;
(3) Assist local environmental protection bureaus and the Dept. in establishing new
monitoring stations or sampling sites along the channel, and in on-job training of monitoring and
managerial staff.
6.2 Environmental Management during Construction Phase
The targets for environmental protection include water quality, fishery resources,
environmental noise, land and navigation. Among them fishery resources and navigation can
recover immediately after the engineering is over. As the survey indicates there was no existing
spawning place for large or medium fishes in the LXR(Z-H) & L-S-R channel. The disturbance
to navigation is not avoidable when the engineering vessels are in operation. Therefore
environmental management during construction phase will concentrate on water quality,
environmental noise and land.
(I) Water Quality
Dredging, spit-cutting and reefs blasting should choose appropriate engineering scale good
timing, usage of explosives for prevention damage to river banks. Engineering 3 km upstream
500m downstream to water plant inlet ought to coordinate with water plant and allow water plant
sufficient time for taking in source water. Nine water plants along the channel, Xideng,Yuanfa,
Tong'an, Longchong, Guizhou, Dashan, Xiaohuangbu, Shawan and Panyu City water plant,
106



Project Management       Environmental Management
L Transhort Minie    a                          BrPAnc
LD Trats. Dept. S        L     de         E       nA  S
-Sit Eng SupesEn. v an.
En.Supervisionjent Off upervocasEPAs
, C o     En. Monitoring
En. Admi Agencies
L-S-R BTanch                  Lower Xijiang River Brach
|Land & Resettle Sec    En. Sec. | |Land &-Resettle Sc        E.Sc 
pn-Site Enig. Supervisor ||En. Monitoring Inst.|
en. Supervision              ' En  Supervision
Notes:Administrative                Contractual
Figure 6.1 Lower Xijiang River Regulation Protect Organization
assign staff to monitoring water quality around inlet in the Primary Water Source Protection
Zone. Engineering team is required to construct soil enclosures between the channel and
adjacent aquacultural water bodies.
All the engineering vessels, including dredges, tow and transport boats must pass the
inspection by the Shipping Inspection Bureau and the annual test. Large boats more than 200



must be equipped with oil separator and domestic wastewater collection cabin and small transport
boats with oil tray under power machinery, flush toilet and body waste tank. All the solid wastes-
are required to be collected and oil wastewater in large boats to be discharged after oil separation.
The collected oil, body waste and garbage can only be unloaded at designated harbor or garbage
transit station.
(2) Noise
Engineering team should conduct operation in appropriate duration other than 12:00 - 14:00,
22:00- 06:00 when the residents are resting or sleeping. Signs should be placed for traffic control
to restrict speed, and using horns or loudspeakers.
(3) Land
As to excavated soil and dredged sediment transport vessels and motor vehicles should take
them to the designated areas for disposal to prevent secondary pollution. Land for agricultural or
residential uses that are occupied for engineering must be compensated in accordance with
national and local standards and reclaimed by the engineering team to its original uses.
6.3 Environmental Management during Operational Phase
As the regulation with huge amount of earth-work is completed the traffic volume is going to
increase dramatically. In this phase environmental management will concentrate on water
pollution and noise control. The major elements of environmental management during operational
phase include:
(1) Monitoring and Education
Water quality and noise monitoring will be in the same manner as construction phase,
intensive environmental publicity and education;
(2) Shipping Annual and Navigation Tests
All the vessels running regularly on the route are required to be equipped with oil separator
or wastewater (including domestic sewage and body waste) collector. Oil separator may pass only
after satisfactory test running. Additionally a number of wastewater and garbage transit stations
are to be established in river-side urban communities or industrial complex with wastewater and
garbage treatment facilities. Harbor supervisory authorities will impose strong control over illegal
discharges of wastes through fines, operation suspension and holding ship in custody in
cooperation the Public Security Bureau.
(3) Zoning for Noise Control
The waterways at Lianhuashan and Rongqi towns are zoned for noise control where there is
restriction on boat speed and use of whistle. Shipping Inspection and Harbor Supervision
Authorities require on-route private transport boats to install noise insulation and mufflers to
engines. The Harbor Supervision Authority may penalize the boat owner who violates the noise
regulation according to report, complaint or inspection. When there is a urban development plan,
the Environmental Monitoring Station is obliged to inform the Land Management and Planning
108



Bureau not to locate any hospital, school, office building and residential community within 200m
to the river banks.
(4) Response Capabilities to Accidents.
Loading and unloading dangerous goods at harbors along the channel has to follow such a
procedure as declaration, approval, loading at the designated dock under supervision, inward
escort, inward permit, clearance escort, and unloading at the designated dock under supervision.
Harbor Supervisory Authorities must correct any wrong doing immediately and may penalize the
violator as prescribed by Orders 20 and 21 issued by the Ministry of Transportation. To be able to
respond to any accidents, the Authorities have to be prepared with:
Close communication with sensitive receptors, for example, urban water plant inlet and
fishing waters, so immediate notification can be reached when accident happens with a vessel
loaded with dangerous goods;Countermeasures and procedures against pollution accidents for
quick and effective response.
6.4 Environmental Monitoring
The environmental targets during constructional and operational phases of the project
include two categories long-term and short-term. Short-term targets, such as aquatic ecological
and navigation, are present during constructional phase. For these targets, essential environmental
awareness and management is demanded to take mitigation measures. The long-term targets, such
as water quality, noise and sediment, need periodical monitoring at specific sampling sites to
provide basis for environmental management. The monitoring shall follow such national standards
as:
Surface Water Quality Standard (GB3838-88)
Shipping Wastes Discharge Standard (GB3552-83)
Regional Environmental Noise Standard for City Harbors and River Banks (GB 11339-89)
Integrated Wastewater Discharge Standard (GB8978-89)
Limitations to Pollutants in Contaminated Soil for Agricultural Use (GB4284-84)
Fishery Water Quality Standard(GB 11607-89)
6.4.1 Environmental Monitoring Plan For Construction Phase
According to the targets and tasks, a environmental monitoring plan for construction phase is
listed in Table 6.1.
During construction phase relatively more frequent monitoring is required. Before
construction activities start environmental action includes personnel training, preparation of
monitoring equipment and instrumentation, and operation fund. Contractors and engineering
109



Table 6.1 Environmental Monitoring Plan during Construction Stage
--________  ._    Wa. _ter Qua lit;__________________
Monitoring Including 15 items: temperature, pH, DO, CODM,,, BOD5, NOrN, NO-N, SS, non-
items     ionic ammonia, phenol, oil, cyanide, chlorophyll, coliform bacteria and total bacteria,
of which 5 items are critical: SS, oil, DO, pH and total bacteria.
Analysis   Standardized Analysis Methods issued by NEPA
methods
Sampling  1. Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen waterway in lower Xijiang river
stations    (1). 5 existing hydrographic stations: Gaoyao, Makou, Beijie, Hengdhan and
Xipaotai.
(2). 8 joints of branch and mainstream: Guangli town, Taipingsha, Jiujiang town,
Guzheng waterway, Chaolian island, Baiqintou, and Hemaxi (2 stations).
(3). one monitoring station respectively at each water intake, at 3 km upstream and
at 500 m downstream to the intake of the 6 water plants in four towns along the
waterway.
2. Liansharong waterway
(1). 9 stations at Lianhuashan, Batangwei, Shiqiao, Shawan, Zini, Banshawei,
Rongqi, Yinggezhui and Nanhua.
(2). one monitoring station respectively at each water intake, at 3 km upstream
and at 500 m downstream to the intake of the 9 water plants in four towns along the
== _ =___i__channel.
Monitoring    1. For all items in all stations, sampling and monitoring two times (one at high
frequency  tide, and one at low tide) in each season (wet,.normal and dry).
and           2. For the critical items of SS, DO, once a week, and oil, pH and total bacteria,
periods    once a month, in the section under construction, and one time.at the next day of the
end of construction. In the meantime, control monitoring stations would be set up at
500 m upstream and at 3 km downstream to the construction site.
3. For the items of pH, SS, cyanide, phenol and oil, one day per 10-day, two times I
day (one at high tide, and one at low tide) for the water intake which will be affected
by construction activities.
Executive  The Project Office. The office will commission Pearl River Basin Water
agency    Environmen              Center.
Notes     The plan would be properly modified according to the properties and progress o
construction activities.
.._.___Environmental Noise
Monitoring Continuous  noise, abrupt noise, background  environmental noise  before
Items      construction at each sensitive point and in the construction section.
Monitoring    1. Densely populated areas along the waterway: Guangli and Shakou towns for
Stations   Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen waterway project, and Rongqi and Lianhuashan towns for
Liansharong channel project.
2. At distance of 50 m and 100 m away from the banks of the construction
section.
110



Monitoring Monitoring background noise two times in the day before the construction starts.
frequency  During construction stage, monitoring two times a day (07:00-18:30, 22:00-06:30),
and       two days each season (one day in busy construction period, and one day in leisure
periods  p _
Executive  (Same as above)
ageney 
Sediment
Monitoring 7 items: Pb, Cd, Hg, Cu, Zn, oil & DDT.
items
Analysis  Follow the stan     t duidelines issued   NEPA.
Sampling  Samples would be taken from each construction section with dredging volume o
more than 100 m3, including: a total of 8 sections at Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen waterway,
namely, Laowanchong to koumen, Dalikou to Sijiao gate, Huangbu gate to Xi'an
dock, Luzhoukou section, Chaolianzhou section, Haishousha section, Gaoming
section, and upper Muolianzhou section; 5 sections at Liansharong channel, namely,
Nanhua to Haixingsha, Lijiasha, Shawan bridge to Dawutou, Dadaosha to Guanyin,
and Lianhuashan.
Sampling  One sample taken before each engineering operation
|Lr%Sency
Executive  (Same as above)
agency
teams need to send managerial staff to receive training on environmental protection and
monitoring for I or 2 weeks and assign employees to routine environmental monitoring
operations.
6.4.2 Environmental Monitoring Plan For Operational Phase
When the regulation is completed,, shipping noise and wastes will add the existing pollution
sources of river-side towns and industrial complex. In addition to monitoring on water quality and
noise, it is important to strengthen shipping inspection and management. When the engineering is
over it needs monitoring for I to 3 years during operation phase to determine the real impacts and
additional mitigation measures. Thereafter the monitoring responsibility will shift to other
environmental monitoring institutions. Table 6-2 provides details for environmental monitoring
during operational phase.
6.5 Training Programs
6.5.1 Preparatory Training for Environmental Management and Monitoring Personnel
Environmental monitoring and environmental management are critical to all the waterway
regulation project whether during construction stage or during operation stage. During the four-
year-long waterway regulation project, environmental monitoring and environmental management
would face various kinds of conditions, and work load would also be great. The core to
111



successfully implement environmental monitoring and management plans is to have responsible
environmental monitoring and management cadres with advanced technology and high efficiency.
To train environmental monitoring and management personnel is an important aspect of
environmental management.
Table 6.2 Environmental Monitoring Plan during Operation Stage
Environmental Noise
Monitoring items      Continuous noise from ship navigation, and abrupt noise from ship
Monitoring Stations   At harbors or densely populated areas in four towns, namely, Guangli,
Shakou, Rongqi and Lianhuashan. Monitoring should be conducted
within the distance of 100 m away from river banks, and at the height
of 1-2 m above the ground.
Monitoring   frequency For the monitoring of navigation noise, each monitoring should last at
and periods           least 20 minutes. One time a season, one day each time, two
monitoring a day (in daytime from 06:30 to 18:30, and at night from
___________________ _     20:3t6:30                                  ......................__  ___. _...-
Executivea en               don Waterway Bureau.
Water Oualit
________R  ____                   Wae_ _ _ t_______________
Monitoring items      Same as the corresponding in Table 5. The key items include oil, DO,
COD, BOD5, pH and SS.
Monitoring Stations    Same as the corresponding in Table 5.
Monitoring   frequency    For the sections along the waterway, twice for each season (dry,
and periods            normal and wet), two samplings each time (at high tide and low tide
respectively). All operations should follow the relevant regulations and
guidelines issued by NEPA.
For water intakes, sampling once a month at each intake, and
.. . ............             oil, DO, COD, BOD$, RH and SS.
sediment
Monitoring items      7 items: Pb, Cd, Hg, Cu, Zn, oil & DDT.
Analysis               Follow the standards and guidelines issued by NEPA.
Sampling               Samples would be taken from each maintenance section
Sampling frequency     One sample taken before each maintenance engineering
Executive agency       (Same as above)
One year before construction work begins, Environmental Protection Section should also be set up
in the same time with the establishment of the Project Office. The first thing, after the
establishment of the Environmental Protection Section, is to organize I months training for
environmental monitoring and management personnel. Training program can be divided into the
following three stages:
112



(I) Intense training on environmental protection knowledge: Through such activities as
inviting specialists to give lectures, watching video cassettes, and visiting, relevant personnel
would have a thorough understanding on environmental protection regulations and specifications
in China, on the requirement of environmental protection by the World Bank, on the
environmental impact of the project, and on the regulations and requirement in the
environmental protection design, supervision, management and monitoring of the project, so that
they would understand the importance of environmental protection on promoting the sustainable
development of social economy and living quality. Trining period is one month. ( see to Tab.6.3).
Tab. 6.3 Details of training plan
time     China (in Guangdong, 10      Overseas (somewhere
people x 4 weeks)    undecided, 5 people x 15 days)
week I environmental   protection  techniques of environmental
regulation and specifications management         and
in China                 superintendent abroad
week 2  environmental management; GIS      application   in
methodology           of environmental management;
environmental monitoring &  visit  to  existing  similar
analysis                  waterway regulation project
week 3  environmental   protection
regulation and specifications
by World Bank
week 4  GIS    application    in
environmental management
(2) On-site Practice. Experts would be invited to lecture on monitoring principles and
methodology at different water functional zones. In the meantime, environmental management
staff would required to discuss environmental impact of various engineering operations and
mitigation measures. Conclusions from the discussion should be integrated into the environmental
protection measures for construction stage. It would last 15 days.
(3) Overseas Training Program. 5 persons of environmental management staff would be
selected and sent abroad to learn the advanced techniques of environmental protection in other
countries where there existed similar waterway regulation projects (The best is the World Bank
loan projects), and to work out practical environmental protection measures in accordance with
the actual situations of the present project. It should last 15 days. (see to Tab.6.3)
6.5.2 On-post Training for Environmental Monitoring and Management Staff
On-post training aims to strengthen environmental monitoring and management during
construction stage and operation stage, and to ensure environmental monitoring quality and
113



efficient environmental management, so as to enhance the overall quality of the project. The on-
post training would also help to ffnd the problems in environmental monitoring and management,
which should be reported to Environmental Protection Section timely so as to take appropriate
measures to modify and solve. The training last I month, and two training would be conducted
during construction stage (at the Ist quarter of the Ist year and Ist quarter of the 2nd year
respectively), and one training every other year during operation stage (at the Ist quarter).
114



7. Public Participation
Public participation may reach targets at and play important role in:
(I) Public awareness of the project and its environmental impact;
(2) Ensuring all the key environmental issues to be evaluated;
(3) Evaluation of environmental resources;
(4) Feasibility study of environmental mitigation measures;
(5) Extensive public consultation to minimize the environmental impacts to be acceptable
to the public.
7.1 Methodology
We adopted three ways for public participation:
(l) Workshops.
Key environmental issues were presented to experts and scholars for intensive discussion and
evaluation.
(2) Interviews & Surveys.
Questionnaires for pubic opinions were sent extensively and randomly to institutions,
organizations and individual residents in project affected areas, including both sexes, wide age,
education, and occupation distribution. In addition to that, interviews and surveys were conducted
for expert opinions.
(I)     Bulletin in Newspaper
In Nov.07, 1997, GPWB promulgated a announcement in 4th page of Nanfang (South)
Daily.
7.2 Workshops and Conclusions
7.2.1 Workshops
(I) Organizer:
The World Band Funded Project Office of Guangdong Provincial Channel Bureau.
(2) Timing
In year 1996, three workshops during April 30 - May 1, May 20 - May 23, and July 8.
(3) Meeting Place
Taoyuan Hotel, Heyuan City; Guangdong Hotel and Hubin Hotel in Guangzhou City.
(4) Participants
llS



More than 20 experts and scholars from Guangdong Provincial Channel Bureau, The
environmental Protection Office of The Ministry for Transportation, The Scientific Research
Institute for Pearl River Water Resources Protection, including specialized fields in channel
engineering, environmental economy, environmental assessment and resources management.
7.2.2 Issues and Conclusions
(I) Contents and Scope of the EA
While preparing the Terms of Reference for EA, we extensively consulted with experts to
insure the EA could consider all the issues and adopt appropriate methods. After reviewing the
draft TOR experts concluded the project would produce enormous social and economic benefits
but would not have significant environmental impacts. They emphasized it was important to
survey and evaluate all the key environmental issues for successful project implementation and
minimization of environmental impacts. It was suggested the environmental assessment of the
project was classified as Category II that focused on three types of issues flood and flood control,
fishery resources and water quality, and environmental impacts during construction phase.
(2) Project Area
The project area expanded over cities Zhaoqing, Foshan, Jiangmen, Shunde, Panyu and
Zhongshan. It was a delta downstream to West and North Rivers that was characterized with
monsoon weather, network of waterways, plentiful water resources, fast growing and developed
economy. The experts reached a conclusion that existing environmental quality was exposed to
ever increasing domestic and industrial wastewater discharges when the area enjoyed abundant
natural resources, high level social and economic development and good overall environmental
quality.
(3) Positive Role of the Project to Local Social and Economic Development.
The experts thought lower Xijiang River, including Liansharong waterway, could not
accommodate shipping any more as the economy was growing fast. It would be necessary and
feasible to regulate navigation channel in lower Xijiang River due to low regulation and
operational costs. The project will connect the ocean with inland shipping. This changes the
existing pattern of sole inland shipping and networks inland shipping, road transportation and
railways. Improved transportation system will benefit the economy in Pearl River, even Pearl
River basin through expanded international trade, capital and technology introduction, export
competitiveness, and re-distribution of industries.
(4) General Opinions about the Project
A. Impact on aquatic organism. The project is in the Pearl River Delta where there are
numerous families of aquatic organism, plentiful aquatic resources and developed aquaculture. In
the project waterways there is no spawning place for migration fishes so no impact on migrants
exits. During constructional phase reef blasting will have temporary impact on aquatic organism.
The project can provide benefits to the spawning and growth of food organism and fishes.
B. Impact on flood control. Generally most engineering of the project is related to dredging
116



and reefs blasting but few dams so the project will have little impact on flood control due to
insignificant flood raising.
C. Impact on water quality. During constructional phase dredging, reef blasting and damming
will cause increased suspended solids which have some temporary impact on water
quality. Water plants that may be affected should be notified before such activities start.
(5) Impact During Constrction Phase.
Major impact of the project will happen during construction phase that temporarily increases
suspended solids, affect or destroy the normal life of aquatic organism, and disturb shipping
operation. Noise from engineering activities may annoy residents more or less because most
engineering sites are in remote rural areas without dense population. Construction workers ought
to be aware of epidemic and infectious diseases. Land occupied by engineering activities should
be recovered to original use and compensated.
7.3 Public Opinion Survey
7.3.1 Questionnaires
We made questionnaires to survey public opinions and suggestions about the West River
downstream channel regulation project and its environmental protection.
Table 7.1 Questionnaire for Public Opinion
Name                      Sex              Age  *         Education
Work unit                       Occupation                  Date
Questions                                   Multiple choices
(I) Never known
1. How much do you know about the project?  (2) Heard of
(3) Clear
2. Do you think the attached Terms of
Reference for EA and the Environmental
Assessment  Report  has  given  complete  (I) Complete
consideration to environmental impacts from the  (2) Incomplete, need to include
project? Are there any other environmental issues
to be assessed?
3. How is the existing environmentai quality  (1) Unacceptable
in project area?                            (2) Acceptable
(3) Fairly Good
4. Do you have any opinions and suggestions
117



to environmental impact of the project?
7.3.2 The Public
7.3.2.1 Principles for Determining Representation
(1) Regional representation. Survey at all the cities along the channel.
(2) Trade representation. People in various occupations may differ in the point of views.
(3) Education level representation. People's attitude towards the project and its
environmental protection is somewhat relied on their education levels.
(4) Sexuality representation.
7.3.2.2 The Public Composition
(1) Regions
Residents were interviewed at Zhaoqing City, Jiangmen City, Shunde city , Panyu city,
Jiujiang City and Nan'an village.
(2) Trades
The people surveyed and interviewed include employees in environmental protection,
hydrological, shipping and navigation, fishery and aquaculture, land management, education, self-
employed small business, fishers and farmers.
(3) Education levels
The surveyed included 43 college graduates, 192 high school graduates, and 206 primary
school or lower school graduates.
(4) Sexuality
76 females were surveyed, 17.23 % out of the total 441 persons surveyed.
7.3.3 Survey Process
Field survey was done in the days May 29 to 31, 1996 starting at Zini, through Shawan
waterway to Lianhuashan waterway, back to Lijiasha waterway, through Ronggui waterway to
West River mainstream. Along the way we interviewed 20 persons (3 females) including fisher,
navigation managers, sailor, farmer and urban residents.
During water sampling June 16 to 21, 1996, we surveyed fishery institutions, 14 (2 females)
farmers and urban residents around the sampling sites.
In two periods July 7 to 10 and August 28 to 30, 1996 the EA team visited Shunde City and
Panyu City and interviewed officers in governmental agencies Land Management, Environmental
Protection, Hydraulic, Fishery and Aquaculture, Navigation and Hygiene, specifically Shunde
118



City People's Congress and the Political Consultation Committee.
In Oct. 28 to Nov. 10, 1997, we took a field survey through the whole waterway again. We got
389 copies of answered questionnaires, which are not all satisfying although.
7.3.4 Statistic Analysis of Public Opinions
(1) Awareness of the Project
Among the people surveyed, 175 (39.68%) gave answer "Never Known," 132 "heard of', 36
'Clear", and 98 didn't ansmer.The project was unknown to the general public.
(2) The Terms of Reference
The majority did not say anything due to lack of environmental knowledge. Among the 41
persons who answered the questions, 34 thought the TOR included all the environmental issues,
and 7 suggested the EA should give more space to the positive role of the project and impact on
land use.
(3) Existing Environmental Quality
Among the 441 persons, 98 did not give answers, 235 said "fairly good," and 108
"acceptable."
(4) Opinions and Suggestions for Environmental Protection
Most of the 72 questionnaires held positive attitude to the project. The project would not
produce any discharges but might have some impact during construction phase. During
operational phase increased traffic volume will result-in more shipping wastes that can be
reduced through efficient management.
The majority thought the environmental issues related to the project ought to be taken
seriously. Specially the public demanded active response to water plant influent quality that was
critical to them.
7.4 Bulletin in newspaper
119



7.5 Response to Public Concems
7.5.1 More Publicity
During the survey we sensed that the public did not know much about the project. It is
recommended to inform the public more about the project through media such as TV, radio
newspaper while the project is going.
7.5.2 EA to be Focused
At the workshops experts contributed a number of valuable suggestions to the Terms of
Reference for EA. The EA should be focused on impacts such as flood control, fishery resources
and water quality, and positive contributions of the project.
7.5.3 Impact on Water Plant Source Quality
The major impact on water quality of water plant influent comes from suspended solids
during dredging. We established models to simulate the concentration patterns of suspended solids
and determine its impact on influent water quality. Meanwhile the Environmental Action Plan
required monitoring, once 10 days, should be done at cross-sections 3km upstream and 500m
downstream to the influent during construction phase.
7.6 Conclusions
The public participation in two ways got a number of people involved and made successful
results.
The public did not know so much about the project that intensive publicity is needed to
increase public awareness. With briefing about the project and environmental assessment most of
them felt positive towards the project regardless its adverse environmental impacts. The survey
public was concerned with environmental issues closely related to them.
The survey discovered that urban residents, highly educated people and persons in developed
areas were more concerned with the environmental side of the project.
120



8. Analysis of Environmental and Economical
Benefits and Costs
8.1 The Social Benefit of the Project
The establishment of 3,000 dwt seagoing waterway will make great contributions to develop
inland and international trades. L-S-R waterway with higher navigation standard, connecting with
the seagoing waterway of Xijiang in west and Shizhiyang in east, will become an important
linkage to link up the eastern and western parts of Pearl River Delta and each seaward outlet, and
will be the main navigation waterway of Pearl River delta. It will change the closed inland water
transportation pattern of the region, and will play an important role for the development of local
waterborne transportation.
The completion of 3,000 dwt seagoing waterway below Zhaoqing and 1,000 dwt
Liansharong waterway will promote the rational structure modification of comprehensive
transportation network in Pearl River Delta, and establish the new pattern of connecting with each
other. Through the proposed waterway, direct access of large ships will reduce middle processes,
which will be helpful for lowering the circulation cost of products and the transportation cost in
foreign trades, and increasing the benefits of the enterprises. In the same time, it will help enhance
the competitive ability of regional import and export trades, and promote the development of
regional economy along the coast and the shores. Therefore, the proposed project will bring great
social and economic benefits.
Waterway regulation is a comprehensive water resources utilization project. After the
regulation, land values along the shores will be raised, and more employment opportunities will be
provided for local residents.
8.2 Project Investment and Economic Benefit
8.2.1 Project Investment
The total investment of the project is estimated to be 127,363.29 X  IV RAM. The
construction period includes four fiscal years.
8.2.2 Direct Economic Benefit
Direct economic benefit will be obtained mainly from the raise of waterway navigation
ability and navigation standard. With the completion of the project, the present transportation
structure will be reformed, and lots of cargoes will be transported through waterway. Therefore,
main direct economic benefits includes the saving of road transportation cost, and the reduction of
mileage of 1,000 dwt ships detouring around the estuary etc.
Results of the project feasibility study show that after the regulation of-Liansharong
121



waterway, the amount of saving of container ship cost and miscellaneous cargo cost will be RMB
4,162 X 10  in 2000, 12,220 X 104  in 2010, and 23,744 X 104  in 2020. For Xijiang lower
reaches regulation project, the amount of saving of container ship cost will reach 127,737 X 104
in 2000, 420,187.5 X 104  in 2010, and 675,661.5 X 104  in 2020. Therefore, direct economic
benefit will be tremendous.
8.3 Environmental Loss and Environmental Protection Investment
8.3.1 Reef blasting in construction period will influence fish catch and reduce the income of
fishery production. However, since fishermen, whose lives depend on fish catch, are distributed
scatteredly, it is difficult to compute its income level. Therefore it is hard to quantify the loss in
this aspect.
8.3.2 Silting on shores of spur dike will have some influence on water flowing into or out of
the water gates nearby, which will increase the cost of dredging before the water gate.
8.3.3 Since reef blasting and dredging during construction stage will increase SS concentration
in water, treatment cost of water plants along the river will be raised.
8.3.4 Cost of levee protection engineering sums to RMB 1,763.04 X 104, which is also a part
of expenditure of environmental protection. Total length of reforestation would be 20 km and
Supposed that RMB 20,000 would need for each kilometer of greening belt, totally RMB 400 X
104 would be required. This investment will be made by local governments and is not part of
project estimate costs.
8.3.5 Cost of land occupation. The project will make a requisition of 936 mu lands to use for
constructing complete facilities, such as waterway station and its workers' accommodation,
maintenance ground of navigation marks and working dock of navigation marks etc. Most lands
are river floodplain and uncultivated land, so it will have no much impact on land utilization.
Compensation fees to the requisition of lands will be RMB 2,434.9 X 10.
8.3.6 Personnel training plan. Domestic training: 20 persons ( I months each person); Foreign
training: 5 persons (a half month each person). The cost of training is RMB 2,000/ person for
domestic training, and USS 8,500 / person.month for foreign training. Therefore, total cost of
personnel training of environmental protection sums to RMB 21.574 X 104.
8.3.7 Cost of Environmental Monitoring
Environmental monitoring divides into two stages: environmental monitoring during
construction stage and during operation stage.
8.3.7.1 Cost of Environmental Monitoring during Construction Stage
(1) Water quality monitoring
122



According to the Environmental Protection Action Plan, water quality monitoring items are
as follows:
Water temperature, pH, CODm,, BODs , NO2-N, NO3-N, SS, non-ionic ammonia, phenol,
oil, CN -, chlorophyll, coliforns, and bacterial.
Monitoring stations consists of:
Zhaoqing - Hutiaomen waterway in lower Xijiang river:
hydrological stations along the waterway: 5 stations
meeting points with branches and diverting points of mainstream: 8 stations
above and below the water intake of 4 water plants: 8 stations
sub-total: 21 stations
Liansharong waterway:
along the waterway: 9 stations
above and below the water intake of 9 water plants: 18 stations
subtotal: 27 stations
Total: 48 stations
Monitoring frequency: 2 days each for wet season, normal season and dry season, 2 times
each day ( at flood and ebb tides).
Analysis cost for each item is presented in Table 8.1.
Table 8.1 Cost of analysis of esch water quality item
unit: RAUB
No.        Item        Cost of analysis No.       Item            Cost of analysis
I   water tempeature      10         9    non-ionic ammonia          40
2         pH*              10         10        Phenol                50
3         DO*              30         11          oil*                40
4       CODM,*             40         12         CN                   50
5       BODs*              40         13         Chl-a                50
6      NO2 - N             40         14     coilform group           50
7      NO3 - N             40         15     bacterial count           50
8-        SS*              40              _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
key items
Cost of sampling: RMB 300 /person.day
Monitoring cost of additional items equal to 30% of the above sum
Non-predictable cost: 10%
Total cost of water quality monitoring: RMB 55.60 X 104.
123



(2) Sediment Monitoring
Cost of analysis:
number of sediment samples: 13 ( sampling one time for each section before construction)
cost of sampling: RMB 500 per sample
Total: RMB 1.35 X 10'.
Table 8.2 Cost of analysis for each sediment item
unit: RMB
No.                         Item                   Cost of analysis
I                          Pb                           80
2                          Hg                           80
3                          Zn                           80
4                          Cd                           80
5                          Cu                           80
6                          Oil                          60
7                         DDT                           80
subtotal                                  540
(3) Noise environmental monitoring
Cost for each monitoring point: 13
Number of points and times: 4 towns along the water way. 2 points at distance of 50 m and
100 m for each town
Monitoring frequency: 8 days each year, 2 times each.day. a total of 48 times three years.
Cost for transportation and workers: 2 persons for each town, 2 days for each time, RMB
300 /person.day.
cost of transportation: RMB 500 /day, 8 days each year.
Total cost of noise environmental monitoring: RMB 7.46 X 104
Total cost of environmental monitoring during construction stage: RMB64.41 X 104
8.3.7.2 Cost of Environmental Monitoring during Operation Stage
It is about RMB 10 X 104, which is transmission costs of the monitoring result.
8.3.8 Measure to Control Ship Pollutants
(I) For Scenario 3, treatment of oil waste water and oil leakage will require an investment of
RMB 30 X 104, and annual operation fee will be RMB 12 X 104.
(2) Treatment of ship night soil will need an investment of RMB 243.29 X 10'.
(3) Treatment of ship garbage will need an investment of RMB 1,046.40 X 104.
124



(4) Control of ship noise will need an investmnent of RMB 26160 X 104.
Ship pollutants control will require a total investment of RMB 27,479.69 X 104. This
investment is not part of project estimate costs.
8.3.9 Cost of compensation of fishery loss
This part of investment will be decided by agreement on GPWB and GPSAPD (Guangdong
Provincial Sea and Aquatic Products Department) altogether.
8.3.10 Total Investment of Environmental Protection Measures
Total investment of environmental protection measures are summarized in Table 8.3.
Table 8.3 Environmental costs (RMB X 104)
Project budget      Investments outside of
Items                investments            project budget
LXR(Z-       L-S-R      LXR(Z- |   L-S-R
H)                      H)
*Land requisition              2434.9
*Levees and Bank              1763.04
Protection                                                            .
Reforestation                                           400
Compensation for             undecided
fishing
Ship wastes control                                    1319.69
ShiP noise control               \                     26160
Training:
China             4
Overseas          17.574                   .
Monitoring:
Construction stage:
Water   24.325       31.275
Sedinent   0.675        0.675
Noise    4.59         2.87
Operation stage:
transmission costs of  5            5
monitoring results ___
operation of              7            7
environmental office                                     _
Total (excluding cost of      4307.924                27879.69
fishery compensation)              .
* included within "engineering" category of project investment.
125



8.4 Environmental Benefit
8.4.1 Lijiasha waterway is narrow. Establishment of levee protection engineering will play an
important role for the safety of shores.
8.4.2 Treatment of ship pollutants will help clean water. Xijiang River is important water
source. There are 4 water plants along LXR(Z-H) Waterway and 9 water plants along L-S-R
Waterway. Collect and disposal of ship pollutants will reduce pollution of water sources of water
plants. That is the main environmental benefit.
8.4.3 Water quality monitoring during construction stage can reflect impact of construction
on water quality. In case of heavy pollution, emergency measures can be taken properly, so as to
avoid supplying poor quality water to residents and ensure safety water use.
8.4.4 Greening along the shores helps improve landscape. It can also reduce the impact of
ship noise on ambient environment.
8.5 Cost-Benefits Analysis of Environmental Economics
Except the investment of environmental protection measures, above environmental loss and
benefit are difficult to quantify and can only be analyzed qualitatively.
Total investment of waterway regulation project on the lower Xijiang River will be RMB
127,363.29 X 104, of which investment of environmental protection will be RMB 4307.924 X 104
(excluding cost of fishery compensation), accounting for 3.38% of total investment. Although the
proportion of environmental protection investment is low, environmental benefit resulting from
environmental protection measures will be obvious, and its social benefit is hard to estimate.
126



9.   Conclusions and Suggestions
9.1 Conclusions
9.1.1 About the Waterway Regulation Project in the Lower Xijiang River
The waterway regulation project in the lower Xijiang river will be an comprehensive
regulation project to improving the navigation conditions and raise the waterborne transportation
ability, by such engineering measures as dredging, reef blasting, damming, short-cutting, shoal-
cutting (or shore-cutting, straightening) etc. Through regulation, the navigation standard of
Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen waterway will be raised from the present standard navigable for 1,000 dwt
ships to that navigable for 3,000 dwt ships, and the navigation standard of Liansharong waterway
will be raised from the present standard navigable for 500 dwt ships to that navigable for 1,000
dwt ships. The total investment of the project reaches RMB 127,363.29 X 104, corresponding to
about USS15,400.64 X 104.
9.1.2 Engineering Analysis
During the construction stage, environmental impacts resulting from various kinds of
construction activities are local, temporary and reversible. Total dredging volume will be 1,200.83
X 104 m3 . SS from dredging and waste earth will have some influences on water quality and
fishery production resources. There will be 30 underwater reef blasting, with a total volume of
4 3
85.26 X 10 m . Noise and vibration (shock waves} resulting from reef blasting will have some
impact on fishery resources and nearby buildings on both shores, and the impact extent depends
on the amount of explosives used. Other construction activities such as damming, dumped bank
and operation of vehicles and ships will also have some environmental impact. In addition, 936
mu lands ( equivalent to 62.4 ha) will be requisitioned during construction stage, which will have
some influence on land use and agricultural production. The above environmental impacts caused
by the construction activities are short-term, and they will disappear with the completion of the
project except the impact on land use. During the operation stage, because of the wider and deeper
navigation channel and the raise of ship tonnage in operation, waterborne transportation load will
increase, and progress of regional social economy will be promoted. However, oil wastewater,
sewage and garbage from ships will have some impacts on water quality, although such impacts
will be small and reversible, and be controlled by taking some measures. In addition, noise from
navigating ship will have some impact on residents along the shores, although the impact may be
limited and small, since there are only two towns along the shores with relatively large residential
areas and there are no noise sensitive points such as schools and hospitals within 200 m of the
shore.
9.1.3 Current Environmental Situations in the Project Area
127



The waterway regulation project in the lower Xijiang river consists two parts: the regulation
of Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen 3,000 dwt seagoing waterway ( with a total length of 168 km), and the
regulation of Liansharong (Nanhua-Lianhuashan) 1,000 dwt waterway ( with a total length of 90
km). Natural conditions in the project area are excellent, economic development level is high,
overall environmental quality is good, and public living quality is relatively fine. The project area
situates in alluvial area of Xijiang river and Beijiang river deltas, with typical land form of delta
plain. Climate type belongs to typical subtropical marine monsoon climate. It is of plenty of
rainfall. Occurrence of storm rainfall is concentrated, and typhoon is of high frequency. River
network intersects within the region and is influenced by irregular semidiumal mixed tide from
Pearl river mouths. Runoff is great but is not evenly distributed within the year. Original
vegetation types are less, and most of vegetation are artificially planted. No rare and precious
species of land animals are found in the region. Species of aquatic organisms are large, and fishery
resources are rich. According to the literature, 197 species of fish have been recorded in the
project area. Because discharge of Xijiang river is great, the ratio of wastewater to runoff is small,
and self-purifying and dilution ability is strong, water quality in all sections but Beijie part of
Jiangmen section (which is heavy polluted) is fine, overall water quality being within Class 1-2
standard of surface ground water quality standards (GB3838-88). Within Liansharong waterway,
all sections except Lianhuashan section, Lijiasha section and Shawan section are classified as
Class 2 water source protection area, and overall water quality in various section is within Class 2-
3 standards of GB3838-88 (with a few items exceeding the standard). Contents of heavy metals
such as Hg, Pb, Cr, Zn and Cu etc. in river bottom sediments are within Pollutant Control
Standards of Contaminated Soil Used in Agriculture (GB4284-84). There are 173 water gates
for irrigation and drainage, 13 water plants and 12 harbors and docks along the shores of the
project waterway. In 1995, there were 94548 ships of various kinds navigating on Liansharong
waterway, from which 785.49 t oil wastewater ( oil amount 3.38 t), 1213.4 t sewage and 951.92 t
garbage were produced. Background value of environmental noise level at the residential areas of
Lianhuashan town and Rongqi town are within class 2 standard of Environmental Noise Standards
for Urban Region.
9.1.4 Socio-Economic Environmental Impact Assessment
With the completion of the waterway regulation in the lower Xijiang River, a more
convenient waterborne transportation environment of river and sea will be created for the
economic zone of Pearl river delta, which will change the relatively closed inland water
transportation pattern in Pearl River Delta, improve the comprehensive transportation network of
waterway, road and railway. That will be helpful for the development of regional economy, and
stimulate the economic rise in Pearl River Delta and even all Pearl River Watershed.
The raise of navigation capability after the regulation will help lower the transportation cost,
and optimize further the investment environment in associate with the establishment of new
harbors and docks along the waterway, which will play an active role in introducing foreign
investment and advanced techniques and management methods, and in modifying the structure of
production and the layout of productivity.
128



Growth of regional economy will provide more employment opportunities, and will help
raise the income of residents, accompanied with which are the following social benefits:
Accommodation areas of residents will be increased, living conditions will be improved, the
amount of savings will be increased, urbanization will become more and more apparent,
government financial income will be raised, public medical and health, cultural and educational
services will be well developed, infrastructures will be improved, and living quality of residents
will be raised.
There are no special landscapes and important cultural relics and historical sites on both
shores of the waterway, and the regulation itself will not make any damages to the existing
landscape and places of historical interest and scenic beauty. During the construction, some lands
will be occupied, but impact on land use is small and temporary, since these lands are of flood
plains and its use will be resumed with the completion of the project. Rational compensation
should be made for land owners. There will be no such issue of removal and migration. The
construction will have no impact on ships passing by and harbor operation, given that rational
working hours and working mode would be chosen in course of construction.
9.1.5 Main Environmental Impact and Mitigation Measures
9.1.5.1 Environmental Impact and Mitigation Measures during Construction Stage
(1) During construction stage, dredging, damming and reef blasting will cause bottom mud
floating up, resulting in the increase of SS concentration in water. According to the prediction,
maximum SS concentration in dredging sections will be 22 mg/L with maximum diffusion scope
of 1,600 m. Because of the diffusion of SS, water quality around the water intake will be
threatened. Therefore, water plants should be informed in advance before the construction starts,
so that they can make proper preparation not to take in water in the working hours of the
construction. In the same time water quality monitoring for each water intake should conduct one
time each time during the construction stage. Construction activities should be stopped when the
concentration of SS exceeds controlling standard (about 2 hours).
(2) Construction activities such as Reef blsting and dredging etc. will disturb aquatic
organisms, especially fishery resources. There are no spawning fields of migratory or semi-
migratory fishery in the project waterway. The project has no much impact on migratory or semi-
migratory fishery, but construction works should not be conducted in migratory season. Reef
blasting may damage part of food organisms, and may kill some fish passing by the section with
reef blasting, but the impact will not be great since there is no much fish in Liansharong waterway.
Of course, a construction plan which can minimize loss of fishery resource should be formulated
as early as possible by the project developer and fishery administration departments.
(3) Impact of noise resulting from the operating equipment is temporary. Furthermore, since
most of sections of the project waterway situate in countryside where there are no many people,
noise impact will be lowered greatly given that rational working hours be chosen.
129



(4) Strong shock waves from reef blasting will have some impact on the banks and nearby
buildings, and also disturb aquatic organisms. Therefore, the blasting method of small dose of
explosives should be employed in reef blasting, and in such sections where bed rock has been
weathered heavily reefs of hindering navigation should be removed mechanically.
(5) Waste earth and dredged materials will be disposed in following ways: Dredged
materials from Shawan waterway will be dumped to the area around Dawu shoal; those from
Lianhuashan waterway dumped to Jiang'ou dumping ground; waste earth and materials from reef
blasting will be dumped to nearby deep on bank side of dangerous sections so as to protect the
levees. Since contents of heavy metals in sediments are low ( within the standard of Pollutant
Control Standards of Sludge Used by Agriculture), dumpings will have no great impact on
dumping grounds. Dumping will result in muddy water, so dumping should conduct in deep water
as far as possible in order to prevent diffusion in large scale.
(6) Measures should be taken to prevent epdimic disease prevail in working areas during
construction stage.
(7) 936 mu ( 62.4 ha) will be occupied during the construction stage. There will be no
removal and migration, and no re-settlement will be involved. The land occupation has no great
impact to land use. Rational compensation should be made for land owners.
(8) Construction activities may have influence on waterway traffic order, may result in local
and temporary traffic jam, and may even impact harbor operation. Plan should be made by the
construction departments to ensure the navigation in the course of construction. In the same time
contact with waterborne transportation department should made properly, and ships passing by
should be well informed. Transportation of stones and dredged materials through waterway will
have no great impact on land traffic, but the transportation should not be conducted in peak hours
of navigation and harbor operation.
9.1.5.2 Environmental Impact and Mitigation Measures during Operation Stage
(1) The simulated results show that after the completion of the project, in all sections (except
Lijiasha) of Liansharong waterway, river discharge will have very small changes ( for most
sections below 1%) compared with that before the regulation, and flood level will also have very
small changes (max. increase being only 0.03m). Therefore, Liansharong waterway regulation will
have no much impact on flood control, and in some sections the decrease of flood level will be
favourable for flood control. Such regulation works as damming and dumped bank will reinforce
levees and raise the ability of preventing scouring, which will also help flood control. With the
completion of Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen waterway regulation, maximum increase of flood level may
reach 0.16 m compared with that before the regulation. The increase will mainly occur above
Dianshuizhoutou, and will have little impact on the sections of Hutiaomen waterway below
Baiqingtou. For the flood control in the region of Dianshuizhou, better construction plan should
be chosen and observation of water level changes should be performed during construction stage
130



and after the completion of regulation.
(2) Due to the changes of river discharge and velocity and water level compared with that
before the regulation, silting and scouring effects of all the waterway will change consequently.
Discharge in Lijiasha waterway will have great increase, so that scouring effect may be raised.
Since there will be no much spur dikes established along Liansharong waterway, scouring to the
oppose shore will not be great. For Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen waterway, measures should be taken on
the opposite shores of the spur dike group so as to reduce the scouring effects.
(3) A great deal of spur dike groups will be set up along Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen waterway,
which will have some influence on water gates and water diversion works among the dike groups.
For the present design, there are 13 water gates and water diversion works locating among the
spur dike group. Appropriate modification should be made during the project design stage, or
appropriate jetty should be established during construction or water intake should be moved
outward. Some compensations can also be made for the original administrative or construction
units for modifying or removing the drainage works. There are only a few water gates situating
among the spur dike group within Liansharong waterway, which can be removed and re-built. The
project will be also helpful for drainage and irrigation with the help of tide.
(4) During the operation stage (taking 2010 as the representative year), amounts of oil
wastewater, sewage and garbage produced by ships navigating on Liansharong waterway are
predicted as 556.76 t/a (in which oil amount is 4.35 tla), 1481.71 t/a and 1111.29 tla respectively,
which are very small compared with the corresponding from land sources. However, direct
discharge of them into the waterway without any treatment will also aggravate water pollution. It
is suggested that in short term oil wastewater should be collected and transferred to the shore to
treat, and gradually equip with oil separator when conditions are apt, and in long term pollution
control facilities must be equipped at least on middle to large sized ships. Potable pumping
closestools should be made extensive use on ships. Deposit cabinet for garbage should also be
equipped so as to collect sewage and garbage. In the same time, control check to ships should also
be strengthened, and ship polludon control management regulation should be formulated.
(5) Noise impact from ship sailing will be small. Whether in peak hours, or in daytime and at
night, noise level caused by ship sailing will be within the corresponding environmental noise
standards. Only abrupt noise caused by ship whistling will exceed the standard by 5-8 dB(A),
which will have some impact on local residents.
(6) According to the modeling results of saline intrution in Z-H waterway, genarally speaking,
the construction of the waterway. regulation project will cause slightly faster water flow, and little
impact on sline intrusion.
(7) There exists the transportation of all 9 kinds of dangerous materials classified by IMO on
the waterway of the project. According to investigation, the ships easy to result in pollution
accidents mainly include oil ship, miscellaneous chemicals ship and liquidated gas ship, especially
oil ship. In order to protect such environmental sensitive points as water intake and water source
131



reserves and aquatic organisms. proper measures should be taken to prevent the occurrence of
pollution accidents. Navigation safety management, especially the management on ships of
dangerous materials, should be strengthened. Perfect navigation mark system, communication
facilities and other complete facilities should also be established. Emergency response system of
pollution accident should be established. Special pollution control and treatment companies for
different kinds of accidents should also be set up so as to meet the requirement in need.
9.1.6 Comparison of Altematives
(I) Comparison of alternatives for Liansharong waterway regulation project
The recommended design scenario is 80 m  X 4.0 m  X 500 m, with other two design
scenarios for comparison. The other two scenarios have same channel span and bend radius with
the recommended scenario, but the navigable channel depth is different, being 3.5 m and 4.5 m
respectively.
The waterway is influence by tides from Pearl river estuary. Scenario I needs use 0.5-0.6 m
of tidal water depth, which already exceeds the avcrage tidal range in Nanhua station,
consequently full-time navigation can not be ensured. Scenario 3 does not need use tide, but the
investment will be greater. Scenario 2 can use tidal water depth to meet the demand of silting
depth,
The simulated results show that changes of flood level after and before the regulation for
three scenarios are basically the same, and they have same change trend. Scenario I has greater
changes than scenario 2 and scenario 3.
Volumes of dredging and reef blasting of three scenarios are different, but those of other
works are same. Generally speaking, the greater the volumes of dredging and reef blasting, the
greater the environmental impact. Thus, environmental impact of scenario 3 is greater than that of
scenario 2, and that of scenario 2 greater than that of scenario 1.
(2) Comparison of alternatives for Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen waterway regulation project
For Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen waterway regulation project, there are two other alternatives:
Modaomen seagoing waterway and Hengmen seagoing waterway.
A. It is very difficult to train the sand bars at Modaomen outlet.
Modaomen, the main seaward outlet of Xijiang river, diverts about 1/3 of sand volume
measured at Makou station. Modaomen waterway is an ideal seagoing waterway, because it is
wide and deep. However, the sand bars are well developed at the outlet. If it is chosen as the
seagoing waterway, the critical work is to train the sand bars. Due to the poor understanding of the
sand bars at Modaomen outlet and the absence of investigation and study at present, it is best not
to train these sand bars for the moment.
132



Flood discharge through Modaomen ranks at the first place among the 8 outlets. The
regulation of Modaomen outlet should aim mainly at satisfying the requirement of flood
discharge.
The training of sand bars should combine with the outlet regulation, and waterway regulation
should not be conducted in haste.
B. It is very difficult to regulate Qi'ao shoal in Hengmen seagoing waterway.
Feasibility study report for Hengmen seagoing waterway project has been completed. Critical
studies had been made in the report for Lanshan shoal and Ermao shoal, and the causes of their
formation had been analyzed and engineering measures were also put forward. For Qi'ao shoal,
only the cause of its formation had been analyzed. Bottom sediments of Qi'ao shoal is clay, which
results from the sedimentation of coagulated substances. Qi'ao shoal also has the characteristics of
sand bar. It is very difficult to regulate it.
C. It is more practical to go to sea through Yamen seagoing waterway for Hutiaomen
waterway
Hutiaomen waterway has been the main waterway to maintain. It has reached class 3 inland
navigable channel standard except for that bend radius at Hengken is not enough. Its important
properties are that both tidal current and runoff flow follows the river form, the current situations
of water and silt diversion will not change after the regulation, no lands will be occupied, rise of
flood level can be controlled within 10 cm, drainage and irrigation facilities along the shores
would function as normal, and there will no disturbance on road, railway and bridges. Through
many times of negotiation with relevant departments, it is-considered that Hutiaomen waterway is
a practical seaward waterway . Of course there may exists other better waterway.
9.1.7 Environmental and Economic Benefit and Loss Analysis
(1) Social-economic benefit
The development of the waterway in the lower Xijiang river will improve the navigable
channel conditions, raise the navigation capacity, and promote the rational structure modification
of comprehensive transportation network in Pearl River Delta. It will help lower the transportation
cost of product, enhance regional import and export trade ability, and promote economic
development along the coast and the shores. It will also help bring the rapid rise of economy in
Pearl River Delta and even in all Pearl River Catchment, and provide more employment
opportunities. Social-economic benefit of the project is tremendous.
(2) Environmental Benefit
A. Levee protection engineering will protect the longshore levee of Lijiasha waterway.
133



B. Collect and Disposal of ship pollutants will mitigate pollution on water source reserves
along the waterway.
C. Levee protection engineering and forestation will improve landscape on both banks.
Forestation can also reduce the impact of ship noise.
(3) Environmental cost and environmental protection investment
A. Cost of compensation of fishery loss. This part of investment will be decided by
agreement on GPWB and GPSAPD (Guangdong Provincial Sea and Aquatic Products
Department) altogether.
B. 936 mu of lands will be requisitioned. The compensation cost is RMB 2,434.9 X 104.
C. Cost of levee protection engineering is RMB 1,763.04 X 10'.
D. Cost of environmental protection personnel training is RMB 21.574 X 1 04
E. Cost of environmental monitoring is RMB 74.41  X  104 (including data fee of
operational phase 10 X 104).
F. Cost for operation of environmental office is RMB 14 X 104
(4) Environmental and economic benefit and loss analysis
Environmental protection investment sums to RMB 4307.924 X 104, accounting for 3.38% of
the total investment of the project. Although the percentage of environmental protection
investment is low, economic, social and environmental benefits resulting from it will be apparent.
9.1.8 Public Participation
Public participation of the present environmental assessment adopted two ways: topic
discussion meeting and questionnaire investigation.
Topic discussion meeting was presided by the World Bank Loan Project Office of
Guangdong Province Waterway Bureau. Three meetings were held. Over 20 environmentalists
and specialists were invited to attend the meeting, from Environmental Protection Office of
Ministrv of Communications, Guangdong Institute of Waterway, and Scientific Institute of Pearl
River Water Resources Protection. They had discussed in details on such issues as contents, focus
and extent of environmental assessment, current environmental quality in the project region, and
the main environmental impact of the project construction etc.
At the same time, we made questionnaire, and conducted extensive investigations on the
134



public from different region, profession, age, sex and education background. In five times of
investigation, 441 persons (of which 76 are females, making up 17.23%) gave their opinions and
suggestions on the project, the TOR and contents of environmental assessment, the current
environmental quality in the project region, and the environmental protection of the project.
9.2 Suggestions
9.2. t Publication of the project should be strengthened so as to make well known publicly.
During the investigation along the shores of the waterway, it was found that many people had
little understanding of the project or even knew nothing of it. It is suggested that mass media such
as broadcast, television and press should make report on the project from various aspects so as to
let public know the project as much as possible, and opportunities and channels for public
involvement should be provided, so that the construction of the project would receive better social,
economic and environmental benefits.
9.2.2 Environmental Protection during Construction Stage Should be Strengthened
Environmental impact of the project will be produced mainly during the construction stage. It
is recommended that the construction departments should operate according to the construction
plan and the operation practices. Local environmental protection departments should perform the
environmental monitoring during the construction stage, including mainly the water quality
monitoring for each water intake and noise monitoring in noise sensitive points. The monitoring
results should feed back to construction departments timely. Measures of punishment should be
formulated and executed. During the construction stage, project developer, construction
departments and environmental protection departments at various level should cooperate closely,
so as to ensure the project to receive participated results.
9.2.3 Attention should be paid to the observation of flood level along the waterway after the
completion of the project.
According to the simulation results, flood level in most sections of Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen
waterway after the regulation will be raised obviously, but in Liansharong waterway flood level
only in such sections as Banshawei, Lijiasha, Zhinikou and Modietou will have tendency to rise.
The project developer should commission the qualified units to conduct hydrological observation,
and the measured results should reported to the command center of flood control, so as to help
flood prevention services and water conservancy agencies take necessary flood control measures.
9.2.4 Regional water pollution sources should be controlled.
Industrial wastewater and sewage treatment in the project region must strictly follow the
requirement of water function regionalizing for the waterway in the lower Xijiang River. Water
pollution sources should be controlled. Wastewater treatment facilities should be established and
135



improved. New pollution sources should be strictly controlled.
9.2.5 Ship pollution should be strictly controlled.
It is suggested that in short term oil wastewater should be collected and transferred to the
shore to treat, and gradually equip with oil separator when conditions are apt, and in long term
pollution control facilities must be equipped at least on middle to large sized ships. New ships
must be equipped with oil separator. Potable pumping closestools should be made extensive use
on ships. Deposit cabinet for garbage should also be equipped so as to collect sewage and garbage.
The ship of collection and the treatment facilities on land will require an investment of RMB 8
X 104 ( not including the operation fees). In the same time, control check to ships should also be
strengthened, and ship pollution control management regulation should be formulated. Violators
of the regulation should be fined.
Ship should be equipped with noise abatement facilities. Ships without hold do not allow to
enter noise sensitive areas, especially at night.
9.2.6 Other Suggestions
Part of waste earth can be used for dredge fill, and the raise of levee and dike. Dumping
grounds should chose uncultivated or waste lands, and should occupy no or less agricultural lands.
Part of waste earth may be used as raw materials of brick-making.
Afforestation should be conducted in proper region after the completion of the project, so as to
improve landscape and help mitigate the impact of ship noise.
Building houses by farmers within the waterway region must be controlled timely.
136



References
1. The World Bank Finance Office of Guangdong Province Communications Department,
Guangdong Waterway Bureau, Brief Introduction of Waterway Regulation Project for Lower
Xijiang River by Using World Bank Loan, 1996.3
2. Guangdong Province Waterway Survey and Design Institute, Feasibility Study Report of
Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen Waterway Regulation Project for Lower Xijiang River (2nd Phase), 1995.6
3. Guangdong Province Waterway Survey and Design Institute, Feasibility Study Report of
Liansharong Waterway Regulation Project in the Pearl River Delta, 1996.7
4. Shanghai Academy of Environmental Protection and Science, Training Materials of
Environmental Impact Assessment, 1995.6
5. Guangdong Province Water Conservancy and Electricity Institute, Report of One Dimensional
River Network Hydrodynamic Computation for Liansharong Waterway Regulation Project,
1996.6
6. Operative Directive of World Bank-Environmental Assessment, (OD4.01)
7. Regulations of Dangerous Freight of International Marine Transportation, People's
Communication Press, 1990
8. Environmental Protection Bureau of Shunde City, Environmental Protection Planning of
Shunde City, 1995.5
9. Planing Bureau of Shunde City, Statistical Data of Shunde City, 1994
10. Statistical Bureau of Panyu City, Statistical Data of Panyu City, 1995
11. Records of Fresh Water Fish in Guangdong Province, Guangdong Science and Technology
Press, 1991.
12. Pearl River Aquatic Product Institute, Department of Biology of South China Nonnal
University, Aquatic Product College of Zhanjiang, Department of Biology, Report of
Investigation and Research on Fishery Resources in Guangdong Sections of Pearl River, 1985
13. Guangdong Province Fishery Environmental Monitoring Station, Pearl River Watershed
Monitoring Station of Fishery Environmental Monitoring Center in Ministry of Agriculture,
Summary Report of Water Quality and Toxic Residues in Fish of Xijiang river, Beijiang River and
Pearl River Delta.
14. Tang Yongluan, Diffusion and Dispersion Process of Turbulent Flow in Pearl River
137



Mainstream and Its Simulation, Natural Resources and Evolution Process in Pearl River Delta,
1988, -p 356-374
15. Lin Bingnan et al.. Joumal of Sediment Research, 1988(2), -1-8.
138



Appendix 1.
Commission Letter of Environmental Impact Assessment Work
Scientific Institute of Pearl River Water Resources Protection ( holder of  Grade A
Environmental Impact Assessment Certificate No.0224) was commissioned to conduct the
following environmental asscssment work-..
Project name        Waterwav regulanon project in lower Xijiang river
1. According to the requirement of World Bank. to perfect th
Environmental  Assessment  Report  for  Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen
Waterway Regulation Project in Lower    Xijiang River an
provide the reports in Chinese and English versions.
Introduction to     2. According to relevant regulations of World Bank and China. to
contents of         complete the Environmental Assessment Report for Liansharong
the project         waterwav regulation project and provide reports in Chinese and
English versions.
3. According to the requirement of World Bank. to work ou
environmental protection action plan for the waterway regulation
project in lower  Xijiang river  in cooperation with the Proje
Office of Guangdong Province Waterway Bureau and provide th
report in Chinese and English versions.
Total investment                             Payment in
of the project          5,000 x 10W       advance of survey    10,000   (RMB)
(RMB_
Guangdong Province
Commissioned by       Waterway Bureau      Person in charge    Tan Bin'an (acting)
____________________     (sealed)     _
Address:      No.280, Changti Road
Contact person           Wu Jiaxue           Postal code      Guangzhou,510120
Telephone      Tel: 83334810 ext 10
Commission date                              Mav 8, 1996
Demand Date of
completion                                   July30 1996
Rernarks
Unit: Scientific Institute of Pearl River Water Resources Protection
Address:Pearl River Commission. Shougouling, Shahe, Guangzhou
Postal Code: 510611
Telephone: 855519952, 87117213
Contact person: Liu Zhisen



J
appendix 2.
Terms Of Reference (TOR) Of Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) Of The Regulation Project On The Lower
Xijiang River Channel (Guangdong Province)
By Using World Bank Loan
I Preface
1.1 Back-ground of Project
In recent years,with the rapid economical development in Pearl River Delta (PRD) areasthe
water-bome transportation has been playing a more and more important role.Meanwhilethe
present port distribution pattern and channel dimensions show evident lack of capability to
meet the requiremnents for economical development in a purpose of satisfying the requirements
of economical development in PRD.improving local investment environment and exerting
more economical vigor into both sides of the waterway as well as initiating economical
development in upstream mountainous areasin accordance with the " Long-Term Planning
for Inland Shipping Development n issued by Ministry of Transportation(MOT), the
"Oudines of Modernization Construction Planning in PRD Economical Zone " and the
"Channel Network Construction Planning in PRD " issued.the Guangdong Provincial
Waterway Bureau(GPWB)proposed a specific planning for the construction of NPRD
waterway network.that isto develop a criss-crossing waterway network in the PRD.composed
of 17 waterways(overall length of 851 an)among which seagoing waterways and 1.OOOdwt
waterway are taken as its backbones,distributed in the pattern of " three longitudinal
waterways" and " three transverse.
" three longitudinal waterways " as:
* Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen(Z-H)and Modaomen seagoing waterway on Lower Xijiang River
* Dongping waterway(Sixiangjiao - Daweijiao)
- Bainishui - Hen$men seagoing waterway
" three transverse waterways " as:
* Liansharong(L-S-R)waterway(Lianhuashan - Nanhua)
* Guangzhou(Xiji - Guishan Island)seagoing waterway
* Xiaolan - Jun'an waterway
To solve the problem of insufficient domestic fund.the Guangdong Provincial Transportation
Department applied for loan from the World Bankl via the recommnendation of the MOT in
March of 1996.The Z-H waterway regulation Project and the L-S-R channel regulation project
were integrated as the Regulation Project on the Lower Xijiang River (RPLXR) on an unifonn
2                                                                                              l



budget base.
In accordance with the aide-memoire reached by the bank M4ission and the Chinese
participants.in a purpose of mitigating the negative environmental impact caused by the
waterway regulation project and providing guidance for environmental protection design
durinl construction.the environmental protection requirements specified by the World Bankin
April of 1996.the GPWB entrusted the Scientific Institute of The Pearl River Water Resources
Protecnon(SIPRWRP)to undertake the environmental impact assessment work for the L-S-R
project and to make further supplement to and improvement for the EIA report of the
regulation project on the lower Xijiang River Waterway(Z-H)under the criteria of Bank.After
entrusted by the GPWC.upon completion of staff organization.data collectingfield
investigation and suggestion solicitation from concerned departments and specialists. the
SIPRWRP finished the compiling of Terms of Reference(TOR)of EIA and submitted it to the
National Environmental Protection Bureau(NEPB).On 2 August of 1996 the TOR approval
meeting was held at the NEPB Assessment Center in Guangzhou and suggestions from
concerned departments and specialists were solicited at this meeting.The TOR is worked out
based on these solicited suggestions and opinions.
1.2 Preliminaries of Project
After dredging and regulation , the class of the 168km Z-H waterway section shallbe
promoted from present standard of 1000 dwt inland river barge to a new standard of 3000 dwt
ship and the class of the 90km L-S-R(LianHuaShan-NanShan)channel section shall be
promoted from present standard of 500dwt inland river barge to a new standard of 1,000dwt
ship(including ships of Hongkong and Macao)In the year of 1994,the GPWB put the
Regulation Project Hutiaomen Channel into the list of the on-going provincial key projects for
water transportation.in spring of 1995,the water regulation project on the Lower Xijiang River
from Baiqingtou upstream to Zhaoqing was placed on the agenda of GPWC.The feasibility
assessment was initiated and the SIPRWRP was entrusted to undertake the environmental
impact assessment(EIA)task.In May of 1995,the SIPRWRP finished the " EIA Report of the
Regulation Project (second phase)on the Zhaoqing - Hutiaomen(Z-H)Waterway of the Lower
Xijiang River" and the report has passed the review and approval of the Guangdong
Provincial Environment Protection Bureau(GPEPB).
1.3 Assessment Class
In accordance with the assessment classification principles specified in item OD 4.01 of the
World Bankl's EIA guidelines.the assessment class of this regulation project is defined as class
B.
2 Basis for the Preparation of EIA Report
2.1 Approval Documents
3



Environment Protection Bureau(NEPB), April I, 1984.
(7)The Notification of Strengthening the Management of the EIA for Intenational Loan
Funded Construction Project,SEPB.SPC.the Ministry of Finance(MOF)and the People's Bank
of Chinat PBC).June 21.1993.
(8)%World Bank's Work Guidelines for Environmental Assessment.
(9)Rules of Environment Protection Management of Transportation Construction Project(ln
Trial), the Ministry of Transportation(NIOT), 1987.
(0O)Standards for Environmental Impact Assessment(EIA)of Irrigation and Hydroelectric
Construction(SDJ302-88), the Ministy of Energy Resources(MER), 1989.
(ll)Standards for Environmental Impact Assessment(EIA)of River Valley(SL45-92), the
Ministry of Water Resources(MWR)and MERNovernber 12.1992.
(12)Guangdong Provincial Regulations of Environment Protection Management of General
Construction Project, the Guangdong People' Delegate Conunittee, July 24, 1994.
(13 )lmplementing Regulations of Guangdong Provincial Fishery Management,the Guangdong
People's Delegatc Conunittee. 1989.
(14)Charging Standards for EIA of Guangdong Construction Project(Cornmissioned
Manuscript).October 9.1989.
2.4 Entrusting Documents for EIA
Entrusting Document for EIA , issued by GPWB, May 9, 1996.
3 Description of the Project
3.1 Scope of Project
3.1.1 Location of Project
The project consists of Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen(Z-H)3,000dwt seagoing waterway and its branch
Liansharong(L-S-R)l,OOOdwt waterway(Nanhua-Lianhuashan)within the lower reaches of
Xijiang River.The Lower Xijiang River(LXR)waterway(channed)is defined as the seaward
waterway in the Lower Xijiang River stretching from Zhaoqing City to Hutiaomen outlet
located in the west of the Pearl River Delta(PRD)Along the whole length of this waterway,first
123 km section from Zhaoqing to Baiqingtou is called the Lower Xijiang River,and second 45
km section from Baiqingtou to Hutiaomen.including the Hfemaxi Waterway is called
Hutiaomen Waterway.Figure 2.1 shows the location of this project.
S



-l
6
The L-S-R waterway of 90 km total length is located in the river network of PRD,connecting
to Shizivang waterway at east and the Xijiang river mainstream at west. Currently it is one of
the main waterways from Guangzhou City to PRD,coastal areas of western Guangdong and
the Xijiang mainstream.Figure 2.1 & 2.3 Shows the Location of the L-S-R project.
3.2 General Description of the Channels
3.2.1 Present Status of the Channels
(1 )Lower Xijiang River Waterway(Z-H)(from Zhaoqing to Hutiaomen)
At present time.the Z-H channel section( I 68hn)is classified as 3rd class inland channel which
is navigable for barges up to 1.000 dwt.The seaward channel from Hutiaomen to Hebao Island
is navigable for seagoing ships of 3,000 dwt with maximun channel draught of 6 meters.The
present channel maintenance standards for Z-H channel section are listed in Table 1.
Table I Present channel maintenance standards for the LXR channels
Channel    Starting and Ending   mileage  maintenance dimension (m)
from    to       (acm)     depth   width  curvature radius
LXR      zhaoqing  sixianjiao   45.0    2.5      80         600
LXR     sixianjiao  baiqingtou   78.0   2.5      So         360
Hutiaomen  baiqingtou hutiaomen   45.0    '.5      50          360
waterway              outlet
(2)L-S-R Channels
The L-S-R Channels consists of three sub-segments of Lianhuashan, Shawan and Ronggui
waterways. Classified as a 4th class inland channel, it is navigable for 500 dwt barges and
the navigation guarantee rate is 98%   The present channel maintenance standards for L-S-R
channel are listed in Table 2.
Table 2  Present Channel maintenance standards for the L-S-R channel
Channel Starting and ending place Mileage   Maintenance dimension(m)
(hnm)
from      to               depth  width  curvature radius
L-H-S   Lianhuashan  Batangwei   17.0   2.5      50             360
S-W     Batangwei   Huoshaotou   24.0   2.5      50             360
R-G     Huoshaotou      Nanhua   49.0   2.5      50             360
6                                                                                              l



7
3.2.2 Major constructions along the river See Table 3)
Tablc 3 Major constructions along the channels
Construction  Bridge  Cross-river   Cross-river    Sluice    Bank revetment
cable         pipeline            (left4right banks) (km)
LXR         I41          28              0          942)      28.09 i39.16
L-S-R         8          27              3          81        24.98+29.35
1) Including 3 bridges under construction and 7 in blueprint
2) All sluices are those on branches in two sides of the Xijiang River
3) Including I bridge in blueprint
3.3 Construction Scope and Standards
After the regulation project, the class of the 168km Z-H channel section shall be promoted
from present standard of 1,OOOdwt inland river barge to a new standard of 3,000dwt ship and
the class of 90km L-S-R(Lianhuashan - Nanhua)channel section shall be promoted from
present standard of 500dwt inland river barge to a new standard of 1,OOOdwt ship(including
ships of Hongkong and Macao).The new channel maintenance standards are listed in Table 4.
Table 4 New Channel Maintenance Standards
Waterway Depth(m) Width*(m) Curvature(r)
LXR        6        100        650
L-S-R      4         80        500
3.4 Construction Measures(See Tables 5 and 6)
Table 5 Preliminary engineering amount of the LXR Waterway project
Item          Number      Total      Earthwork               Remark
Length(..    (x.I       ..
Damming         207       31.765       184.13
Dredging                               886.55
Spit-cutting     3                     337.29      At 3 places of Hengkengkou,
Nanzhen and Gouweishan
Reef-blasting    12       3,655         58.80
Bank revetment            11,500        35.80
Navigation      107                                Two remote control stations and
Marks                                  -          several ports for monitoringsps
7



S
Table 6  Preliminary assessment of engineering amount
of the L-S-R Channel Regulation Project
Item             Number   Total   Earthwork                 Remark
Length(m) (X 104m3)
Damming            38       9.500      37.9
Dredging                              235.7
Spit-cutting        3                 125.3  at 3 places of Batangwei, Banshawei
and Huoshaotou
Reef-blasting       6       1.500      9.6
Bank revetment             17.500      22.9
Navigation Marks    83                          Two remote control center and two
ports for monitoring ships
Principle engineering designs of the regulation project on the LXR channel consist of
damming,dredgingreef-blastingbank  revetment,navigation  marks  and  communication
networkas well as requisition land of 936  mus(62.4 hectares) See figures 2.4,2.5,2.6 and 2.7
for the layout of the project.
3.5 Project Budget and Expense Allocation
The budget consists of four items: project expense, other expense, expense for
and use and reserve.
3.5.1 The Allocation listed in Table 7
Table 7  Allocation for Expense of the Project
No.              Iten                  Sun x104
RMB   Converted US
A           Project Expense    80,583.24   9,744.05
1       Construction engineering 79,159.24   9,571.86
2         Purchase of machine   1,424.00    172.19
B           Other Expense      13,393.83   1.619.56
C         Expense forland use   3,982.00    481.50
D           Expense reserve    29,404.22   3,555.53
Total                           127.363.29  15.400.64
Notes: Above currency exchange is RMB 8.27/US
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



9)
;.S.2 Annual Allocation of Fund
The construction period of this project is four fiscal years in total  It' s annual financial
allocation for this project is as follows: 25% of total cast for the Ist year, 30% for the 2nd
year. S0°n for the 3rd year and 15% for the 4th year(See table 8):
Table 8   Annual Allocation of the Fund
Year        Total       First    Second    Third    Fourth
Ratio %      100         5        30        30        15
RMBX 104 127.363.29 31.840.84 38,029.02 38,209.02 19,104.51
Converted   15,400.64  3.860.16  4.620.19  4,620.19   2,310.0
U S  X                            __ _ __  _ __ _ __  _
3.6 Construction Machinery
The major construction machines include silt digging ships, dragging barges, pile-driving
machines, cranes, cargo trucks, bulldozers, concrete mixers, etc.
4 Present status of Local Enviromnent
4.1 Physical Environment
4. 1.1 The River System
The Xijiang River is the mainstream of the Pearl River with an annual runoff of 230 billion
cubic meters. The mainstream of Xijiang River starts in Guangxi autonomous region,and runs
eastward at Wuzhou City.1t enters into Guangdong Province at iieshou Town.The mainstrem
has three tributary rivers succession of Hejiang River,Luodingjiang River and Xinxingjiang
River at Fengkai County,Deping county and Zhaoqing City respectively,then it branches
leftward at Sixianjiao Town in Sanshui City with the Beijiang River as tributary.The
downstreaming trunk current is branched leftward at Nanhua Town,called Ronggui
Waterway.Then the mainstream is branched again at Baiqingtou.The left bifurcation,namely as
Modaomen Waterway.runs into the sea at Modaomen outlet,and the tight one,namely as
Hutiaomen Waterway,flows into the South China Sea by the way of
Yamen(Huangnaohai)seaward waterway.
The L-S-R waterway consists of three following segments:
Lianhuashan Waterway:From Lianhuashan to Batangwei, 17km in length
Shanwan Waterway:From Batangwei to Huoshaotou, 24km in length
Ronggui Waterway: From Huoshaotou to Nanhua,49km, in length
The L-S-R Waterway has numerous furcations, and branching/tributing take place frequently
9



lt
along the whole section.
4.1.2 Geology And Soil
The LXR channels usually have sandy river bed, consisting of medium to fine sand and
siltPart of the channels have basement rock as river bed.Both banks are almost alluvial soil.
4.1.3 Meteorology And Climate
The climate in the LXR and the whole Pearl River Delta(PRD)is featured as tropical,
subtropical marine monsoon climate.Mean annual temperature is about 21-22 IC, the annual
precipitation is about 1.000-2.000mm, and the annual mean duration of precipitation is 150
days.
Fog season usually begins in November and ends in April of the next year.Statistics shows that
in a whole vear, half-day lasting fog appears for 1-3 days and temporary fog appears for
about 15 days.Wind direction varies with the season.From November each year, north wind
always blows in winter and will become stronger when cold waves approach.There are 2 to 6
cold waves each years, among which I to 2 are severe cold waves with class 5-6 wind or
class 7 gust.Typhoon season is from May to October.The tropical storm comes mainly from
the Pacific Ocean with strong pneumatic power , unchanging blowing direction and
widespread coverage.Generally speaking, typhoons landing on Shantou Area have little
influence, and typhoons landing on Hainan Island less than class 9 cause less damages either
However, if typhoon lands in the coastline between the Pearl River Estuary and Zhanjiang
Port, there will be more or less influences on the LXR area and the PRD.
4.1.4 Hydrology And Sedimentation
The Pearl River Basin are abundant in water resources.Multi-annual average runoff of the
segment upstream from Sixianjiao is 2,300 x 10 m3,  accounting for 68.5°io of the total
runoff of the Pearl River water systern.Statistic data shows that the multi-annual discharging
rate in Makou Station is 7,490m3/sec with mean annual silt-carrying capacity of
0.332kg/r3 The mean annual runoff at Hutiaomen outlet is 202 x 10m3, the multi-annual
average of silt discharge is about 509 x 1  04m-, and about 20% is deposited onto the bed.
The coastal region near the Pearl River Estuary(PRE)has irregular mixed semidiunnal tide.The
boundary of tidal current in the LXR estuary in wet season reaches up to the Hengshan
Station, while the boundary locates near Tianhe in dry season.The 2 4/6 salty water usually
move up and down beyond dowmstream at the Xipaotai Fort.The table 9 shows the tidal
characteristics of L-S-R channel.
4.1.5 Water Quality
10                                                                                             l



ii
Jiangmen City is the largest urban along the mainstream of LXR.The major pollution-causing
industries are sugar production and paper manufacturing.Most waste water is not direcdy
discharged into the Xijiang River.Since the Xijiang River has larmcr runoff and smaller
pollution,runoff ratio, the LXR Waterway has strong pollution-dilution and self-cleaning
abilitv   Except the Beijie Segment in Jiangmen City,  which is partiv polluted by higher
direct discharge ,  most river segments remain good water qualitv of class  I  to  nI
accordin. to the Standards tor Surface Water Quality(GB3838-88).
Table 9 Tidal characteristics at each controlling station along the L-S-R Channel
Station     Sanshakou Sanshanjiao Bsnsha%vci RonSqi(2)  Yinsggzhul  Nanhua
high   highest   2.11      3.08      3.75      3.40     4.63      5.56
tidal  tide    mcan    0.68      0.74       0.74     0.79      0.94     1.00
Ievcl  io0'   lowest  - 1.78    -1.22     -1.28     -1.15     4).95    -0.74
tide    mean   -0.82      -0.20     -0.26     .0.07      0.31     0.53
flood   max.   2.74        2.02      2.10      1.84      1.52     1.23
tidal  tidc   mean.    1.52      0.94       1.00     0.85      0.63     0.47
mnLgc ebb    max.    3.07        1.98      2.15      1.95      1.54      1.20
The planned protection target for river sections on L-S-R  waterway is as follows
Longcong-Sanlian section on Ronggtu waterway, Lijiasha waterway and castern section of
Dadaowei on Shawan waterway are classified as class 3rd of water origin protection zones and
the rest sections are classified as class 2nd zones.Thc L-S-R waterway, especially along the
both sides of the Shawan and Ronggui waterways, is the industrial distribution zone of
Panyu and Shunde cities, so the water quality is suffering pollution caused by the waste
water from these two cities.
In general, the water quality of all river sections reaches up to the environment protection
standards except for fewer indices.
4.2 Biological Resources
The ecological system of the waterway is of estuary delta wetland ecological system.The
aquatic ecological enviromnents are fair and stable,with relatively complicated structures.Due
to the interaction of runoff and ride current, the water in the estuary is nutritious.Under
favourable warn climate,hydrobios Propagate well with a great variety of species.From the
historical statistics, the river segment has 95 genera of phytoplanktons, 86 genera and 153
species of zooplanktons,  65 genera and 69 species of benthos   With plenty of fish
resources, this river segment has 197 species of fish.
4.3 Status of Economies And Living Quality
11



12
The direct economical tributmy area of LXR(Z-H)waterway includes 20 mwicipal distncus of
four local cities of Yunfu ,  Zhaoqing,  Foshan and Jiangmen associated with their
jurisdiction counties.The total area is 3.44 x 104 n2 and the total population is 1.1 15.6 x 104
showed by the 1994 census, accounting for 19.3% of Guangdong's geographic area and
16.7% of the Guangdong's population.
The tributary area is abundant in narural resource either.Major mineral resources consist
of limestone,gypsum   chernozem,granite,marble.iron  sulfides  etc.Being  a  important
agricultural production base of Guangdong province, the trbutary area has rich forest
resource either  Places of natural scenic beauty, such as " the One River.Two Lakes,Three
Gorges,Four Pogodas" in Zhaoqing City and the "Bird Paradise" in Xinhui County are the
precious tourism resources of the area
Geographically,the tributary area of LXR channel.locating at the west margin of the
PRD,belongs to the boundary of developed region in Central Guangdong Province and the
developing area in West Guangdong Province.lts economical status is within the developed
and under-developed level.The Jiangmen Districtas more close to the seashore,is
economically more developed than Zhaoqing and Gaorning Districts.The main economical
indices are listed in Table 10.
Table l0 Main economical indices in the tributary area of waterway in 1994
Indices       Gross Domestic   National        Ind & Agr.        Export Volume
Production  (RMB  Income   Output (RMB x 10') (At  (X 10 USS  )
x 10)      (x 10')       prices in 1990)
LXR               798.6         675.4          1.473.80              41.40
Percent   of
Provincial        19.1%        20.78%            22.2%               8.8%
Total
L-S-R             240.76        186.49          443.35               21.39
Percent of
Provincial        5.76%         5.74%            5.68%               4.55%
Total
Since the economical reformation and open-door polices of China, the export-oriented
economies in the PRD developed rapidly.As the east central part of the PRD enters into
extensive development stage, their comparative economical advantages begins to decrease
gradually.Meanwhile, the comparative economical potential in the tributary area along LXR
waterway becomes more obvious day after day.
Furthernore, with the transformation and updating of industrial structures in economical
zones of the PRD, the labor intensive enterprises will doubtlessly shift to and sprcad in the
western marginal area.
12



13
With progresses in economy, this aea will gn gdual improvements in social culturemciviIl
construction. medical services and public health sanimion. Subsequently, the population
quality will also be improved towards higher education level.
5 Engineering Analvsis
5.1 Principles of Analysis
The analysis shall comply with the specifications in EIA technical guidance and OD 4.01 of
World Bank' s Work Guidelines.The pollutant analysis shall be performed based on the
characteristics of regulation project and the discharge quantity of pollutant shall be shown
quantitativelv.
5.2 Target and Content of Analysis
5.2.1 Construction Period
The environmental impact caused by dredging, damming, reef-blasting, spit-cutting,
bank revetment, navigation marks, conmnunication network and noise of construction
machines, reef-blasting, transportation trucks as well as the disposal of constructive
rubbish and drainage of polluted water will be local, temporary, reversible and slight.
(I )lmpact of Dredging
The total carthwork of dredging amounts to 1,122.25 x IO'm3.Influence on water quality and
aquatic organism caused by suspended matter(SS)of mud digging, by transport and rubbish
disposal will be local, temporary, reversible and slight
The amount of SS during dredging is calculated according to following formula:
Q=Wox R  x T
Ro
where    Q     is the quantity of SS(t/h);
Wn   is the quncration factor of SS(tVm3);
R     is the accumulated percentage ratio of SS particle size to
specified factor Wo(%);                                                       *
Ro   is the accumulated percentage of SS particle under in-situ flow
velocity(%);
T     is the magnitude of dredging(m'Ih)
From above formula with 1,122.25m3/h of dredging earthwork and 1.49 x 103ttm3 of SS
factor, the rough calculated result of Q is 16.71t/h
13



14
(2' 0mpact of Recf-blastinu
The reef-blasting shall be perfomied at 18 places,  with a length of 51.55n and earthm-ork of
68.4 x I04'; Durinu blastinlL. the noise and vibration from water impulse pressure u%ill have
influence on factories. houses, equipment on both sides of ri-er and the fish   The impact
scope is about 3 00-500m and the impact level depends on the amount of powder,.
(3 )impacts on Aquatic Organisms During Construction Period
The operation of constructive bar ges, work of mud digging,  dammin and reef-lasting u ill
damage the living environment of aquatic organisms and benthos,  thus causes the zhanae of
migration and distribution of aquatic organisms.Anyway.  the impact will be temporary and
can be recovered soon after the completion of the regulation project.
(4 lmpacts on Agriculture Caused by Requisition of Land
936 mu land shall be requisited and this uill have impact on agriculture.The level and scope of
impact are descripted in the EI.A report.
(5)lmpact Caused by Constructive M-lachines
The constructive ships will drain polluted water from motor pin.The pollution quantity is
0. l4t!dav with oil concentration l.OOOmgi .
The polluted be% age discharged fromi h! constructi e ship, amilounts to I OOkg da%
Thie ribbish produced bv .constructive slilps amounts to 1.5k,, day per capita.
Thr levels ol noise caused by constructixc ships .iiachines and tuicks are as tollov.:
shiips(diragging ship,,):  65d1( (A)
Mlotor ships : ')4dlBiA)
-ruckis:  67-104dB(Ai
\lud-diginu Slhips: 7,0d3( A)
. Operation period
I flifluence oni \\ aice Qt)alilt caused h\ pollutants of 'hip
\f'cer the retilation project .  withi tle % idening anid deepenling of thle :zliaifiel . tle class ol
naigatiOl .will be pr)omoted fromi 5O)1 loilliage to 1.0(Iti lollilage anid lioni il 10   romlac it
.0 00Ot respectively aici the transp)ort capacmt! .%ill lie increas:df. ( onisequeinilyI.ie shlip) oily
u;shl¢sall,lsel  'sa"tel aInd rubbisl * ill ha1v impact on %kater cquality.An%% a%.th%: impact
14



'5
will be slight.reversible and could be controlled
(2)Noise of Ships
After the regulation project, the channel will be navigable for 3000t ships and the noise from
these ships is up to 85dB(A)measured at the spot 200m far away from the channel.The noise
have influence on residents on both sides of the river.
6 Identification of Environmental Impacts And Screening of Assessment Factors
6.1 Identification of Environmental Impacts
From the project analysis ,  the potential environmental impact caused by the project
construction consists of following aspects.
6.1.1 Enviromnental impact caused by the Location of Project
( I)Occupy some areas of agricultural lands
(2)Change of Local land ecological system and aquatic ecological environment
6.1.2 Environmental Impact During Construction Period
(I)Water pollution caused by dredging
(2)Disposal of waste earth in dredging areas(bottom sediment and other excavated earth)
(3)Noise
(4)Current transportation
6.1.3 Environmental Impact During Operation Period
( I)Improve the navigation condition
(2)Promote the economical development in local area and tributary amea
(3)Noise
(4)Rubbish of ships
(5)Waste from ships
6.2 Assessment Factors
15



16
6.2.1 favourable impact
The navigation condition will be improved, the navigation mileage will be shortened and the
navigation cost will be reduced.This will promote the economical development in local and
tributary arewas.
6.2.2 Water Environmental Assessment Factors
During construction period, the suspended substance(SS)Produced by underwater digging
will have impact on water quality of waterway   The assessment factor is SS
During operation period, the polluted oily waste water,Sewage produced by ships and the
living rubbish will pollute the water quality.Because the impact is slight, only the analogical
analysis is performed.
6.2.3 Acoustics Assessment Factor
During the construction period, the impact consists mainly of machine noise and truck noise
During the operation period, the impact comes from ship noise.
6.2.4 Solid Waste
During construction period.the solid waste consists mainly of disposed silt of waterway after
dredging During operation period, there will be rubbish from ships and living garbage.
6.2.5 Influence on Ecological Environment
During construction period, the aquatic organisms, especially fishes will be affected The
part of agricultural land and some houses will be affected.
6.3 Assessment Timing
Initial year: 1995
Forecast destination: 2010
7 Content and Key Points of Assessment
7.1 Content of Assessment
7.1.1 Investigation and Assessment of Current Environment
7.1.1.1 Water environment
16
L



17
7.1.1.2 Noise
7.1.1.; Botom sediment of river bed
7.1.1.4 Aquatic organisms
7.1.1.5 Land use
7.1.2 Analysis on Environment Impact Caused by the Location of Project
7.1.2.1 Population migation
7.1.2.2 Status of occupied agricultural land
7.1.2.3 Local land ecological system and local aquatic ecological system
7.1.3 EIA During construction period
7.1.3.1 Water environment
7.1.3.2 Waste earth(bottom sediment of rivr bed and other excavated earth)
7.1 .3.3 Noise
7.1.3.4 Aquatic organisms
7.1.3.5 Transportation
7.1.4 EIA During Operation Period
7.1.4.1 Beneficial impact
7.1.4.2 Water environment
7.1.4.3 Noise
7.2 Key Points of Assessment
After verification, the assessment emphasis consist of influences on water origin of rivers
and fishery resources and impacts on flood control.
8 Scope and Standards of Assessment, Environment Protection Target
17



18
8.1 Scope of Assessment
According to the specified location of project, the scope of assessment are divided into
water basin and noise.
( l)Assessment scope of water basin is regulation waterway section, i.e.7-H of Lower Xijiang  i
River and L-S-R(Nanhua-Lianhuashan)waterway.
(2)Assessment scope of noise,vibration and plants covers 200m of area inside two sides of
waterway.
8.2 Assessment Standards
(I)Surface Water Environmental Quality Standards(GB3838-88)
(2)Portable Water HIygiene Standards(GB 5749-85)
(3)Fishery Water Quality Standards(GB 11607 89)
(4)Environmental Noise Standards for Urban Harbor and both Sides of River(GB1 1339-89)
(5)Comprehensive Wastewater Discharge Standards(GB 8978-88)
(6)Ship Pollutants Discharge Standards(GB 3552-83)
(7)Pollutants Control Standards of Contaminated soil Used by Agriculture(GB 4284 -84)
8.3 Functional Classification and Enviromnent Protection Target.
The function of water course up to Nanan section on LXR waterway is under definition and
the target of water quality protection is class of GB3838-88 M.The Xihai Waterway is the
water source protection area of class 2 and the target of water quality protection is class 2-
3.The function of Shibansha Waterway is under definition and the target of water quality
protection is class 3-4.The Hemaxi section is the protection area of class 3 and the target of  l
water quality protection is class 4-5.The Hutiaomen waterway is the protection area of class 4
and the target of water quality protection is class 4-5.
Donghai section of L-S-R waterway belongs to the protection area of class 2 and the target of
water quality protection is class 2-3.The Ronggui Waterway(Longcong-Sanlian)belongs to the
area of Class 3 and the protection target is class 4-5.The western Dadaowei on Shawan
Waterway is area of class 2 and the protection target is class 2-3:meanwhile the eastern
Dadaowci is area of class 3 and the target is class 4-5.Tbe Lianhuashan Waterway is protection
area of Class 3 and the target of water quality protection is class 4-5.
18 



The sensitive protection target of water origin along the L-S-R Waterway is as follows:the
water intakes for cities and towns consist of such nine watr plants as
Xideng,Yuanfatong'an.Longcong,Guizhou.Dashan.Xiaohuangbu.Shawan   and   Panyu.The
table 1 I Shows the description of the nine plants.The noisy sensitive Protection target is as
follows:along the larger resident places inside 200m- area of both  banks such  as
LianhuashanZini.Rongqi.there is no noisy sensitive spots of hospitals.schoolsetc.
According to existing data, there exists no mediun and large sized fish breeding bases inside
the waterway area.
Table II Major Water Plants Along the L-S-R Waterway
Channel       Namc of vatcr plant                  Position                   Rcrarks
Naihua-       Xideng water plant    200 m in loever rcach of Ximaning wvatcrway station    left bank
Bansha e _    _____  
Yuanfa watcr plant    600 m in upper rcach of thc meeting point of Jun an   right bank
_ _     -         channel
Tong an watcr plant        12 km in ower reach f  ui           riht bk
LonAmong water plant    1 0 kin in lower mach of the divcrsion point of Jiya    right bank
__                           channel___ _chwm
tuizhou *aterpla t  i      2 bnipjerrcach of Ronvqtomi nvm2        bmnl
Dashan waterjplat        70 m in i erreachofDeshen             lebfdt  bank
_________  Xlahuangbu water plant    250 m in upper reach of Deshen bridgee   risht bank
Shawam        Sham wawtr plant        300 m in upper reach of Shaw  water gaze    i leRft bnk
.__  .....................~~*                   ,      .     -     S_
Panvu                 600 mmi lower meach of Shawvan    Irieht bankc
9 Work Plan of Assessment
In May of 1995, the SIPRWRP finished the WEIA Report of the Regulation Project(Second
Phase)on the Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen(2-H)Waterway of the Lower Xijiang River" and the
report has passed the approval of the GPEPB,The project is credited the loan from World
Bank and the Bank gave some new specifications for the EIA work.So according to the aide-
memoire reached by the Bank Commission and Chinese participants, the report shall be
added to the contents of analysis on toxic residue in fish, public participation and Action
Plan, then, this report and the report for L-S-R waterway are integrated as one
report.Following work plans are mainly the content of EIA for L-S-R regulation Project
9.1 Investigation on Pollution Source and Current Status Assessnent of Environment Quality
9. 1.1 Investigation on Pollution Source
(I)Investigation on Pollution Source of Ship
19



20
The investigation is performcd concerning to the type of ships inside the waterway and the
discharge quantity of pollution resource. 
A.lnvestigation on Pollution Source of Ship
* Analysis on the cause of producing oily wasted water
* Investigation on quantity of oily waste water
* Investigation on the discharge of oily waste water from ship pit and oil leakage
B.Investigation on sewage of ship
* Investigation on producing of sewage of ship
* Investigation on drainage of sewage from ships
C.Investigation on garbage of Ships
Investigation on producing of garbage of ships
Investigation on disposal of garbage of ships
(2)Investigation on noise pollution source
The investigation work consists of type, distribution and noise level of major noise source
inside 200m area of both sides of waterway and the noise pollution source of ships.
9.1.2 Assessment of Existing Status of Water Quality
9.1.2.1 Monitoring of Existing Status of Water Quality
(] )Monitoring stations(see figures 3.2)
(2)Monitoring Time: June of 1 996(flood season)
(3)Sampling frequency: two samples at high tide and low tide respectively each day
(4)ltems of water quality monitoring:
watenemperature,temperature,pH.DO,CODM,.BODs.NOr.-.NO-N,SS,non-ionic,
ammonia,volatile,phenol.cyanide,peroleum.chlorophylacoliforms.bacteria.algae. 16 items.
(5)Analysis method: Follow the related analysis standards issued by the NEPB.
(6)Assessment method: separate assessment on each parameter in accordance with
the Environmental Quality Standards For Surface Water.
Some existing monitoring results from environmental monitoring stations along the river can
be used in the monitoring worlk during draught flood seasons.
20



21_                               _
9.1.2.2 Assessment of Existing Status of Water Quality
( I)Assessment   items:    PH.DO.CODM,,non-ionic.   ammonia,Nitrite.Niwate,Volatile
phenoi.petroleun.SS.
(I)Assessment method:  according to the standards specified by the GPEPB, Single factor
assessment method is used.
9.1.; Monitoring and Assessment of Existing Status of Bottom Sediment and Analysis on
toxic residue in Fish
(I )Monitoring Location: See Figure 3.2
(2)ltems of monitoring: Pb, Zn, Cu, Cd, Hg, petroleum and DDT
(3)Monitoring frequency: once
(4)Monitoring instruments: atomic absorption spectra photometer
9.1.3.2 Assessment of Existing Status of Bottom Sediment
(I)Assessmentitems: Cd, Pb, Zn, Cu, Hg, oilandDDT
(2)Assessment standards:  GB4284-84,Sniitation on the pollutant in contaminated
soil for agriculture.
(3)Analysis on assessment results
9.1.3.3 Analysis on toxic residue in Fish
Sample: Fish
Sampling location: Lower Xijiang River and L-S-R Waterway
Testitems: HeavymetalsuchasHg, Cd,  Pb, Zn, Cu
Test method: Follow concerned standards of analysis and test
9.1.4 Investigation and appraisal of plants and aquatic organisms
9.1.4.1 Investigation and appraisal of plants
9.1.4.2 Investigation and appraise of existing status of aquatic orgsms
(I )Investigation of existing status of fishery resources and fish species in waterway.
21



22
(2)1nvestigation of existing status of rare,precious and endangered aquatic organisms.
(3)lnvestgation of existing statu of plankton and benthes.
9.1.5 Investigation and Assessment of Existing Status of Acoustic Enviromnental Quality
9.1.5.1 Monitoring of Existing Status of Noise
(I )Monitoring Spots
Typical spot distribution method is adapted and four monitoring spots in four larger resident
places inside assessment area are set up   The location of monitoring spots is shown is figure
3.2.
(2)Time and Frequency of Monitoring
Monitoring is performed in a whole day.seperately in the morning,noon,aftemoon and
evening,amnounted to 16 times.
9.1.5.2 Assessment of Existing Status of Noise
In accordance with the noise level of different environmental function area,the single factor
assessment method is used.
9.1.6 Use of Land
Investigation on existing status of land use
9.1.7 Investigation and Evaluation of Socio-Economical Environment
9.1.7.1 Development of Socio-Economy
I )Population of distribution and residence
2)lnvestigation on industrial and agricultural production
3)Constituent of productivity values and economical benefits
4) Conditions of infrastructure.such as transportation,post and tele-communication
5)Regional economical policies and development trend
9.1.7.2 Investigation on Living Quality
22



23
I )Conditons of education.social culture and sanitation
2)Amusement facilities and places
3)Narural scenic spots of natural protection zone
4)Historical spots and relics
f)Earning and inhabitant condition
6)1nvestigation on people's health
9.1.8 Natural Environment
(] )Investigation on regional geology,climate and meteorology,hydrology and water
resources,status of biological resources
(2)Collecting of historical data of water quality and hydrology
(3)lnvestigation on locationscope and operation status of water supply and drainage projects
along the bank
(4)lnvestigation on existing flood control projects and historial flood records
9.2 Prediction of Environmental Impact
9.2.1 Social Economical Environmental Impact Assessment
9.2. 1.1 Impacts on econotical development
9.2.1.2 Impacts on public living quality
9.2 .1 3 Impacts on scenic spots
9.2.1.4 Impacts on ports and navigating ships during construction period
9.2.1.5 Impacts on community caused by land requisition
9.2.2 Prediction of Impacts on fishery resources
During the construction period, the regulation project will disturb the aquatic ecological
system.
( I)Forecast timing: Construction period
23



t
24
(2)Assessnent content
9.2.3 Analysis on flood raising and influence on Flood Control
(I )Analysis on flood raising after regulation project
Analyze the change of flood level before and after the regulation project using the results of
hydraulic model test and mathematical model calculation.
(2)Impacts on flood control
9.2.4 Analysis of Impacts on existing Water Supply and Drainage facilities
The impact will be analyzed and determined according to the layout of constructions, flood
raising, and the position, scale and running mode of the existing water supply and drainage
facilities.
9.2.5 Analysis of impacts on Scouring and Silting
Make brief analysis of the impact on the waterway and scouring and silting balance between
both side banks caused by the changes of hydrological factors such as flow pattem,discharge
and velocity.
9.2.6 Analysis on impact of waste earth
In accordance with the analogical investigation, makee the analysis on secondanr pollution
caused by waste earth.
9.2.7 Analysis on the Impact of Newly constructed Port Facilities on the Environment
(I )Brief introduction to the port facilities
(2)lmpacts of operation of existing ports
(3 )Impacts of existing port facilities
9.2.8 Assessment of Impacts on water quality
9.2.8.1 Prediction of Impacts on water Quality Caused by SS During Construction Period
(I )Prediction Model
dynamic model for SS:
24                                                                                               l



25                       
A.Hydrodynamic equations
I I'
ti +cx+  vc Zcx-v               c-H
C '             CV -   .        ,V(U + V )
_+ {   + v-+ g Cl+ ft+        2         =0°
c:    c~~~~c-
-+ -(Hu) +-(Hv) =0
h  cx        ci'
HdfS')  c .  cx'              C'
c7  cx   Cis  =cx~~~(E,H Hs)+-§(I,.'HT)+S,
where
LX,y  are time, longitudinal and transversal coordinates(sm)respectively;
u.v.w  are longitudinal transversal flow velocity and dynanic setting velocity
of SS(mls)respectively;
Z.H   are tidal level and water depth(m);
f,q,c  are Coriolis forceacceleration of gravity and chezy's constants
respectively;
s,s*,s*  are the concentration,entrainmented increasement and saturated
concentration respectively(gim3);
E,E, are the longitudinal,transversal dispersion coefficient(m2/s) and
matching coefficient.
Sm     is the source of sink.
(2)Calculation of pollutant load: see 'Analysis of Project"
(3)Prediction results
Calculate the distribution of SS concentration at high and low tidal levels under different
characteristic flow condition
9.2.8.2 Analysis on Impact of ship waste water
9.2.9 Prediction of Noise Impact
9.2.9.1 Analysis on Impact of Noise of Construction Machinery
According to the noise level of different construction machine, analysis the impact on
sensitive spot around the construction area.
25



26
9.2.9.2 Prediction of Ship Noise
(l)Prediction Model
Lep =T OlgNilO1L''']- lOlg            1 g - D  s
T,       2r
Where  m is the kind of ship;
Ni is the number of ships of kind i in time T;
T is monitoring time, s;
Tr is reference time;
l.4,v(r) is average noise level at the distance of r for the ships of kind i. dB(a):
D is width of the fiver, m;
r is the distance from the prediction point to waterway, m; and
a S is attenuation value in the air, dB(A).
(2)Detennination of Parameters
According to the measured data and formula, obtain various of parameter in above formula
(3)Prediction
Based on the noise level measured on site, calculate the navigation sound level under certain
pararneters(including ship flow, proportion of ship kinds and width of river):and make
assessment of impact scope and impact level on sensitive spot after regulation project.
9.2.10 Prediction of Reef-blasting Impact
Content of prediction: the impact on adjoined buildings and fishery resources caused by
shock waves
9.2.1 1 Impact on Land Use Caused by Land Requisition and Reclamation
9.2.12 Public Health
9.2.1I3 Analysis on riskl of ship pollution accidents and i'easures of prevention and emergency
9.2.14 Assessment of ship Solid waste Impact
According to the analysis of project, during operation period, the waste from ships
disposed to river directly will have influence on water quality.
26



27
(I )Prediction: ship waste;
(2)Prediction method: define the impact level using the analogical investigation data:
(3)Prediction results: analyze the influence on water quality caused by ship waste disposed
to river according to analogical data.
10 Public Participation
10.1 Content of Investigation
Collect the opinions and suggestion from public
10.2 Method of Investigation and Assessment
(1)[nmite specialists and engineers in different fields to take part in the consultation
meeting.The participation person is 20 - 30
(2)1nvestigation by questionnaire: ask questions in writing and record the asked person' s
age, profession, sexual, nationality and education degree
(3)Consult from social communities: collect opinions from national Congress and
Political Association in project cities
(4)Assessment method: make conclusion from the statistics of investigation results
11 Alternative Design
i 1.1 Analysis on Regulation Program
11.2 Analysis on Alternative Program
11.3 Comparison of Environmental Impact
12 Environmental Protection Measure
12.1 Countermeasures During Construction Period
12.1.1 Nleasures for guaranteeing the normal operation of water supply and drainage projects
12.1.2 eNlasures for protecting the aquatic organisms
27



28
12.1.3 Flood control measures and emer£ent plan
12.1.4 Analysis on Measures of scour and silt Impact
12.1.5 Measures for preventing impacts on water quality caused by dredging material(SS)
12.1.6 Measures for preventing secondary pollution caused by construction waste
12.1.7 Measures for preventing the impacts on navigation, residences and fish caused by
reef-blasting
12.1.8 Measures for preventing impacts on port operation caused by Dredging and Damming
12.1.9 Measures for preventing impacts on tramsportation during constructive Period
12.1.10 Measures for Noise Prevention
12.2 Countermeasures During Operation Period
12.2.1 Measures for prevention of waste water from navigation ships
12.2.2 Measures for Prevention of Garbage from ships
12.2.3 Measures for prevention of ship noise
12.2.4 Measures for prevention of naviption accident
13 Plan of Monitoring and Environmental Management
13.1 Monitoring Plan
The plan includes monitoring time, items, organizations staff and cost
13.2 Environmental Management Plan
(I )Setting Up the Environmental Management Organization and Formulating the Management
Regulations
(2)Work-ing Out the Environmental Management Plan for Construction
14  Analysis of Environmental Economics Cost And Benefit
15 Report submitting
28
L.



29
IS. I The environmental impact assessment report of watway rgulation project on the lower
xijiang nver(both Chinese and English versions)
15.2 Environiental Protection Plan For the Waterway Regulation on the Lower Xijiang
River both C hinese and English versions)
15.3 Summary of EIA for the waterway regulation project on lower xijiang river(both Chinese
and English versions)
16 Participating Personnel(see table 12)
17 Work Schedule(omitted)
18 Cost Estimation(Unit RMB 10 thousands)
18.1 Field Survey                                  1.0
18.2 data collection                               1.0
18.3 preparation of the TOR                        0.5
18.4 Sampling(including salary subsidy and traveling costs)  2.0
18.5 Analytical and Testing Cost                   2.0
18.6 Technical Service                             5.0
18.7 Preparation of Report                         2.0
18.8 Compiling of Action Plan                      1.0
18.9 Translation                                   3.0
18.10 Printing (including typing,editing and review)  2.0
18. I Traveling Cost                               2.0
18.12 Cost of Technical Approved                   2.0
18.13 Taxes                                        1.2
18.14 Management Cost                              1.2
18.15 Unpredicted Cost                             2.2
Total                                          28.1
Note: The exvra approved cost is paid by the owner of the project
29



-                  - --      --
I~~~~j 'm  .. 
.~~.                 I



National Environmental Protection Agency
Document of Environmental Engineering Appraisal Center
ID4)otIIleI I *1-\ I l-A'.\ 1 ..II lrolnimiwal \pprai{sal C ener I Q10b0 No. I104
Reviewi Opinions on the TOR of Environmental Impact Assessment
for the Waterwav Regulation Project in the Lower Xijiang River
bv U'sina W orld Bank Loan
Department of Development Supervision ot National Environmental Protection Agency:
According the environmental supervision construction izorrespondence II 9961 No. 104 of
NEPA. our center has technicall- reviewed TOR of En%ironmental Impact Assessment for
the Watenray Regulation Project in the Lower Xijiang River by i sing V orld Bank
Loan. The review opinions thus formed are stated below,
I. The contents of the outline is relatively complete. the description of the project is clear.
the assessment grade is proper. and the establishment of sub-topics is basicaill rational. The
TOR can be the basis for carrying out the assessment after amendment and supplementation.
and after approval.
2. The project is composed of n o waterways: Zhaoqina-Hutiaomen waterway and
Liansharony waterway. According to the requirement of environmental supervision 11993]
324. the assessment report should combine the assessment of the two watenvays. and the
chapters of the report should be modified and re-arranged.
3. Environmental functional regiions for the river sections of the watermav and their
corresponding standards should be supplemented. Figures should be attached to show in
details such environmental protection targets as the water intakles of each town. reproduction
areas of aquatic resources. and noise sensitive areas etc.
4. The execution of the project will change the flow pattern and hydrological conditions
of the regulated river sections. The assessment should focus on the impact to water source
areas. fisherv resources and flood control of the regulated sections during the construction
stage and operation stage.
5. The assessment of current environmental situations should makle full use the available
nionitorinmz data and the pollution source investigation data from each city in the project region.
and supplementarn monitoring should be conducted for the inadequate parts. Supplementarv
31



32
monitoring items are modified as Water Temnperture. pH, DO, CODM. . BOD5, Total P,
SS, and oil. Monitoring items of sediments are added with Hg, oil and DDT. Noise moniton
points should be adjusted according to environmental protection targets.
6. The impact of SS from dredging and harmful substances on the protection target
should be predicted with models. Change of hydrological conditions, impact on scouring ano
silting, and on flood control after the regulation can be analyzed with the results of one
dimensional hydrodynamic computation. Inpact of waste earth and dredged materials on
dumping places can be analyzed with comparative method. For ship pollution, the kinds and
amount of freights, and ship types should be analyzed and determined. Ship noise should be
predicted with the empirical modified model. Analysis of impact of shock waves from reef
blasting on aquatic resources must be strengthened, and feasible preventive measures should
be put forward.
7. The sub-topic of Social Impact Assessment should be added, which shall include the
impact of construction on harbor and navigating ships, and the impact of land occupation and
removal.
Risk analysis of ship pollution accidents should be conducted, and emergency measures
of pollution control should be put forward.
Environmental and economic benefit and loss analysis should include the analysis of
positive benefit.
8. Assessment standards should be confirmed by Guangdong Province Environmental
Protection Bureau with formal document.
Official seal of
Environmental Engineering Appraisal Center
National En-ironinental Protection Agency
August 15, 1996
32



34 
I
Official seal of
Department of Development Supervision
National Envirommental Protection Agency
August 23, 1996                                                                             [
Keywords: waterway    environmental impact   TOR   review  conespondence
Other recipients: Environmental Protection Office of the Ministy of Cormnunications
Guangdong Provincial Environmental Protecion Bureau, Guangdong Provincial Departmnent
of Water Conservancy and Electricity. Guangdong Provincial Waterway Bureau, Scientific
Institute of Pearl River Water Resources Protection, Environmental Engineering Evaluation
Center of National Environmental Protection Bureau.
.1
I.
I
L



35
Appendix 5.
Guangdong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
Guangdong Environmental Construction Correspondence [1996] No. 18
Reply Correspondence on the Assessment Standards of the
Environmental Impact Assessment for the Waterway Regulation
Project in Lower Xijiang River by Using World Bank Loan
Provincial Waterway Bureau:
The Assessment Standard of Environmental Impact Assessment for the Waterway
Regulation Project in Lower Xijiang River, drafted by Scientific Institute of Pearl River Water
Resources Protection and submitted bv your bureau, was received. After study, our reply is as
follows.
1. Environmental quality standard
Water environmental quality are assessed with Class 2 and Class 3 standards of GB3838-
88 and Fishery Water Quality Standards (GB 11607-89). If there is functional division of
waters. the required standards must be followed.
Air quality standards follow GB3095-82.
Noise quality standards follow GB3096-93.
2. Pollutant discharge standards
Pollutant discharges follows the corresponding standards of Water Pollutant Discharge
Standards of Guangdong Province (GB4426-89) and Air Pollutant Discharge Standards of
Guangdong Province (GB4427-89).
Official seal of
Environmental .Management of Development Projects
Guangdong Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau
August 22, 1996
*           .   Other recipients: Environmental Protection Bureaus of Zhaoqing City, Jiangrnen City,
Zhongshan City, Shunde City, and Panyu City, Scientific Institute of Pearl River Water
Resources Protection
35



0.3
Snnsanj;no Station
0.6                       -j -i) -4/ RI Ilongqli   Stntion
-s latslbawei Station
0.4
2          4. v  5    fi    7    g            I)    I I 12   1 3                IG6 16 7 I  K   19   20   21   22   23S  2;1
-0.2
-o.6
.II 4-i .M1ki U J - i
Fig 4. 1 TIhe l)ecseted Wnter Level Cturves



e.ae  4.63  9.25  13.88 1e.s0 23.13 27.75 32.  37.00
66.00  j,,  I, j,    j,6                                 66.80
60.sa Se   S a n        _      _ =        , , 11ee.s
2L
16.5_ L
11.t0                                                   27.50
.sa t            <,                       22~~~~~~~~~~.so
L
M.88                                                    0.03
0.00. 4.63  9.hi 13.38 18.50 22.12 27.75 22.38 37.00
n 4-2  *X Bt;2;J2i5  (Ax-2OOm)
F1gL4. 2Xe Cat  aSd Cd. j(Ay  Zm
55



0.8
-.*^ilj  Series I
...6 ... 3  iJ2    series  I\
0.6
23    4 5         6   7   8   9   10   121314    5  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24 '
-o.2     -             u;Jt   ( 'I'U4 )
Tine (h1
-0.4
m 4-~3  @4Mktl@iiE
4 3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Fig 4. 3 The (omnparing of lthc Detected and t1he CalcuIDIed Water Levew Curves at The Rongqi Stwtioii      in
1*..S.



"     ,,           -:          .                                    * ,                     *5,A         o6   
-I 1..                                                                                                                      ...-- -. o-., ...  
CDf.  -\  .    \ I1-/*  ,, 
o   ~.j    -  ....., , 
-                                         .,/: :. .    '.1;.
,- e, ~~~~~~.. , *.*7
8  -  .....   t47                      -
.    .......  ........   ......  .  _._.  ....  , . . .._..-_.7...-
UX~~I 
:~I



\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                            g a  s.,.>
*  .5......                                                            *...  ISIS1,,,.m
\j; " | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                .  5.95.5;; N
..   A  :F  -  .................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.5              eSI.   Su;g  
/-/  *  "   |  |   0   t   2   |   |   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,  $i;t 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'5W"99
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 a*' 83 -38 a 8 a 8  a         8        a
3   s   E   .   t   X   8   S        A        g         x        _        @         @               u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M



In  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -.                       lii~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-4    M1....._zw
en~ g -;N;                                                                                                                  grs
-t ' 0i ~    'V iiXd-n^
'4 N_RSa                                                                                  , /ll
K?8I__            \X          \0                                       "t\8'
bL           K                 \;    I1'/'\8t
0                           \::\  11:                                                                                                                ",
0i  X:  . .',z,
C L::::                                                      STh1w   
toN1                                                           -   >t\w



66.00
6e. so  t         i
49.50 
44.00
38. 50 _
3. 00
27.5 0
22.00-
16.50
11.00
0.00
0. 00  4.75  9.50  14.25 19.00 23.775 2B.50 33.25 38.00
-    14-7 W1 I*6
J Fig 4. 7T he idal FFd in, t Mi &...fl
60



26.25  -
*  23.00
13.25
1000
1.00   4.06   7.17  10.25 13.33 16.42 19.50 22.58 26.67 28.75 31.83 34.92 38.00
91 4 - 8      b ^                  ...-t
:                        ;Fig 4. 8 TIhc Calculated Content of SS at the End of Flux on the Bansibawei Point
::. 



1.00  4.08  7.17  10.25 13,33\16.4  19.50 22.50 25.67 28.75 31.83 34.92 38.00
2. 25                                                                                        26.26
-        ~~:23. e  _\                                                                                   23.00
,*-.* 7 5                                                                                    19 * 7E5
16.25
13. 25
Ila~. oj0                                                                                    I0.00
6.75
1.00  4.08  7.1 7 10.25 13.33 16.42 19.50 22.56 26.67 28.75 31.83 34.92 38.00
1 4-    SOMA s  tiiyKW SS fRiiR  (i.f3!t-ORM)                         t
Fig 4. 9 The Calculated Content of SS at the Enid of Reflux on the Baaisliawei Point



47.2S L           K......3  ~
29.42-
F-- --                                                     -- 
27.6
_, . 7 s 
137,. 2 L 
12.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O. L
e.~~ ~ ~ 25
e.2~~~  i          ,  ~~,   -,'
1.00    6.00    ii00   1 6. 0f!  2'0t  '21600   31.00    0 0   41.-0'
~ivn.10Te Caiculated Content of SS at tine End of Flux -on the Daiiangchongitou Point
63



47.25               r              -
3S. so
,31 . s
.25I,, W 1.5
27.67
22.75
19.823
15.92 
12.00e
0. 25
1.00      6.00       11.00    16.00    21.00    26.00    31.00   36.00   41.0'
Fig 4. 11 The Calculated Content of SS at the End of Reflux an the Daliaqoghngkou Point
64



26.25
24.08
21.92
19.75
17.O58
15.42
13.25
11.08 
S. 92
6.75
4.5se
2.42
0.25
t.00      4.08       7.17      10.25    13.33    16.42    19.50    22.58    26.67    28.75    31.23    34.92    38 00
m .  -12       t    hfo i on t-Il            oi i
F; g 4. 12 Il he t-alculated C'ontent of SS at the End of Flux an the I iusnt" t rOlt



26. 26
24    *                                                                                             ;0
24.08_
21.92 _
19.76 
17.58 
15.42
13.25
11.60
0.92
6.75
4.58
2.42
1.00       4.00        7.17       10.25      13.13    16.42    19.50    22.56    26.67    28.75    31.03    34.92                        383.00    '
fluI. 13  *MkiDtASs NIfiB.-S-0141J
Fig 4. 13 ITle CnIculated Content of SS egti,. End o( Rellux on thle I luoshisotul Poiint
\  \                                    '                '''  .~~~~~~~~~~~



1
(2n)
6                                                                                            b lefora, rcgUt~iOpfsl - Xi*Q 4" thi
after regalluaios    -ItR   fIJA
aiSk                  d;r~~~~~liection of llow
2.5                                                                                                                          ON
;!     Ronggui    Walenvny.              . ~~~l.ijia'Shs    Waterway    SlmnwanWne 
Nanlhua,                                 Rong*;  _ t* VO*W                             *i             nsulol1ttl*l 
4.5
t.5      5        10      18      20'    25       30      35      40      45      50     55      60       65s    70       75   L (0)
2.5~~~~~~~~~~P 
Figure 4 -14  Clange of Water Level Curve along  lie a    Slin - Rolu Waterway I .  enario .1



