Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4328 CHA
Project Agreement
(Second Inland Waterways Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GUANGDONG PROVINCE 
and 
JIANGSU PROVINCE
Dated December 18, 1998 
LOAN NUMBER 4328 CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  December 18, 1998, among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and GUANGDONG PROVINCE (Guangdong) and JIANGSU PROVINCE 
(Jiangsu) (Guangdong and Jiangsu hereinafter collectively referred to as the Project 
Provinces, and individually as a Project Province). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s 
Republic Of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to one hundred twenty three million dollars 
($123,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the 
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering 
and economic practices, and safety and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for its Respective Part of the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Project Province concerned shall otherwise agree, each 
Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement and its Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, each Project Province shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and said Project Province, 
a plan for the 
future operation of  its Respective Part of the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
said Project 
Province on said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of its Respective Part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b)
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its Respective Part of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by 
said Project Province of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of its 
Respective Part of the Project of the departments or agencies of such Project Province 
responsible for carrying out its Respective Part of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Each Project Province shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
Page  3
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; 
and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of each Project 
Province thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify each 
Project Province thereof. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Guangdong Province:
Guangdong People’s Government
305 Dongfeng Road 
Guangzhou 510031
Guangdong Province
People’s Republic of China
Telex:
44437 GDSIC CN
Page  4
For Jiangsu Province:
Jiangsu People’s Government
68 West Beijing Road
Nanjing 210024
Jiangsu Province
People’s Republic of China
Telex:
342250 FBOJP
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project 
Province may be taken or executed by a Vice Governor of said Project Province or such 
other person or persons as such Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and said 
Project Province shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President 
East Asia and Pacific
GUANGDONG PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
JIANGSU PROVINCE
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Page  5
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification Bidders shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors, excluding goods manufactured in and works 
carried out by contractors from Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. 
(c)
Dispute Review Board 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works under Part A.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $28,800,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
International and National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost (i) the equivalent of $100,000 or more but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $600,000 in respect of each of the Project Provinces, and (ii) less than 
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $400,000 in respect of each of the Project Provinces, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international and national shopping 
procedures, respectively, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
Page  6
$1,000,000 or more, and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications Services under Parts A.2, A.3, 
B.2 and B.3 of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
Page  7
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
A.
Resettlement and Environmental Action Plans
In respect of its Respective Part of the Project, each Project Province shall: 
(a)
carry out its Respective RAP and Respective EAP in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in sub-paragraph 
(a) above to the Bank for its prior approval; and  
(c)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the plans referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above. 
B.
Institutional Development
1.
Each Project Province shall carry out the training under: (a) Part A.2 in 
respect of Guangdong Province, and (b) Part B.2 in respect of Jiangsu Province, in 
accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Guangdong shall: (a) by no later than December 31, 2000, complete the study on 
navigational safety measures under Part A.3 (i) of the Project in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and provide to the Bank for its review and 
comments the results and recommendations of such study; and (b) thereafter, put into 
effect the recommendations of such study taking into consideration the Bank’s comments 
thereon.
3.
Guangdong shall: (a) by no later than December 31, 2001, complete the study on 
the commercialization of the dredging department of GPWB under Part A.3 (ii) of the 
Project, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and provide to 
the Bank for its review and comments the results and recommendations of such study; 
and (b) thereafter, implement the recommendations of such study taking into 
consideration the Bank’s views thereon.
4.
Jiangsu shall: (a) by  no later than December 31, 2001, complete the second 
phase of a study on vessel size and efficiency of waterway transport under Part  B.3 
of the Project, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and 
provide to the Bank for its review and comments the results and recommendations of 
such study; and (b) thereafter, implement the recommendations of such study taking 
into considerations the Bank’s views thereon. 
5.
In respect of Part A.2 (ii) of the Project, Guangdong shall: (a) prepare under 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank a plan for the collection of additional revenues for 
GPWB, including a channel construction fee, for the purpose of raising the annual 
revenues of GPWB; (b) by no later than July 1, 1999 furnish to the Bank for its review 
and comments said revenue collection plan; and (c) take all actions necessary on its 
part to put into effect said revenue collection plan for the fiscal year starting on 
January 1, 2000, taking into account the Bank’s views thereon
6.
In respect of Part A.2 (ii) and Part B.2 (ii) of the Project, Guangdong and 
Jiangsu shall cause GPWB and JPWB, respectively, to: (a) by no later than June 30 of 
each year, starting in 1999, furnish to the Bank a rolling five-year financing plan 
for GPWB and JPWB, respectively, satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) thereafter, take 
all action to implement said financing plan. 
Page  8
C.
Monitoring and Reporting
Each Project Province shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, (i) a quarterly report on January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of 
each year, starting on April 30, 1999; and (ii) a mid-term report on or about July 31, 
2002, in each case integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of its Respective Part of  the Project during the period preceding 
the date of each such report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by October 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) (ii) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its 
Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the 
matter.
