Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4328 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Second Inland Waterways Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 18, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4328 CHA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  December 18, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Project Provinces (as defined in 
Section 1.02 (n) of this Agreement) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Project Provinces the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Project Provinces;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as revised 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Page  2
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the 
following additional terms, wherever used in this Agreement, have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(b)
“EAPs” means, collectively, the Guangdong EAP and the Jiangsu EAP; “EAP” 
means either of the EAPs; and “Respective EAP” means, in respect of Guangdong 
Province, the Guangdong EAP, and in respect of Jiangsu Province, the Jiangsu EAP. 
(c)
“Guangdong” means Guangdong Province, a political sub-division of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
(d)
“Guangdong EAP” means the Environmental Action Plan dated March 1998, 
referred to in paragraph A of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out 
environmental protection measures in respect of Part A.1 of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said Plan.
(e)
“Guangdong Provincial Waterways Bureau” and “GPWB” mean the agency of 
Guangdong Province responsible for the development, construction, operation and 
maintenance of the waterways within said Province, and any successor thereto. 
(f)
“Guangdong RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan dated August 1996  in 
respect of Part A.1 of the Project, referred to in paragraph A of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said Plan.  
(g)
“Guangdong Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) (i) of this Agreement. 
(h)
“Jiangsu” means Jiangsu Province, a political sub-division of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto. 
(i)
“Jiangsu EAP” means the Environmental Action Plan dated February 1998, 
referred to in paragraph A of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, which sets out 
environmental protection measures in respect of Part B.1 of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said Plan.
(j)
“Jiangsu Provincial Waterways Bureau” and “JPWB” mean the agency of 
Jiangsu Province responsible for the development, construction, operation and 
maintenance of the waterways within said Province, and any successor thereto. 
(k)
“Jiangsu RAP” means the Resettlement Action Plan dated February 1998 in 
respect of Part B.1 of the Project, referred to in paragraph A of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with said Plan. 
(l)
“Jiangsu Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) (ii) of this Agreement. 
(m)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement among the Bank and Guangdong 
Province and Jiangsu Province of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement. 
(n)
“Project Provinces” means, collectively, Guangdong and Jiangsu; and 
“Project Province” means either of the Project Provinces.
(o)
“RAPs” means, collectively, the Guangdong RAP and the Jiangsu RAP; “RAP” 
means either of the RAPs; and “Respective RAP” means, in respect of Guangdong 
Province, the Guangdong RAP, and in respect of Jiangsu Province, the Jiangsu RAP. 
Page  3
(p)
“Respective Part of the Project” means, in respect of Guangdong, Part A 
of the Project, and in respect of Jiangsu, Part B of the Project. 
(q)
“Respective Part of the Proceeds of the Loan” means, in respect of 
Guangdong, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1), and 
in respect of Jiangsu, the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Category (2).  
(r)
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Guangdong Special Account and 
the Jiangsu Special Account; “Special Account” means either of the Special Accounts; 
and “Respective Special Account” means, in respect of Guangdong Province, the 
Guangdong Special Account, and in respect of Jiangsu Province, the Jiangsu Special 
Account. 
(s)
“Waterways” means, collectively, (i) in respect of Part A of the Project, 
the Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen Waterway and the Nanhua-Lianhuashan Waterway, and (ii) in 
respect of Part B of the Project, the Grand Canal.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred twenty three million dollars ($123,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain: 
(i)
a special deposit account for purposes of Part A of the Project; 
and 
(ii)
a special deposit account for purposes of Part B  of the Project; 
each in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, 
and payments out of, each 
Respective Special Account shall be made in 
accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial 
period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars 
for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 
in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause each of the Project Provinces to perform in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of said Project Province therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said 
Project Province to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to each Project Province its Respective 
Part of the Proceeds of the Loan on the following principal terms: 
(i)
the principal amount so made available shall be the equivalent in 
Dollars 
(determined on the respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account) of 
the value of the currency 
or currencies so withdrawn or paid out; 
(ii)
said Project Province shall repay, in Dollars, the principal 
amount so made 
available to it over a period of twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace 
period of five (5) years; 
and 
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge interest on such principal amount 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to 
Page  5
time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of this 
Agreement; and 
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge a commitment charge on the principal 
amount not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to 
three-fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%) per annum.   
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each 
Project Province in respect of its Respective Part of the Project, pursuant to Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures 
are retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account was made; and (iii)
enable the Bank's 
representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
either Project Province shall have failed to perform any of its 
Page  6
obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either Project Province will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by each Project Province, and is legally binding upon said 
Project Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People’s Republic of China 
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486
Beijing
MFPRC CN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Zhaoxing
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)   for Part A of the Project
(a)
Works
  43,000,000
62%
(b)
Goods
  15,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) 
and 75% 
of local expenditures 
for other items
procured locally
(c)
Consultants’
    1,000,000
100%
services and training
(d)
Unallocated
  11,000,000
 (2)   for Part B of the Project
(a)
Works
  38,000,000
62%
(b)
Goods
    6,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally 
(c)
Consultants'
      500,000
100%
services and training
Page  8
(d)
Unallocated
    8,500,000
   __________
TOTAL
  123,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; provided, however, that 
expenditures in the currency of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
Borrower for goods and services supplied from said region shall be deemed to be 
“foreign expenditures”; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
US$12,300,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after March 30, 1998.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent; 
(b)
works under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent;
(c)
consultants’ services under contracts awarded to: (i) consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (ii) individual consultants costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (d)
training; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to increase the efficiency, productivity and 
competitiveness of inland waterways transport in the Provinces of Guangdong and 
Jiangsu (the Project Provinces) through the upgrading of inland waterways 
infrastructure and the institutional  strengthening of the provincial inland waterways 
agencies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Guangdong Province
1.
Improvement of the Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen Waterway and the Nanhua-Lianhuashan 
Waterway, including: (i) renovation of the Waterways; (ii) construction of about 107 
channel markers on the Zhaoqing-Hutiaomen Waterway and about 58 channel markers on the 
Nanhua-Lianhuashan Waterway, including related control station and remote monitoring 
system; (iii) renovation of the waterways maintenance stations at Zhaoqing, Jiangmen, 
Chencun and Rongqi; (iv) construction of four terminals for inland waterways work 
boats at Zhaoqing, Jiangmen, Chencun and Rongqi; and (v) provision of equipment to 
operate and maintain the Waterways and related maintenance stations, and to facilitate 
vessel navigation and management.
2.
Development and carrying out of an institutional strengthening program for the 
Guangdong Provincial Waterways Bureau and related provincial agencies, through the 
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to: (i) create a database of 
information on inland waterways vessels and develop a new management information 
system; and (ii) increase the capacity of said agencies in the areas of waterways 
Page  9
management, planning, development and financing; design, construction and maintenance; 
environmental protection and monitoring; and project management and implementation.
3.
Undertaking of: (i) a study of measures to promote navigational safety on the 
Waterways and (ii) a study on the commercialization of the dredging department of 
Guangdong Provincial Waterways Bureau.
Part B:
Jiangsu Province 
1.
Construction of five shiplocks at Xietai, Suqian, Huaiyin, Huaian and Jianbi on 
the Grand Canal, and provision of equipment to operate and maintain said shiplocks.
2.
Development and carrying out of an institutional strengthening program for the 
Jiangsu Provincial Waterways Bureau and related provincial agencies, through the 
provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to: (i) create a database of 
information of inland waterways vessels and develop a new management information 
system; and (ii) increase the capacity of said agencies in the areas of waterways 
management, planning, development and financing; design, construction and maintenance; 
environmental protection and monitoring; and project management and implementation.  
3.
Undertaking of the second phase of a study on vessel size and efficiency of 
waterway transport.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
January 15, 2004
2,600,000 
July 15, 2004
2,675,000 
January 15, 2005
2,755,000 
July 15, 2005
2,840,000 
January 15, 2006
2,920,000 
July 15, 2006
3,010,000 
January 15, 2007
3,100.000 
July 15, 2007
3,190,000 
January 15, 2008
3,285,000 
July 15, 2008
3,380,000 
January 15, 2009
3,480,000 
July 15, 2009
3,585,000 
January 15, 2010
3,690,000 
July 15, 2010
3,800,000 
January 15, 2011
3,915,000 
July 15, 2011
4,030,000 
January 15, 2012
4,150,000 
July 15, 2012
4,275,000 
January 15, 2013
       4,400,000 
July 15, 2013
4,530,000 
January 15, 2014
4,665,000 
July 15, 2014
4,800,000 
January 15, 2015
       4,945,000 
July 15, 2015
5,090,000 
January 15, 2016
       5,240,000 
July 15, 2016
5,400,000 
January 15, 2017
       5,560,000 
July 15, 2017
5,725,000 
January 15, 2018
       5,890,000 
July 15, 2018
6,075,000
_______________________________ 
Page  10
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means, in respect of: (i) Part A of the 
Project, Categories (1) (a), (1) (b) and (1) (c); and (ii) Part B of the Project, 
Categories (2) (a), (2) (b) and (2) (c); 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $4,000,000 in 
respect of the Guangdong Special Account for Part A of the Project and an amount equal 
to $4,000,000 in respect of the Jiangsu Special Account for Part B thereof, to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Respective Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal 
to $2,500,000 in respect of the Guangdong Special Account for Part A of the Project 
and an amount equal to $2,500,000 in respect of the Jiangsu Special Account for Part B 
thereof, until (i) in respect of the Guangdong Special Account, the aggregate amount 
of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Categories (1) (a), (1) (b) and (1) 
(c), plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A of the Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the amount of $15,000,000, and (ii) in respect of the 
Jiangsu Special Account, the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account 
allocated to Categories (2) (a), (2) (b) and (2) (c), plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions for Part B of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
amount of $10,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for said Special Account.  On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Respective Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
Page  11
been paid out of 
the Respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  12
