FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 215-NIa
APPRAISAL OF AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
NICARAGUA
October 23, 1973
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted |
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
U1s1                               = Nicaragua Cordoba 7.00
Nicaragua Cordoba 1                     oUS$o.1428
Nicaragua Cordoba 1,000,000         Us$142,800
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2 quintal = 46 kilograms          = 101.5 pounds
21.74 quintals = 1 metric ton     = 2,204.6 pounds
1 banana box = 19.05 kilograms    = 42 pounds
1 meter (m)                       = 1.09 yards
I kilometer (kn)                  = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2        = 2.47 acres
1 manzana = 0.69 ha               = 1.70 acres
1 liter (1)                       = 0.26 gallon
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
CB            - Central Bank of Nicaragua
FONDO         - Special Development Fund
BN            - Banco Nacional de Nicaragua
BANIC         - Banco Nicaraguense
INFOMAC       - National Development Institute
1DB           - Inter-American Development Bank
UND?          - United Nations Development Program
IAN           - Agrarian Institute of Nicaragua
INCEI         - Institute for External and Internal Trade
UNASEC        - Agricultural Sector Survey Uinit
CACM          - Central American Common Market
CASA          - Rice Milling Cooperative Inc.
FONDO FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



NICARAGUA
APPRAISAL OF AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
A                                                                                     Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS.i ii-
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................................1
II. BACKGROUND .1
A. General   I. .
B. Agricultural Sector             .         .                   2
C. Agricultural Credit.                                          4
III. THE PROJECT.                                                       6
A.  Definition ...................-                              6
B.   Detailed Features ..............                            7
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing.                              10
D.   Procurement and Disbursement    .           .12
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMFNT             . . .13
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS ......             17
A. Production.                                                  17
B.   Marketing.........                                          18
C. Producer Benefits .19
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    .                .                 20
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS .21
Schedule A. Terms and Conditions of Lending
,This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nicaragua
in January/February 1973, consisting of Messrs. C. G. Ramasubbu, Frank
Thomas, and J. J. Romero-Chavez (Bank) and R. A. Crofts (consultant) and
G. Sandoval (Bank trainee from Nacional Financiera, Mexico).



TABLE. OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
cTEXES
1.   Agricultural Background:
Table 1  Area and Population Density
Table 2 Land Use by activity
Table 3 Gross National Product
Table 4 Production, Area and Yield of principal Crops
Table 5 Principal Agricultural Exports
Table 6 Farm Size Distribution
2.   Banking System and Agricultural Credit:
Table I Financial Accounts Of the Central Bank of Nicaragua
Table 2  Interest Rates authorized by the Central Bank of Nicaragua
Table 3  Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Accounts of Banco Nacional
Table 4 Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Accounts of INFONAC
Table 5 Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Accounts of Private
Commercial Banks
3.   Livestock Development:
Table 1  Statistics of Livestock Farms
Table 2  Beef Statistics
Table 3  Production of Milk in Nicaragua
Table 4  Beef Exports by Value and Destination
Table 5  Beef Exports by Volume and Destination
Table 6  Cattle Slaughter Statistics
Table 7  Beef Imports into United States under the Voluntary Program
Table 8  Forecasts of Beef and Veal Production and Imports
Table 9  Production and Trade in Milk Products in Central America
4.   Irrigated Crops
5.   Summary:  List of Goods
6.   Project Cash Flow
7.   Disbursement Estimate
8,   Projected FONDO Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Statements
9    FONDO and the Participating Banks:
Table t Net Profits and Current and Social Expenditure of MN
10. Producer Incon.es and Financial Rates of Return on Investments:



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Appendix 10-1  Farm Model 0    Rainfed Dairy
Appendix 10-2  Farm Model 2  Irrigated Dairy
Appendix 10-3  Farm Model 3  Rainfed Beef Breeding and Fattening
Appendix 10-4  Farm Model 4  Irrigated Pastures and Beef Fattening
Appendix 10-5  Farm Model 5  Irrigated Plantain
Appendix 10-6  Farm Model 6  Irrigated Sugarcane
11.  Economic Rates of Return:
Appendix 11-1  Economic Rates of Return to Enterprises
MAPS
0s






NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SU1MARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an agricultural credit project to support a
three-year lending program  for finaancing investments on about 550 ranches/
farms under five major categories:  rainfed dairy, irrigated dairy, rainfed
beef breeding and fattening; beef fattening on irrigated pastures; and ir-
rigated crops.  Agriculture is important to Nicaragua, contributing 70%
of the country's exports and 25% of its GDP and employing 60% of the labor
force. Conditions essential to growth in this sector are acceleration of
the on-going process of diversification away from the traditional export
crops such as coffee, and improvement of the technical effi.ciency and expan-
sion of agricultural production, especially livestock, for which the country
is well suited by its natural resources but inadequately equipped iD. term5
of credit and extension.  The project seeks to meet these needs part:1y 'y
providing long-term credit and supporting technical assistance to sub-
borrowers in a spectrum of ranch/farm sizes.
ii.        This would be the fifth Bank loan to Nicaragu.a in the agricu tural
sector. The first three, made in the 1950's for grain silos and machinery,
were almost fully disbursed but the fourth, approved in 1963 for financing
an irrigation project, remained largely undisbursed and was later cancelled,
mainly because of an unforeseen rise in project cost.
iii.       The proposed loan of US$8.5 million to the the Central Bank of
Nicaragua (CB) on the guarantee of the Republic of Nicaragua would finaace
54% (which is almost equal to the foreign excharige component) of total proj ect
cost, estimated at US$15.8 iaillion equivalent.  The Special Development F nd
(FONDO), owned by Government and administered by the CB, Swold contribut 
US$1.6 million equivalent, or about 10% of the total cost, while the baldnce
of about 36% would be contributed in equal shares by the participating bas ks
and the sub-borrowers. Of the project cost, 26% would be for rainfed dairy
farms; 12% for irrigated dairy farms; 26% for rainfed beef breeding and
fattening ranches; 18% for irrigated beef fattpening unIts; and '12% for irrigated
crop farms.  The balance would be for supporting and tech nical servIces.
iv.        The period of sub-loans would vary from five years for irrigatsd
beef fattening to 1 2 years for rainfed beef. Loans to relatively small
beneficiaries would be charged interest at i0.25% and others would p1ay 72-,$
made up of 11% interest and an appraisal and suparvision fee of 1%
While the FONDO would earn a spread only on loans to sub-borrowers other
than smal'l beneficiaries, participating banks would retain a larger awiouiat
(3%) on loans to small sub-borrowers than on those to others (2.50%)..  Other
features of the project aimed at ensuring that project lending would not be
restricted to a few large ranchers would be (a) the smaller contributions



- ii 
required from banks and small beneficiaries to projects of such sub-borrowers;
(b) the stipulation that no sub-loan would be made by a participating bank to
a,ixS sub-borrower in excess of US$100,000; (c) the condition that the annual
pKToportion of loans to small beneficiaries to total project loans made would
be at least 15% in the first year, 20% in the second year and 25% in the third
year, and (d) the reservation of US$1.5 million out of the Bank loan proceeds
for such sub-borrowers.
v.        The project would be administered by the Central Ba-nk for the FONDO
through a Special Project Unit.  The FONDO would finance sub-borrowers through
the Government-owned Banco Nacional de Nicaragua (BN), the largest bank in. thte
country and the major institutional source of agricultural credit, and through
six private commercial banks whose modest role in agriculture has so far beer
restricted mainly to production credit.  The Special Project IUnit, under an
internationally recruited Technical Director and a Nicaraguan Co-Director,
would employ its own technicians and also guide those engaged by the banks to
appraise and supervise their sub-loans.  The project would strengthen BN's
current efforts to improve its financial position.
vi.       Items to be financed are varied and would not be suitable for bulk
procurement th'rough international competitive biddirng.  Farmers/ranchers
would make their purchases through normal co7.ercial channels, which prow-de
adequate competition and supplies and represent various international firmz.
Vehicles and supplies costing $20,000 or more which are required for tech.nical
services would be procured on the basis of quotations invited through local
advertizing with notification to embassies to assure international competition.
vii.      Estimated financial rates of return range from  17% to 40% and the
estimated overall economic rate of return is 25%X   With appropriate assur-
ances, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan. of US$&85 million re-
payable in 16 years, including five years of grace. The borrower wou-ld be
the Central Bank of Nicaragua and the loan would be guaranteed by the Re-
public of Nicaragua.



NI CARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREIDIT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Despite reserves of natural resources and the enterprise of com-
mercial farmers raising established crops, agricultural development in
Nicaragua has been handicapped by the lack of suitable term lending facil-
ities, especially from commercial banks, and the inadequacy of extension
services. The proposed project is designed to help remedy these weaknesses
by providing medium- and long-term  credit, together with supporting technical
assistance, for financing investment in the livestock and crop sub-sectors
of Nicaraguan agriculture. A loan of US$8.5 million to the Central Bank of
Nicaragua (CB) on the guarantee of the Republic of Nicaragua is recommended.
1.02      The Bank has made four loans to Nicaragua in the agriculutural
sector: (A) NI-52 of US$550,000 in 1951 for construction of grain silos;
(b) NI-44 of US$1,200,000 in 1951 to Banco Nacional de Nicaragua (Bli') for
purchase of agricultural machinery; (c) NI-130 of US$1,500,000 in 1955 to
Instituto de Fomento Nacional (INFONAC) for equipment, machinery, and sup-
plies for opening up new land, pasture improvement, and purchase of breeding
stock and such; and (d) NI-332 of US$2,600,000 in 1963 for the Rivas Irriga-
tion Project. The first three were almost fully disbursed, but only US$0.12
million of the last loan was drawn, the balance being cancelled, mainly be-
cause of an unforeseen increase in project cost and the inability.to deter-
mine suitable high-value crops on the basis of available technical and ec-
onomic data.
1.03      The reports of two FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program missions which
visited Nicaragua in February/March 1972 and of a Bank pre-appraisal mis-
sion in July 1972 and further preparatory work done by. CB provided the
basis for this project. This report is based on the findings of an ap-
praisal mission to Nicaragua in January/February 1973, consisting of
Messrs. C.G. Ramasubbu, Frank Thomas, and J.,J  Romero-Chavez (Bank), and
R.A. Crofts (consultant) and C. Sandoval (Bank trainee from Nacional
Financiera, Mexico).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      Nicaragua has an area of 118,358 knm  and an estimated population
of about 2.1 million in 1972 (which is growing at about 3.2% per year),
representing an average density of about 18 per km2. The country is divided
0



-2-
into three distinct zones: the Pacific, the Atlantic, and the Central (Map),
The Pacific Zone, which extends broadly from the border wlth Honduras to the
western shore of Lake Nicaragua, is endowed with fertile soils and consistent
rainfall.  It is the most accessible in terms of roads and inland water rotates
and accounts for 60% of the population. The most sparsely populated and poor-
ly developed is the Atlantic Zone, which extends from the lower sloues of the
Central Highlands to the Atlantic Coast and is characterized by heavy rainfall,
tropical forests, and poor roads.  Between the two lies the Cerntral Zone with
its mountain ranges, small plateaus, and valleys of grasslands.  Despite ln-
creasing migration to urban areas - Managua alone accounting for about a fit th'
of the country's population - about 52% live in rural areas.
2.02      Because economic growth has been affected in the vast by cyclical
fluctuations in the world markets for a few primarv comnodities, export di-
versification has been a major goal of national pollcy.  These efforts have
helped cotton to replace coffee as Nicaragua's main export and, meat, tex-
tiles, and chemicals to emerge as new exports. Annual growth rate of GDP at
1958 market prices averaged 4.3% between 1966 and 1970 and the per capita
income reached US$436 by 1971 but the benefits of growth have not been wide-
ly dispersed.  The earthquake which rocked MTanagua in Decemiber 19?'2., has -re-
sulted in a loss estimated at about one-third of the 1972 GNP and about 10%
of the nation's capital stock.  Reconstructionv is now actively in progressn
supported by external assistance.
2.03      Nicaragua's overall balance of payments position is comfortable,.
thanks to high reserves, favorable prices for traditional exports and exter_-
nal aid.  Its balance of trade in agricultural products has been favorable,
desoite fluctuating export earnings resulting from world Tmarket trends.   a
eluding sugar and meat, agricultural exports rose from USIJS49 million i,i 1960
to US$132 million in 1971 and US$163 million in 1972 (estimated).  Agricul-
tural imports (US$9 million in 1972) mainly included vegetab'les, maize,
plantains, and beans.  The 1972 drought has affected exports and increased
the need for imports, some of which, however, are being fi-nanced bv P-Xternal
grants .
B. Agricultural Sector
2.04      Agriculture is important to Nicaragua as, it accounts for about 25%
of GDP, nearly 70%. of exports, and about 50 to 60% of total employment.  Tlle
structure of agriculture is dualistic, with a modernized sector of large- and
medium-sized farms producing export-oriented crops such as cotton, coffee,
sugarcane, bananas and irrigated rice and beef and a traditional sector (en-
gaging about one-half of the farmers) producing maize, beans, sorghum, and
non-irrigated rice. Traditional farmers use little fertilizer, pesticides,
or machinery and produce under rainfed conditions mainly to meet domestic
consumnption requirements. During the off season, they serve as harvesting
labor on the coffee and cotton farms.



-3-
2.05      Modern farming is concentrated mainly in the Pacific Zone where it
is based on rich volcanic soils and supported by fertilizer supply services,
machinery dealers, and agricultural industries. The Central Zone has many
medium-sized farms, generally raising coffee and livestock, while the large
plain of the Atlantic Zone is undeveloped but shows good promise for live-
stock production.
2.06      Large tracts of arable land such as the natural grazing areas of
the open pine savanna in northeast Nicaragua are still not accessible but
new land has been progressively brought to use during the last two decades,
especially in the Central and Atlantic Zones. In 1971, about 40% of Nic-
aragua's total land area was in use, with nearly 50% of the 4.9 million ha
estimated to be under improved and natural pastures. The balance is used
for raising perennial and annual crops. Only about 6% of the cultivated
land (41,000 ha) was under irrigation in 1971 but substantial supplies of
underground water are understood to be available. A UNDP study, covering
about 158,400 ha in the Leon-Chinandega plain, estimated that, without deplet-
ing groundwater resources, 25,000 to 66,000 ha of this area could be irri-
gated annually, according to cropping pattern. Past irrigation schemes,
i however, have not been particularly successful, mainly because of the fail-
ure to develop crops justifying the high investment costs and in some cases
because of the use of unsuitable equipment.
2.07      Expanding irrigation and bringing additional land into use have
helped progress towards the Government's goals of food self-sufficiency and
increased and diversified exports.  The production of maize and beans has
been steadily rising over the last two decades and rice production has
doubled since 1963. Total agricultural exports have grown appreciably -
despite the ups and dowms of cotton - and beef and sugar have emerged as
two significant exports (Annex 1).  Goveriment has sought to support agri-
cultural developirent by keeping land and agricultural taxes low and pro-
viding an expanding volume of production credit.
2.08      Concentration of land holdings is an important feature of Nicaragua's
agrarian structure. About half the holdings are less than 7 ha and account
for 3.5% of the cultivated area. On the other hand, holdings above 350 ha
occupy 41.1% of the area, though they make up only 1.5% of the total number.
The Institute of Agrarian Reform (IAN), set up in 1963, has been concentrat-
ing on issue of land titles (about 15,000 up to end 1972) and extension of
land ownership through colonization schemes, assuming that redistribution
of holdings is not necessary at present in view of the progress being made
in opening up land for farm use. A major IAN project for bringing newq land
into production for transfer to landless peasants is the Rigoberto Cabezas
colonization scheme (350,000 ha) being developed with IDB assistance. IAN's
programs have generally been handicapped by lack of adequate funds and field
staff (Annex 1).
2.09      Official agricultural extension, education, and research are general-
ly deficient in Nicaragua, partly because of the insufficient allocation of



-4-
tunds to the Ministry of Agricu'lture for these purposes.  Except for improved
cotton seed varieties and control of diseases affecting that crop, research
has contributed little to Nicaraguan agriculture.  The benefits of -wiat has
been done have not reached most farmers because of the limited size of the
extension staff and the failure to link its activities with research, credit,
and marketing.  On the other hand, extension activities of BN (para 2.14),
mainly for the major export crops, and the INFONNAC (para 2. 15)i for tobaccco,
livestock, and fisheries, have had an impact, thanks to the larger nrmber of
technicians and their association with credit.  Also, an Argentine ecnsulzio'ng
firm (Latinoconsult).is providing valuable technical guidance to selected
farmners under a contract with CB.
2.10      The inadequacy of the rural infrastructure, including serviceas 3a'cn
as extension and marketing and facilities sucn as rural trananort, hae; partic
ularly handicapped the small farmers in participating in the gr!owh of
country' s crop and livestock sub-sectors.  Thus, it Is fotnC t'.at  thug;h t.".s
small farmer-oriented Credito Rural Program (implemented by BE  wth 7E  S
port) financed over 22,000 small farmers, mainly for their s                Lorttsxem
needs and helped increase production, it was badly handicaSpred in regard to
support in terms of marketing and technical services ard hence "Led to ' gh
delinquency (Annex 2, paras 33 to 35). Further, certain promisi.ng types
of on-farm  investment have not proved relevant for very small farmers.  In
the extensive area of inadequate and uncertain rainfall, the mini-mw-n viabe
size for a livestock unit tends to be larger than the average omall            ad.
the irrigated area (in which intensive cultivation could make Investment o.n 
a smal1 farm worthwhile) is only 670 of the total cultivated area and heI.d 3 nic"
by medium and large producers.  Identified investment op-portunities I)eing
thus limited, tne requirements of smxall farmers have been, mainly for proo-.jrn-
tilon credit and have been tackled as such unrder the Credito Rural Progrxxr
Efforts are, however, being made to promote onfar-t.n investm.e-t and infztrUk
ture development on a cooperative basis,  ith cred.t proizided b7 BE! (supporied
LI IDB) in the colonization schemes of IAN1 for benef±c aries of thp_ "and tit.
itng program, bDuit these represent only a few .nstacces and they have ye t
demonstrate their effectiveness in helping the weaker sections,  As the n7c-
bie7m of smal1 farmers in Nicaragua calls for a many-sided effort, includAni.
besides credit, other elements such as land reform and the develon.ent of
the rural infrastructure, it should be possible to formulate a eo':censive
program on the basis of the experience of the IDB-financed Credito Thural and
the modest schemes now in progress under the IAN7 after the resu..rs of the on-
going agricultural sector survey financed bv USA'-D are avaiiable at tie «d
of 1973.
C. Agricultural Credit
2. 1      CE has powers of control over the banking system in respect of in-
terest rates, legal reserves, credit ceilings, and such and is generally in
charge of the country's monetary policy, while the Superintendent of Banks
regulates banks' administrative procedures, credit management, and account-
ing and auditing stanadards (Annex 2).  The banking system consists of the               _



-5-
0             Government-owned BN and INFONAC, six private commercial banks (including
three foreign banks), four private finance companies, and other specialized
institutions dealing in insurance, housing finance, and storage.
2.12      By and large, private banks have played only a limited role in
agricultural credit, restricting their activities to short-term loans, mainly
for the major export crops, particularly cotton. In recent years, however,
they have made some medium-term loans for livestock but the amount has been
small (about 8% of the portfolio) and the period has been always less than
five years.  Private finance companies have not evinced active interest in
financing agriculture, making only a few loans to big ranchers and agro-
industrial units.  Farm loans have, therefore, come mainly from BN and, to
a lesser extent, from INFONAC (paras 2.14 and 2.15), Though their large
lerding has had a useful impact, the main sources of credit for most farmers
have been non-institutional, including landlords, processors of agricultural
produce, and relatives.
2.13      Bank credit to the commercial farming sector has helped expand
modernized production of cotton, coffee, sugarcane, rice, and beef, but
inadequacy of supporting technical assistance has been a serious weakness,
especially in credit programs for small farmers.  Government established
the Special Development Fund (FONDO) in 1972 under CB's administration to
encourage banking institutions to provide term loan facilities for specific
programs in diffe~rent sectors (paras 4001 and 4.02).
2.14      BN, as the major institutional source of agricultural credit, has
received funds from various foreign agencies, including USAID (US$16 million)
and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) (US$24 million) (Annex 2). Sup-
ported by 21 branches and a large technical department, the bank has advanced
loans for various economic activities, including substantial medium- and long-
term credit for agriculture and small industry under programs supported by
external loans. BN accounts for about two-thirds of all institutional agri-
cultural credit disbursed by the banking system, including the bulk of the
production credit needs of cotton, rice, beans, and sugarcane and term loans
for beef, dairy, and rice under various projects financed 'by IDB. While
these loans have generally gone to medium and large farmers, BN's Credito
Rural Program has been oriented to small farmers' requirements, especially
short-term production credit needs. In all, a sum of US$6.6 million equiva-
lent is outstanding to BN under this program, which has benefited about
22,000 farmers out of about 100,000 farmers in Nicaragua. BN's financial
position, however, has suffered over the years because of poor collections.
Additionally, BN's operating profits have been low because of various devel-
opmental expenses (for technical assistance under the Credito Rural program,
services of foreign experts, scholarships, research, etc.) incurred on behalf
of Government and it has not accumulated any substantial reserves.  More
recently, however, recovery performance has slightly improved, some bad debts
have been written off, and a small bad debt reserve has been built up ('para
4.07). Also, BN has periodically received additional resources from Govern-
ment and has attracted increasing deposits.
2.15      INFONAC, as a development institute, has wide-ranging functions,
including banking, technical assistance, and research in agriculture and



-6-
industry.  Its promotional role has been particularly related to pork, beef,
and milk production but its effectiveness as an agricultural credit institu-
tion has been limited by the inadequacy of technical staff, branch offices,
and counterpart funds; by liquidity problems; and by low profits.
III. TFiE PROJECT
A. Definition
3.01      The project would support a three-year lending program of the FONDO
to help finance on-farm development on five types of production units:  rain-
fed dairy farms, irrigated dairy farms, rainfed beef breeding and fatteirig
ranches, irrigated pastures and beef fattening farms, ano irrigated crop farms.
Loans would be made for periods between five and 12 years and would cover a
wide spectrum of farm/ranch sizes throughout the country, though the bulk of
the operations would be in the Pacific and Central Zones, Supporting and
technical services would also be provided.
3.02      The project would be administered by the Central Bank for the FONDO
through a Special Project Unit.  Proceeds of the Bank loan would be channel-
led through the FONDO to the BN and other participating banks and made avai:l
able to sub-borrowers on the basis of technically and financially evaluated
development plans.  Implementation of plans would be supervised by FONDO-
trained and approved technicians.
3.03      The project would provide a set of financial incentives to encour-
age relatively small investors to borrow and participating banks progressively
to increase loans to these. Small beneficiaries would be defined as those
whose major source of income is farming and the value of whose tctal assets
in farming (including farm machinery, livestock, and such, but excludiiag
land and any assets to be financed out of the sub-loan) does not exceed
US$20,000, and further, in the case of sub-borrowers for irrigated farming
for dairy or beef or crops, those whose irrigated holdings including area
to be irrigated with the sub-loan do not exceed 20 ha. Loans to such sub-
borrowers would be charged interest at 10.25% while others would pay 12% iade
up of 11% interest and an appraisal and supervision fee of 1% p.a. While the
FONDO would earn a spread only on loans to sub-borrowers other than small
beneficiaries, participating banks would retain a larger margin (3.0%) on
loans to small beneficiaries than on those to others (2.50%).  Smaller finan-
cial contributions would be required from banks and small beneficiaries to
projects of such sub-borrowers (Schedule A). Assurances were obtained that
the proportion of the amount of sub-loans to such small beneficiaries to the
total amount of sub-loans made under the project would be at least 15% during
the first 12-month period after Loan Agreement, 20% during the second, and
25% during the third. Further, at least US$1.50 million equivalent of the
total loan proceeds would be reserved for such beneficiaries. Moreover, to
ensure that the project funds are not restricted to a few large sub-borrowers,
the maximrium size of a sub-loan would be restricted to US$ 100,000 equivalent
(para 4.09)0



-7-
3.04      The following table shows the major investments expected to be made
over the three-year commitment period:
Typical     No. of Loans                  Invest-
Size of     Made in Year  Total  Total  ment Per    Total
Sub-project   1   2    3   Loans  Area   Sub-project Investment
(ha)                            (ha)     (in C$)   (C$ '000)
Category
Dairy farms
a) Rainfed                50       30  50   70    150   7,500   192,500    28,875
b) Irrigated             20        10  20   20      50   1,000   261,800    13,090
Rainfed beef breeding
and fattening farms    300         30  50   70    150  45,000   192,500    28,875
Irrigated pastures
and beef fattening
farms                    20        20  30   50    100   2,000   200,200    20,020
Irrigated crop farms
(sugarcane, plantain
and others)             22        20  30   50    100   2,200   129,850    12,985
110 180  260    550  57,700                103,845
B.  Detailed Features
Rainfed Dairy Farms
3.05      Sub-loans in this category would be made to multi-purpose, rainfed
dairy farms in the Central Zone, especially in the Departments of Boaco and
Chontales. Major investment items would include land development, pasture
improvement through reseeding and use of fertilizer, fencing, stock water
supply, milking facilities, improved replacement heifers, and use of improved
dairy-type bulls or artificial insemination. The farm pattern would be
gradually converted to single-purpose milk production, and productivity would
be improved, through emphasis on animal health, parasite control, controlled
mating, and cow selection (Annex 3).
Irrigated Dairy Farms
3.06      These sub-loans would go mainly to small farms in the Leon Department
of the Pacific Zone where pasture production is limited by a sharply defined
dry season, running from December to May. Investment would be mainly in the
development of improved pastures based on irrigation, with rotational grazing



and fertilizer application.  Milkyards, bulk feed storage, and improved
milking cows and doiry-type bulls would also be financed.  Development would
aim at substantially increasing calving percentages, and milk productior, per
cow and per hectare (Annex 3).
Rainfed Beef Breeding and Fattening Farms
3,07      Sub-loans under this category would help accelerate the developm.ent
of beef ranches which already exist but receive little instituitional credit.
The aim wouild be to introduce appropriate legumes and grass mixtures and thus
iLprove the productivity of pastures, which has so far been restricted by
rainfall, soils, and poor management. Purchase of improved bulls, fenc-ing,
w,ater supplies, yards and dips, and access roads would also be f Inanceda
Through the improved nutritional status of pastures and better husbandry
ana management, the effective calving rate would be raised, adult mottalltv,
,mould be reduced, the carrying capacity would be doubled, and productiv7ity
wou ld be stepped up (Annex 3).
irrigated Pastures and Beef Fattening Farms
3.08      Sub-loarns under this category vould finance the establLshmment of
intensive fattening farms based on the purchase of steers and the developmetitn
of irrigated pastures, supported by access to local supplies of surface or
ground water.  These units, likely to be located mnainly in the Leon, Depar.ent           _
of the Pacific Zone, would help stratify the beef cattle industry, disperse
cattle fattening operations, and smooth out fluctuations in sUpPlv of steers.
Investments would help develop new areas likely to be served b' a I,own
irrigation source and include pasture establishment D electrical fevciug,
livestock, water supply, irrigation system, feed storage, and the Xl lk.  The
program should result in substantial increases in beef output, carrying capac-
ity, and livestock production (Annex 3)
3,09      Sub-loans for investment in irrigated ci-op farming wuld coer the
production of such crops as sugarcane; import substitutes, such as plantain
and onion; grains, particularly sorghum, to meet expanding demand for anienal
feedstuffs; and oi lseeds and fruit and vegetables where processing and market-
ing outlets can be assured (Annex 4).  No sub-loans wou'id be granted, however,,
for investiments involving mainly (a) cotton or coffee expansion, in view of;
the policy of diversification away from these crops and the fact that their
existing production is already largely capitalized; or (b) rice and tobacso5
since arrangements for their expansion have already been included in other
development programs.  Further, export prospects for rice are limited in
vie.w of their current subsidized prices. Investments would cover land
leveling; construction of wells, irrigation channels and on-farm storage;
4indbreark establishment; land preparation and planting (for perennial crops
only); tractor, trailer, and im.plement purchases; and installation of pumps
and a sprinkler system (where appropriate). A considerable range in invest-
ment costs is to be expected, although, in cases involving pumping, technical
conrsiderations would set the lower limit at around C$70,000 (US$10,000),  When



-9-
agricultural development priorities have been formulated on completion of
the on-going agricultural sector survey assisted by USAID, the crop com-
ponent would be reviewed by the Special Project Unit, taking into account
the project experience and any new investment opportunities in irrigated
or rainfed farming. Any modification of the exclusions detailed above
would, however, be referred to the Bank for prior approval. (Annex 4).
Supporting Services
3.10      Participating banks would make two loans to cattlemen's associa-
tions or cooperatives to enable them to provide joint services to ranchers or
farmers such as transporting milk and transporting and distributing fertil-
izers, animal feeds, and other requisites of the livestock sub-borrowers, after
ensuring that any livestock rancher in the area of operation of the associa-
tion or the cooperative is free to join its membership. Investments would
cover bulk storage sheds and transport trucks. Participating banks would also
make two loans available to contractors for the purchase of medium-heavy earth-
moving and ancillary equipment so as to assist sub-borrowers in cazrying
out the operations called for in the ranch/farm investment plans.  Assurances
were obtained that each of these four sub-loans would be made only with prior
Bank approval, based on the supply of full data regarding the sub-loans and
\the sub-borrowers to the Bank.
Technical Services
3.11      Expert Services and Equipment.  The Bank loan would finance the
foreign exchange cost of project administration, since present FONDO staff
is not adequate (para 4.03).  The Special Project Unit to be established in
FONDO would consist of a Technical Director, to be recruited internationally,
and a Nicaraguan team consisting of a Co-Director, a crops specialist, a
project analyst, and two project technicians (paras 4.03 and 4.04).
3.12      Beef Marketing Study.  The project would also provide for the
foreign exchange cost of a limited study of beef marketing, which would
be oriented to the export market and the provision of price incentives
for quality beef. Assurances were obtained that CB would arrange for the
study to be carried out by a consultant approved by the Bank according to
tenms of reference also approved by the Bank (para 5.04).
3.13      Other Services.  The project would, in addition, cover the foreign
exchange cost of establishing three activities to be organized with the
assistance of the Ministry of Agriculture, and possible cooperation from
cattlemen's associations:  (a) a scheme for the importation and multiplication
of improved grass and legume seeds (investment cost of US$125,000); two simple
marketing centers to provide decentralized services to ranchers wishing to
sell or buy cattle (investment cost of US$40,000); and (c) an artificial in-
semination center (investment cost of US$50,000) (Annex 3). Assurances were
obtained that the plans for these three activities would be furnished to the
Bank for its approval before they are implemented. It would be a condition
of loan effectiveness that the CB and the Ministry of Agriculture have made
the necessary arrangements for these three activities.



- 10 -
C.  Cost Estimates and Financing
Cost Estimates
3.14      The total cost of the project is estimated at C$110.5 million
(US$15.8 million), of which 54%, or C$60.0 million (or US$8.6 million
equivalent), would be foreign exchange. Estimated project costs, which
include an allowance of about 10% for price increases, are summarized below:
----C$ million      -             US$  000      …--    % Foreiga
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
Categories
On-Farm Investment
Dairy farms
Rainfed              16.7    12.2        *28.9   2,392   19733       4,125      42
Irrigated             5.5      7.5        13.0      785   1,085      1,870      58
Rainfed beef
breeding and
fattening farms      15.9    13.0         28.9   2,269   1,856       4,125      45
Irrigated pastures and
beef fattening
farms                5.8    14.2         20.0     830   2,030       2,860      71
Irrigated
crop farms           5.8      7.2        13.0      835 1t 020                  5
Sub-total          49.7    54.1        103.8   7 111   7,724    14,835        52
Supporting__Services
Transport and
supply centers       0.1      0.7         0.8       22      98        120      82
Contract machinery
services             0.1      1.9         2.0       20     270        290      93
Technical Services
Expert Services and
equipment            0.4      1.7         2.1       57     247        304      81
Beef marketing study   -        0.3         0.3       -        35        35    100
Other services         0.2      1.3         1.5       22      193       215      90
Total Project Cost5O.5    60.0         110.5   7,232   8,567    15,799        54 



*                                              -11 -
3.15      The following investment items would be involved:
Local Foreign Total % Foreign Exchange
…- C$ million ---
Land Preparation and Planting /1          10.6    7.8      18.4         42
Structure and Buildings                   11.2    4.5      15.7 -       29
Machinery and Equipment                    0.4    4.2       4.6         91
Irrigation Facilities and Water
Supply /2                                8.2   30.3      38.5 -       79
Breeding Stock                            12.0    2.9      14.9         19
Fencing                                    3.5    2.5       6.0         42
Consultant Services                         -     1.4       1.4        100
Miscellaneous                              4.6    6.4      11.0         58
Total                      50.5   60.0    110.5           54
/1   Includes pasture development.
/2   Includes irrigation equipment and water supply for livestock.
A summary list of goods appears in Annex 5.
Financing
3.16      The Banlc loan would finance US$8.5 million, or about 54% of the
total project cost. FONDO would contribute about US$1.6 million, or 10%,
while participating banks and sub-borrowers would contribute US$2.9 million
and US$2.8 million, respectively, or about 18% each. Financing of the various
components of the project would be shared as follows:



- 12 -
----------In  C$ million                        -
Partici-                         %
pating         Sub-           Foreign
IBRD    FONDO      Banks        borrowers Total,
1. On-farm investment    53.3        11.0     20.1            19.4     103.8    52
(51%)    (11%)    (19%)           (19%)    (100%)
2. Supporting services
a. Transport and
supply centers      0.7       0.1       -                         0E8   86
b. Contract machinery  1.9        0.1       -                         2.0    93
3. Technical Services
a. Expert services and
equipment           1.7       0.4       -               -         2.1    81
b. Beef marketing
study               0.3                     -                     0.3   100
c. Other technical
services            1.3       0.2       -         t               15    903
Total in C$ million   59.2       11.8      20.1           19.4      110.5   (54)
Total in US$ '000        8.5      1.6       2.9            2.8       15.8
Percentage             (54)      (10)      (18)           (18)      (100)
3.17      The Central Bank of Nicaragua would be the borrower and would c1nanael,
through the FONDO, the proceeds of the loan and the FONDO's own contributIick
to participating banks, which would, in turn, lend to farmers.  The 1Kepublic
of Nicaragua would guarantee the loan. The Republic would also undertake to
hold the CB harmless for any exchange losses attributable to the servicing of
the loan and make arrangements with CB for this purpose, as a cond4tion of
loan effectiveness.  The Bank loan would be at the standard interest rate
and repayable over a period of 16 years, including five years of grace., With
sub-loans being made over a three-year period, the last repayme-nt to the
participating banks and the FONDO would be made 15 years after the commencement
of the project (Annex 6).
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.18      As the items to be financed by sub-loans are varied and would be
purchased by sub-borrowers over a period of five years, they would not be
suitable for bulk procurement through international competitive bidding.
A large proportion of the investment goods to be financed will have to be
imported but such imports are generally unrestricted.  Rates of tax are low -



- 13 -
5% ad valorem import duties on fertilizers, pesticides, and irrigation and
other agricultural equipment and 7% on agricultural tractors.  In addition,
some small sales taes and cesses, amounting in all to 2.2% of landed costs,
are levied. Various international firms are represented in the country and
supplies and competition are adequate. After-sales services are also satis-
factory. Farmers would, therefore, procure their requirements through normal
local commercial channels. Land development, construction of farm buildings
and such would be carried out mostly by the farmers themselves or through
small local contractors. Such vehicles and equipment and supplies estimated
to cost US$ 20,000 or more as are required for the technical services connected
with the Project would be procured through normal commercial channels on the
basis of quotations to be invited through local advertising, with notification
to embassies to ensure international competition.
Disbursement
3.19      The Bank loan disbursement would take about four and a half years
(Annex 7). Disbursements would be made for 67% of sub-loans disbursed by
patticipating banks to small beneficiaries, 63% of all other sub-loans and
90% of the amounts disbursed for supporting services against statements of
expenditures (para 3.03 and Schedule A). The documentation for such expendi-
tures would not be submitted to the Bank for review but would be retained by
the FONDO and made available for inspection by the Barlk during the course of
supervision missions. The Bank would finance 100% of the foreign exchange
expenditure incurred for expert services and equipment and the beef marketing
study, and 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of the total expenditures for
other technical services.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Special Development Fund
4.01      CB would channel the proceeds of the Bank loan through the Special
Development Fund (FONDO) to the banks eligible to participate, which would
include Banco Nacional (BN) and the six private commercial banks in the
country for on-lending to farmers. FONDO is empowered to support programs
aimed at increasing and diversifying the country's production and exports,
by making loans available to producers through private and Government-owned
institutions in accordance with regulations to be specified for each program.
4.02      FONDO has not yet commenced operations, but has negotiated two
loans from IDB for financing agro-industries and urban reconstruction,
through commercial banks and has finalized the relevant regulations and
procedures. FONDO's own capital would consist of (a) Government contribu-
tions to specific programs from time to time; (b) an unspecified portion of
CB's profits; (c) income from its own operations; and (d) donations. It
may use these resources as well as any funds obtained by way of medium- and
long-term loans from international institutions or through loans from other
sources or bond issues abroad or through internal flotation of bonds or bor-
rowings. In connection with the proposed project, FONDO would require re-
sources for (a) meeting its share of the project cost; (b) refinancing the



- 14 -
p:art.4cipating banks' loans before claiming reimbursement from the Bank; and
(c) meeting the costs of project administration (paras 4.03 and 4.04).  An
assurance was;, therefore, obtained that Governmtent would make available
a. sm of at least US$0.5 million equivalent to the FONDO as a condition of
.oaa effectiveness, and another amount of US$0.5 million equivalent at the
end of 12 months following that date.  FONDO's projected balance sheets and
profit and loss statements are shown in Annex 8.
Prore   Administration
4.03      CB has so far assigned, exclusively to the FONDO, only a business
management specialist who is designated as the DiLrector, and a livestock
speci.alist.  While remaining under the supervision of this Director, t he
organization needs strengthening in respect of technical and financial
project evaluation and assessment of investment effectiveiess. A quaJified
and experienced expert in agricultural and livestock credit a-id farm manags
ment would, therefore, be internationally recruited and appointed to serve
as the Technical Director of the project for a period of three years. Hie
would be responsible for training and supervising the technicians of the
banks and the FONDO, formulating procedures for appraisal and supervision
and assisting in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture on pasture
seed multiplication and other technical services. CB would a'so appoint a
Nicaraguan Co-Director, who would be trained by, andi eventually take over
from, the Technical Director.  Assurances were obtained that a Technical
Director and a Nicaraguan Co-Director acceptable to the Bank, would be appoin-
ted on terms and conditions also to be satisfactory to the Bank and tiat a
Project Unit would be established in the CB. These appointments aind the
establishment of the Unit would be conditions of loan effective;r.ess.
4.04      CB would also appoint a crops specialist with experienee
in irrigated farming, and a project analyst.  BN has a technical staff of'
about 180 but the other banks have very few qualified techniciaus traftled
an a-ricultural project appraisal and supervision.  Project technicians would,
therefore, be appointed to work under the guidance of the Trecanica' Director
in assisting sub-borrowers to prepare their investment plans and to appraisc
and supervise the loan applications.  Their number would increase with loan
business and FONDO technicians would, in particular, serve banks whose ini-
tial busiLness would not suffice to pay for such staff,  Furtner, this staff
would be supported by the Latinocorisult livestock technicians under contract
with  B,  Assurances were obtained that, within three months of loan
effectiveness, CB would appoint a crops specialist, a project analyst
and two project technicians and that the participating banks would appoint,
between them, at least six technicians.
B:u co Nacional de Nicaragua
4.05      BeN is expected to play an important role in project lending, especial-
ly in financing the small beneficiar ies.  A Government-owned development bank
for agriculture and industry, which also undertakes normal commercial banking
functions, BN had capital and reserves, at the end of 1972, amounting to US$28.2
-llllion equivalent and deposits totaling US$44.4 mnillion equivalent.  External
borrowings amounted to US$65 million equivalent and its loan portfolio totaled



- 15 -
US$112 million equivalent as of the end of 1972, of which about 60% consisted
of medium- and long-term loans.  BN also expects to receive US$11 million,
for financing livestock development, from the proceeds of a loan made to the
Republic of Nicaragua by a consortium of British banks. T'.N proposes to use
these funds for making loans of US$100,000 or more for acquisition and devel-
opment of large ranches of 500 ha or more.
4.06      Poor performance in loan:recovery has been a weakness of BN's
credit operations. Arrears arose partly from crop failure during droughts
which periodically affect the country's predominantly rainfed agriculture
and partly from the bank's failure to observe sound principles of lending
and supervision. About US$38.5 million equivalent, or 34% of its total
loan portfolio, was considered frozen at the end of 1969, including loans
overdue and rescheduled and loans under legal action.  Of this total, the
share of agriculture, livestock, and rural credit was about 75%. Recog-
nizing the seriousness of the problem, IDB stipulated certain.related con-
ditions in connection with its loans (218/SF-NI and 177/OC-NI) foic agri-
cultural credit and livestock made in 1969. Principally, IDB required BN
to (a) engage a firm of consultants to analyze its loan portfolio; (b) ensure
a recovery of at least 95% of amounts falling due each year; (c) build up a
provision of at least 1% towards the bad debt reserve; and (d) bring down
the proportion of the frozen portfolio progressively between 1971 and 1973.
These requirements were subsequently modified by IDB when the severe drought
in 1971/72 threatened to affect loan recoveries.
4.07      Some improvement has resulted from BN's efforts to comply with
these conditions (Annex 9).  The volume of the frozen portfolio has been
reduced from US$38.5 million equivalent in 1969 to US$24.3 million (by 1972)
and, though the bad debt reserve has not been built up from profits, BN
wrote off about US$1.0 million of irrecoverable debts between 1970 and 1972,
4.08      Despite the difficulties faced in improving the working of BN, it
is desirable to secure its participation in the project in view of its wide
network of branches, its sizable complement of technical staff and its ex-
perience in financing small farmers. At the same time, it should be ensured,
in coordination with IDB, that BN continues its on-going efforts to improve
its financial position. Assurances were, therefore, obtained that (a) BN
would complete, within one year of the date of the Loan Agreement, investigation
of its agricultural loans overdue for more than three years on that date and
arrange for writing off irrecoverable amounts within a succeeding period of two
years and that Government would provide funds to BN for that purpose if BN can-
not fulfill this condition from its own resources; (b) Government would compen-
sate BN, within six months of the end of each fiscal year for net expenses
incurred by BN, on activities undertaken by it for development purposes; (c)
BN would contribute annually from its profits to a bad debt reserve so as to
build it up to 2% of its loan portfolio within two years of the date of the
Loan Agreement and maintain it at that level thereafter; and (d) BN would
undertake a study of its costs and expenses and adopt, within one year of the
date of the Loan Agreement, appropriate policies to increase its profits
which are at present negligible, affect its image as a borrower, and restrict
its ability to supervise loans and to build up reserves.
0



- 16 -
LenQiaR Policies and Procedures
4.09      Project technicians would assist applicants in the preparation of
farm plans and appraise sub-projects. Participating banks would make their
3Wln evaluation of the creditworthiness of individual applicants, would
approve sub-projects on the basis of project appraisal by their technicians,
and bear the full credit risk. Sub-loans to be refinanced by the FONDO
would ordinarily require approval by the Technical Director but he may delegate
such authority, at his discretion, to the Co-Director. No loan would be made
which by itself or together with an earlier sub-loan to the same sub-borrower,
exceeds US$100000 equivalent.
4i *O     Sub-loan applicants would be required to meet the creditworthiness
criteria and collateral requirements of the participating banks for medium-
and long-term agricultural loans. Security would normally include real
estate mortgages on titled land.  Even among those who may have earlier lacked
titles, many should have benefitted from IAN's on-going Land titling program
and several others have municipal titles which are acceptable to banks.
How,ever, as titling is a slow process and could hamper small farmiers, assurances
were obtained from Government that I.AN would expedite req-uests from borrowers
who have filed an application with IAN to obtain full title.  Chattel Tnortgage
on livestock and equipment would also be accepted.
4.11      Cash flows of investments proposed under the project as indicated
in the farm models (Annex 10) show that total repayment periods not exceeding
12 years (including grace periods up to four years) would be appropriate for
sub-loans for different types of investment.  The grace periods and periods
of repayment shown in Schedule A would not be exceeded without Bank's prior
approval and participating banks would provide the working capital require ents
of the project sub-borrowers.
Interest Rates
4.12      On term loans for agricultural purposes, banks in Nicaragua usually
charge a rate of 12% plus 1% commission plus, in some cases, 1% for techitical
assistance; and higher rates are often charged by private finance companies.
However, the excessive liquidity of the banks seems to have pusUed the rates
downward recently. Rates of 10% plus 1% are charged only in a few instances
such as BN's Credito Rural loans for small farmers and INFONAC's dairy loans.
While the annual rate of inflation in Nicaragua is about 2.5%, the banks pay
abQout8 to 9% on one- to three-year d  e o_it-s--and-pviy_g;stmer-eoaanies
pay 10.5% on five-year depoiits.  Costs of lpan dmani_st_at-ian.aehioh and-i
the eiperieuce of BN Y.iid INFONAC show's tat tney could not earn reasonable
profits mainly because their lending rates were too low to cover these and
other costs. Not only would the FONDO have to undertake promotional expenses
and help some banks with technical assistance but the commercial banks' margins
should suffice to cover a provision for bad debts and the cost of technical
staff whowm they have to recruit and train in advance of the build-up of this
portfolio. On the other hand, the expected returns on the project invest-
mients are adequate to bear a rate of up to 12%. Lower lending rates and larger
margins to participating banks would be justified only for stimulating lending
to small beneficiaries.  The banks' cost of making loans to these sub-borrowers



- 17 -
is estimated at about 3% as compared with about 2-1/2% for other loans. The
minimum interest rates and margins would, therefore, be as follows:
Margins               Rates to
Participating       Sub-
FONDO          Banks       Borrowers /1
Sub-loans to small
beneficiaries                                   3%          10.25%
Other sub-loans                  2-1/4%         2-1/2%         12% /2
/1   On the assumption that the Bank's lending rate would be 7.25%.
/2   Made up of:  interest rate of 11% and an appraisal and supervision fee
of 1%.
4.13      The lending terms and conditions are set out in detail in Schedule A.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations in regard to these conditions.
It was also agreed that subsidiary loan agreements would be concluded between
CB and the participating banks. The conclusion of one such agreement with a
participating bank would be a condition of effectiveness.
Accounting and Audit
4.14      The auditing and accounting procedures are generally satisfactory
(Annex 9). Assurances were obtained that separate accounts would be main-
tained for the project at the FONDO and at each of the participating banks
showing separately the loans made to small beneficiaries and to others and
that the FONDO would supply to the Bank periodical progress reports on project
operations. The FONDO's accounts would be audited by an auditor who is ap-
pointed, under the statute of the CB, by the Board of the CB and who is inde-
pendent of the control of the President of the CB. The participating banks'
accounts are audited by independent auditing firms of standing. Assurances
were obtained that the accounts of the CB, the FONDO and the participating
banks would be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank and that the audited
statements of accounts and auditors' reports would be sent to the Bank within
four months of the end of the various institutions' fiscal years.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
5.01      The project would assist Nicaragua in increasing its output of beef
and milk. After about 10 years, project ranches and farms would supply an
additional 38,700 head for slaughter annually or an increase of about 10%
over present national offtake. The incremental production of beef would be
about 7,000 m tons 1/per year with a value of C$38.0 million (US$5.43
million) at present prices to producers, or C$63 million (US$9.0 million),
f.o.b., for US markets.
.        1/   Average liveweight of 360 kg, or 180 kg of beef (5.5 animals/ton).



.- 18 -
5.02      Incremental milk production would be about 15.5 million liters
annually valued at current prices at about C$12.4 million (US$1.80 million).
The additional milk production from project farms would represent a 9.6%
increase over present production. In addition to increases in milk and beef
for consumption or export, approximately 7,600 surplus breeding animals would
be available from project ranches and farms for sale to the livestock
industry. These would be worth about C$6.8 million (about US$1 million) at
current prices.
5c03      Production from investment in irrigation is less easy to specify
as a variety of crops may well be involved (Annex 4). On the basis of the
illustrative farm models, additional annual production would amount to
about 130,080 tons of sugarcane and 7,000 tons of plantain, representinig 7%
and 8%, respectively, of current Nicaraguan production.
B. Marketing
5.04      Beef marketing is dominated by the operations of four exporting
slaughterhouses, which currently handle about 190,000 head per year, or 60%
of total cattle slaughterings. Most of the remainder is slaughtered Dy
licensed butchers in ill-equipped municipal slaughterhouses. Sales to
export abattoirs are generally made on a liveweight basis and there is need
to introduce quality differential payments. For this purpose, a marketing
study would be financed under the project (para 3.12).  Exports are made
almost exclusively to the US market and prices paid to producers reflect US
market price trends. Prospects on both external and local -markets are good.
Slaughterhouses operate under seasonally fluctuating supply ccnditions and
their existing capacity can handle the additional production expected to be
generated by the project, particularly as this will help to even out some
of the seasonal variability in supplies (Annex 3). There is need to improve
facilities for the marketing of live animals and the project contains provi-
sions for this purpose (para 3.13).
5.05      An estimated 88% of the milk produced in Nicaragua is sold either
as fluid milk or as cheese.  The remainder is handled by the pasteurizing
plants serving the Managuan market or producing dried milk for export to
CACM countries. Demand is increasing in both sectors, which should be able
to handle without difficulty the expected additional production due to the
project (Annex 3).
5.06      The projected annual increase in sugarcane production would be
concentrated in outgrowers' holdings serving existing sugar mills, where
there is sufficient excess processing capacity to handle it. In the case
of plantains, the estimated additional production would be less than the
current level of imports and existing internal marketing channels are capable
of handling the quantities involved (Annex 4). Where production of other
crops is proposed, sub-loan appraisals would have to show that satisfactory
outlets exist, whether on internal or external markets (para 3.09).



- 19 -
C.  Producer Benefits
5.07      Financial rates of return and producers' incomes have been estimated
on the basis of illustrative farm models (Annex 10) and the results are summarized
in the following table:
Sub-borrowers' Net Farm Income after Debt Service
(C$ lo 0)
Rainfed
Beef     Irrigated
Breeding  Pastures
Rainfed  Irrigated      and      and Beef   Irrigated  Irrigated
Dairy     Dairy      Fattening Fattening  Plantain   Sugarcane
(50 ha)  (20 ha)       (300 ha)  (20 ha)    (35 ha)    (20 ha)
Net Income before
Development          11.7        6.1         19.0        - /1     16.0        16.6
Net Income
after Development   56.4        73.4         87.5      74.9      114.3        49.1
Incremental
Net Income           44.7       67.3         68.5      74.9       98.3        32.5
Oiii      Debt Service            32.3       49.4         43.9      53.0       47.2        21.5
Incremental Net
Income after
Debt Service         12.4       17.9         24.6      21.9       51.1        11.0
Incremental
Herd Value           53.0       92.4        275.6        -           -           -
Financial Rate
of Return            19         17           25        40         26          34
Note: Net income in all cases includes income to sub-borrower's labor.
/1   Negligible but not estimated as pre-irrigation farming pattern is un-
certain and variable.
5.08      Net income before development, as shown in the above table, ex-
cludes off-farm income derived from seasonal work involving the whole family
in the harvesting of cotton, sugarcane and coffee, land clearing and other
contract work. It is expected that during and after development such family
labor would be totally employed on the ranch/farm and share in the increasing
income. Incremental net income after debt service ranges from about US$1,570
for irrigated sugar cane to about US$7,300 for irrigated plantain. While
being generally illustrative, the farm models do not reflect all possible



- 20 -
categories of sub-borrowers, as the project would cover a spectrum of
farms/ranches of different sizes and types of operation and would hence
include some farmers for whom the model would represent only a part of
their farm business. For all categories, however, the expected financial
rates of return are considered satisfactory. In the case of livestock en-
terprises (other than beef fattening on irrigated pastures), there would,
in addition, be a considerable element of on-ranch capital formation through
stock retentions for expansion.
5.09      Testing the viability of the models as to price and cost sensitivity
under various assumptions gives the following results:
Financial Rate of Return
(Percent)
Rainfed   Irrigated
Beef     Pastures
Rainfed  Irrigated  Breeding  and Beef   Irrigated  Irrigated
Dairy     Dairy    and Fat-  Fattening  Plantain   Sugarcane
Assumptions        Farm      Farm    tening Farm  Farm         Farm        Farm
(50 ha)   (20 ha)  (300 ha)    (20 ha)    (35 ha)    (20 4ha)
Model estimates    19         17          25          40         26         34
Investment costs
increased by 10%  16        15           22          35        23          29
Operational costs
increased by 10%  18        15           21          28        20          27
Sales receipts
reduced by 10%    15        13           18          23         16         20
Since it is unlikely that livestock sales receipts would be reduced by 10%,
particularly in view of future price prospects and the conservative estimates
of improvements in technical efficiency, these results are regarded as satis-
factory.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      By financing on-farm investment, the project would not only increase
productivity and production on about 550 ranches/farms, but it would also have
a beneficial demonstration effect on the country's livestock industry, which
has been handicapped by the lack of extension services. Specifically, the
project would bring about improvement in animal husbandry practices, pasture
management and the general level of technology and supply of breeding stock.
By promoting specialization to replace the present practice of mixing beef



- 21 -
and dairy and introducing better management, the project would also help
raise technical coefficients of milk production such as the calving rate and
lactation rates.
6.02      Various features incorporated in the project would help ensure that
about 150 to 200 loans are made to relatively smaller investors and provide
the basis for a later and larger program for this sector.  The project would
also provide for fuller employment of family labor. Mechanization is envisaged
only where it is essential and manual labor would be employed for most opera-
tions such as land clearing and development. Ancillary services such as
transport and processing would further augment employment opportunities.
6.03      The impact of the project on institutional development for financing
on-farm investment would be significant. Private commercial banks would be
involved in this activity on a major scale for the first time an!J would build
up a cadre of technicians equipped to handle this business. The project would
help strengthen BN as an instrument of such credit, especially for small farm-
ers, by helping to bring about financial and organizational improvements in
its working. The Special Project Unit would provide, through its Technical
Director and other technicians, a source of expertise not only in credit but
generally in regard to improved production practices,
6.04      By increasing the production of beef, milk, and some irrigated crops,
the project would help feed a growing population and improve Nicaragua's bal-
ance of payments, both by sustaining or increasing exports (beef, milk pro-
ducts and sugar) and by promoting import substitution (plantains and vege-
tables). The incremental exports of beef, milk and sugar are estimated at
full development to earn US$9 million, US$2 million and US$0.8 million, re-
spectively. The impact of the project in terms of other irrigated crops is
less clear as the financing of several crops is permitted and the actual re-
sults would depend on the demand. In particular, Nicaragua, which is a net
importer of onions, plantains, and vegetables, would be able to meet its
domestic consumption requirements of these crops increasingly from local
production.
6.05      The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 25%
(Annex 11).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that it would:
(a)  hold the CB harmless for any foreign exchange losses (para 3.17);
(b)  make available to the FONDO, a sum of US$0.5 million as a
condition of loan effectiveness and another sum of US$0.5
million equivalent at the end of 12 months following that
date (para 4.02);



- 22 -
(c)  provide funds to BN for writing off its bad debts as required
in para 4.08, if BN cannot do so from its own resources
(para 4.08);
(d)  compensate BN, within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year
for net expenses incurred by BN, on activities undertaken by
it for development purposes (para 4.08); and
(e)  ensure that IXN would expedite action on requests from
project sub-borrowers for allotment of land titles
(para 4.10).
7.02      Assurances were obtained from CB that:
(a)  the amount of sub-loans made to small beneficiaries would
form at least 15% of the total amount of sub-loans made
under the project during the first 12-month period
following the date of the Loan Agreement, 20% during the
second and 25% during the third (para 3.03);
(b)  that a beef marketing study would be carried out by a
consultant approved by the Bank according to terms of
reference also approved by the Bank (para 3.12);
(c)  the plans for improved grass and legume seeds multiplication,
two cattle marketing centres and an artificial insemination
center would be implemented after obtaining prior Bank
approval (para 3.13);
(d)  a Technical Director and Co-Director acceptable to the
Bank would be appointed by the FONDO on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank and a Project Unit would be
established in CB (para 4.03);
(e)  a crops specialist, a project analyst, and two project tech-
nicians would be appointed by the FONDO and at least six
project technicians by the participating banks, within three
months of loan effectiveness (para 4.04);
(f)  BN would:
(i)  complete, within 12 months of the date of the Loan
Agreement, the investigation of its agricultural
loans overdue for more than three years and arrange
for writing off irrecoverable amounts within a succeed-
ing period of two years;
(ii) contribute annually from its profits to a bad debts
reserve so as to build it up to 2% of its loan portfolio
within two years of the date of the Loan Agreement and
maintain it at that level thereafter; and



- 23 -
(iii)  undertake a study of its costs and expenses and, within
one year of the Loan Agreement, adopt appropriate policies
to increase its profits (para 4.08);
(g) the criteria and terms and conditions set out in Schedule A
to this report would be observed by the FONDO and participating
banks in respect of all sub-loans under the project and
subsidiary loan agreements would be concluded between CB
and the participating banks (para 4.13);
(h) separate accounts would be maintained for the project at the
FONDO and at each of the participating banks showing separately
the loans made to small beneficiaries and to others and that the
FONDO would supply to the Bank periodical progress reports on
project operations (para 4.14); and
(i) the accounts of the Central Bank, the FONDO and participating
banks would be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank and
that the audited statemeats would be sent to the Bank within
four months of the end of the various institutions' fiscal
years (para 4.14).
7.03      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a)  CB and the Ministry of Agriculture have made the necessary
arrangements for the technical services to be organized
with the Ministry's assistance (para 3.13);
(b)  Government have agreed to undertake to hold the CB harmless
for any losses attributable to the servicing of the Loan
(3.17)3
(c) Government had made available to FONDO a sum of at least
US$0.5 million equivalent (para 4.02);
(d) a Technical Director and Co-Director had been appointed and
a Project Unit had been established (para 4.03);
(e) CB has entered into at least one subsidiary loan agreement
(para 4.13).
7.04      With the foregoing assurances, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan to the Central Bank of Nicaragua of US$8.5 million for a
term of 16 years, including a five-year grace period.
October 23, 1973






Schedule A
Page 1
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Terms and Conditions of Lending
for On-Farm Investment
1.   IBRD to Central Bank of Nicaragua (FONDO)
(i) Interest rate at 7.25% per annum;
(ii)  Commitment charge at 0.75% per annum;
(iii)11Repayment in 16 years, including five years of grace;
(iv)- IBRD would disburse:
67% of eligible loans to small beneficiaries disbursed
by participating banks (PB);
63% of other eligible loans disbursed by PB.
2.   FONVO to Participating Banks (PB)
(i) Interest rate:
at 7.25% for loans to small beneficiaries;
at 9.5% for other loans;
(ii)-FONDO would refinance:
83% of loans disbursed by PB to small beneficiaries;
75% of other loans disbursed by PB;
(iii) Repayment to FONDO on same terms as granted to sub-borrowers
by PB; and
(iv) PB would assume credit risk for loans granted by them.
3.   Participating Banks to Sub-borrowers
(i) Charge:
10.25% as interest on loans to small beneficiaries;
12% on other loans,made up of interest rate of 11%
11        and an appraisal and supervision fee of 1%
(ii)- Of the total cost of medium- and long-term investment,
the required contribution from awn resources would be:
10% for small beneficiaries; and
20% for other sub-borrowers.
1/ The underlying pattern of financing of investment cost is as follows:
Participating
Bank   FONDO          Bank          Sub-borrower
For small beneficiaries   60%        15%           15%               10%
For other sub-borrowers   50%        10%           20%               20%



Schedule A
Page 2
4.   Definition of Small Beneficiaries
Small beneficiaries, for the purposes of this schedule, are defined
as those whose major source of income is farming and the value of whose total
assets in farming (including farm machinery and livestock and such but ex-
cluding the value of land and any assets to be financed out of the Project
sub-loans) does not exceed US$20,000 and, further, in the case of sub-borrowers
for irrigated farming (for dairy or beef or crops), those whose irrigated hold-
ing (includirng the area to be irrigated with the sub-loan) does not exceed 20 ha.
5.   Grace and Repayment Periods
The following grace and repayment periods for 'Loans to sub-borrowers
would not be exceeded without prior agreement with IBRD:
No. of Years
Purpose                                  Grace Period  Repayment Period   Total
Rainfed Dairy                                   3               7              t0
Irrigated Dairy                                 4               6              10
Rainfed Beef Breeding and Fattening             4               8              12
Irrigated Pastures and Beef Fattening           -               5               5
Other Irrigated Crops                           2               8              10
6.   Other Terms and Conditions
(i) No sub-loan would be made which, by itself or with an earlier
sub-loan to the same sub-borrower, is in excess of  S $100,000
equivalent.  For the purposes of tnis provision, loans to an
individual sub-borrower would include any loans to
partnerships or firms in which his equity exceeds 50%;
(ii)  Not more than 50% of any sub-loan should be used for
purchase of breeding cattle without prior approval of
the Bank;
(iii)  Project technicians would assist applicants in the pre-
paration of farm plans and appraise sub-projects.  Par-
ticipating banks would make their own evaluation of the
creditworthiness of individual applicants, would approve
sub-projects on the basis of project appraisal by their
technicians, and bear the full credit risk for sub-loans
made by them;
(iv)  Sub-loan  to be refinanced by the FONDO would ordinarily
require approval by the Technical Director but he may
delegate such authority, at his discretion, to the
Co-Director;



Schedule A
Page 3
(v)   Sub-loan applicants would meet the creditworthiness and
collateral requirements of the participating banks for
medium- and long-term agricultural loans. Eligible
security would normally include real estate mortgage
on titled land and chattel mortgage on livestock and
equipment;
(vi) The technical staff of the FONDO's Special Project Unit
and of the participating banks would ensure, through
periodical visits, that the loans advanced are used for
the purposes for which they are provided;
(vii) Participating banks would ensure that sufficient funds,
including seasonal requirements of working capital, are
provided to sub-borrowers so as to enable them to carry
out their investment and production plans;
(viii) Project sub-borrowers would be required to take adequate
animal health measures for the protection of the cattle
on the farms financed by the sub-loans under the project;
and
(ix)  No sub-loans would be made under the project for invest-
ments involving mainly cotton or coffee expansion or rice
and tobacco.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
0                                            NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Background
General
1.        Forming part of the Central American isthmus between the Atlantic
and Pacific Oceans, Nicaragua is bordered on the north by Honduras and on
the south by Costa Rica. During the decade 1960-70 the rate of population
growth was put at 3.1%, and Nicaragua's total population in 1971 was estimated
at 1.9 million. But with a total land area of. 118,358 km2, the density of
population (16 per km2) is the lowest of the five Central American countries
(Table 1).
2.        In 1971, the area farmed (48,900 km2) accounted for only 40% of
the total land area. According to the 1963 agricultural census, the distri-
bution of farm land by agricultural use was as follows:
Area
000 ha      Percent
Arnual crops                              384          10.2
Permanent crops                           156           4.1
Fallow                                    333           8.8
Pastures                                1,749         46.4
Other                                   1,146         30.5
Total Farm Area:                  3,768         100.0
Land use statistics for 1971 are currently being processed but the only
significant changes these are likely to show is a further increase in the
share of pastures, reflecting the growth of extensive livestock operations,
and a 30% expansion in the total area farmed (para 4 and Table 2).
3.        The three distinct zones to be found in Nicaragua are as follows:
(a)  Pacific Zone.  This consists of the Pacific coastal plains and
hills and the adjoining Rift Valley, with its two lakes (Nicaragua
and Managua) and line of active volcanoes. Rainfall varies from
2,500 mm in the north to 1,500 mm in the south.  With 60% of the
total population and a density of 62.4 per km2, the Pacific Zone
is the most developed region of Nicaragua.  Its fertile volcanic
0f                     soils account for the bulk of the production of cotton, sugar-
cane, bananas, and irrigated rice;



ANNEX I
Page 2
(b)  Central Zone.  Embracing the mountainous regions of the center
and north, with lower annual rainfall (500 to 2,000 mm) and
generally poorer lateritic-type soils, interspersed with more
fertile alluvial soils in valley bottoms, this zone contains
some 32% of the total population, with a density of 18 per km2.
Much of Nicaragua's coffee and livestock production is in this
zone; and
(c)  Atlantic Zone.  With a high rainfall (2,500 mm to 6,000 mm) and
relatively poor soils, mostly of lateritic origin, but leached
and deficient in both phosphorus and potassium, the Atlantic
plain is covered largely by tropical rain forest. At the
roment, this zone is largely underdeveloped and contains less
than 9% of the total population, with an average density of 2
per km2. As roads are built and settlement increases, it should
be possible to tap the potential of this zone for livestock and
forestry production.
4.        The expansion of land farmed by zone over the last 20 years is
shown below:
1952                  1963                    1971
Zone                             '000 ha       7 '000 ha h
Pacific        915      39        1,258         33      1,446          30     
Central      1,212      52       1,987          53      2,343         48
Atlantic       211       9          522         14      1 080         22
Total  2 338    100         3,767        100       4,869        100
These figures show that the rate of expansion between 1952 and 1971 varied
considerably between zones, reflecting in particular the openiing of land -in
the Atlantic Zone.
Agriculture in the Economy
5.        Agriculture remains the most important sector in the Nicaraguan
economy, although its contribution is slowly declining, as shown by the
following table and Table 3:
Share of
Agriculture                     1950       1960       1970
(a)  of GDP                            31        27         25
(b)  of economically active
population                    67         60         53
(c)  of exports (by value)             72        78         69



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Agriculture has retained its position in the economy because production for
internal consumption has generally kept pace with the growth of population,
while production fot export has both grown and been diversified. In 1950,
coffee accounted fo:r 67% of agricultural exports, whereas by 1971 the major
components of agricultural exports were cotton (31%), coffee (22%), meat (22%),
and sugar (9%). Agricultural exports for the three years 1969-71 represented
50% of total exports, and the favorable agricultural balance of trade for the
same period averaged over US$70 million.
Agricultural Production
6.        Crops.  The area and production of Nicaragua's main crops in 1971
were as follows:
Area      Estimated Percentage of          Production
Crops   ('000 ha)    Total Cultivated Area          ('000 m tons)
Corn         255               37                     232.9
Coffee        84               15                      43.6/1
Cotton       94                13                     237.0/2
Beans         61                8                      59.4
Sorghum       56                7                      55.6
Sugarcane    32                 4                   1,802.4
Rice          25                3                      49.8/3
/1   Green beans.
/2   Seed cotton.
7T   Milled rice.
7.        The steady rise since 1951 in the output of maize (74%) and beans
(54%), together with the doubling of the level of rice output since 1963,
largely due to the expansion of the area under irrigation, has enabled food
crop supplies to keep pace with the growth in consumption occasioned by in-
creases in population and living standards (Table 4). As regards export crops,
cotton output has varied with world market price changes but in 1971 was more
than five times greater than in 1951, while, over the same period, coffee and
sugarcane production more than doubled. Nicaragua has thus successfully in-
creased and diversified its participation in world trade in agricultural
products (Table 5).



ANNEX 1
Page 4
8.        Of the total estimated cultivated area of 700,000 ha, only 41,000 ha
(or less than 6%) are under irrigation, despite the fact that, particularly
in the Pacific and Central Zones, there is considerable annual variation in
the amounts and distribution of rainfall. The reasons for the relatively
slow development of irrigation include (a) the lack of pressure on land, (b)
the relatively high costs and other difficulties encountered in some irriga-
tion development schemes, (c) limited availability of assured water resources,
and (d) constraints (lack of research and production and marketing problems)
to the development of suitable crops, particularly in the cotton area (Annex 4).
9.        Livestock.  The livestock sector, currently contributing about 9%
of GDP, has shown a high rate of growth over the last decade.  The absolute
value of livestock production rose from C$197 million in 1960 to C$704 million
in 1971. Production of beef and milk accounted for nearly 80% of total live-
stock production by value in 1971. Under the influence of rising world market
prices, beef production showed the highest rate of growth (21.5% for the
period 1965-71). While domestic per capita consumption was maintained at
around 11 kg per year, the value of beef exports (mostly to the USA) increased
nearly tenfold between 1960 and 1971, when they constituted 22% of total
agricultural exports (Table 3). This development came largely from expansion
of extensive livestock production as reflected in the growth of pastures, which,
at present, account for about 50% of total farm land. In the future, however,
more emphasis should be placed on the adoption of improved husbandry techni-
ques and the achievement of higher technical coefficients (Annex 2).
Land Tenure
10.       Distribution of land holdings is uneven.  About one-half of all
farms are less than 7 ha in size and cover only 3.5% of the total farm area,
while, at the other extreme, the largest farms, each over 350 ha in size,
represent only 1.5% of the total number but account for 41% of the farm area
(Table 6). Moreover, land under use titles and land occupied without legal
title by squatters represented 30% of the total farmed area according to the
1963 census.
11.       Instead of adopting any land redistribution measures, Nicaragua has
chosen to encourage settlement in the Atlantic Zone and accelerate the issue
of land titles. Such work has been undertaken by the Agrarian Institute of
Nicaragua (instituto Agrario de Nicaragua - IAN), which was established under
the Agrarian Reform Law of 1963, but its impact has been limited by its small
budget (C$10 million, or US$1.4 million) and the fact that only 20% of its
staff operates outside Managua. Up to the end of 1972, IAN's program of
issuing clear titles which guarantee security of land tenure has benefited
15,103 families in a total area of 913,217 ha, mainly in the North, Central,                 6
and Atlantic Zones.  !AN acquired 2.8 million ha to allot to landless farmers.
Under the colonization program, IAN established colonies for some of these
beneficiaries, granting them technical assistance for production, social,
and cultural activities. Up to 1973, the program has assisted 3,562 families



ANNEX 1
Page 5
living in 38 agricultural colonies and 11 settlements, covering a total area
of 12,443 ha in agriculture and 8,426 in livestock. The colonists receive
advice in preparing credit applications for Banco Nacional de Nicaragua (BN)
and in marketing of farm products, and financial assistance from the
Government for basic infrastructure works which comprise the community
development effort. Under its peasants' training program, IAN seeks to
improve the socio-economic conditions of rural families through several
courses on rural development and cooperatives. So far, 113 courses have been
given to more than 5,000 participating peasants, and 22 cooperatives have been
formed with 1,240 members. IAN also helps resolve land tenure disputes, avoid-
ing land encroachments and ejections. Under a special program for the develop-
ment of new areas, IAN is attempting to bring new land into production for
transfer to landless peasants. A notable project in this category is Rigoberto
Cabezas involving 345,000 ha. IDB assistance is being sought to carry it out.
Dual Structure of Agriculture
12.      Based on skewed land distribution, Nicaraguan agriculture has a
markedly dualistic structure.  On the one hand, the medium- and large-size
farmers, particularly in the Pacific Zone, constitute a modern sector, which,
utilizing most of the available credit, fertilizers, and machinery, is
responsible for the production of the major export crops (cotton, coffee,
sugarcane, and bananas) as well as livestock and irrigated rice. On the
other hand, the traditional sector, consisting broadly of the farms of less
than 7 ha in size (50% of the total number), produces, under rainfed conditions,
the bulk of the corn, sorghum, beans, and upland rice. Relatively untouched
by extension services and credit, this sector has grown by an extension of the
area cultivated while yields have remained stagnant.
13.       The two sectors overlap in many areas and traditional-type farmers
supplement their incomes by working on cotton, sugarcane, and coffee farms,
particularly during the harvest season. Only in this way have they been able
to share in the general prosperity, the benefits of which have gone largely
to the larger farmer.
14.       In both modern and traditional farming sectors, and in livestock as
well as crop production, the relative availability of land has led to a
general reliance on extensive methods to increase production. Even in the
case of cotton, the fact that land can be leased on an annual basis permits
variation of the area planted in response to changes in world market prices
(Table 4).
Development Strategy
S
15.       The underlying objectives of agricultural development in Nicaragua
have been to maintain self-sufficiency in food production and to diversify
for export. The strategy adopted to attain these objectives reflects both
the dual structure outlined above and the prevailing political philosophy.
Instead of engaging in central planning, Government has placed its reliance
on providing the right climate in which the modern farm sector could operate
successfully. This sector is dominated by farmers with a strictly commercial



ANNrEX 1
Page 6
outlook and, in most cases, other business interests, who have shown themselves
quick to take advantage of any profitable opportunities. Nicaragua owes her
successful development of agricultural production and adaptability in meeting
changing demand on the world's markets to their enterprise.
16.       In accordance with this strategy, taxes on land and agricultural
enterprises are minimal, rates of duty on agricultural inputs (most of which
are imported) are low (5% to 7%), and, above all, bank credit has been a major
instrument in promoting production expansion in the modern farm sector (Annex 2).
17.       Measures to assist the traditional farming sector have been less
effective. Due to inadequate budgetary provision and insufficient coordina-
tion with marketing and credit, the research, extension, and education services
of the Ministry of Agriculture have had little impact. A rural credit program
has been operated by BN with mixed results, but for the most part, the small
farmer has little knowledge of improved techniques applicable to his level
of production and little access to institutional credit should he decide tc
introduce new methods.
Supporting Services
18.       As a result of this development strategy and the dual structure of
Nicaraguan agriculture, there is a varied pattern of supporting services. The
fact that the role of the Ministry of Agriculture is very limited has led
many other agencies to come into the field, and this and the absence of an              0
overall plan has resulted in considerable lack of coordination.
19.       Research, carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture at its three
stations, has dealt mainly with basic grains produced by the traditional farm
sector and has suffered from lack of adequate resources. For other crops,
research has mostly been on an ad hoc basis -- a notable exception being
cotton for which a comprehensive research station is operated by the
National Cotton Commission. Livestock research, including pasture experi-
mentation, has been conducted only on a sporadic basis (Annex 3). Because
of these weaknesses, little progress has been made in developir.g improved
breeds of livestock, particularly in view of the predominance of dual purpose
animals, and improved planting material, except in the case of cotton and
irrigated rice.
20.       The work of the official extension service of the Ministry of
Agriculture is handicapped by lack of resources (it has only 42 field staff)
and by insufficient coordination with research, credit and marketing, so that
its impact on the traditional farm sector has been small.  Where extension
has been associated with credit, as in the case of BN and Instituto de Fomento               0
Nacional (IN701,O7AC) programs, better results have been achieved (Annexes 2 and 3).



ANNEX 1
Page 7
21.       Agricultural training is available at both high school and university
levels. Degree courses in agriculture are conducted at the National School
of Agriculture but most post-graduate students go to foreign universities.
The output is less than 10 graduates and some 150 intermediate students per
year, which is insufficient to meet the keen demand for graduates in the
development agencies and the private sector.
22.       On the marketing side, the National Institute for External and
Internal Trade (Instituto Nacional de Comercio Externo y Interno - INCEI) was
formed with the basic objective of controlling the supply of basic grains.
Its efforts were first hampered by lack of storage facilities but this has
now been remedied by the erection of 100 Cantonal centers (Centros Agricolas
Cantonales) and two terminal storage depots under a BN program with Export-
Import Bank finance. INCEI's unhappy experiences in rice marketing, where its
support buying operations broke down in 1969 as a result of the price having
been fixed at too high a level (Annex 4), together with its inability to
compete with grain middlemen in promptness of payment, have led to loss of
confidence by small farmers and so restricted the role it can play.
23.       The total consumption of fertilizers grew from less than 10,000 m
tons in 1960 to nearly 57,000 m tons in 1971, while the use of insecticides
remained steady over the same period at about 12,000 tons. However, the modern
farm sector accounts for 90% of the use of these inputs, with cotton taking the
*SS"       major share (72%).  All the fertilizers and 25% of the insecticides are im-
ported and there are two fertilizer mixing plants.  The Pacific Zone partic-
ularly has a good network of distributors, and, in the main cotton area,
specialized contracting firms undertake aerial crop spraying.
24.       Mechanization shows a similar pattern.  Of an estimated total
tractor park of 3,577, nearly 50% are engaged in cotton production. All
tractors and most of their associated implements are imported; the current
agricultural tractor import rate is about 150 per year and there is a good
network of distributors and repair and spare part facilities.
Recent Developments
25.       With technical assistance from the Inter-American Institute of
Agricultural Sciences (Instituto Interamericano de Ciencias Agricolas) and
a grant from IDB, a National Commission has prepared proposals to strengthen
and expand the research, extension, and educational activities of the Ministry
of Agriculture over a five-year period, 1972-76. As a first step, the three
branches of the Ministry handling these activities were integrated as of
January 1973 but further action has been delayed because of the earthquake.
26.       Under the direction of the National Agricultural Committee, a
special Sector Analysis Unit (Unidad de Analisis Sectorial - UNASEC) has been
established in the Ministry of Agriculture, with technical and financial
assistance provided by USAID. During 1971 and 1972 UNASEC carried out a sample
agricultural census to update the results of the 1963 census and to provide



ANNEX 1
Page 8
data on which proposals for long-term agricultural development priorities
could be based. The incidence of the drought of 1972 and the Managua earth-
quake of December 23, 1972, however, required UNASEC to direct its attention
to preparation of an emergency plan to deal with the effects of these disasters
(para 29).
27.       From the agricultural point of view, the results of the drought
were disastrous while those of the earthquake have been negligible. From
virtual self-sufficiency in food production, UNASEC estimates that, following
the drought, there will be production deficits of the following order in the
1972/73 harvest:
Estimated Production Deficit
Percentage of
Crop                       mt              Estimated Consumption
Maize                      66,000                   30
Beans                       9,000                   20
Sorghum                   28,500                    40
and that there may well be reductions in the production of export crops,
notably cotton and coffee, with consequent losses of foreign exchange earn-
ings.
28.       Other consequences of the drought are reduced rural incomes, an
increase in rural unemployment, and financial difficulties and lack of working
capital, particularly for small producers. In addition to its disturbance
of commercial channels for the distribution of inputs and the marketing of
agricultural products, the earthquake has added to the general unemployment
problem.
29.       The emergency plan prepared by UNASEC proposes:
(a) integrated action by the Ministry of Agriculture, BN, INCEI,
and IAN, to provide inputs, short-term finance, and assured
but flexible market outlets to revive, in particular, the
production of maize, beans, and sorghum in the traditional
farm sector;
(b) concentration of commercial banking credit, with external
aid where possible, for export production, including livestock;
(c) a program for the construction of 713 km of new roads and
t;he maintenance of 205 km of existing roads to promote the
opening up of new production areas and to alleviate rural
unemployment; and
(d) emergency livestock schemes for pasture improvement, supple-
mentary feeding, feed lot operations, and pig development.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
30.       Apart from considerable additional crop loan requirements, it is
estimated that INCEI would need C$26.9 million (US$3.8 million) to finance its
proposed grain purchases and that the road construction and maintenance would
cost some C$204 million and give employment to about 4,000 people.
31.       Financial considerations may well dictate some scaling down of the
size of this emergency plan, but, even if only implemented in part, it could
well have important long-term implications by providing the foundation for
future coordinated institutional approaches to the problem of promoting the
development of the traditional farm sector.
32.       A temporary export duty of 10% is being imposed on agricultural
exports during 1973 and 1974 to help finance the costs of reconstruction.
The firmness of most world market prices has reduced the impact of this sur-
charge, which will have the incidental effect of making production for the
home market relatively more attractive.
Future Prospects
33.       Given Nicaragua's natural advantages in respect of soil, climate
and rainfall, and available land, together with its nearness to the US market,
there is general agreement that prospects for the further development of the
livestock sector are very favorable. The present position of that sector is
analyzed in detail in Annex 3.
34.       Until the on-going sector survey has been completed and firm con-
clusions as to specific development priorities can be formed, it will be
difficult to specify, in other than general terms, crops for which medium-
and long-term credit will be required. In the meantime, however, it is consid-
ered that the main demand for investment will be for the installation of
irrigation facilities. However, in addition to the constraints mentioned
in paragraph 8, the fact that investments have already been made in irrigation
for the production of such crops as sugarcane, bananas, tobacco, and rice is
likely to restrict the rate of expansion of irrigation in Nicaragua in the
immediate future. Annex 4 sets out the background for development of irriga-
tion in Nicaragua and details project proposals in this field.
October 23, 1973






N I C A R A G U A
\0                                                   AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Area and Population Density
Regions                             Area                           1 9 6 3                               1 9 7 1
(in sq  Km )i]           Population     Persons per            Population      Persons per
,_sq  Km                               sq  Km
Repulic  Total)                   118,358               1.535,588          13.0               1.911,543           16.2
Pacific                            18,219                  869,973         47.7                1.137,490          62.4
Central and Northern               33,597                 560,976          16.7                  603,878          18.0
Atlantic                           66,542                 104,639           1.6                  170,175           2.6
j EExcluding area under water.
Source: Census Office 1972
I;f



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Land Use by Activity
(?000 He-ctarems)
195152    Percent   1           Percent   1962/63   Percent   1970/71    Percent
TOTAL FARM AREA                  2l33G     100.0     2,902      100.00 3.767         100.0      4 890       100.0
Annual Crops                       302      l2c9        366      12.6        4        1022                   11.1
Cotton                                                                                                      - 7  9  7
Sesame                            23                  13                    7                    10
Sugarcane                        19.                  19                   20                    32
Corn 1/                          101                 146                  1614 3/               255 3/
Beans I/                          26                  26                   39                    61
Pdce 17                           40                  24                   19                    25
Sorghuim                          40                  51                   32                    56
Other                              7                   -                    8                     9
Permanent Crops                    108       4.6       148        5.1       156        4.2        n.a.       n.a.
Coffee                           56                   85                   93                    84
Bananas and plantains             47                 n.a.                  45                   n.a.
Others                             5                 n.a.                  18                   n.a.
Fallow                             147       6.3        355      12.2       333        8.8        n,a.       n.a.
Pasture                            628 2/   26.9     1 363       47.0     1 749       46.4        noa.       n.a.
Natural                         n.a,                                                 =          n.a,
Seeded                          n,a,                 897                1,096                   n.a.
Others                           1 1        49.3       670       231      11                      n.a.       n.a.
1/  Double-cropped area counted once only.
2/ Fenced pastures only.
3/ Estimated.
Source: Agricultural Census, 1952, 1.963 arnd Central Barks



*5                                                                                        ~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~a r  S 
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
C-o- National Product
(CA HIllios)
______________________  CO  P     5                                                                                    CURRENT PRICES
1960                      1970                     1971                     1972                     1960                      1970                     1971                      1972
Cross Dooestic Product                  2,444.1     100.0        4_870.7     100.0         530.        100.0        5,398.3     100.0        2,513       100.0        5,972.4     100.0         6,471.0     100.0        7,116.6      100.0
Orcoc_. 66 4                                   27.3        1,193.7      24.5        1256.0       24.3         12832       23.            697.4       7.7        1,468.1      24.6         1567.5       24.3        1,677.5       23.9
Cro,.                                     S79.2      19.6          772.5      15.9          800.5      15.7           788.3     04.6          520.9       20.7          906.6      15.2          936.3       14.5          967.2      13.8
L .vestock                                160.5       6.6          370.7       7.6          393.0       7.6          434.0       8.0           145.8       5.8          498.4       8.3           561.6       8.7          629.6       9.0
Forestry                                   23.6       1.0           23.8       0.5           26.7       0.5            30.2       0.6           27.1       1.1           29.9       0.5            37.0       0.6           43.3        0.6
HNtig and Fs-o-9g                           3.1       0.1           26.7       0.5           25.8       0.5            30.7       0.6            3.6       0.1           33.2       0.6            32.6       0.5           37.4        0.5
secondar.                           403.0      16.5       127.025.7                 1,297.4       25.3       1,301.3       03.6          405.3      16.1        1,303.9       21.8 53  6               22.1        1,593.4       22.7
Irdustr-                                  306.0      12.5        1,012.9      20,8        1,087.9      21.1         1,155.0      21.4          302.9      12.0        1,070.6       17.9        1,195.6      18.5        1,339.5       19.1
B.ilding                                   55.7       2.3          160.4       3.3           164.6       3.3          183.3       3.4           57 .9      2.3          177.4        3.0          188.9       2.9          210.5        3.0
M--xng                                     42.1       1.7           53.7        1.1          44.9        0.9           43.0       0.8           44.5       1.8           55.9        0.9           45.0       0.7           43.4        0.6
Tesor.9 5a~2.~y2                               06.2        2,450.0       50.3       2      ,     5989 50.4    2,733.6   50.6           1,410.5      06.7         3,200.4      03.6        3, 0 03. 6  3,74     5.      7     5 3.4
Com,aorce                                 536.2      21.9        1,025.7      21.1         1,101.9      21.4        1,179.0      21.8          552.3      22.0         1,174.4      19.7        1,293.7      20.0         1,438.4      20.5
G-vern-eot                                186.5       7.6          290.3        6.0          293.7       5.7          304.4       5.6          189.9       7.6          484.8        8.1          506.6       7.8           543.1       7.7
Tr--sport and C-oiu-jcatio-,              136.3       5.6          260.7        5.4          280.1       5.4          299.7       5.6          140.4       5.6           298.5       5.0          328.8       5.1           365.6       5.2
Be-kfng                                    33.9       0.4          125.4        2.6          139.4       2.7          130.9       2.4           34.9        1.4          143.6       2.4          163.6       2.5           154.9       2.2
El-cEriiciY and W5t1r                      28.9       1.2          100.0        2.0          107.8       2.1          117.0       2.2           30.8        1.2          114.5       1.9          126.6        1.9          142.8       2.0
Housing                                   251.6      10.3          317.5       6.4           326.7       6.3          334.3       6.2          259.1      10.3           358.8       6.0          369.2       5.7           377.7       5.5         KW I
Other Services                            199.5       8.2          330.4        6.8          349.3       6.8          368.5       6.8          203.1        8.1          625.8      10.5          685.5       10.6          724.1      10.3
Sorce:  Central Bank



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Production. Area and Yield of Principal Crops (1961/62   1971/72)
(Production:- '000 metric tons: Area:'000 ha; Yield: metric tons per ha.)
1961/62     1962/63       963/64      1964/65     1965/66      1966/67      1967/68      1968/69     1969/1970   1970/71        971/72       972/73
/                                       f
Cotton    Production (lint)           ( 163-8       213.0        272.4        356.2        321.0       335.6        298.1        271.2        199.5        237.0       281.4        281.7
Area                          74.0         94.6        113.7        132.0       140.0        148.5       144.3        129.5        107.0         94.0        107.7        133.9
Yield                          2.2          2.3          2.4          2.7         2.3          2,3          2.1         2.1          1.9          2.5          2.6          2.1
Coffee    Production                     24.5        27.5         29.1         37.6         31.6        24.6         32.8         29.8         33.4        37.5         41.3         N.D,
Area                          84.8         88.4         82.1        86.8         88.9         89.2        89.4         87.1         85.8         82.9        81.8          81.8
Yield                          0.3          0.3          0.4         0.4          0.4          0.3          0.4         0.3          0.4          0.5          0.5         N.D.
Sujarcane Production                   1289.3      1084.3        998.8       1006.5        756.0      1425.1       1493.2       1588.3       1688.9      1802.4       1944.3       2010.0
Area                          27.1         ZO.3         21.0         21.0        24.8         25.0         26.6        29.6         29.7         31.9         34.2         35.6
Yield                         47.6         53.4         47.6        47.9         30.5         57.0        56.1         53.7         56.9         56.5         56.9         56.5
Corn       Production                   121.5        123.6        140.4        155.9       169.1        173.6        199.5       212.9        230.4        232.9        239.3        129.0
Area                         143.1        138.5        158.2       172.0        192.6        194.7       224.3        238.2        253.0        255.0        262.0        208.1
Yield                          0.8          0.9          0.9          0.9         0.9          0.9          0.9         0.9           0.9         0.9          0.9          0.6
Beans     Production                     39.5        35.6         29.8         44.5         48.3        51.8         54.4         55.2         54.2        59.4         65.4         49.6
Area                          45.2         39,4         42.0        48.6         51.5         55.1        57.5         58.4         57.5         60.6         61.4         60.1
Yield                          0.9          0.9          0.9          0,9         0.9          0.9          0.9         0.9          0.9          1.0          1.1          u.8
Rice      Production (milled)            23.8         22.7        28.7         29.8         33.0        39.0         41.9         41.8         41.5         49.8        50.4          45.8
Area                          23.4         22.3         21.2         22.1        22.6         22.8         23.3        23.3         24.8         24.9         25.8         25.8
Yield                          1.0          1.0          1.4          1.3         1.5          1.7          1.8          1.8          1.7         2.0          2.0          1.8
2Sr&hum   Production                     49.3         48.4        41.1         46.5         48.2        48.2         51.0         57.0         57.5         59.9         51.1         39.5
Area                          53.8         55.0         40.6         47.2        52.5         49.8         51.5        54.2         55.5         55.6         54.8         37.2
Yield                           0.9         0-9          1.0          1.0         0.9          1.0          1.0          1.1          1.0         1.1          0.9          1.1
Sesame    Production                      5.8          6.8        91.8        122.0        108.7       112.9        100.8         91.6         67.5         77.6       101.2         40,9
Area                           10.7         8.2          6.8          8.4         8.6         12.2          9.8         10.5         11.3         9.7          7.7          7,4
Yield                           0.5         0.8         13.5         14.5        12.6          9.2         10.3          8.7          6.0         8.0         13.1          5.5
1/  Preliminary figures.
SOURCE: CENTRAL BANK
Ir



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Principal Aaricultural Exports 1960-1972
(Valme;US$ '000; Vlwua;  1000 a. ton; Pric:* USS per m ton)
1950         1955          1960          1961           1962          1963          1964          1965          1966          1967          1968          1969          1970          1971           1972 p.
Banana               Value                  600           400           138            54           526          1388          2149           786           890          3321          3133          2179            256             3.0        3000
Volume 1/             N.A.          308           181            63           233           535           774            311           675          2046          2102          1510           255              3          2143
P7rice                N.A,             1.5 2/       0.8           0.9           2.3            2.6           2.8          2.3            1.3           1.6           1.5           1.4           1.0            1.0           1.4
Beans                Value                  N.A.          N.A.           98            67           468           157           383           362           540            232           948           844          1293          2423          2000
Volume                N.A.          N.A.            0.7           0.5            3.6           1.1           2.6           2.7           4.4           1.8           4.6           4.6           S.9           10.8           9.6
Price                 N.A.          N.A.          140.0         134.0         130.0         142.7          147.3        134.1          122.7         129.0         206.1         183.5         219.2          224.4         208.3
-       Coffee                Value                17300         27900        19222          17368         15430         17538         21095         26354         21761         21098         22683         20563          32087         29251         30200
Volume                  20.7          22.5          21.5          20.7          20.3          23.7          22.9          27.8          22.9          25.4          28.1          26.2           29.5          32.3          30.4
prtici                835.7        1240.0         894.0         839.0         760.1         740.0         921.2         948.0          950.3         830.6         807.2         784.8        1087.7          905.6         993.4
Cotton               Value                 1800         31000         14683         18341         31297         39781         51489         66132         56814          55991         59675         45425        34247          41309         61200
Volume                   3.2         43.           27.0           32.1          54.9          72.1          92.2         123.4         109.8         108.4         103.3          89.4           66.8          77.5          99.2
'Price   ,,          3562.5         714.3         543.8         371.4         570.1          551.7          558.4       535.9          517.4         516.5         577.7         508.1         512.7         533.0          616.9
Cotton seed          Value                  200          3300          2216          2573          4608          5201          6644          8688          8171          5644           3344          1038          1234           793          1700
Volu-e                N.A.          N.A.           31.2           40.9          73.2          87.9         113.2         136.5         111.2          74.5          44.8          11.4           17.0           9.0          27.2
Price                 N.A.          N.A.           71.0          62.9           63.0          59.1          58.7          63.6          73.5          75.8          74.6          91.1          72.6           88.0          62.5
Cotton coke          VaLffe                 N.A.          N.A.          190           130            34           355           629           801          1644          2568           3013          3442          2495          3518          4500
Volume                N.A.          N.A.            3.1           2.2            0.5           5.3          10.0          12.4          25.3          36.6          48.1          56.9           35.8          45.8          55.3
Price                 N.A.          N.,A.          61.3          59.0           68.0          67.0          62.9          64.6          65.0          70.2          62.6          60.5           70.0          76.8          81.4
Live Cattle          Value               --------      --------        1721          1581           986           493           303           300           211             55            76           188            27           106            668
Volue,e 3/         -----         .      --         20            19             10             5             3             3             3        --------      --------           I        --------       --------      --------
Price                   ---      --------          86.0          87,8           98.6          98.6         101.0         100.0          70.3      --------      --------         188.0      --------      --------       -------
Meet                 Value               ........      .'...           2968          4043          5993          8433          7524          6679         10215          12515         15882         20886         26579         28672          35256
Volume             --------      --------           4.4           6.1            9.5          12.6          10.9           9.4          12.6          14.5          16.9          20.2           24.4          24.9          28.3
Price-             --------      --------         674.5         662.8         63C.S         '°.^          f9^.3          710.5         810.7         863.'         ^'9 
Rice                 Value                  N 8.A.        N.A.          112            46           584           172           166             39           364            12           245           611          1535           1565          1495
Volume                N.A.          N.A.            0.7           0.4            3.4           1.0           1.0           0.2           2.1           0.1           1.8           5.6            8.9           8.4            7.4
Price                 N.A.          N.A.          160.0         115.0         171.8          172.0         166.0         195.0         173.3         120.0         136.1         109.1          172.5         186.3         202.0
Se.-me               Value'                1500          1700          2545          2375          1993          2240          2278          2144          2068           2491          2905          2545          2266           1954          1759
Volume                N.A.          N.A.             8.9           8.0           5.6           5.6           6.1           5.4           5.0           7.0           9.3            7.2           5.6           4.9           4.1
Price                 8.A.          N8A.          286.0         296.9          355.9         400.0         373.4         397.0         413.6         355.9         312.4         353.5          404.6         398.8         429.0
Shrimp and Lobster  Value                --------      ........      ........      --------        1580          1601          1701           2133          3825          4734          5140          6750           5935          5767          8600
Volume             --------      --------      --------      --------            1.5           1.5           1.9           1.8           2.4           2.9            3.0           4.1           3.3           3.0            3.9
Price              --------      --------      --------      --------        1053.3         1067.3         895.3        1185.0        1593.8        1632.4        1713.3        1646.3         1798.5        1922.3        2205.1
Sagar                Value                  700           900          3435          2834          4471          6026          5685           5518          2140          5947          5458          8300           9831         11631         14819
Volume                  5.9            8.7         34.4           25.0          37.0          40.5          47.3          45.0          17.0          45.9           41.5          61.0          70.1          77.8           96.6
Price                 118.6          103.4         99.9          113.4         120.8         148.8         120.2         122.6         125.9        129.6           131.5         136.1         140.2         149.5          153.4
Tobacco              Value                 N8A.           N.A.       --------      --------      --------          -----          28            49           115           665           814          1508           1892          2331          3200
Volume 5/             N.A.          N.A.       --------      --------      --------       --------           6            11            36           353            265           592           577           781            950
Price   J/            8.A.          N.A.       --------      --------      --------       --------           4.7           4.5           3.2           1.9            3.1           2.5           3.3           3.0            3.4
Total Agriultural Exporta 7/
Value                 N.A.          N.A.         49135         50964         69750         55802        I12189         122432      111278        118172          126151        118329        122721        131841         i63114
Total Nicaregua's Exports
Value                 N.A.          N8A.        62871         68357          90170        106767        125185        148946        142207        151682        162301         158748        178623        187242        239919
p: Prelimitary.
souree: Central Bak.
1/  '000 boxes.
2/ S per box.
J/   000 heeds-
4/ $ per head.
5/  i000 kg.
.9/  s/pkg.
7/l includes meat and sugar.



N I C A R A G U A
AGRICULTURAL CRE)IT PROJECT
Farm Size Distribution  i963
Percentage                                          Percentage
I,                                 lNumber of Farms                  of            Area on Fars   n  000 ha)             of
,Pacific  Central  Atlantic      All    Total       Pacific  Central  Atlantic    All    Total
Size of lF'arm      Zone   _  Zone      Zone               Number        Zone       Zonie    Zone   NicaEra   Area
7ina7_
0  -   7         23,222   23,8L6    4,868       51,936      50.8        57        62        12        131       3.5
7  -  35          9,1450   16,281t   2,242      27,976      27.4;     135        256        33        424      11.3
35  - 350          3,968   13,521    3,305       20,794      20.3       365     1,042      255      1,662      44.1
350 and above      _ 05   _ 58           132  _JJ49            1.5       702       628       221      1,551      41.1
All Farms:      3,24    541402   1      7    102 01    100.0    1429                      5 21     36        100.0
Note:   The full results of the 1971 census are not available to give later farm size distribution.
The total number of holdings in :1971 is put at 104,063 covering a total area of 4,889,553 ha.
The figures for 19263 and 1971 are not strictly ccmparable owing to the use of differing
definitions of an agricultural. holding.                                                                    V7
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0



ANNEX 2
Page 1
NICARAGUA
AGRICTLTIURA  CREDIT PROJECT
The Banking SYstem and Agricultural Credit
A. Banking System
Introduction
1.        The Nicaraguan banking system consists of the Central Bank (CB),
a Government-omned commercial hank -- Banco Nacional de Nicaragua (BN), the
Instituto de Fomento Nacional (INFONAC), six private commercial banks, four
private finance companies, 10 insurance companies, a Government-owned housing
bank -- Banco de la Vivienda (By7) associated with a system of savings and
loans associations, four general storage companies, and a small loan bank
-- Banco de Credito Popular (BC?). The banking system is regulated by the
General Banking LaT- (1963), the organic laws of the Central Bank (1960), the
Banco Nacional de Nicaragua's organic laws (1940 and 1970), INFONAC (1953),
the National Systerm of Savings and Loans (1966), and other economic laws.
BN is the largest bank in the country and INFONAC operates as a Government
instrument to promote new activities contributing to economic development.
Total assets of these institutions at the end of September 1972 were as
follows:
C$ Millions     USS Millions
(1)  Central Bank                      1,009.0           144.14
(2)  Banco Nacional de Nicaragua       1,106.6           158.09
(3)  Instituto de Foaento Nacional       406.1            58.01
(4)  Private Commercial Banks            942.9           134.70
(5)  Private Finance Companies           346.0            49.56
(6)  Insurance Companies                 174.3            24.90
(7)  National ITousing Bank              297.9            42.56
(8)  Savings and Loan Association        236.8            33.83
(9)  General Storage Companies            18.9             2.70
(10)  Banco de Credito Popular             10.38            1.54
The Central Bank
2.        The Central Bank, founded in 1961, has legal control over the supply
of money and credit and is empowered to control discount rates, legal reserve
requirements of banks and other institutions, credit ceilings and portfolio
structure, interest rates, and level of foreign exchange deposits and credit,
and it is authorized to issue licenses for new banks or finance companies.
The Superintendent of Banks and Other Institutions has regulatory powers over



ANNEX 2
Page 2
administration procedures, credit management, and accounting and auditing standars
of the banks, finance companies, insurance companies, and storage companies.
3.        Organization.  The CB is administered by a six-member Board of
Directors, which is appointed by the President of the Republic and includes
(a) the Yinister of Economy, Industry, and Commerce; (b) the Yinister of the
Treasury and Public Credit; (c) a representative of the official banks and
institutions; (d) a representative of the private banks and finance companies;
(e) a representative of the Chambers and Associations of Agriculture, Industry
and Livestock Sector; and (f) a representative of the minority party. Each
Director has an alternate and the President of CB acts as Chairman of the Board.
The Board of Directors delegates executive authority to the President and to a
manager appointed bv the Board on his recommendation.
4.        The CB is authorized to set up certain funds to perform activities
beyond its role as the Central Bank. nne of these, the Fund for Production
Develonment (PDF), was formed in 1966 with the sale of livestock and industry
development bonds issued by CB, according to a Government mandate and operating
under rules laid down by the CB directorate. The first two series of the
bonds were bought bv the private banks and their proceeds were on-lent, about
half and half to TNFONAC and BN.  Because of the tight liquidity situation of
both the institutions, a third series of bonds was issued early in 1971 to
finance the repayment of the first two series.
5.        At year-end 1972, the unpaid balances on these bonds were US$4.48
million due from Banco Nacional de Nicaragua and US$5.24 million from INFONAC;
on the other hand, CB has paid the equivalent of US$2.20 million to the holders
of the bonds and is planning to redeem the bonds at the end of 1976.
6.        PDF was to be liquidated in early 1972 as a new fund (para. 7) was
being planned to take over its assets. However, this idea has now been aban-
doned and the CB now has two funds to perform similar activities.
7.        Special Development Fund.  Under the orovision of the organic law
and by presidential decree, CB has been authorized to administer, on behalf of
the Government, a Special Development Ftnd (FONDO) for financing programs through
the commercial banks and other lending institutions. FONDO will be the channel
through w^hlch the funds will be routed for two TDB projects for financing con-
struction companies, building materials, manufacturing and agro-industries.
FONDO is discussed in detail in Annex 9.
8,.       Functions.  CB sets regulatory measures for the entire banking
systen.  Silnce the econonv of Nicaragua is open and CB does not offer discounting
facilities as yet. the banks tend to use a number of foreign sources of credit.
CB has, therefore, set limits of external borrowing for the private banks and
especialiy for BN and INFONAC.  It also regulates the expansion of lending and
borrowin- onerations and has limited the annual rate of increase in portfolio
as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Banks With Portfolio
Constituting This                   Permitted
Percentage of Net Worth             Yearly Increase Of
50                              107
50 - 80                          3%
BN                          UJS4.89 Million
9.        Nicaragua's economy requires many export-import operations which
call for bank guarantees. As this has become an important activity for
private banks, CB linits the amounts that the banks can guarantee, as follows:
Limit On Guarantee
Credit Institution       (Foreign and Domestic)
as a % of Net Worth
Private Banks                     200
BN                                150
Finance ComDanies                 300
10.       CB has granted loans to BEN and the Instituto Nacional de Comercio
Exterior e Interior (INCEI) andl is the instrument of the Government in financing
official institutions onerating in agriculture, industry, and fisheries. CB's
financial accounts are stummarized in Table 1.
11.       Audit.  CB's accounts are audited bv an auditor appointed by the
Board of Directors.  Annual balance sheets and financial statements are also
scrutinized by the Superintendent of Banks.
Growth of the Banking System
12.       The growth of the banking system in Nicaragua has been closely
related to economic growth as a wqhole and, therefore, presents cyclical
fluctuations due to vagaries of the weather and drastic changes in the world
market for primary product exports.  Total deposits in the commercial banks
grew at variable rates which ranged from 1.6% to 32.6% per year during the
1964-68 period.  In 1972, the estimated rate of growth went up to 39.47.  The
volume of total deposits at year-end 1972 was US$105.9 million for BN,
US$112.3 million for the private commercial banks, and 1'S$4.7 million for
INFONAC.
13.       The entire banking system in Nicaragua has been using the interna-
tional money markets as a source of ftinds to help support their operations in
the country. Such external borrowings started in 1964 for the commercial banks
at a level of US$6.4 million and rose to a 1972 figure of US564.3 million.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
14.       Loans have grown very unsteadily, reaching a record high annual
rate of increase of 42.4%7 in 1965, dropDing dowm to 6.2% in 1970, and then
rising sharply to 30.4% in 1972. Loans overdue with the commercial banks have
been more or less stable in absolute terms in the last four years (around
US$7.0 million) but in relative terms they came down from 20% of the portfolio
in 1969 to an estimated 8.9% in 1972.
15.       The growth of the total assets of the banking system has somewhat
reflected the variations in performance of the agricuiltural sector in the
countrv; from a record low rate of 1.6% in 1968, assets grew at the rate of
39.9% in 1965; growth subsided to 4.8% in 1969 but again picked up in 1972
with 31%.
16.       The number of bank offices established has been related to the
expansion of assets and deposits. Commercial banks have developed a consider-
able branch network, especially in the urban areas, having, as of the end of
1972, before the eartht,uake, 18 branches in Managua and 28 branches in the
rest of the country. Banco Nacional, on the other hand, has 21 branches, of
which 15 are outside M1anagua, mainly in rural areas, plus 10 agencies and 22
rural credit agencies distributed all over the country. INFONAC and the
finance companies so far have no branches outside Yanagua.
Scope of Lending
17.       The banking system in Nicaragua makes loans for financing commerce,
agriculture, industry, and small enterprises. In addition, there is an
important component of credit to the export/imoort sector as well as for
consumption. Agriculture has accounted for a high, though variable, share
of total banIX credit over the last 10 years although it is difficult to assess
the real volume disbursed every year since the available data are gross of
delinquencies and rescheduling. However, as of December 31, 1972, of the
total outstanding loans for the entire banking system, including ImFONAC,
finance companies, and commercial banks, estimated at US$248.7 million,
US$108.9 million was for agriculture and livestock.
18.       Bank loans in Nicaragua are usually granted for short-term (up to
18 months)  -1 m                 -term  (un to five years) although Banco
Nacional and INFONAC have granted loans for longer periods under special
programs financed bjy external souirces of funds. In accordance with the FONDO
la,7, the CB can authorize any commercial hank to make loans for up to 10
years or more, provideA they are granted under programs financed with the
FONDO.
Reservc!s an-3 Interest Pates
1i'.      Commercial banks are required to keen with the CB legal reserves
on their deposits.  For private banks and  N,, the reserves should be at least
28% on their current denosits (27 for BN), 107 on their savings, and 10% on
their time deposits. On savings, there is a requirement of 5% for Savings



ANNEX 2
Page 5
and Loan Associations and 10% for INFONAC. The finance companies must keep
leaal reserves accordina to the maturity of their obligations:  10% for
deposits of less than a year, 6% for those between one and two years, 3% for
those between two- and three-year periods; and more for those with longer
maturity.
20.       Interest paid on deposits varies according to type of deposit and
institution. CB pays 8.5% on the Production Development Fund bonds while the
commercial banks are authorized to pay no more than 6.57 on savings and up to
9.5% on time deposits of three years or more. INFONAC is permitted to pay a
higher interest on deposits with maturity of more than thrmp v>o-c-         _    _
three to four years, 10.25% for 4 to 5 years, and 10.50% for more than 5 years.
Savings and loans associations are authorized to pay 7% on savings and from 8%
to 10.50% on bonds, while finance companies pay between 6.5% for deposits for
two to three months and up to 10.50% for deposits of five years or more.
21.       Interest rates charged on lending operations also vary, different
rates having been authorized by CB for loans to different sectors (Table 2).
Besides these authorized rates, most commercial banks charge commissions, which
range from 1/4 of 1% to 1%, while finance companies charge commission up to
4%. INFONAC has been authorized to charge as much commission as 3% on advances
out of an IDB loan.
B.  Agricultural Credit
22.       Institutional credit to the agricultural sector comes mainly from
BANCO Nacional and INFONAC. Although in recent years the private commercial
banks have also begun lending for agriculture, especially in export-oriented
crops and beef raislng and fattening, expansion of their activities is limited
by lack of adenuately located branches and the technical personnel to appraise
and supervise loans.
23.       Institutional credit is available only to a small percentage of
farmers and is mainly concentrated among large commercial producers. In part,
this has resulted from the lack of land titles on the part of some borrowers
but it appears to be due more to the lack of infrastructure and supporting
services, which affects production and repayment capacity. It is easier for
large farmers to get credit because they can obtain their own technical assist-
ance, are better located and have the facilities to market their production.
Other farmers mostly finance themselves or rely on an unorganized money market
of input supnliers, truckers, and processors, landlords, and relatives, who
make money or materials available at interest rates often above 10% per month.
24.       Of the total amount of institutional agricultural credit, the
highest pronortion is short term and intended for crop production, mainly
coffee, cotton, and irrigated rice. The number of livestock loans related to
beef growing and fattening has increased rapidly since the 1960's, but long-
term loans for beef breeding activities are more scarce.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Interest Rates in Agriculture
25.       Interest rates charged to the farmers by the banking system are
related to the cost of money, the risk involved, CB regulations, and the
terms of lending. Short-term lending tends to be cheaper and some crops or
activities receive special treatment. In general, the private banks charge
11%, plus 1% commission, for short-term or production loans for crops such
as coffee, cotton, and sugarcane; 12%, plus 1% commission, for livestock
for beef production and other medium-term loans and '1%, plus 1% commission,
for beef fattening.
Collateral
26.       Most agricultural loans of banks in Nicaragua are secured by the
mortgage of land and chattel mortgage and, where land is not available, by
an urban mortgage or a co-signer. (An exception is that, under the Credito
Rural, BN accepts chattel mortgage as a substitute for mortgage of land).
Before IAN was established, there were many instances in which either no
titles to ownership existed or the available titles known as 'red' titles
were not acceptable to banks which considered them adequate only for securing
cultivation rights but not for collateral purposes. The IAN has, in the last
few years, issued clear titles for about 15,000 farms and, through this continu-
ing process, improved their acceptability to banks.  The participating banks
expect little difficulty in compliance with the collateral recuirement, on the
part of potential project sub-borrowers who, unlike marginal farmers, are not
likely to be handicapped in this respect. It is expected that, where necessary,
Government would help secure a clear title for such applicants through prornmpt
IAN action.
Cooperatives
27.       The cooperative organization in Nicaragua is legally supported by
a new General Law of Cooperatives (1971), which is under the jurisdiction of
the Department of Labor. This law is basically oriented towards labor co-
operatives and does not have specific provisions for agricultural cooperatives.
Since BN's organic law authorizes it to "promote, organize and finance" co-
operatives in which farmers can make efficient use of credit to obtain inputs
or services and market their production, it created a Division for Cooperatives
within its Department of Credit to encourage formation of such organizations
among its clients.  However, because of deficient legislation, corporations
sometimes call themselves cooperatives so that they can enjoy lower taxes
and other fiscal advantages, and this had led to confusion about the coopera-
tive movement and its principles.  CooDeratives, therefore, appear to have a
limited role in agricultural production, credit, and marketing, unless the
legal background is improved and Government gives them stronger support and
creates an atmosphere favorable to their working.
Loan Recoverv
28.       Loan delinquency has been rather high in agricultural credit, mainly
because of one or more of the following factors: (a) deficient supporting



ANNEX 2
Page 7
services: (b) inadequate land tenure system; tc) deficient marketing arrange-
ments; (d) poor loan appraisal and supervision; and (e) poor husbandry on the
farms. Agricultural lending has accounted for as high as 35% of frozen portfolio
in governmental institutions and up to 18% within the private banks.
International Finance for Agriculture and Livestock
29.       The banking system of Nicaragua has had access to external financ-
ing since 1965. The Bank was the first source of external funds for agricul-
tural credit with a loan of US$1.2 million in 1951 to BN for importing
machinery. Subsequently, IDB has made loans totaling US$23.7 million to
finance the Rural Credit Program, beef and dairy cattle, irrigated rice,
grains and other crops. USAID has also granted loans totaling US$16.0 million
to finance a supervised agricultural credit program, promotion of cooperatives,
and the recapitalization of Banco Nacional de Nicaragua.
30.       IDB has also granted loans to INFONAC totaling US$5.1 million to
finance dairy, beef, and pork production programs.  The disbursemeTt of the
last two loans, however, has been delayed because of INFONAC's failure to raise
counterpart funds and also because the list of goods and services did not corres-
pond to the farmers' demands. The Central American Bank has granted some
small loans to INFONAC for fisheries (US$0.76 million) and to BN for agro-
industries, as well as to a private enterprise for pork production; and many
foreign banks and manufacturing corporations have made short-term and medium-
term loans to the banking system for agriculture.
Banco Nacional de Nicaragua (BN)
31.       BN has been the most important source of institutional agricultural
credit in Nicaragua since 1924, when it was taken over by the federal Govern-
ment to act as a commercial bank and as a note-issuing institution. As the
oldest bank in the country, BN has developed a considerable network of branches
and rural agencies that facilitate its participation in agricultural and live-
stock credit projects. However, as a result of the Managua earthquake, BN's
main office and several urban branches were destroyed, and the bank was moved
temporarily to Masaya. Summarized financial accounts of BN are given in
Table 3.
32.       BN's operations are closely related to the industrial and agricul-
tural development of Nicaragua. Its development services to farmers on behalf
of the Government consist of project planning and execution and technical as-
sistance, and during the period 1969/71, these activities accounted for expend-
itures amounting to about C$6.2 millions per year (Annex 9).
33.       BN's lending program is divided into two parts:  (a) normal banking
credit for large farmers, and (b) the Rural Credit Program for small farmers.
The Rural Credit Program has as its objective the provision of assistance to
the bulk of the country's farmers who could not obtain credit from other
sources. Loans under this program now account for about 9% of BN's total
*        portfolio and about two-thirds of the number of loans outstanding.  The
average loan size is USS234.00.  The program also includes provision of a
reasonable amount of technical assistance -- 300 farmers per agent -- but, in
practice, extension has been ineffective.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
34.       About two-thirds of credit granted under this program has financed
annual rroduction costs, mainly for basic crops such as corn, beans, and
sorghum, while the remainder has been used for the purchase of cattle and
fa:m development works. During the 1971/72 production cycle, the program has
helped about 22,120 small and medium size farmers, wqith holdings averaging 2 ha.
35.       Taking into account the high cost of non-institutional credit for
this type of farming, the program seems to have benefited farmers and enabled
them to increase production. However, delinquency has been high, probably
because of the high proportion of short-term loans and the noor supporting
services.  Though increased output has apparently resulted from increasing
acreag,e, farmers have experienced difficulties in marketing surplus production
because of poor coordination between BN and INCEI.
36.       BN's agricultural portfolio has suffered from poor loan collections,
resulting from various factors such as periodical crop failure, inadequate super-
vision and lack of satisfactory arrangements for technical assistance and
marketing. BN has, however, taken several measures in the last few years for
improvement in this respect (Annex 9).
Instituto de Fomento Nacional (INFONAC)
37.       INFONAC, created by a Decree of 1952, was conceived as a governmen-
tal instrument to promote economic development in all the production sectors
of Nicaragua.  It combines the functions of bank, finance company, development
institute, research agency, and holding companv. Because of a lack of permanent
programs of financing, field offices, and technicians, and because of occasional
financial difficulties, INFONAC has plaved only a limited role in agricultural
lending but, even so, it has been more active than banking institutions other
than BN.
3f.       Organization and i-fanagement.  General nolicy and overall administra-
tion and credit policies are delegated by the Superior Council of the INFONAC
to the six-member Board of Directors, which is formed by its General Manager
(Chairman), a representative of the Presidency, twio representatives of the Su-
perior Council, a representative of the production sectors, and a representative
of the minority party.
30.       Day-to-day administration of the INFONAC is delegated to the General
MTanager, assisted by the deputy managers who head the departments.  INFONAC has
not yet established any branch outside lanagua, but instead has seconded several
technicians to *z.ork in the areas where snecific Trograms are executed.
4n,       Capital Structure.  INFONAC's summarized financial accounts for the
year 1970 to 1972 are showzn in Table 4.  INFONAC started with an authorized
capital of CS5n.O million (UTSS7.1 million) which has been paid over a 10-year
period.  In1er its law, INv0NAC is entitled to have its losses reimbursed by
the Government, as a cinital contriblution, but during the period 1969-71, such
contributions were not made available and the cumulative deficit at year-end
1971 was Uq,4.f  million.  However, in 1972, the Government made available
US$10.0 million that was used for repayment of external and domestic debts



ANTINE X 2
Page 9
and provision of counternart funds for IDB loans. On December 31, 1972, net
worth and reserves anounted to CS119.4 million (US$17.1 million).
41.       INFONAC's borrowings from the Central Bank are approved on a yearly
basis, mainly for short term; at year-end 1972, the outstanding balance with CB
was C$36.7 million (TUS$5.2 million).  Deposits and promissory notes amounted to
C$30.0 million (USA11.4 million); and external borrowings amounted to C$160.8
million (US$23.0 million) (Table 4).
42.       Operations.  INFONAC has been active in three types of
operations:  lending, equity contribution, and feasibility studies and
develonment of new industries.  As of December 1972,  INFONAC had US$8.3
million invested in shares of 19 companies covering various fields such as
steel mills, boatyards and boatlines, urban development, hotels and tourism,
chemicals, textiles, and fisheries.
43.       In its lending for agriculture and livestock, INFONAC has organized
the formation of integrated projects, and has therefore had to deal with large
clients or with comDanies in which financing takes the form of either equity or
loans. Short-term lending in agriculture covered banana (17 loans), tobacco
(136 loans), yuca (5 loans), and others (13 loans); and a stocking program
for livestock (8 loans), feedstuffs and hygiene (1 loan), and milk production
(11 loans).  Medium-term lending included 170 loans for banana, irrigation,
coffee, equipment, and tobacco and 190 loans for cattle stocking, milk
production, bee-honey production, pork production, and land improvements
for ranches. In long-term lending, 149 loans were for irrigation, banana,
tobacco, coffee, rice, and farm machinery, while livestock has 167 loans for
livestock stocking, bee-honev production, milk production, and pork production.
In most cases, thie three types of loans have gone to the same clients.
44.       INFONAC has been operating at sizable losses each year since 1965,
attributable to: its work on behalf of Government as a development institu-
tion;  its small ecuitv base for its large operations; a stable or gradually
declining interest yield; and increasing costs of borrowing.
45.       Income from lending operations is still lower if non-yielding port-
folio is taken into account. Interest actually collected represents only 45%
(estimated) of the interest accrued.  On the other hand, lending rates appear
to be unreal, especially in earlier years when a fairly large percentage of the
-portfol{o was made up of long-term, low interest loans.
46.       On December 31, 1972, TNFONAC had total ouitstanding liabilities of
USA41.25 million, about 14% hiTher than the book value of its net loan
portfolio.  About USS23.0 million, or 56% of its liabilities, were to foreign
lenders, about one-half to international agencies and one-half to private
foreign banks as loans and lines of credit. Annual debt service on the
foreign loans (excluding the lines of credit) is about US$6.0 million, or
US$7.0 million if allowance is made for reasonable retirement of the credit
*           lines.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Private Commercial Banks
47.       The six nrivately owned cornercial banks -- Banco de America, Banco
Nicaraguense, Banco Calley-Dagnall, Banco de Londres v Montreal, Bank of Ameri-
ca, and First National City Bank -- have so far made only a modest contribution
to agricultural credit.  HIowever, their role in this field can be improved if
there are incentives and viable projects. The restriction under the Banking Law
which rules out loans beyond five years ceases to apply in relation to conmercial
bank operations financed through the FONDO.
48.       These banks are described in detail in Annex 9.  Their condensed
balance sheets and profit and loss accounts are in Table 5.
Finance Companies
49.       The four privately-oTwmed finance cormanies -- Corporacion Nicara-
guense de Inversiones (CNI), Inversiones Nicaraguenses de Desarrollo (INDESA),
Inversiones Financieras (IMFISA) and Financiera Industrial Agropecuaria
(FIASA) -- account for 17% of total assets of the banking system. On Septem-
ber 30, 1972, the four had total assets of C$346.9 million (US$49.6 million)
and a total portfolio of Gg231.9 million (TTrS33.O million) as follows:
_ M^il.lions
Current Loans            C$                US$          _7
Commerce                     22.1            3.2            10                  i
Agriculture                  45.6            6.5            20
Livestock                     15.0           2.3             6
Industry                    148.3           21.2            64
Total:              231.9           33.2           100
None of these companies has any branches outside Managua and their operations
in agriculture are related either to corporations or to specific ptojects which
receive little or no supervision.
October 23, 1973



N I C AR A  G U A
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Accounts of Central Bank of Nicaragua
1969                            1970                             1971                             1972
C$'  Million  U5$ Million         C$ Million  USS Million          C$ Million  US$ Million          CU Million          illion
International Assets                             492.1           70.3             583.9           83.4             658.2           94.1             830.2          118.6
Domestic Assets:
Discounts
Loan Portfolio:
Commercial Banks  1/                         52.4             7.5             52.4             7.5             52.4             7.5             47.0             6.7
INFONAC                                       -                                  
Official Institutions                        33.0             4.7             31.6             4.5               -                                -
Federal Government                           69.1             9.9             65.3             9.3              93.0           13.3              89.2           12.7
Portfolio through SDF:
Comsercial Banks                              39.3            5.6             39.3             5.6              39.3            5.6              31.4            4.5
INFONAC                                      38.8             5.5             38.8             5.5             38.8             5.5             36.7             5.3
Fixed Assets                                      25.9             3.7             25.4             3.6             26.5             3.8             25.7             3.7
Other Assets                                      11.0             1.6             12.6             1.8             14.1             2.0             56.2             8.0
Total Assets:                  761.6           108.8            849.3           121.2            922.3           131.8          1.116.4           159.5
International Liabilities                        272.1            38.9            315.3           45.0             372.3            53.2            414.8            59.2
Domestic Liabilities:
Monetary                                       353.9           50.6             399.4           57.1             414.2            59.2            585.0            83.6
Securities and Bonds                            78.1           11.2              77.6           11.1              77.1           11.0              61.7             8.8
Deposits                                         3.3            0.5               2.9            0.4               5.7             0.8             11.8             1.7
Other Liabilities                                9.8             1.4              8.9             1.3              8.1             1.1              5.6             0.8
Total Liabilities:              717.2          102.6            804.1           114.9             877.4          125.3           1.078.9          154.1
Gross Income                                      38.6             5.5             43.2             6.2              38.6            5.5              37.5            5.4
Expenses:
Administration                                  14.6             2.1             18.3             2.6              18.2            2.6              19.8            2.8
Paid-out Interest                                8.6             1.2              7.9             1.1              8.5             1.2               8.6            1.2
Technical Assistance  2/                         9.0             1.3              9.6             1.4              3.0             0.4               2.6            0.4           3
Financial Assistance  31                         1.7             0.2              2.4             0.3              8.3             1.2               6.0            0.9
Total Expenses:                  33.9            4.8              38.2            5.4              38.0            5.4              37.0             5.3
Profits                                            4.7             0.7              5.0             0.8               0.6            0.1               0.5             0.1
SOURCE: Central Bank balance sheets and financial statements.
1/ Banco Nacional de Nicaragua.
2/ Expenses of the Department of Technological Research (DIT).
3/ Assistance to several quasi-official entities.



ANNEX 2
Table 2
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Interest Rates Authorized by the Central Bank of Nicaragua
(Percentages)
Lending Operations                 Borrowing Operations
Central                   Time
Year    Industry  Commerce  Agriculture   Bank         Savings    Deposits.
1960        6          6          6        4-6         1/2-3/l        3
1961        6          6          6        4-6         l/2-34A        3
1962        6          6          6        4-6         1/2-3/1        3
1963        6         6           6        4-6                        4
1964        6          6          6        4-6             4/2
1965        8          8          6/3      3-8             5L2        4
1966        8          8          6/4      3-8             6          6
1967        8         8           6/4      3-8             6          6
1968        8         9           8/       3-8             6          6
1969        9        10           9        3-8             6          6
1970       12        13          1215      4-12            6.5        8
1971       12        13          12        4-12            6.5         8
1972       12        13          12        4-12            6.5        8
/1 There were only time deposits.
/2  Time deposits (less than a year),h%.
/3 Cotton and livestock production,8%.
/. External rate plus 2% for coffee, cotton, and fattening.
/5 Except cotton production loans,10%.
July 3, 1973



AiNEX 2
Table 3
N I C A R A G U A
ACRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Balance Sheet 4nd. Prpf it a4 Loass Accoucts of BnEco Nacional
1970                                 1971                                 1972
Category                                  C$ Million      US$ Million          C$  Million nC Million                               US$ Million
ASSETS
Cash and Banks                             31.3              4.47               48.8              6.97              101.1             14.44
Loans:                                    804.3            114.90              794.6            113.51              786.5             112.36
Short Term                             333.6             47.66              328.8             46.97              317.3             45.33
Long Term                              470.7             67.24              465.8             66.54              46'.2             67.03
Investments                                67.6              9.66              100.5             14.35               4'.-7             7.10
Fixed Assets                               15.1              2.16               14.4              2.06               11.3               2.61
Other Assets                               65.2              9.31               89.4             12.77              22 .4             31.63
Deferred Assets                             4.9              0.70                7.2              1.03                 i.6             0.94
Total Assets:               988.4            141.20            1                  150.69            1_18 .6             169.08
LIABILITIES
Deposits and other Payables               215.0             30.71              226.8             32.40              3111.8            44.40
Current Account                         93.9             13.41               95.3             13.61              12.-.9            17.84
Time                                    41.9              5.99               46.8              6.69               7 ;.1            10.44
On-Sight                                22.4              3.20               25.2              3.60               3:.7               5.39
Savings                                 53.2              7.60               52.9              7.56               79.1              10.73
Other                                    3.6              0.51                6.6              0.94
External Borrowings                       464.7             66.39              502.7             71.81              470.4              67.20
Central Bank Debt                          91.7             13.10               91.7             13.10                78.4             11.20
Other Liabilities                          37.7              5.39               33.8              4.83                5!.7              7.53
Deferred Liabilities                        3.4              0.49                9.2              1.31                71.9             10.27
Total Liabilities:          812.5            116.08              864.2            123.45               984.2            140.60
Net Worth and Reserves                    175.9             25.12              190.7             27.24               199.4             28.48
Fro2en Portfolio                       180.2             25.74              186.0             26.57              17.).2            24.31
Accrued Interest                           68.5              9.79               63.8              9.11                71.7             10.24
Comsission                                 13.6              1.94               13.2               1.89               12.5              1.79
Other Income                                8.5              1.21                6.4              0.91                 5.6              0.80
Total Income:                90.6             12.94               83.4              11.91               89.8             12.83
EXPENSES
Interest Paid-out                          43.9              6.27               42.7              6.10               41.9               5.98
General Expenses                           39.3              5.61               38.5              5.50               42.6               6.09.
Other Expenses                              5.3              0.76                0.8              0.11                 3.5              0.50
Total Expenses:              88.5             12.64               82.0              11.71               E8.0             12.57
Profit                                        2.1              0.30                1.4              0.20                 1.8              0.26
RATIOS
Administrative Expenses to:
Loans                                    0.05                                 0.05                                  0.06
Income to Loans                          0.11                                 0.11                                 0.12
Frozen Portfolio to
Loans                                    0.22                                 0.23                                 0.22
July 3, 1973



NICARAGUA
ANNEX 2
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                               Table 4
Condensed Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Accounts of INFONAC 1/
---------------------------As of Dec. 31 of Year------------------
1970                  1971                      1972
Millions                  Millions               Millions
C$          US$          Cs          US$          C$           US$
ASSETS
Cash and Banks                  7.2           1.03         8.2         1.17        15.9          2.27
Loans (Net)                   239.9          34.27       240.5        34.36       253.6         36.23
Short Term                  81.3          11.61        87e2       12.46        83.7         11.96
Long Term                  158.6          22.66       153.3       21.90       169.9         24.27
Investments                    73.3          10.47        75.0        10.71        81.6         11.66
Other Assets                   51.9           7.42        46.1         6.59        56.5          8.07
TOTAL                  372.3          53,19       369.8        52.83       407.6         58.23
LIABILITIES
Savings                        32.6           4.66        38.4         5.49       37.9          5.41
Promissory Notes               21.5           3.07        22.2         3.17        42.2          6.03
Central Bank                   38.8           5.54        38.8         5.54       36.7          5.24
International Liabilities   207.6            29.65      177.6        25.37       160.9         22.99
Banks                      139T4 19.91               122,5        17.50        75.8         10.83
International
Institutions          68.2           9.74        55.1         7.87        85.1         12,16
Other Liabilities              20.9           2.99        21.6         3,09        10.5          1.50
Sub-Total                 321,4           45.91      298.6        42.66       288.2         41.17
Net Worth and Reserves         50.9           7.2w        71.2        10.17      119.4          17.06
Total Liabilities          372.3         53.19       369.8        52.83       407,6         58.23
INCOME
Financial                      20.7                       22.6                    30,1
Other                          16.6                        8.4                     4.0
Total Income                37.3                      31.0                     34.1
EXPENSES
Financial                      22.2                       21,5                    33.2
Administration                 17.4                        9.3                      4,2
Other 2/                        7.6                       14.3                    11.0
Total Expenses             47.2                       45.1                     48.4
Deficit 3/                   9.9                       14.1                    14.3
I/ Source: Audited accounts (INFONAC and Superintendence of Banks SB).
2/ Includes expenses incurred by several of the operational departments of INFONAC.
3/ This deficit was called Technical Assistance Expenses, and is supposed to be reimbursed
by Government.
July 3, 1973



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Accounts of Private Commercial Banks
(US$ Million)
First
Banco de America          Banco Nicaraguense         Banco Caley-Dagnall       Banco de Londres y Montreal              of America          National City Bank
1972         1971          1972          1971          1972          1971           1972          1971           1972          1971           1972          1971
ASSETS
Cash and Banks                                    10.38          8.51         11.62 6999                  0.73          0.54           4.12          3.69           3.05          2.00           2.68          1.33
Loans                                             35.11         25.39         28.44        23,06          2.29          1.88           7.33           5.66          4.17         3S54            3.85          2 76
Commerce                                        9.48          7.40          8.25         6.42           1.12         0.89           2.38           2.23           1.52         0.90           l.03
Agriculture                                     5.97          5.95          4.55         4.41          0.58          0.58           1.09           0.47           0.08         0.06           0.58          0.44
Livestock                                       6.67          3.85          6.83         4.76          0.08          0.07           0.82           0.82           0.43         0.27           0.84          0.57
Industry and Other                             12.99          8.19          8.81         7.47          0.51          0.34           3.04           2.14          2.14          2.31           1.40          1.20
Investments                                        6.55          5.64          5.64         4.50          0.31          0.25           2.66           2.11          1,15          0.93           0.71          0.57
Other Assets                                      10.01          6.89          8.68         7.80          0.27          0.20           1.53           1.13           0.42         0.23           0.68          0.72
TOTAL ASSETS                              62,05         46.43         54.38       42.35           3.60          2.87          15.64         12,59                         6,70           7.9a          5.38
LIABILITIES
Dlekosit Accounts                                 45.38         32.,j2        40.29        28.10           2.16         1.42          13.13          10.60           6.33         4.77           5.00          3.56
Currant                                        20.44         14.88         20.04        16.89          1.10          U.b1           /.Uj           2.9D          4.06          3.02 .69 21'
Savings                                        11.80          8.52          9.90         6.40          0.22          0.26           3.56           3.07           0.91         0.81           0.72          0.47
Time                                           10.01           7.24         8.19         4.00          0.71          0.43           2.18           1.48           1.32         0.83           1.41          0.56
Other                                           3.13           1.48         2.16         0.81          0.13          0.12           0.36           0.10           0.04         0.12           0.18          0.07
Foreign Borrowings                                 6.14          4.64          3.99         5.56          0.51          0.57           0.28           0.08           0.57          0.25           1.47         0.70
Short-Term                                      6.14          4.64          3.99         5.56          0.51          0.57           0.28           0.08           0.57          0.25           1.47         0.70
Long-Term                                        -              -             -           -              -            -              -
Central Bank                                                                           -              -                    -            -                     -             -
Other Liabilities                                  1.45           0.86         1.50         0.91           0.04         0.02           0.11           0.08           0.14          0.05           0.15         0.09
TOTAL LIABILITIES                         52.97         37.62         45.78        34.57          2.71          2.01          13.52          10.76           7.04          5.07          6.62          4.35
Networth                                           9.08           8.81         8.60         7.78           0.89         0,86           2.12           1.83           1.75          1.63           1.30          1.03
Networth and Liabities                            6054.8                                   42.35           3.60         .2.7          15              259             .79            70           7. 2          538
TOTAL EARNINGS                             5.80          5.15          5.18         4.30          0.35          0.35           1.74           1.31           0.90          0.91           0.86          0.68
TOTAL EXENDITURES                          4.69          4.14          4.30         3.42           0.24         0.25           1.47           1.09           0.65          2.66           0.59          0.45
NET PROFIT (B.T.)                          1.11          1.01          0.88         0.88           0.11         0.10           0.27           0.22           0.25          0.25           0.27          0.23






ANNEX 3
Page 1
0                                           NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Livestock Development
A. Livestock Sector
Importance to Economy
1.          The absolute value of livestock production rose from C$197 million
in 1960 to C$625 million in 1970. In 1971 the value of production was esti-
mated at C$704 million while the export value of beef and milk in 1971 was
estimated at C$36.0 million, representing about 15% of total export values.
Firm and rising prices for beef will make livestock exports increasingly
important to the economy of Nicaragua.
Beef and Dairy-Cattle
2.          According to preliminary data from a sample survey undertaken in
1972 by the Sector Planning Unit under the Vice Minister for Agriculture, there
are about 2.6 million cattle in Nicaragua. Because many herds are dual-purpose
(beef and milk), the national herd cannot be subdivided on a functional basis
(Table 1) but specialization which is gradually taking place should make such
subdivision possible in the future. Stratification of beef production into
breeding, growing, and fattening zones or areas is also taking place, which
should lead to more efficient utilization of savannah, humid tropical, and
dry areas with access to crop by-products and sources of water for irrigated
pastures.
3.          Apart from a few purebred herds of Brahman, Santa Gertrudis, and
Brown Swiss, the commercial cattle are an admixture of Criollo (native cattle)
and introduced breeds, mainly Brahman and Brown Swiss. In some areas, there
is evidence of the introduction of the blood of Holstein, Jersey, and even
Hereford.  Future breeding policies will depend on the local climate and the
future specialization of the herd. Brahman would be initially most appropriate
for beef, Brown Swiss for dual or single purpose beef/milk herds, and Jersey
for purely milk herds.
4.          Generally, husbandry and production practices are poor.  The system
lacks direction and management and a technical basis for improving efficiency.
There are some efficiently run herds, however, which reflect possible improve-
ments. Nutrition is poor, good bulls are lacking, there is insufficient con-
trol of parasites and animal health, handling facilities are defective or defi-
cient, and calf care is poor. Mating is generally uncontrolled, selection for
improvement is insufficient and farm records are at a minimum. All these fac-
tors result in low production coefficients.
.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.          In the Central Zone, cattle production is extensive;  most lactating
cows continue to be milked, and steers are three to four years old before they
are ready for slaughter. This zone, however, is particularly important as the
main source of weaner steers for fattening on the more specialized farms of the
Pacific Zone, and hence further expansion of the industry depends on increased
offtake from these herds.
6.          Despite the excellent long-term potential for extensive ranching
development in the Pine Savanna region of the Atlantic zone, this region at
present contributes only a small proportion of the country's livestock pro-
duction.  There is, however, evidence of a small but progressive expansion of
cattle breeding in the newly colonized areas adjacent to the road leading to
Rama, and that development is expected to continue.
7.          Many specialized dairy and fattening units are concentrated in the
Pacific Zone where crop by-products and residues provide readily available
supplements and where, particularly for milk, there are attractive market pos-
sibilities: the more intensive fattening and dairy farms in the Pacific Zone
depend heavily on irrigation.
8.          The principal beef statistics available are shown in Table 20  The
composition of the national herd is approximately 39 to 40% females (1,000,000),
with an average weaning rate of about 45%, or an annual production of 450,000
new calves per year.  Adult mortality is about 5% (about 80,000) so that with
an annual extraction rate of over 13% per annum (345,000 head) there is a net
annual national gain of only about 25,000 (450,000 less 80,000 deaths less
345,000 sales), or slightly less than 17 per annum. This leaves very little
room for additional internal consumption or export without cutting into capi-
tal stocks. Technical and economically viable development is therefore an
urgent necessity.
Production Trends
9.          Offtake (including exports on the hoof) has risen from about 150,000
to 310,000 head per year between 1960 and 1970, with numbers slaughtered within
Nicaragua increasing as follows:
Item           1960           1970            1971
tlales         101,484 (75%)  205,061 (66%)   N.A.
Females         32 166 (25%)  104,964 (34%)   N.A.
Total          133,650         3102025       325,000
iO.         Production of milk, for which statistics may not be very reliable
since a large -proportion is consumed on the farm or marketed locally as cheese,
has risen from 60 million to 100 million liters per year in the same period.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
The number of pigs slaughtered annually almost doubled from 147,000 in 1960
to 286,000 in 1970 and decreased to 283,000 in 1972. Even more spectacular,
however, were the increases in poultry production, with chicken meat reported-
ly rising from 350 to 3,000 tons annually and egg production increasing by
over 400% to a total of 22 million dozen in 1972.
11.         According to an estimate made in March 1971, the proportion of cows
being milked decreased from 92% in 1960 to 80% in 1970.  The decline continues.
Calving percentages improved from 42% in 1960 to 47.5% in 1970, while dairy
milk production per cow increased from 1.8 liters/day to 2.3 liters during
the same period. Of total milk production, 3% represents wastes and losses
and 15% was used as animal feed (data were obtained from the Coordinated Milk
Office in Managua). Table 3 shows the population of cows and the volume of
milk production derived from the national herd, including beef cattle. Al-
though much of this production is consumed in fresh form or as cheese, a
small proportion is processed or pasteurized;  Nicaragua exported to El Sal-
vador and Guatemala over 1,300 tons of dried milk in 1970 and 1,430 tons in
1971.
12.         Beef production can be expected to maintain its dominant position
in the livestock industry even though Nicaragua cannot maintain the remarkable
rate of increase in herd offtake achieved during the last decade. These in-
creases in annual offtake have resulted largely from (a) intensification of
beef finishing operations resulting in a decrease in the age of steer slaugh-
ter;  and (b) improvements in markets and communications allowing the slaugh-
ter of old cows previously not marketed.
13.         While technical services to farmers have probably helped reduce
finishing ages for steers, their impact on weaning rates has been small. The
improved nutritional standards introduced by these services, together with
price incentives, have also contributed to an increase in average carcass
weight, boneless meat production per carcass rising from 289 lb to 321 lb
during the period 1960/72.
14.         Farmers are becoming receptive to advice, but the proportion of the
industry that has adopted new technology remains limited and overall livestock
productivity is low. On the semi-extensive breeding ranches in the Central
upland zone, weaning rates are about 40 to 45%; adult mortality, 5% per annum;
and liveweight gain, 250 gr per day. Lactating cows are usually milked and pro-
duce 1 to 2 liters per day.  Stocking rates are under one animal unit (AU) per
hectare.  Much of the low productivity is attributable to the nutritional status,
pa:rticularly in the long dry season, of the pastures in which Jaragua (Hypar-
rhenia rufa) is dominant.
15.         As a result of a package of improvements including routine pregnancy
diagnosis, seasonal mating, parasite control, pasture improvement and fencing
to permit rotational grazing, selected beef breeders have been able to raise
weaning rates to 70 to 80% and stocking rates to 2 AU per hectare. Similarly,
a number of specialized dairy farms serving the Managua market attain average



ANNEX 3
Page 4
yields of over 2,000 liters per lactation, Possibilities of utilizing crop
by-products, including molasses, cotton husk, and cotton seed meal and of
fodder conservation have also been partially explored on intensive fattening
and breeding farms on the Pacific coast.  The available examples of success-
fully applied new technology demonstrate the enormous technical potential for
improvement, particularly by raising nutritional standards through grass and
legume pasture establishment and mineral supplementation.
Animal Health
16.         Nicaragua is free from foot-and-mouth disease and disease ire-idenee
appears to be low. Attempts are being made to eradicate brucellosis. and pro                  -
gressive farmers generally immunize cattle against blackleg anLd, iEM certsi'r
areas, against anthrax.  Tick-borne anaplasmosis and piroplasmosis usual y af
fect imported temperate cattle.  The principal aniimal health hazard, hoa     v
result from external and internal parasites, so that regular dlpping and
drenching is necessary for optimum growth.  The most serious external pal asits
is the torsola fly, the high incidence of which leads to generally poor quaiity
hides. High calf mortality rates are attributable to poor nutritional levels
resulting from limited suckling of low yielding cows and the poor quaal:ty pa&
tures available to young weaned cattle.  Vampire bats constitute a nazard in
the hill areas northeast of Matagalpa and in parts of the Atlantic Zone wenhiclh
may be controlled in the future by systemic or topical blood decoagulants nov
being developed by a team working under the auspices of the US Governisent 
Agric_ltural Services
17.        Field Services.  There is no effective national agricuittra7  e;z-
tension service at present in Nicaragua.  The Ministry of Agriculture atz-ae,ts
to service the small farm sector through some 40 offices throughout the counvny
but it has too small a staff and insufficient facilities to mate any sigLifi-
cant development impact.  Technical services are provided by agencies suc i as
the Banco Nacional, INCEI, Prolacsa, and INFONAC, but such adivice is tie.c to
their lending or purchasing programs.  The most effective ad%risory service ii'
th is sector has been provided since 1966 by arn Argentinian consultancy flrm,
Latinoconsult, which has a contract with the Central Bank-, Lastinocosuli hLat
a 16-member team, including livestock technicians, veterinarians, and economists 
which pr ovides intensive advisory and management services to about 250 lar-ge
scale ranchers and intermittent advice to a further 380 livestock farmers. £h.e
group works closely with the Banco Nacional but its operatIo-ns are not tied to
the ban ks lending program.  In spite of impressive changes made on some irndivid-
ual farnms and the diffusion of practices to farnss outside the program, the na-
tional impact of Latinoconsult's work remains limited.
18.         TIe MiLnistry of Agriculture employs several veterinarians but they
are mainly concerned with inspection and control, particularly at abattoirs.
The service is currently expanding with French technical cooperation to provide
on-farm veterinary assistance to farmers in some regions. The Cattlemen's
Association is also recruiting veterinarians to serve its members,



ANNEX 3
Page 5
19.         Artificial Insemination.  Artificial insemination services, begun
in 1963, are operated by the National Guard in collaboration with a fUrm of
semen importers. The inseminators live on some 110 larger dairy and beef farms,
on which semen is cold-stored in dry ice flasks. In 1970, over 19,000 cows
were inseminated, of which about 70% were dairy cattle. Brown Swiss was the
most commonly used breed of dairy bull, while Brahman bulls were used in 85%
of the inseminations.
20.         Research.  Livestock research is conducted sporadically and lacks
objective and coordination. The Ministry of Agriculture does not carry out
any continuing program of investigation, but has served as collaborator in
several nutritional studies coordinated by INFONAC and the Banco Central and
carried out by staff of Louisiana and Florida State Universities. The very
limited pasture trials carried out by the Ministry and by individual farmers
have not produced any widely applicable results.
21.         Education.  Degree courses in agriculture are available at the
National School of Agriculture and a specialized Animal Husbandry course is
provided by the University of Central America. A number of agricultural
graduates have attended post-graduate courses at the Central American Business
Management Institute, but most post-graduate students study in the United
States. Since attractive employment opportunities exist for even partially
trained students, the annual out-turn of graduates is low relative to the
number enrolling:
No. of Students
Institution                          Enrolling        No. of Graduates
Agricultural High School (1969)          688                 162
National School of Agriculture           172                   7
(1970)
University of Central America            221                  15
(Livestock Faculty) (1970)
22.         All the institutions are short of full-time qualified staff. The
present state of agricultural research, extension, and teaching has been re-
viewed recently in an IDB-financed study, which identifies the investment and
organizational requirements for the proper servicing of the agricultural sec-
tor. The earthquake of 1972 has disrupted the training programs and the facili-
ties of the Livestock Faculty of the University have been destroyed. The
National School of Agriculture is now occupied by staff displaced from other
institutions.
23.         Government objectives are to encourage the beef and milk industries,
which contain as many as 50,000 producers, four export meat works, and four milk
plants but the prospects for such Government policy alone resulting in a modern
livestock sector are remote.  To realize these objectives, greater emphasis must



ANEX 3
Page 6
be placed on strengthening agricultural education and extension, animal health
services, secondary road development, and marketing services. Even if adequate
lines of credit are forthcoming, progress will at best be slow and the benefits
unevenly distributed, if supporting services are deficient.
B. Project Considerations
Strategy
24.         The strategy of the project would be to increase the output of
beef and milk in Nicaragua by raising the productivity of land, livestock,
and labor through the provision of long-term credit and technical services,
together with supporting services and working capital. Ranch/farm models pre-
sented in Annex 10 illustrate the type of investment necessary for achieving
the results envisaged from the project. Investments would be made in about
28,000 ha of improved pastures; over 1,000 corrals and farm workers' houses;
150 sets of machinery and equipment; 225 new irrigation units; 450 new live-
stock watering points; about 4,000 improved breeding animals; and about 1,000
km of new fences.
Production Units
25.       Rainfed Dairy Farm - 50 ha (Appendix 10-1).  Farms in this category
would be located in the Central Zone (Department of Boaco - Chontales). In
addition to providing investment capital for pasture, cattle, and improvement
of farm facilities, the project would emphasize controlled mating and selection
and animal health and parasite control. The improvement of pastures would ini-
tially require the importation of seeds of Panicaum Maximum, (enchous, Stoylo-
santhes, Centrosema, and other grasses and legumes adaptable to poor soils and
the variable rainfall pattern. The farm pattern would gradually be changed from
multi-purpose operations to single-purpose milk production, using dairy-type
bulls such as Brown Swiss or Jersey or semen.
26.         Production practices would be improved to achieve carrying capaci-
ties of 2 AU/ha, milk yields to 7 liters per cow/day, lactation periods to
280 days, and calving to 80%. Milk production should rise to 1,800 liters
per ha.
27,       Irri2ated Dairy Farms - 20 ha (Appendix 10-2). Selected small
farms now hardly providing a living family income would be transformed into
specialized units capable of supporting a growing family in improved circum-
stances.  The farms would be located in the Leon area of the Pacific Zone.
28.         Development would rely heavily on technical services to supervise
investments and the management of improved pastures under irrigation, milking
techniques, controlled mating, and culling. The herd would be improved by
introducing improved dairy-type cows and by the use of dairy-type bulls, such
as Brown Swiss or Jersey, and by artificial insemination.                              0



ANNEX 3
Page 7
29.         Resulting improvements would include an increase in carrying capa-
city from less than I AU/ha to 6 AU/ha, in calving from 55% to 80%, and in pro-
duction per cow/day from 4 to 8 liters, and extension of lactation by 100 days
and production per lactation from 720 to 2,000 liters. Milk production per ha
should go up from 650 liters to 6,500 liters at the end of the project.
30.       Rainfed Beef Breeding and Fattening Ranches - 300 ha LA2Lencix 10:),1
These ranches would be located mainly in the Central Zone. Great emphasis would
be placed on improving or replacing existing Jaragua pastures with appropriate
grass/legume introductions such as Panicum, Cenchons, Setaria, and other trovi-
cal grass species and Siratro, Centrosema, Desmodium, Dolilchus, Glyine, and
Soylosanthes legume species.  Inoculation and phosphate fertilizers would be
needed to initiate strong growth.  Parasite and disease control would be essen-
tial, together with seasonal calving and selection for cows of regualar breediikg
frequency. Beef breed bulls or semen would be used to improve the characteris-
tics of the now heterogeneousherds. Brahmans would be most favored to initially
improve beef qualities and resistance to local environmental conditŽons. M4ilk-
ing would. be phased out and working capital would be provided for the purchase
and fattening of steers.
31.         Benefits would be an increase in effective calving from 45% to 75%,
a reduction in adult mortality from 4% to 2%, a rise in carrinng capacity to
2 AU/ha, and an improvement of the extraction rate from 15% to 21% due to better
nutrition and a consequent lowering of age to turnoff.  The product4on of ha&
should rise from about 25 kg/ha to 80 kg/ha.
32,       Irrigated Pastures and Beef Fattening Farms - 20 ha (Apvi 
These farms would be generally in the Leon Department of the Pacif4.c Zo0'e.
Pasture management techniques employed here would be similar to those on irri-
gated dairy farms. After the sinking of the bore and purchase of irrigatiorn
equipment, the 20 ha would be subdivided into 20 paddocks, with a lane for
access to all fields. Cattle purchase would start after about four mbuths a&d
the area would then carry about 120 head.
33.         The type of steer to be bought would be half-cross Brahmin bo-ut ar.y
good quality steer would have to serve until breeding ranches built up their
output. All cattle entering would be weighed, vaccinated, and dosed and sprayed
for internal and external parasites. Average weights at purchase wouZd ?e
about 250 kg, and daily gains per head would be the order of up to 0/6 kgifday
over a fattening period of eight months.  Pastures would be densely stocked and
grazed in rotation about once a month. Annual fertilizer applicatior- would he
about 16 quintals per annum and mainly nitrogenous at first. Irrigation would
be spray type (36-hp motor for 420 gal/m)in  and water would be applied from
December to May at the rate of about 200 mm/month.
34.         Pasture carrying capacities would rise from 0.5 AU/ha to 6 AUTL/ha
and the incremental production/ha would be equivalent to 600 kg. Net fama- ia-
come would rise from virtually nothing to C$60,000 per annum after loan amnrni-
zation and the savings generated would suffice for all working capital needs.



AN N EX 3
Page 8
2tuDAcrSt:in,g,,ervices
.9><.,       Transpt and Supply Centers.  Cattlemeen's Associations or coopera-
Cives would provide joint (multiple) services to ranchers or farmers who are
zith-n<  loan recipients and/or members of the group.  Investments would likely
be in bulk storage sheds for fertilizers, animal feeds, past-ure seeds  barbed
wlre, irrigation equipment, spare parts, veterinary products and other "alry
goods needed 'by farmers as well as in bulk storage tanks for liquid products
such as molasses.  Two trucks per unit would be financed, one to naul milk
cans to central pick-up points and to handle "dry" goods, and anothev- Lankar
truck, to carry bulk molasses from the sugar factories to che local depets
or direct to farms.
36.          Machi       C t o.  In order to streugthen local sea-vi.ces re
rancn anld farm sub-borrowers, two contractors would be financed for  'e pun
chase of medium-heavy earth-moving equipment, ancillary  serviciag fa-JJ :.nz,3
and equipment plus additional transport for -fuel, bulk fuel storage  ap,^.e
parts, and the like.  Thtis is necessary because rural co ntractorn' se'     r VcrR'
which had  always been inadequate were further weakened after the ear t!'
quake of Deceiber 1972 by the mobilization oL earth-movig eou_ucn              A-
struction of Managua and for the Government s emergency plaon for  Oad t
tion.
Technical Services
37.          Beef Marketing Studv. Consultants would conduct a siort a'nd s. vecz
fi c study of the beef cattle and beef marketirng system, mailz.-y to ad'. Ie ots
pricing system based on grading 'by quality.  This studv is considered              5
as there is strong producer opinion that they are recefiv1-; a 1           pricrc   r
their cuality animals than is justified by the -ver, high local ar,    e
wholesale and retail beef prices. As the project Is ained to  -rt.AwdUco bettex
quality, younger animals for slaughter  the establil", 's.aat ol df :a
ment rates for quality animals, and for animals with e.. hih drzssln 
is essential.
38.          Pasture Seeds Multiplication.  Fac&)ti"es xould. ho estis;.`-i.e>d icor
the basic importation, multiplication, harvestiag, transisport, process-ng,
storacg, and packaging of grass and legume seeds needed by the sub-mborrowers
and other farmers or ranchers and sale through commercial channel s  Cattle&iie s
Associlations, or cooperatives.  Multiplication would be carried out on seeiected
farrms or.':anches u-nder contract,3 with guidance bv a consultant to be hired
tot six :morths.
39.          arketin  Centers for Cattle.  Two simple livestock marketing cen-
-ers would be constructed to provide decentralized services to cattlemen wish-
lng to sell or buy cattle.  The sale of live cattle is relatively unorganized,
in.efficient, and generally detrimental to the producer.  One large (and attrac-
tive) auction center, "SIJUBASTA" has beer. recently constructed and organized in



ANNEX 3
Page 9
Managua, but the outlying areas from which the cattle are drawn for sale remain
unserved. Investment would include simple cattle yards suitably subdivided,
a scale for weighing cattle, a simple sales ring for buyers and sellers, loading
and unloading ramps, water supplies, and office facilities. Funds for publicity
would also be required. These centers would be organized by the Cattlemen's
Association and supervised by personnel of the Ministry of Agriculture.
40.         These centers would help extend sales outlets at the sources of
production; ensure greater competition among cattle buyers and dealers, collect,
at published dates, large groups of steers for fattening females judged fit
for reproduction and slaughter cattle, and disseminate market price informa-
tion. It is expected that producers would receive higher prices through sale
on a known liveweight basis and in view of their better bargaining position
with intermediaries and dealers. The centers would also help compile various
livestock statistics and strengthen producer solidarity and cooperation.
41.         Artificial Insemination Center.  An artificial insemination center
would be established as a first stage in decentralization of such services now
concentrated in Managua. Investment items would include vehicles for insemina-
tors, a bulk liquid nitrogen tank and compressor, field tanks for transporting
semen, office equipment, and initial importation of semen ampoules. Organization
of this unit would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture.
C.  Marketing of Livestock Products
Beef Marketing
42.       Slaughterhouses.  The Nicaraguan beef exports rose from some US$3
million in 1960 to over US$26 million in 1970 (Tables 4 and 5) and these
spectacular increases have been accompanied by significant changes in marketing.
The slaughtering of cattle, previously carried out almost exclusively either in
small municipal abattoirs or on producers' farms is now dominated by the oper-
ations of four modern slaughterhouses, producing mainly for export (Table 6).
The location, date of establishment, and current handling capacities of the four
"export" meatworks are as follows:
1
Name of                  Date of      1972 Throughput -   Designed Capacity
Meatworks   Location   Establishment (No. of head/day)        (1 shift)
Ifagan      Managua          1958              380                450
Empanicsa   Condega          1962              100                150
Carnic      Managua             -              190                300
Igosa       Rivas            1971               -                 250
1/   Date supplied to mission.



ANNEX 3
Page 10
The overall growth of the industry and of the relative importance of the ex-
port abattoirs is shown below:
Annual Throughput
No. of Head     /                _ of total
1960         1972 -              1960       1972
Export Meatworks:          443,237        118,800               32         34
Ifagan                    43,237        118,800              32          34
Carnic                      -            46,200               -          13
Empanicsa                                24,200                           7
Igosa                       -              _                 -            _
Sub-total              43,237          900                32          54
Municipal and on-farm
slaughter                 90,413        155,800               68         46
Total                 133,650        345,000             100         100
I/   Data supplied to mission.
43.         All plants are equipped for slaughtering and for breaking down
carcasses into frozen boneless cuts, which are packed for export in _60-lb
containers.  With the expansion of exports of meat  (para 42), the abattoirs
are also investing in equipment for the production and packaging of portion-
control cuts, hamburgers, and bologna.  Both Ifagan and Igosa have large
cold storage capacities (2.6 million lb and 1.0 million lb respectively),
but storage for aging is reportedly limited.
44.         Although bone and meat and bone meal are currently produced by
the "export" abattoirs, blood is not generally utilized. Similarly, little
attention has been paid to the quality of hides. The municipal slaughter-
houses have no facilities for by-product conversion.
45.         The three principal slaughterhouses operate throughout the year
but there is a significant seasonal fluctuation in deliveries. Average daily
deliveries to one typical plant varied between about 50 head in May to 250
head in November. The period of low deliveries -- the dry season -- also
coincides with the time of lowest carcass weight, resulting in even more ex-
treme variations in monthly production.
46.         Local Market.  Increased beef exports have not resulted in reduced
local sales but have led to a change in the types of meat offered on the local
market. Statistics suggest that most steer beef is being exported and that
more of cow beef and edible offals is being offered to the local market.  Much



ANNEX 3
Page 1 1
of the trade remains in the hands of small retail butchers,, who are licensed
individually to purchase cattle and who utilize the facilities of the munici-
pal abattoirs for slaughter. Sales are made either on a house-to-house basis
or in local markets. Meat supplies for the more sophisticated urban consumers
generally come from the export slaughterhouses, channeled through supermarkets.
47.         Local consumption in 1972 was equivalent to some 46% of gross pro-
duction, and, given the present relationship between prices of beef and other
meats, demand is likely to remain strong.  With current rates of population
increase of the order of 2.5 to 3% per year and per capita income growth of
4 to 5%, local demand may be assumed to increase by at least 5% per year and
absorb an increase of about 2% per annum in gross national beef production.
48.          Export Market.  Most exports are handled directly by the individ-
ual export meatworks. Higher prices for livestock in Costa Rica have also
reportedly resulted in an unofficial export of animals on the hoof, estimated
by some sources to be as high as 20,000 head per year.
49.          Beef exports to the US have been in the form of boneless lean meat,
which qualifies for import to the US under the "quota system". Under this
system of voluntary restraint, each supplying country agrees not to export to
the US more than a specified quantity of certain qualities of beef, the quan-
tity or "quota" being set annually by the US Government. By late 1972, how-
ever, this system had been waived in order to lessen price rises in the US.
50.         Maximum quota imports by the US remained unchanged at 1.16 billion
lb in 1970 and 1971, but Nicaragua's share increased by over 10%, from 41
million lb to 45.5 million lb (Table 7). Actual ex-ports exceeded the quota
by 1.2 million lb in 1970 but, owing to minor technical difficult'-es, fell
short by 2.0 million lb  in 1971.  Certain types of beef (particularly consu-
mer size cuts) may enter the US market outside the quota system, but are sub-
ject to an import tax of 10% ad valorem. Nicaragua has found this an attrac-
tive market and has developed these exports significantly in the last two
years. Some 8 million lb of non-quota meat were exported in 1972. The ex-
port value of beef in 1971 was about US$29 million, up by over US$2 milllon
over 1970.
51.         At present, beef sales are generally handled for NIcaraguan ex-
porters at the port of entry by meat brokers and customs brokers, though it
is understood that one Nicaraguan enterprise will soon opern its own agency
in Miami.  Contract sales are very limited, and only a small amount of pre-
mium quality meat is sold under established brand names.
52.       Forecasts by FAO, OECD, and the Bank anticipate a suIbstantial
increase in the demand for beef in Europe and the United States in the
1970's which is not likely to be satisfied from the expected increase in
local production. According to FAO forecasts, net imports to Europe in 1980
will have risen by some 120% over the 1970 level, while rates of. increase
approaching 10% per year are likely to be recorded for imports into the
United States between 1970 and 1980 (Table 8). These projections may prove



AMEX 3
Page 12
s^- tim-stic  i  domestic Droductiort is larger and populatio-n growth less than
'.sumed by FAC but, on the other hand, recent trends in beef prices and
un-oreseen consumer demand are highly encouraging signs.
53.          If Nicaraguan beef continues to compete successfully irn terms of
both price and quality with other foot-and-mouth free exporters, there is
little doObt that all increases in productioni, surplus to the demands of the
local market, could be marketed through established outlets in the United
States.  In the interests of diversification, however,, corsideration sboul.d
be given to extend exports to other markets such as the Caribbean and.
possibly, Japan.
54 4         Prices.  Uritil recently cattle had beei purchasead bv the exort
abattoirs exclusively on a liveweight basis.  Now cattle can !.e scld cup. a
basis of warm dressed (trimmed) weight, witl prices favoring arisl Is dressi-i
out at over 50%.
55.          Unit prices, which increase in direct proportion to carcass weight.
provide an incentive for the delivery of heavier animals £Eince, i. spite of
an increase of 25 to 36% in the proportion of female stock   ceivet e
average liveweight of animals received by the export abattoirs has rise: from
351 kg in 1960 to 389 kg in 1972. At the same tmae, pro.uction of boneless
meat per unit liveweight has remained almost constant at 37,5%.  PrOducer
prices are reviewed weekly and are related to "Yellow Sheet° PriLces L'i tthe              _
Uni ted States.  They tend, therefore, to be higlher in sprirg., vitih ls the
period of shortest supply in both the US and Nicaragua.  Prices 8   -ill do nor
reflect quality, however, and there is .,o Govertmental price regulatior..
56.          The fact that in 1971 producers were receivirr-g uni; prices soam
I to 15% below those paid for sin.i.lar stock in Costa Rica (whieh also exports
to the US) suggests that slaugnter margins have been &dequ ate. XWith the pro-
gressive development of by-product utilization aad taark,.eAtiyag, posilbi.itias
should emerge for increasing the share of the eXport pr-iee receaivd bv the
produ;cer.
57.          Average f.o.b. prices received for Nicara,ua. meat on the lS m=i
ket have risen consistently from about US$670 per ton in 1960 to US$1 ,070
per ton in 1970.  In 1971 the average rose further to over USS1, 200 per ton
ans is still going up.
58.          Prices at. whicl beef and edible offal are offered for sale on the
local markat have remained low relative to teose received on the US mar1ket.
fWhile the average price for all frozen beef received on the .US market was 63
cents (US) per lb.  the same. price was being charged by the export abattoirs
for high q"a_,y cuts of filet o  the local market, and sirloin was being
sold at approximiyately 33 US cents per lb. Comparative prices on the US and
IManagua markets for several by-products iLn 1972 were as follows:
.-0



ANNEX 3
Page 13
Item                US Price            Local Price
…---    C$ per lb-------------
Liver                1.54                  1.00
Kidneys              1.33                  0.70
Brain                1.54                  0.70
Tongue               2.31                  1.00
Source: IFAGAN
Milk Marketing
59.         Processing Plants.  Milk marketing in Nicaragua is dominated by
the pasteurizing plants which handle much of the fluid milk supplied to the
Managuan market. Such plants, operating under the general control of the
"Oficina Coordinadora de la Industria Lactea", accept about 120,000 liters
per day, of which about 90,000 liters are sold as fluid milk. In September
1969 an additional plant (PROLACSA), designed to produce powdered milk,
particularly for export to other countries within the CACM, started operation
at Matagalpa, about 120 km northeast of Managua. Daily intake by this
plant currently ranges from 30,000 liters in the dry season to 70,000 liters
in the wet season. In December 1972, the liquid milk market of Managua
_          was disrupted and one plant destroyed.
60.         The Managua Market.  Annual supplies of milk to the processing
plants in Managua almost doubled, from 21.4 million liters in 1964 to 42.4
million liters in 1971. During the same period, there was a similar in-
crease in the number of farms supplying the factories, from 125 in 1964 to
271 in 1971. Over 40% of the supplies are drawn from farms in the Department
of Managua, and a further 50% is collected in the Pacific Zone; the remainder
is drawn from the region around Boaco. Average annual supplies per producer
range from 225,000 liters around Managua to 50,000 liters in the region of
Boaco. The Managua market is temporarily disorganized as a result of the
earthquake and some producers have abandoned milking and others have diverted
their supplies to PROLACSA.
61.         Milk received by the plants is either pasteurized and sold as
fresh milk or used for industrial purposes. One plant produces dry skim
milk, exporting 500 tons annually.  There are no regulations governing but-
terfat contents. A summary showing the growth of milk receipts by the Mana-
gua plants, and reported distribution between fluid and industrial uses is
shown below:



ANNEX 3
Page 14
Total Milk Sold                         Used for Industrial
Year            to Plants       Fluid M_ik Sales            Milk
--Million liters…
1965              23.6                 19.0                  4.6
1966              27.4                21.7                   5.7
:967              31.5                24.3                   7.2
1968              36.1                28.1                   8.0
1969              41.4                28.5                  12.9
1970              44.1                28.5                  i5.6
1971              43.7                33.1                  10.6
Source:  Oficina Coordinadora de la Industria Lactea.
62.          Supplies to the pl1ants increased approximately 4 Žtl1iort litea>,
per year between 1964 and 1969 but this increase was not sustained into 1970
and 1971. The drought of 1971-72 has further reduced supplies and the earth-
quake in December 1972 has had serious consequences.
63.         The quantity of milk sold directly to consumers by producers is
tending to increase in proportion to milk sold to the plants in the Hanagua
district, not only because of the current processing and distribution probla.z
but also because of the better prices received.  In February 1973, predueers
were receiving between C$1.00 and C$1.20 per liter for direct consw er sales
as compared with from C$0.75 to CS0.80 per liter for sales to the plants6
Consumer preference is also for untreated milk with a higher fat content
than can be obtained from the plants.
64.          It would not be unreasonable to expect the market in Managua and
adjoining rural areas to grow at a rate of at least 5% per aexrium, the rate
at which population there is reportedly increasing, since such a rate would
be below that recorded for average pasteurized milk sales between 1964 and
1971 (about 87). If sales of pasteurized milk were to continue to increase
at 8% per annum over the 1971 level of 33 million liters, the demand may rise
to 45 million liters in 1975 and 66 vaillion liters in 1980, depending on t'ne
recovery of the market after the earthquake.
65.         As a result of the technical and management improvements intro-
duced recently on many of the farms supplying milk to the processing plants,
it is expected that part of the increased requirements would be met by rais-
ing productivity within existing herds. For the production to be doubled,
as required, however, some investment will also be necessary both to increase
the productive capacity of the existing herds and possibly to establish
additional specialized dairy herds.
PROLACSA and che Export Market
65.          The PRCLACSA plant which was established in 1967 in Matagalpa,
is equipped to produce dried whole milk and some specialized milk products.             0
Current daily receipts range from 30,000 liters in the summer to 70,000



ANNEX 3
Page 15
liters in the winter, accounting for a total intake, in 1971, of 13 million
liters and 21 million liters in 1972. Present maximum daily intake capacity
of 88,000 liters (25,000 US gallons), is intended to be enlarged to 200,000
liters per day within the next year if milk receipts can be increased suffi-
ciently.
67.         Though the region served by the plant includes most of the Central
:          Zone of Nicaragua, most of the milk is being collected by the plant in the
immediate vicinity of Matagalpa and from Boaco where roads and rainfall
conditions are good, and the company intends to intensify its operations.
68.         Supplies are drawn from about 350 producers.  Farms are relatively
small, and except on a few specialized units, milk is a by-product of beef
breeding. Average production is 1.8 liters per cow per day, with approximately
48% fat and 9.17% solids not fat.  Throughout the Central Zone, calving
rates are low (40-45%) and calf and adult mortality high. Cattle handling
and milking facilities are poor and, until recently, access to suppliers' farms
was extremely difficult. A road construction program (partly financed by
USAID) has resulted in the development of some 340 km of all-weather road
in the region to facilitate milk collection as well as effective technical
assistance. A group of 10 technicians provides extensive assistance to
farmers in the area. A US$2.6 million loan from IDB to INFONAC for on-farm
aevelopment in the region is being slowly disbursed owing to INFONAC's lack
of counterpart funds, and because of certain conditions restricting the use
of the loan proceeds.
69.         Export Market.  Powdered milk produced by PROLACSA is marketed
throughout Central America. Approximately 12% of current annual production
is sold in Nicaragua and the rest is exported under the provision of the
General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. The Permanent
Secretariat makes an annual assessment of regional requirements for all types
of dried milk and expected production, allocates the disposal of surpluses
within the region, licenses imports from outside the region, and establishes
import duties.
70.         At present, the two largest producers of dried whole milk are
Nicaragua and Costa Rica, but as local consumption absorbs most of Costa
Rica's production (Table 9), Nicaragua accounts for some 75% of the volume
traded within the region. The largest importers of dried milk in the region
are El Salvador and Guatemala. Honduras is also a major importer but
it is currently not participating tuily in the CACM and is purchasing most
of its needs on the world market. Imports of dried whole milk from outside
the region in 1970 totaled almost 5.2 million kg and exceeded local pro-
duction by almost 40%.
71.         There are good prospects for increased demand for whole milk
powder within the region, but it will not be satisfied by projected increases
in production resulting from current livestock investment programs
in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, which are establishing their own



ANNEX 3
Page 16
powdered milk industries. Costa Rica is expected to increase its exports
of dried milk but this would not totally exclude the expansion of Nicaraguan
production to at least double the current level. The prospects for marketing
a wider range of processed milk products are also considered good by PROLACSA,
provided the quality of milk received is improved to the extent necessary
for such production.
72.         Prices.  The basis for price fixing by the processing plants was
established in 1963 and it provides incentives for the production of milk
in the dry season when supplies fall to a relatively low level. It also
recognizes the need to tailor production as closely as possible to the demand
of the fluid milk market, by passing on to the producer the lower    -
returns attributable to sales of "industrial" milk surplus to the needs of
the fluid market.
73.         In the dry season, all producers receive the same price, which
is fixed weekly as the average price payable for industrial and fluid milk,
weighted according to the volumes utilized for each purpose. During the
wet season, the producer is paid at the fluid milk price for that proportion
of total weekly milk he delivers which corresponds to the proportion of the
milk he delivered to the plants during the dry season to the total delivered
by him;  all additional milk is payable at the industrial milk price.
74.         Prices for dried whole milk on the regional market are above
world market levels, being protected by import duties of approximately 25%           i
as well as by the quota restrictions on imports. In 1970 wholesale prices
for various brands packed in 1-lb containers ranged from US$1,300 to
US$1,850 per ton. The highest prices were paid for the two brands produced
by PROLACSA, whether imported from Nicaragua or from outside the region.
Given the current trends in world market prices for dried milk, no fall in the
price paid within the CACM is expected.
Octob er 23. 9197



NICARAGUA
C4-
e                                                                                    AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
-                                                                                   Statistics of Livestock Farms
Number of           Total area          Total cattle            Average farm             Average herd           Average stocking
Republic. Zone & Department                  farms              (mz'000)               ('000)               size (mz)             size per farm            rate (head/mz)
The Republic, Total                                            7,086.31             2.559.17                   68.1                    24.6                      0.36
Pacific Zone, Total                         36,460             2,124.90               856.35                   58.3                    23.5                      0.40
DepErtsent
Chinandega                                7,387               537.04               192.58                   72.7                   26.1                       0.36
Leon                                      7,638               565.71               207.51                   74.1                    27.2                      0.37
Managua                                  4,790                435.58               140.99                   90.9                    29.4                      0.32
Macaya                                   6,490                 60.97                31.16                    9.4                    4.8                       0.51
Granada                                   1,921               125.24                64.65                   65.2                    33.7                      0.52
Carazo                                   4,182                131.45                33.53                   31.4                    12.8                      0.41
Rivas                                    4,052                268.91               165.93                   66.4                   40.9                       0.62
Central Zone. Total                        52.263              3.396.50             1,476,76                   65.0                    28.3                      0.43
Chontales                                6,034                793.08               399.99                  131.4                    56.4                      0.43
Boaco                                    5,467                431.75               289.89                   79.0                    53.0                      0.67
Netagalpa                               14,098                972.34               374.67                   69.0                    26.6                      0.39
Jinotega                                  9,336               528.01               139.30                   56.6                    14.9                      0.26
Eateli                                   4,736                201.63               119.09                   42.6                    25.1                      0.59
Madriz                                   6,010                174.00                66.65                   29.0                    11.1                      0.38
Nueva Segovia                             6,582               295.69                87.17                   44.9                    13.2                      0.29
Atlantic Zone. Total                        15,340             1.564.93                226.06                  102.0                   14.7                      0.14
Depart-ent
Rio San Juan                             2,426                290,12                62.26                  119.6                    25.7                      0.21
Zelayc                                  12,914              1,274.82               163.80                   98.7                    12.7                      0.13
Source:  Cenos Nacionales, Bulletin No. 2, Ministry of Economy, Industries and Commerce and Central Bank of Nicaragua, March 1972, upgraded as a result
of a saqple ourvey undertaken by the Sector Planning Unit, 1972-1973.                                                                                                      I'
0' 



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Beef Statistics 1960. 1965-71
1960          1965          1966           1967          1968           1969           1970          1971
A. Production
Production ('000 head)                                            95.2          227.1         258.5         290.7          323.4          347.5         363.3          392.3
Increase in National Herd ('000)                               (-)57.4           45.3          54.6           79.9          76.4           70.4          54.0           69.5
Weaning Rate (7.)                                                 32.0           39.0          40.0           41.0          42.0           43.0          43.0           44.0
Rate of Natural Increase (%)                                       5.0           12.8          14.2           15.6          16.6           17.2           17.3          18.2
Extraction Rate (70)                                                7.0          10.4          11.3           11.3          12.7           13.7           14.8          15.1
Value of Production (O million)                                   59.9           94.2         124.2          145.8         181.8          222.4          255.6         304.8
B.  Allocation - Supply ('000 head)                                      96.0          229.6         259.7         291.1          323.7          348.0         364.o          394.5
Cattle Imports ('000 head)                                         0.8            2.5           1.2            0.4           0.3            0.5            0.7            2.2
Production ('000 head)                                            95.2          227.1         258.5          290.7         323.4          347.5         363.3          392.3
- Demand ('000 head)                                    96.0          229.6         259.7          291.1         323.7          348.0          364.o         394.5
Total Slaughter ('000 head)                                      133.7          181.3         202.6          210.8         246.9          276.4          310.0         324.9
Export Plants ('000 head)                                       43.2           71.2          94.2          108.4         132.2          153.7         172.4          187.7
Municipal Abattoirs ('000 head)                                 90.4          110.1         108.4          102.4         114.7          122.7         137.7          137.2
Export on loof ('000 head)                                         i7,.           2.9            2.5           0.4            0.4           1.2          negl.         negl.
Increase in Herd ('000 head)                                   (-)57.4           45.3          54.6           79.9          76.4           70.4           54.0          69.5
(Domestic Consumption) (kg/head/year)                            (n.a.)          (9.2)         (9.3)          (8.8)         (9.5)         (10.0)         (11.0)        (10.8)
C. Slaughter
Total Slaughter ('000 head)                                      133.7          181.3         202.6          210.8         246.9          276.4          310.0         324.9
Male Animals as Proportion of Total (%)                            75            69            69             65             63            64             66             67
Live weight on Delivery (kg) 1/                                  351            360           360            370           376            376            389           394
Boneless Meat Weight (kg) 1/                                    .131            135             n.a.         130           138            137            146           149
Liveweight Price at Slaughterhouse (c/kg) 1/                      22             25             n.a.          28            28             30             33             37
Export Price (c/kg)                                                67            71             81            86             94           103            109            115
D. Exports
On Hoof - Volume ('000 head)                                       19.7           2.9            2.5           0.4            0.4           1.2           -              -
Value ($ million)                                        1.7           0.3            0.2           0.1            0.1           0.2           -               0.1
Beef - Volume ('000 metric  tons)                                   4.4           9.4           12.6          14.5           17.0          20.3           24.4           24.9
Unit Price ($/metric ton)                                 668           712            809           864            937         1,029          1,089          1,152
Value ($ million)                                           3.0            6.7          10.2           12.5          15.9           20.8          26.6           28.7
(US "restraint" quota)('000 metric tons)                    -             -              -             -            (16.3)        (17.5)         (18.6)         (20.6)
Exports Outside Quota to US (000 metric
tons) 2/                                                  ..             ..            ..             ..            n.a.          n.a,           5.4            3.6
Exports as Share of Production (7.)                        25.3 3/        38.7           n.a.          52.9 3/       49.7 3/        55.1           56.1          54.8
1/  Export slaughter houses.
2/ Quotas on imports to US were imposed only after 1968.
3/ Approximate.
Sourcet  Central Bank.



NICARAGUA
AGRICUJLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
'.0
Productiorn of Ellk in Nicaragua
Category                              196         1964       196         1966       1967         968       1969       1970
Cow Population ('000)                  727.7      746.4      777.7       807.3      846.1       887.4      926.8       967.4
Stock Changes ('000)                    16.9       18.7       26.3        34.6       38.8        41.3       39.4        40.6
Milk Production ('000 gallons)
Private Consumption                 18,341     19,870     22,050      23,102     24,232      27,031     28,322      32,566
Manufacturing                      32,606      32,415     35,076      36,135     38,347      39,548     45,099      48,645
Animal Feed                          3,320      9,565     10,615      10,836     11,032      12,173     13,614      14,856
Wastes and Losses                    18         1913        22212 3    2167      _2,216           _      26 723      2,971
Total                           62,131      63,767     70,764      72,040     73,877      81,104     90,758      99,038
Private Consumption ('000 liters)  69,695      75,506     83,790      87,787     92,182    102,718    111,424    123,751
Annual Consumption per Capita
(liters)                           45          47         51         51          52          56         58          63
p w



4..,                                                                          NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJMECT
Beef Exports by Value and Destination
'0                                                         cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(000 usv)
Count                1960        1961        1962         1963         1964         1965         1966        1967         1968         1969         1970       1971 1/
Germany                      -            -                   -                         4.3          0.8        -            -          36.0          -         28.1
Belgium                -           -              -                        -            -           39.5      32.8         18.4          9.0          -            -
Costa Rica             -           -             -            4.0          -           13.8          5.5        -          19.8         85.5         21.3      181.9
El Salvador            -           -              -            -         266,1         14.4          0.6        _            1.1         7.9          5.3        0.4
United States      2,872.6    2,971.6        3,849.5      5,884.2      5,216.1      5,044.6      8,943.8  10,837.5    14,007.0    18,396.6    23,212.0  25,375.0
United Kingdom         -           -              -           -            -            1.2          6.4        -            -           -            -
Honduras               -           -              -           -            0.8         12.4          -                       1,5         -            -
The Netherlands        -           -              -           -            -                         -          -            -          20.9          9.6          -
Puerto Rico           95.5    1,070.7        2,141.3      2,419.5      1,775.9      1,389,5      1,214.0   1X664.5      1,834,1      2,279.8      3,339.0   2,943.8
Others                             .9             2.6       125.6        264.6        198,5          4.1   _______                  _ _                        132.8 2/
Total          2.968.1    4,043,2        5 _9934      Q1.433,S    7_523.5       6,678.7    10,214. 7  12514.8    15881.9    20,835.7    26.577,6 2:  6716
1/ Preliminary.
2/ fncluding US$80,000 to Japan.
Source:  Banco Central.                                                                                                                                       mX
*  0



NDCAR&QA
AGRICULTURAI CRIDIT PROJECT
Bee  !ortx by Volume and Destination
('000 kg)
Countz           1960        1961       1962        1963        1964       1965        1966        1967        1968        1969         1970      1971 1.
Gemaxm'            -           -           -          -           -            1.3         0.2        -           - ;),        34.3        _        42.8
Bdelgiu                             -           -                             -           94.0        76.6         43.7       25.5         -
Costa Rica         -           -           _            4.8       -           56.1        23.3         0.3         59.5      266.9         62.2   285.8
M. Salvador        -           _                                  392.8       19.0         0.2        _             1.1        3.4          4.6      0.2
United States  4,311.0    )4,556.3       6,221.3    9,645.5    7,)495.8    7,136.4   u,a4&u.j   i2,ygi4.3    15,322.7   1i,82i.v    ijL,:5j.4  2Z,1oo.z
United  140=       -           -           -          -           -            0.3         1.8                    -
dorms           -           -           -          -             1.0       20.0        -11                                  - 1
Thb Netherlands    -           -           -          -           -           -           -           -                        52. e        _       23.6
Puerto Rico       137.5    1,584.7       3,335.3    3,717.5    2,567.2    1,798.2    1,429.9    1,696.7        1,748.1     2,070.3      2,834.7 2,313.8
Othes              -            1.5         5.3       2)48.0      505.5       36)4.5       6.6        _     -    -_                                119.4
Total           4,448.5    6,1142.5     9,561.9   13,615.8   10,962.3    9,395.8   12,796.3   14,697.0         17,176.2    20,275.3    24.434.9 245.8
_~ __ _                                                                                        - 
1/ 1relf.Luary.
I/ Including 74,000 kg to Japan.
Source: Banco Central.



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CR8DIT PROJECT
Cattle Slauglhter Otlettro  I960-1970
iteeSb1960                                        1961             1962             1963             1964             1965             1966             1967             1968              1969             1970         1971
------------------ ---- ---- ------- -------------------------------I--------        _41fl.d------n=eofh d -----------------------     ---_--------  -_--------___ -______ ......._  _-._._.._
To.te1SLaughtes                          133,650          150,977          167,265          192,442          195,006          191,336          202,560          210,773          246,924          276,429          310.025        324,949
Total Import sltughte- Ho--00             43,237           52,090           60,549           89,259           82,381           71,206           94,166          108,421          132,196          153,707          172,351        187,714
- Ifogon                                43,237          52,090            59,087          76,192           57,673           48.319           63,592           65,093            71,145          81,784           106,141        100,357
- C.-nLo-                                                                                  4,892            11,532           8,8S3           16,217           24,441            39,641           47,712           42,083        48,488
-poica                                                    -              1,462            8,175           13,176           14,014           14,357           18,887           21,390           24,211           22,127         23,774
-Isoe                                     -                                                                                                                                                                                      5,095
Total Ituioipol Slaughte                  90,413          103,887          106,716          103,163          113,335          110,130          108,394          102,352          114,728          122,722          137,674        137,235
- OffiolaS Rocords                      81,372           93,498           96,044           92,865          102,001          99,117           97,555           92,117           103,255          ItO,450          123,907           N.A.
- Cland.stit.                            9,041           10,389           10,672          10.318           11,334           11,013           10,839            10,235           11,473           12,272           13,767           N.A,
loe of poala S01utgh.erad                101,484          118,431          124,339          141,342          142,615          125,121          140,459          137,272          156,423          173,865          205,06L        217,605
Nt. of Feala  slloght-red                 32,166           37,546           42,926           51,100           53,101          114,213           62,101           73,501           90,101          ID0,564          104,964        107,344
Perreotage Melee                           0.75             0.76             0.74             0.73             0.73             0,69             0.69             0.65             0.63             0.64             0.66           0.67
Neocartago towolco                         0.25             0.24             0.26             0.27             0.27             0.31             0.31             0.35             0.37             0.36             0,34           0.33
Iacreae per Year                           8.4             16.7              7.2             15.L              1,7             -7.4             11.7              4.1             17.2             11.9             12.2 478
*                                                                                                          *                                                                                                            *~



*~~~~~~~ . - 
NIChRAGUA
AGIRICULtURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Baeef Innorta  to United State, under the Voluyar  Prosra, for 1970 and 1971
1970          1971              1970                    1971                7970               1971                      1970                             1971                      1970                 1971
Reetraint    Restratut        Actual IOnport.        Actual Tnportt,                                                 Actual Cens.# Leas                Actual Cenaus lea,           Quantity Over        Quantity Over
SO untry                      Leel          Lan-i       Reported by Cen-at    Reported by C-usuc    Relectioun  1/    SvI-tlce I/    Raleettone & Tran-ahime.te er EnRactio.n & t-hotenei                t             etntoai, t Level
Auntralia                            548.S         526.3            565,500 2/             530,015               10,390             12,109                   542,704                           517,906                     - 6.1               - 8.4
Nev Zealand                          229.3         254.9           241,926                 241,037                3,884             5,436                    224,266                           235,601                    - 5.0                -19.3
Mebtco                                 71.5         79.5             78,519                 79,108                  116                366                    7S,403                            78,742                    + 7.0                - 0.8
Irel nd                               68.2          75.9            68.963                  63,830                1,423               760                     67,540                            63,070                    - 0.7                -12.8
Canada                                75.8 31       80.0 _/         77,810                  77,716                  863                574                    76,947                            77,142                    + 1.1                - 2.9
MIcaragu                              41.0          45.5            42,329 2/               43,943                  119               442                     42,210                            43,501                    + 1.2                - 2.0
Costn  Riea                           36.3          40.4             37,735                 40,884                  233                547                    37,502                            40,337                    + 1.2                - 0.1
Guateal                               23.2           25.7            23,246                 25,968                  *                  310                    23,246                            25,638                       0.0
Honduras                              15.3          17.0             15.872                 16,785                   45                311                    15,827                            16,474                    + 0.5                - 0.5
DominicAn Rep.                        11.5           6 ,7             7,720                  6,982                  .                  122                     7,720                             6,860                     - 3.8               + 0.2
United Kingdom                         5.0 3/        5.0 2/          4.553                   2,164                  283                 17                     4.270                             2,147                     -0.7                -2.9
Paen"                                  5.6            1.7             5,149                  2,717                                                             5,149                             2,717                       0.4               + 1.0
Haiti                                  2.3           1.4              1,278                   1,490                 -                    1                      1.278                            1,489                     - 1.0               + 0.1
Total                               1,160.0 4/   1,160.0         1,170,600               1,132,639               17.356             20,995                 1,153.244 4/                      1,111,642                     - 6.8                -48.4
LI hA reported by the processed Food Inap-ctto. Divtsino, C and M . - USDA.
2/  Revised in June 1971, Pt - 135.
3/  Eatinates and noc fim comomitments.
4/  Includas 26.2 million lb of Oceani.a m.at. tranucy!,p;,d through Canada.
Source: U.S. Bureau of Cennus and INCEI.



ANNEX 3
Table 8
NICARAGUA
AGICULTUIRAL CREMT PROJECT
Forecasts of Beef and Veal Production and Imports
(1000 kg)
IJNITED STATES
Item                     Unit    1964-66 av.       1970         1980
Production              '000 t      8,840         10,269       12,835
Imports                 '000 t        625            710        1,163
Consumption            '000 t       9,465        10,979        13,998
Consunption
per capita             kg            48.6           53.5         61.2
WESTERN EUROPE
Item                    Unit      1964-66 av.      1970         1980
Production             '000 t       5,835         6,850         8,199
Imnports               '000 t         689            687        1,522
Consumption            '000 t       6,524          7,537        9,721
Consumption
per capita            kg             19.0           21.2         25.14
Source:  FAC "Agricultural Comrodity Proj,ections, 1970-1980",, 1971
May 28, 1973



ANNEX 3
Table 9
NICARAGUA
AGRICUTURIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Production and Trade in Milk Products in Central America, 1970
A. Whole Dried Milk
Imports from       Authorized Imports       Exports to
Co-unta          Production 1970      Central America      from Outside Region   Common Market
-------------------------------- :'OGO kg  - --------------------------
Guatemala               52                  34.7-4                 965                  11
El Salvador                                 263                  3,291
Honduras                25                  414                    914
Nicaragua            1,850                  284                      _               1,037
Costa Rica          1 815                    27                    _                   285
Total         3                    1                        _33
Source:  Sieca 170/V - 4/47.
B. Dried Skim Milk
Imports from       Authorized Imports    Exports to
Copntry          Production 1970      Central America      from Outside Region   Common Market
b                                                        o------------o-------  --- k000 kg) -------------kg-
Wouatemala                 85                     -                    455                 14
El Salvador              -                  308                    394                   _
Honduras               111                    -                    1255
Nicaragua              500                    -                      -                 300
Costa Rica             390                  136                    155                   _
Total                           1,086l_ 9
Source:  Sieca 170/V - 4/47.
C.  Semi-Skimmed Dried Milk
Total             Imports from         Authorized Imports    Exports to
Production          Central America       from Outside Area      Common Market
------------_-----------------_ ('000 kg) -------------------------------
Guatemala                          -                                 2
El Salvador            516                                          51
Honduras                 -                                          29
Nicaragua                -                    -
Costa Rica              18                                          32
Total           _73
* Source: Sieca 170/V - 4/47.
July 2, 1973






ANNEX 4
Page 1
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Irrigated Crops
Introduction
1.        The pattern of agricultural development in. Nicaragua is highly
dualistic (Annex 1).  The modern farming sector, consisting of medium- and
large-size holdings, produces the bulk of the export crops (cotton, coffee,
sugarcane, bananas and tobacco) as well as irrigated rice, using sophisticated
techniques. Thanks largely to the entrepreneurial spirit of modern farmers
in the Pacific Zone and neighboring areas, there has been over the last two
decades a rapid increase in the production and export of these crops.
2.        Although accounting for the bulk of the use of agricultural
machinery, fertilizers, pesticides and short-term crop credit available in
Nicaragua, these modern farms are mostly owned by businessmen who employ
foremen for day-to-day supervision of farm operations. Such owners prefer
single cropping of an established crop to mixed rotational cropping, for
which higher husbandry standards would be required. Nevertheless, these
farmers are quick to take advantage of changes in both markets and production
techniques. Much of the land on which cotton is grown is leased on an annual
basis at rents varying with the cotton price.  This system facilitates ex-
pansion or contraction of the cultivated area and production in response to
world market price movements (Annex 1, Table 4).
3.        Farms of less than 7 ha constituting more than 50% of the total
number but occupying only 3.5% of the total area account for the bulk of the
production of Nicaragua's food crops (maize, beans, sorghum and upland rice)
which are grown with family labor under traditional methods and rainfed
conditions. Marketing only quantities surplus to their own consumption re-
quirements, these farms remain largely untouched by extension services and
average yields per hectare have shown only marginal improvement over the
past 10 years. Such farmers supplement their cash incomes by working on
larger farms during the cotton and coffee harvesting seasons. Because land
is not a limiting factor in Nicaragua, increased production of rainfed crops
comes from extension of the land farmed which, it is estimated, increased by
30% between 1963 and 1971.
4.        The existing crop production of the modern farm sector is already
largely capitalized. Much of this investment has been financed by long-term
lending programs, with supporting external finance mostly from IDB and USAID,
operated by the Banco Nacional de Nicaragua (BN), as evidenced by the bal-
ances of outstanding long-term loans by the BN as of December 31, 1971, set
out in the following table:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Totals of
outstanding long-
term loans as of
Loan Classification                   December 31, 1971
C$       US$
t000    million
Irrigated rice                          35,615    5.1
Coffee                                  46,069    6.6
Agricultural Machinery                   4,556    0.6
(mainly for cotton)
In addition, the Instituto de Fomento Nacional (INFONAC) has largely financed
the development of bananas and tobacco.
5.        On the other hand, the expansion of traditional-type farming, while
demanding considerable infrastructure investment, calls more for short-term
crop loans than for longer term finance for on-farm investment. Moreover,
formulation of development priorities awaits completion of the current agri-
cultural sector survey being undertaken with USAID assistance. In these
circumstances, it is felt that irrigation will be the main source of demand
for medium- and long-term credit for crop production under the project, and
the possibilities in this field are examined in this annex.
Development of Irrigation in Nicaragua
6.        Irrigation in Nicaragua is found principally in the area west of
the Central Cordillera, where annual rainfall averages between 1,000 am
(39.37 inches) and 2,000 nn (78.74 inches), concentrated in the period of
May to December. There are, however, considerable variations in rainfall
amounts and distribution from year to year. In 1971, 41,000 ha (or approx-
imately 6% of the total cultivated area) were under irrigation. Run of the
river irrigation, used mostly for rice and sugarcane production, accounted
for 30,000 ha but as the rivers rising to the west of the Central Cordillera
are almost all non-perennial or have a low base flow, double cropping is
exceptional. Details of schemes initiated to promote irrigation development
are given below.
7.        Rivas Irrigation Project.  As originally prepared by the Instituto
de Fomento Nacional (INFONAC), this scheme was planned to pump water from
Lake Nicaragua to provide surface irrigation to 425 farms covering 9,000 ha.
Participating farmers were to be charged for water supplied at rates to cover
the costs of the operating agency (Empresa de Riego de Rivas). The original
estimate of total investment costs was C$34 million (US$4.9 million) and, on
this basis, the Bank approved a loan (332-NI) of US$2.6 million in 1963.
Subsequent investigations showed that the cost of the project works had risen
to US$6.3 million and could be justified only by high-value crops, for which
0



ANNEX 4
Page 3
there was insufficient data both as to production and marketing.  For this and
other reasons, the Bank's loan was reduced in 1966 by partial cancellation to
US$0.12 million.
8.        In 1969, financed partly by suppliers' credit, a revised version
of Stage I of the original project was implemented, with surface irrigation
replaced by a sprinkler system, utilizing raingun-type equipment, intended
for use with bananas and sugarcane.  Marketing difficulties have prevented
any expansion in banana production, and this, together with the difficulties
of using the equipment (which is owned and operated by the Empresa de Riego
de Rivas) on small farms and for other crops, has led to the present situation
where only 30 farmers covering some 900 ha are using the facility. Operating
at only 25% of its capacity and having considerable difficulty in collecting
water charges at the previously agreed rates, the Empresa de Riego de Rivas
incurs an annual loss of some C$3.5 million (US$0.5 million) whi-h is met by
a budget appropriation. The experience gained In the Rivas Irrigation Pro-
ject underlines the need for high-value crop production, for the irrigation
system to be designed to meet the requirements of these crops, and for assured
outlets for the commodities produced.
9.        Chinandega Banana Project.  This project to utilize groundwater in
the Chinandega area for the production of bananas for export was also started
by INFONAC. After encountering difficulties due to the variety grown and
INFONAC's attempts to handle, on its own, the marketing of the crop, the
project was taken over and revised by the Standard Fruit Company in 1969.
A variety more acceptable on the US market, with an anticipated yield of 40
m tons/ha, has been planted on 2,400 ha made up of farms of not less than 100
ha, and it is planned to extend production to 10,000 ha by 1974. Finance
for tubewell installation, pumps, sprinkler irrigation and planting material
have been provided, first by INFONAC and subsequently by the Standard Fruit
Company. This project also emphasizes the importance of ensuring that production
is geared to consumer demand and that marketing channels are adequate.
10.       Leon Irrigation Project.  As part of the cotton diversification
program, the Leon Irrigation Project (Proyecto de Riego de Leon - PRL) was
instituted by BN in 1969. Under this three-year program, loans are granted by
BN to selected farmers on preferential terms, including interest at 8% and re-
payment over 10 years with a two-year grace period, to cover the cost (C$312,
420, or US$44,630) of installing a standard sprinkler irrigation unit sufficient
to irrigate 123 manzanas (85 ha).  Under special arrangements made by the
Empresa Nacional de Luz y Fuerza (ENALUF), electricity consumed by these units
is charged at the rate of C$0.08 per kw, representing a reduction of 45% on
the normal tariff. Participating farmers can also obtain short-term credit
from BN at the concessionary interest rate of 12% p.a.
11.       The original program provided for 150 of these units in the northern
part of the Pacific Zone and to the north, south, and east of Lake Managua to
cover some 10,500 ha, but, by the end of 1972, only half had been installed



ANNEX 4
Page 4
and the prograin period was extended to the end of 1974, when it is hoped
that the original prograr, together with an additional 50 smaller units each
covering 50 manzanas (35 ha), will be completed. The total cost of the combined
program is C$85.1 million (US$12.2 million), of which C$60.0 million (US$8.6
million) is provided by loans from two British commercial banks, with the
equipment and technical assistance being supplied by a consortium of British
firims.
12.       On the 3,085 ha cropped under the program in 1972, production was
distributed as follows:
Permanent
Crops                       Annual Crops
Experi-
Plan-  Cot-        Sor-          Ground-  Sugar-           mental
Pastures tains  ton  Miaize ghum  Beans   nut        cane  Others  Farm    Tctal
…-- - - - - - -- - - - - - - ----  (ha)- --------…-- - - - - - ---- ----
1,354    323   925   208  124    70        31        81      62    77        3.255
Cropping intensity was only 105.5%.
13.       To assist in the development of alterriative crops through operation
of the project's experimental farm near Leon and to provide technical assistance
to participating farmers in irrigated farming methods, some five experts have
been provided by an Israeli firm (TAHAL) under a consultancy contract with the
Central Bank of Nicaragua (CB) and BN that expires in 1973.  The cost of these
services is not included in the project costs detailed above.
14.       The reasons for the slow rate of development of the program include.
(a)  technical difficulties such as volcanic dust in transforiners
and wind problems;
(b) high investment cost, which, on the larger unit, amounts to
nearly CS3,000 per manzana (US$600 per ha);
(c) the inflexibility of the system adopted under the prolect;
farmers are required to accept the standard unit of irrigation
equipment instead of being able to obtain a system tailored to
each farm's needs, including its present and potential
cropping pattern;
(d) the dominance of cotton in the project area and the difficulties
of finding either complementary or alternative crops. Planting
an additional crop after cotton involves giving up second and
third pickings and encounters much pest infestation. Research
and development on both production and marketing of alterna-
tive high-value crops is mostly in the preliminary phases;
(e) the absence of any real pressure on the land reduces the incen-
tive to move towards intensive production; and



ANNEX 4
Page 5
(f)  suitability of cotton production to the business farmer;
irrigated farming calls for higher standards of husbandry and
management on the farm.
15.       Irrigated Rice Project.  With the aid of IDB loans, BN has financed
investments in irrigation and farm machinery for rice production as well as
for rice processing plants. As a result, some 15,000 ha in the Pacific and
Central Zones belonging to about 50 farmers are now producing rice under
surface irrigation and largely mechanized cultivation. Of the water used,
75% comes from rivers or lakes and 25% from groundwater sources. Although
cropping intensity is only 117% and losses from pests (notably rats) are
considerable, yields of paddy average 3.9 m tons/ha.  This is double the yield
for rainfed paddy and reflects the use of higher yielding varieties, including
IRRI strains. Thanks to this program and the high support price paid by the
Instituto Nacional de Comercio Exterior y Interior (INCEI) (para 40), produc-
tion of milled rice in Nicaragua rose from 21,000 m tons in 1960/61 to 49.7
m tons in 1970/71. In the process, Nlicaragua's net import position (US$1.3
million in 1965) was converted into that of a net exporter (US$1.6 raillion in
1971). The results achieved by this program depended largely upon the use of
high yielding varieties and modern production techniques and the existence of
a protected market.
16.       Tobacco Development.  Production of Virginia, Sombreada, and
Burley-type tobacco has long been concentrated on the island of Ometepe in
Lake Nicaragua and in the departments of Esteli and Nueva Segovia.  Totalling
3.08 million lb in 1970/71, production is controlled by Tabacalera Nicaraguense
S.A. (TANIC) and utilized mainly in the local manufacture of cigarettes. Under
an INFONAC program and with external technical assistance, the production of
Havana tobacco is being promoted in the departments of Esteli and Nueva Segovia
where it is grown under irrigation on some 500 ha. Production in 1971 reached
1.8 million lb, of which 70% was exported to the USA. Recently, however, n.arket-
ing difficulties have been encountered there.  Average producer prices of C$11.48
per lb (US$1.6 per lb) were 4-1/2 times higher than those for blond toba.ceo In
addition to irrigation costs, investments financed by INFONAC cover curing
equipment, shade material, and agricultural machinery.
17.       Other Irrigation Schemes.  INFONAC and BN have also financed the
development of a number of individual irrigation schemes, mostly for irrigated
pastures. In addition, the possibility of a gravity irrigation scheme utiliz-
ing the partly regulated flow of the Rio Viejo has been examined by various
agencies since 1966.  It appears that such a scheme would cost i_$49 million
(US$7.0 million) to irrigate 6,300 ha, of which, 3,950 ha would be cropped
and 2,350 ha would be under pasture. With a cropping pattern of maize and
beans followed by groundnuts and sesame, together with cotton as an annual
crop, and a cropping intensity of 150%, the estimated rate of return is only
5%. To give a satisfactory rate of return, the cropping pattern would have
to include high-value crops for which outlets are limited or external markets
have yet to be developed.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Water Resources                                                                          0
18.       As already indicated, reliable surface water resources from
river flows are limited and the boron content of Lake Managua renders it
unsuitable for irrigation use. No such restriction applies in the case of
Lake Nicaragua but the unhappy experience of the Rivas Irrigation Project
(paras 7 and 8) has deterred development of the use of this water resource.
19.       Although no comprehensive survey of the country's underground water
resources has been undertaken, investigations have confirmed the availabil:ty
of subterranean supplies in specific areas in the Pacific and Central Zones.
In particular, with UJNDP financial and technical assistance, a detailed study
of underground water resources in the Leon-Chinandega plain is nearing co-
pletion.  With a total area of 158,400 ha, this survey has showm that, without
depleting groundwater resources, up to 492 million m3 at an average depth of
13 m (42.6 ft) could be exploited annually to irrigate between 25,O00 and 566000
ha according to cropping pattern and water duties, and that there is sufficient
land of soil classes 1 and 2 in the area surveyed for such an expansion. Hiow'
ever, the fact that most of this land is already under cotton cultivation, .11
restrict the rate of irrigation development as experience with the Leon
Irrigation Project shows (para 14).
Water Legislation
20.       No water legislation is in effect in Nicaragua at present, al]t'houh
the UNDP project (para 19) has prepared a decree governing the extractio         A_E.
use of groundwater.  The main provisiaons of  this draft law, wheea may be
enacted in 1973, call for:
(a)  creation of a National Office for Underground Water
(Oficina Nacional de Aguas Subterraneas - ONAS);
(b)  all users of groundwater to be licensed by ONAS;
(c)  licenses to specify extraction rates and other conditions;
(d)  restriction of well drilling to firms registered with and
approved by ONAS;
(e)  drillers to furnish ONAS with results of their operations;
(f)  existing users of groundwater to be allowed to continue use,
subject to the provisions of the law, providing full details
to ONAS within one year; and
(Q) ONAS to be responsible for all matters concerning groundwater.
0



ANNEX 4
Page 7
O         21.       Decisions have yet to be reached regarding the constitution of ONAS
and the Ministry to which it will be responsible. No provision is made in the
draft law to levy charges on groundwater users.
Future Development of Irrigation in Nicaragua
22.       Expansion of the use of surface water is likely to be slow because
of the lack of reliable river flows and the high costs of schemes involving
river management or the utilization of the waters of Lake Nicaragua (paras
6 and 7).
23.       The prospects for the development of groundwater resources, partic-
ularly in the Leon - Chinandega plain at the northern end of the Pacific Zone
are basically good but are subject to the following constraints:
(a) the need for high-value crops and/or multiple cropping
patterns to justify the relatively high investment costs.
Increases in yield over rainfed production provide sufficient
benefits in the case of such crops as sugarcane, banana,
plantain, and rice (thanks to its protected price) but not in
the case of the other annual crops (cotton, maize, groundnuts,
and such) grown in the Pacific Zone;
(b) research into irrigated production requirements for new crops
under multiple cropping patterns is on an ad hoc basis and is
still in the preliminary phase.  Considerable insect infestation
and pest problems have been encountered;
(c) intensive production calls for higher standards of farm husbandry
and management than those necessary for established crops, such
as cotton and sugarcane. On the other hand, past experience
suggests that once the profitability of new crops and production
methods have been demonstrated, modern farmers in the area will
be quick to develop such opportunities; and
(d) for new crops, especially fruit and vegetables, there is a limit-
ed market in Nicaragua and main outlets must be sought in export
markets. In many cases, this calls for the provision of process-
ing facilities to match the expansion of production. The capa-
city of such processing plants and their power to fix producer
prices set limits to crop development.
24.       Taking all these factors into account, it is estimated that the
present rate of growth of irrigation is likely to be about 2,000 ha per year,
rising to about 3,000 ha per year when the program of the Leon Irrigation
Project is completed.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Irrigated Crops to be Financed Under the Project
25.       Traditional Export Crops.  Of the traditional export crops, only
sugarcane offers prospects for the limited expansion of irrigated production.
The total production of sugar in 1971 in Nicaragua was about 159,000 tons from
four large factories, together with an estimated production of 15,000 tons
of raw (brown) sugar from local plants. Distribution of cane production in
1970/71 was as follows:
Area of
Region               Location                  Cane Grown
('000 ha)
(a) Factory Production
Pacific              Chichigalpa                  19.3
Pacific              Santa Rita                    4.7
Pacific              Rivas                         2.8
Atlantic             Chukra Hill                   1.1
Sub-total:             27.9
(b)  Other Production                                        4.1
Total:                 32.0
26.       Each of the four large factories bases its operations on cane grown
on its own nucleus estate where, with intensive techniques and irrigation,
yields of 100 m tons/ha are obtained. These factories also buy cane from
neighboring small and medium size farms, where, under rainfed conditions, yields
range from 30 to 50 mn tons/ha.
27.       The largest factory at Chichigalpa processes 1,050,000 tons of cane
annually, of which 730,000 tons aregrown under irrigation on 7,500 ha on its
own estate and 320,000 tons produced mostly under rainfed conditions are
bought from some 200 outgrowers. To make fuller use of its existing process-
ing capacity, the factory is anxious to handle an additional 250,000 tons of
cane per year. Since in the factory area, the most suitable soils are already
planted with cane, expansion of production can be obtained only by increasing
outgrowers' yields on existing farms through irrigation.
28.       Of the total factory production of sugar in 1971, some 80,000 tons
were consumed in Nicaragua and 77,900 tons were exported under quota to the USA.
Internal consumption is expected to rise to 95,000 tons by 1980, and world
mIarket prospects have improved as indicated in the policy paper entitled
"Sugar - a reappraisal of investment policies for developing countries" dated
.November 7, 1972, prepared by the Commodities and Export Projections Division
of the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
O         29.       Import Substitution Crops.  Apart from grains, limited opportunities
exist for increasing production of certain crops to be sold on the internal
market in substitution for imported supplies.  Examples of such crops are
plantains and onions.
30.       Nicaraguan production of plantains has failed to grow as fast as
demand over the last decade and the shortfall has been covered by imports
(mostly from CACM countries). These trends are evidenced by the figures
given in the following table:
1960    1965    1970    1971    1972
…(in '000 qq) ------
Supply
Nicaraguan production          1,516   1,549   1,661   1,707   1,724
Imports                           12       81     199      120     241
Total:                    1,528   1,630   1,860   1,827   1,965
Less losses                      227      232     249      256     259
Total Supply:             1,301   1,398   1,611   1,571   1,706
*        Demand
Human consumption               1,225   1,321   1,528   1,486   1,620
Animal feed                        76      77      83       85      86
Source:   Agricultural Sector Analysis Unit (Unidad de Analisis Sectorial -
UNASEC) -- Preliminary results.
31.       A large number of small farmers throughout the Pacific and Central
Zones grow plantain on small plots, primarily to meet their own needs, but
they market any quantity surplus to their requirements. Since production depends
on rainfall, the marketed surplus varies considerably from year to year, and
supply from this source is relatively inelastic. It is, however, being sup-
plemented by a growing number of irrigated production units, mostly about
50 manzanas (35 ha) in size,where yields of 20 m tons/ha and upwards are
achieved. Wind damage, particularly in the Rivas and Leon areas, is being
countered by planting windbreaks.
32.       The normal marketing channels are via middlemen/truckers, wholesalers
at the Managuan market or wholesaler/retailers at other markets to the urban
consumer. As a result of the earthquake of December 23, 1972, the importance
of Managua as the main consuming center has been temporarily reduced. There
has been no appreciable reduction, however, in overall demand, and marketing



ANNEX 4
Page 10
channels have swiftly adapted themselves to the changed territorial pattern
of consumption. From the table above, it will be seen that losses are esti-
mated at 15% production; this high level is due partly to the inherent dif-
ficulties of handling a perishable commodity under Niicaraguan climatic condi-
tions, but the situation is aggravated by the problems of collecting small
and variable quantities from scattered producers and the shortcomings in handling
and storage systems.
33.       Reliable and consistent data on producer prices are lacking and,
although imports help to stabilize price levels, there are considerable vari-
ations within a season and from year to year. Preliminary results of UNASEC
enquiries suggest that, over the past three years, average prices of plantain
for human consumption have been about C$500 (US$71.4) per m ton and for
animal feed about C$21 (US$3.0) per m ton.
34.       Similar trends are to be seen in the case of onions, as the following
table shows, although here, from a net export of 2,600 ql (118 m tons) in 1960,
Nicaragua had become a net importer of 21,100 ql (959 m tons) by 1972.
1960     1965      1970      1971     1972
(in '000 ql) ------ …
Supply
Nicaraguan production    79.2       92.4      103.0    105.1    107.2
Imports                     2.0      8.8       23.3      21.8     21.8
Total:               81.2    101.2    126.3        126.9    129.0
Less losses                 7.9      9.2      10.3       10.5      10.7
Exports                     4.6      3.6       0.3        0.7      0.7
Total:               12.5      12.8      10.6       11.2     11.4
Consumption                68.7     88.4    115.7       115.7    117.6
Source:   TNASEC.
35.       Production comes mostly from small farmers utilizing run of the
river irrigation, notably in the Central Zone. The more progressive of these
import seed from the USA and obtain short-term credit from banks to cover the
cost of it, fertilizer and labor, most of which is employed at piece-rates
for specific operations.  Similar marketing channels to those for plantains
(para 32) operate for onions. Some producers sell their onions to merchants
"fat sight", in which case, it is the merchant's responsibility to harvest the
crop from the "banco' (a bed equal in area to one-tenth of a manzana). Ac-
cordina to UNASEC's estimates, average producer prices over the last three
years have been about C$70 per ql (US$220 per m ton). There are, however,



ANNEX 4
Page 11
considerable seasonal price fluctuations, with prices rising during the wet
season when supplies are short.  This is leading to trials by producers of
better keeping hybrid onions which could be preserved in simple wooden stores
without air conditioning to take advantage of higher market prices in May,
June and July.
36.       Attempts have been made to promote the production of kenaf by small
farmers in the department of Carazo as a substitute for imported jute used
by a sack factory at Diriamba.  BN made long-term credit available for the
provision of retting facilities but because of inadequate research, failure
to phase production, retting difficulties, the effect of the 1972 drought and
dissatisfaction with prices paid by the factory, the scheme has now been dropped.
37.       New Export Crops.  This is the area in which most developmental
effort has been focused and the difficulties that have been encountered in
promoting the production of bananas and tobacco have served to underline the
need for an assured market. With all the so-called "non-traditional" agricul-
tural exports, the smallness of the Nicaraguan market offers an insuIfficient
base for any large-scale production and the main outlets must be sought in
external markets. Since Nicaragua would appear to have little comparative
advantage in such production vis-a--vis the other members of the CACM, the
main attraction is the US market.
38.      ProminenL among potential "non-traditional" exports are various kinds
of fruit and vegetables. The presence of the Mediterranean fly in Nicaragua
poses added problems for any scheme involving the export to the US of fresh
fruit and vegetables. Although consideration has been given to the possibility
of establishing a USDA Quarantine Station in Nicaragua, better prospects seem.
to lie with the development of agro-industrial facilities for the export of
fruit and vegetables in processed or preserved forms.
39.       A successful pioneering enterprise on these lines has been estab-
lished at Chinandega which freezes 6 million lb of okra and 3 million lb of
peas and exports under contract to two large US supermarket chains. The fore-
cast value of exports in 1973 is US$500,000. Farmers with interests in the
factory account for the total present field supply but any expansion in out-
put would have to come from outgrowers Whio would need to invest in irrigation
facilities.  Under thte auspices of the Central Bank of Nicaragua, an inte-
grated enquiry into expansion prospects is now being undertaken. With AID
assistance (Proyecto Adelante), investigations into production possibilities
of other vegetables, such as cauliflower, broccoli and asparagus, are being made
at the Ministry of Agriculture's experimental irrigated farm near Leon, Over-
seas market prospects are being reviewed by EXPORTEMOS, an export promotion
agency, backed by the Chamber of Commerce, while technical processing problems
are being handled by the existing factory (AMOLONCA).  This coordinated
approach should provide a sound basis for further developments, but some time
must elapse before concrete conclusions can be drawn from the investigations
now proceeding.



WNTEX 4
Page 12
40.       Cereal Production.  Detai' s of the expansion of irrigated rice pro-
dcuction under a BN program have been given in paragraph 15. At the inception
j3 this program, a Government support price scheeme for all rice, whether rain-
f ed or irrigated, was operated by INCEI.  Because in 1969 the support price
was fixed at too high a level (which even attracted rice from El Salvador into
Nicaragua), INCEI's financial resources proved to be inadequate aud its support
price operations were abandoned. This and the losses 4ncurred by INCEII on
export sal es led to a revision of rice marketing arrangements and the establish--
ment in 1970 of the Cooperative Arrocero S.A. (CASA), w'hich is virtually a
producers' marketing board made up of large rice farm.ers (its present memnber- -
ship is 63).  These members enter into contracts eitlher direc:tiv wiLt)  ASA or
one of its 15 centers and are paid on the basis of CASA's selling price, less
costs of milling, storage, and other onerations.  CASA handles virtualylv a3l.l
the irrigated rice production, while the re.mairlng 25% (7jostly upland   ce
is sold through ordinary marketing channels.  By its ability to infittea ci
ing to conform with overseas market prospects and to even out supplies 
onto the domestic market, CASA has been, relatively successful at ma.i'i
stable prices to the producer, which in 1972 a- eraged Cb62.36 per   t'.-
(US$20O  per m ton).  Of CASA's sales, 30% are made to CACM countnie,es, P,oi
for Central America suggest that there will' be increas:-> 4in the demand for 
over the 1970 level of 20% by 1975 and 44% by 1980            T J akling deveopmenail.
prospects in other CACM countries into account, it aEppars thaf n        p cts n;
Nicaraguan rice exports are limited and these and the growth O.- the itnternal.
market can be met without any further substantial i7vestment in produ clio'n,
41,      The demand for maize and sorghum for both Lynm-an con]s:uu'tio-  and
animal feed is growing fast and has so far been largelv rmet  vy extenodig th.
area of rainfed production.  Attempts tc illa lude isaize and SO?.h;-m7 as e.n
additional crop to cotton on irrigated fanns hafe not so far bpen se-Li       esf 
(para 14). However, as part of the emergency pi-an (Annex 1) to meet
created by the drought of 1971/72 and the earthquake of Diecembyer 2'3'  I-\72,
farmers with irrigation who pDlant approved v yrD-_,-: .-nhte rT-?ile Jfro.m Ka-0, 19
1973 are offered technical and finanrcial assest-.   and .:-a      -vateed  orel 
C$33.50 per ql (= US$105 per m ton).  A Ithoulgh n, oivt g 'Z lic   e w .th      ;
world PiArket prices, this reDresents an increase of -more than 30% over the
official support price for the previous year a-nd rmay pro..-ide Sufficient ±Jn-
ducement to overcome the previous reluctance of irrigat-ec fanr%ers to grow
maize with cotton,
42.      Under irrigation, a little sorghuma is deubioe cropped with cotton,
some is grown for seed. and interest is being sho-rn in growing sorghum wi:t.h
three cuttings a year for fodder,  Withi the development of higher yleluing
h;ybrid varieties and the possibility of rore attracti%ve prices (particu.Iarly
necessary in view of the cost of combating birL  danmage to the crop),. the
prospects for the expansion of itrigated sorgh-um, -may well improve.
43.       Oilsaeds,  Cotcon diversification schemes have stressed oilseeds,
notably groundnuts, soya, and castor beans, as possible alterrative crops,
partictul.arly sirce they,  ould serve to miake good any deficiencies in overall
1/  Projections of Supply a.id Demand for selectedl agricultural products in
Central America:  Battellae Memoria  Institute:  1969.



ANNEX 4
Page 13
supplies of vegetable oil and cake that would follow a reduction in the pro-
duction of seed cotton. At the present time, however, higher world market
prices have led to a recovery in cotton production and reduced the immediate
prospects for increasing oilseed production, which largely competes with
cotton for the same land in the Pacific Zone. In consequence, BN, which,
under a groundnut promotion scheme, had bought a number of shaker diggers for
hiring at rates based on cost, is unable to find users for this machinery.
Additionally, the largest of the two oilseed processing plants, which recently
established a 3,500-ha estate in Cosiguina to ensure supplies of groundnuts
to its factory at Chinandega, is revising its cropping program to increase
the area planted to cotton. In view of present price relationships vis-a-vis
cotton, there appears to be little immediate prospects for increasing oilseed
production, particularly under irrigation because of the level of investment
costs involved, although there may well be some opportunities for irrigated
seed production in certain areas.
Project Considerations
44.      General.  During the period of the project, it is estimated that an
additional 6,000/7,000 ha of land will be brought under irrigation in Nicaragua
(para 24).  Projected lending for irrigation for pastures and other crops under
the project would cover 5,150 ha, the balance being financed by farmers' own
resources or by other borrowing.
.=      45.       All sub-loans under the project would be separately appraised by
technical staff working under the direction of the Technical Director through
the Crop Specialist. Because the bulk of the sub-loans for both pastures and
other crops are expected to originate in the northern part of the Pacific Zone,
it will probably be necessary for the Crop Specialist to be located in the
Leon area.
46.      Appraisals of irrigated crop sub-loans will need to pay special
attention to water availability (including compliance with the new groundwater
law, when enacted), the standard of farm management, the need to minimize pest
and disease losses in both production and storage, the availability of techni-
cal assistance, and assurance of marketing outlets for the proposed crop
production. Technical assistance should come principally from the staff of BN,
at present engaged with the Leon Irrigation Project, and from the Ministry of
Agriculture's staff, currently involved in the Proyecto Adelante. As regards
marketing outlets, project lending will need to be carefully coordinated with
the program for agro-industrial development to be undertaken under a proposed
IDB loan to the Special Development Fund (Fondo Especial de Desarrollo) of the
Central Bank.
47.      The size of loan for irrigated crop production will be determ-ined
largely by such factors as the topography of the farm, the available water
supply, crop patterns and water duties and the most suitable irrigation system
(e.g., gravity versus sprinkler). For farms much smaller in size than those
shown in the models (20 ha for gravity irrigation for sugar and 35 ha for a
sprinkler system for plantain), investment costs per unit of land will be



ANNEX 4
Page 14
higher and the rate of return corresDondingly lower. On the other hand, there
may well be some lending for run-of-the-river projects, where both investment
costs and farm size could be lower.
48.       Investment would cover such items as land levelling, construction of
irrigation channels, establishement of windbreaks, land preparation and plant-
ing (in the case of perennial crops only), tractors, trailers and implements,
well construction, pump installation (including pumphouse), sprinkler systems,
where appropriate, and on-farm storage.  All items required under these head-
ings are readily available in Nicaragua.  Five firms (three in Managua and two
in Leon) are distributors of various makes of pumps, motors, and irrigation
equipment, all of which are imported freely.
49.       Apart from three rotary and nine percussion rigs operated by
Government agencies, in the commercial sector, there are three firms with,
in all, 20 percussion and four rotary drilling rigs. The largest company in
the field probably accounts for two-thirds of the total private drilling, in
addition to operating in Guatemala and Costa Rica. All steel well casings,
as well as steel columns and shafting, are imported.
50.       Farm Models.  In Appendixes 10--5 and 10-6, two illustrative farm
models for irrigated crops have been included, the first covering a 35-ha unit
growing plantain and the second portraying the conversion to irrigation of a
20-ha farm currently producing sugarcane under rainfed conditions. The plantain
model typifies a farm in the northern part of the Pacific Zone previously used
for rough grazing.  Investment is in land preparation and planting, machinery
and equipment, and a sprinkler irrigation system, based on a 60-ft well, 30-hp
electric motor, 4 inch main lines and 3 inch subsidiary lines, with 18 inch
sprinklers, designed to deliver some 350 mm per month additional water in a
16 hr pumping day, to meet the maximum additional water requirement during
the months of April and December. Investment costs in irrigation amount to
C$2,660 per manzana (US$540 per ha). Estimated yields (20 m tons/ha) are
within actual achievement of similar existing farms and have been conservatively
priced at C$317/fm tons allowing for 90% of the total output to be sold for human
consumption at C$350/m tons and the balance for animal feed at C$21m tons. On
these bases, after allowing for investment in replacement machinery in year 8,
and a 10-year life for the main irrication assets, the financial rate of return
is 25%. On the proposed normal lending terms (loan at 13% per annum to cover
80% of investments) and with a grace period of two years, farmer's cash flow
from year 2 onwards is satisfactory. The deficit in year 1 would be largely
covered by his contribution (20%) to investment costs, which a farmer of this
size should be able to provide from his own resources. The investment would
also create jobs for nine permanent and six casual workers.
51.       The sugarcane model is representative of a typical outgrower of the
Ingenio San Antonio at Chichigalpa in the department of Chinandega, who at
present is producing rainfed sugarcane on one-half of his 20-ha holding and
leases the remuaining 10 ha for pasture. To install gravity irrigation on



ANNEX 4
Page 15
the whole of his holding, it is assumed that this farmer would clear his
rainfed crop, plant the whole 20 ha with selected planting material supplied
by the factory, and, after the second year, commence partial replanting so
that his annual production and costs are the average of a five-year cycle, with
four r-toon cuts. Irrigation investment costs in well, pump, motor, and pump-
house, with capacity to supply in a 17-1/2 hr pumping day a maximum supplementary
water requirement equal to 310 mm/month, would amount to C$2,300 per manzana
(US$490 per ha). With average yields increasing from 40 to 93 tons/ha, the
financial rate of return over a 10-year life would be 34%. No provision is
made for machinery investment, as the factory supplies machinery services on
contract terms. Cutting would be by hand, with transport provided by the
factory. The assumed farm-gate price of C$42 per ton (US$6 per ton) is in line
with current contract prices to outgrowers. From two permanent and two casual
workers, labor requirements would rise to four permanent and six casual workers.
Such a borrower would probably be eligible for the special lending terms pro-
posed for small farmers (loan to cover 90% of investment costs and to bear
interest at 11% per annum). -On this basis, with a grace period of zwo years,
a satisfactory farmer's cash flow could be expected (Appendix 10-6).
52.      These two crops have been chosen for model purposes because they
are already produced under irrigated conditions in Nicaragua and there is an
assured outlet for the projected additional production. This outlet is, however,
limited and the model mix in the estimation of total project costs takes the
relative market opportunities into account.  However, the door should be left
0F         open for the financing of other crops under the project provided that appraisal
of such sub-projects gives satisfactory assurances as to both production and
markets, and, when prepared on the same basis as the models in Appendixes 10-5
and 10-6, show an adequate financial rate of return. At this stage, such crop
possibilities can only be indicated in general terms, as in paragraphs 34 to
43, and this stresses the importance that will need to be attached to vigorous
appraisal of all crop component sub-loans. Excluded from the project, however,
at this stage should be any proposed sub-loans involving solely: (a) cotton
or coffee production, in view of the policy of diversification for these crops
and the fact that their existing production is already largely capitalized
(para 4); and (b) rice and tobacco, since production expansion for these crops
has already been catered for by recent development programs (paras 15 and 16).
Under these flexible conditions, it is anticipated that there will be a coin-
siderable range in the levels of investment costs, although technilcal consider-
ations are likely to set the lower limit at about C$70,000 (US$10,G00) in the
case of irrigation loans where pumping is involved.
53.      When agricultural development priorities are formulated on the
completion of the ongoing sector survey analysis, the crop component should
be reviewed by the Technical Director with a view to defining more closely
(particularly for the benefit of participating banks) any new investment
opportunities that may have arisen in either irrigated or rainfed farming.
Any revision involving modifications of the exclusions detailed in paragraph
52 would, however, need to be referred to the Bank for prior approval,
0



ANNEX 4
Page 16
54.       These arrangements differ from those proposed by the identification
mission of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, which visited Nicaragua in
FebruaryIMarch 1972. In its report (17/72 NIC 6 of June 20, 1972, this
mission recomunended that a separate agricultural credit project should be pre-
pared for implementation through the Special Development Fund of the Central
Bank of Nicaragua in the same manner as in the proposals for the Livestock
Credit Project prepared by the FAO/CP Program. Within such an agricultural
credit program, four crop enterprises were tentatively identified, viz.
irrigated sugar cane, together with three rainfed crops, groundnuts, castor
bean, and kenaf, while finance for further studies into oil palm development
in the Atlantic Zone and agricultural research reorganization was sugge$ted in
preparation for a second-phase project.  The amalgamation of the agricltural
and livestock proposals into one integrated project was discussed and agreed
with the Nicaraguan authorities following a pre-appraisal mission in July,
1972.  In the past in Nicaragua, long-tei<  credit has largely been availab.le
only as part of specific crop development programs. This project, as now
appraised, would stress the need for loans based on whole far-i developmnent plans
which have taken competing alternatives into account.  For example  investment
in irri.gation could be for beef fattening or dairy operations, or for crop
production involving single or multiple cropping. The alternative closera shoLuid
depend on the circumstances of each case rather than, be determined by the avail-
ability of a particular line of credit.  As regards individual crops suggested
by the FAO/CP identification mission, while irrigated sugarcane is retained as
an illustrative model, prospects for kenaf and oilseeds have changed consid.er-
ably (paras 36 and 43).  For these reasons, it is preferred to give maximum
flexibility in the definition of thie project crop component as indicated in
paragraphs 52 and 53.  Until agricultural development priorities are determlined
in the light of the current sector survey, it would seem premature to undertake
further studies of the kind proposed for oil palm 9, while, in the case of
agricultural research, a detailed study 'ias been recently made oy a National
Commission, with technical assistance from the Tastituto interacericaco de
Ciencias Agricolas (IICA) financed by IDS, arnd same of its recommendations are
already being adopted (Annex 1).
October 23, 1973



NICARAGUA 
AGRICULTURAL CRPDIT PROJECT
Sunary: List of Goods
Total Project         IBRD Financing
Cost                     US$ Million
C$ Yiillion     C$ Million   Equivalent
1.  Rainfed Dairy Farms
Buildings, fences and water,
machinery and equipment,
breeding stock, pastures,
contingencies                            28.9           10.9          1.6
2.  Irrigated Dairy Farms
Building, fences and water,
equipment, breeding stock,
pastures, contingencies                  13.0             6.8         1.0
3.  Rainfed Beef Breeding and Fattening
Ranches
BiLildings, fences and water,
breeding stock, pastures,
contingencies                            28.9           15.6          2.2
h.  Irrigated Pastures and Beef Fattening
Farm
Buildings, fences and water,
equipment, pastures, contingencies       20.0            13.1         1.9
5.  Irrigated Crop Farm
Land preparation, planting,
machinery and equipment, irrigation
equipment, contingencies                13.0             6.9          1.0
6.  Supporting Services
Buildings, fittings and tools,
machinery and equipment, contingencies  2.8               2.6         0.3
7.  Technical Services
Buildings, fittings and tools for
buildings, machinery and equipment,
water supply roads, fertilizers,
0               perticides, labor, miscellaneous,
contingencies                             3.9             3.3         0.5
Total:                10.5               .2         _
July 3, 1973



ANNIEX 6
uM S3  s         D0    4        I,_ 
1-~~0 
0 ~     ~       D.             0  _    O  S  0
40    CO                   -0    0        0         0                                                    
I           44    _4               0 O          0f    0N   0
OtC          04 _4   0                   0 -   C   0
S0    04                 o          .   g           0  
tI           ,c.s-o~               -D° O 
0    n0              0         0    0    0{ 
01           04   00                0 o         0  0 o  z
h                      0         0 00 0y           C       O (        E
o        S                                                                             .4s    < Z b o 
_o  44    r               00    00               0            0    0    0
,_  D0 _                        0 0 .D __0_0               
0. C.        01            00 c°
't ~       ~          0       00 0^ 0ow    0x O0 H                  4                                         
4C-                 CC.          0       00    0    0   .0 v
000000   4                          000 aC   0a                   C.   0 
"I00                         -           00.0        0    C             0-   0-  
0 40C4                      0       000000_ _   4                  C    0
0 O             -o~                                               CC> g>4   
00       CC0                        0    O.C  0s     Ss  
s             CC_<^                             0  -  - 0  
ee04                                 006            CO^R~^   ° s_n   
1 00>44                            0   0          3 
OCCObO 16 1973 a_



ANNEX 7
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Disbursement Estimates
(us$ tooo)
IBRD                                                   Cumulative
Fiscal Year and                   Disbursed            Disbursement at
Quarter Ending                    Dvring Quarter       End of Quarter
FY73/74
June 30                               250                 250
FY74/75
Sept. 30                              500                 750
Dec.  31                              500               1,250
March  31                              500               1,750
June  30                              650              2,400
FY75/76
Sept. 30                              650              .3,050
Dec. 31                               750              3,800
March  31                              750               4,550
June  30                              800               5,350
FY76/77
Sept. 30                              800               6,150
Dec.  31                              800               6,950
March  31                              800               7,750
June  30                              250               8,000
FY77/78
Sept. 30                              200               8,200
Dec.  31                              100               8,300
March  31                              100               8,400
June  30                              100               8,500
Possible dates:
a) Effectiveness, Jan. 1, 1974
b) Closing date, June 30, 1978
July 16, 1973






NICA.RAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CRET PROJECT
0
?rojected FONDO Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Statements
A. ProJected Statement of Assets and Liabilities
(C$ tooc)
-- - -d of Year ----
197k            1975            1976             1977            1978
ASSETS
Cash or Equivalent          606            1,175             332             2,072           3,722
Loans to PB's            11,655           3C,856          54,557            56,720          52,858
Cther Investments         1,827            3,775           )1,9Th             7,693         11,974
Fixed Assets                820              903            818                886             827
Total              14,908           36,709          60,679            67,371          69,381
LIABILITIES
IBRD loans                12,344            30,422         53,213             58,426         59,500
Goverrment Contribution    3,500             7,000          7,000              7,000          7,000
Accumulated Profit (Loss) _(93)               (713)           466              1,945          2,,681
Total              14,908           36,709          60,679            67,371          69.381
1/ This statement pertains to the agricultural credit account of the FONDO.



o                                                       NICARAGUA
0
CD                                            AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ON                           Projected FONDO Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Statements
B.  Projected Income and Expenditure Statement   1/
… ____________________--…End of Year----------------------
1975           1976           12178
INCOME
Interest on Loans to PBs                1,138          3,399          5,606          5,873         5,632
Interest on Invested Surplus               28            109            155             260           497
'otal                             1.166          35o8           ,5,75          63            6.129
EXPENDITURE
Interest and Conmitment Charges           822          1,880          3,107          3,374         4,003
Project Administration 2/               1,280          1.405          1.465          1.280          1.190
Total                             2.102          3.285          J6J2           4,654         5.193
SURPLUS (DEWICIT)                  (E6)            223          1.179                             6
M/ For the Agricultural Credit Project Account
2/  Excluding capital items.                                                                                         mri
0 * -~



ANNEX 9
Page 1
NICARAGUA
AGRTCULTIRAL CREDIT PROJECT
FONDO and the Participating Banks
A. The Special Development Fund
1.        The Special Development Fund (FONDO) was created by Presidential
Decree in April of 1972 to promote and diversify Nicaragua's production and
exports by providing complementary loans for programs within the production
sectors such as agriculture and livestock, industry, and fisheries. Loans
will be made available to the producers through private and Government-owned
financing institutions, which will discount or borrow from the FONDO, in
accordance with the regulations established for each specific program.
Administration
2.        The Central Bank of Nicaragua (CB) is the sole administrator of
the FONDO, while policy making has been entrusted to the Board of Directors
of CB. The Board is also responsible for the approval of (a) the organiza-
tional and regulatory matters of the FONDO; (b) the nrograms to be operated
through the FONDO; (c) the agreements to obtain resources; and (d)
the lines of credit to be granted to the financial institutions.
Capital Structure
3.        FONDO's canital would consist of  (a) special allocations made
by the Government for specific programs; (b) a proportion of the profits
made by the Central Bank every year;  (c) FONDO's own profits; and  (d) dona-
tions and concessions made to the FONDO. For its lending operations, the
FONDO may use its owm capital resources as well as any resources obtained
from international institutions, foreign institutions, or floating of bonds
abroad and resources obtained within the country through borrowing or floating
of bonds.  Permission to borrow and issiie bonds within the country and abroad
will have to be obtained by the FONDO from the Ministry of Finance. The
Government will be the Guarantor of any operations of this type.
Operations
4.        The FONDO is authorized to provide finance through loans or dis-
cotnts to Government-owned or private financial institutions which operate
programs for agriculture and livestock, fisheries, agro-industries, or any
other activity that increases production in Nicaragua. Loans granted by the
institutions financed by tlhe FONDO can extend to more than five years, as
authorized by Article 50 of the Banking Law.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Accounts and Auditing
5.        FONDO's accounts will be kept separate from those of CB and audited
by the auditor of the CB and also be subject to review by the Superintendent
of Banks. An annual report on operations will be submitted to the President
of the Republic.
Programs
6.        While the FONDO does not yet have operating experience, the regu-
lations and procedures drawn un for two programs to be financed by IDB suggest
that the institutional framework would be satisfactory.  One of the IDB pro-
grams is for agro-industries (US$6.1 million) and the other, a program for
construction materials and activities (USS4.0 million). Lending procedures
envisage the opening of lines of credit to the private and Government finan-
cial institutions which will on-lend to the final beneficiaries. Financing
of the cost of individual sub-projects will be shared by FONDO, the benefi-
ciary, the financial intermediary, and IDB. Interest paid by the sub-borrower
will be distribuited to the FONDO, intermediary institutions, and IDB in
relation to the extent of their participation in the financing and the terms
agreed by IDB. Subsidiary loan agreements will be signed between FONDO and
the participating banks and between them and the beneficiaries.
Budget and Financial Position
7.        The FONDO's tentative budget for 1973 is as follows:
Source                                          C$
1.   Reserve for the Production Development
Fund                                         250,000
2.   Allocation from CB's Profits for 1972        150,000
3.   FONWDO's Share out of the Budgetary Allo-
cation of CB for "Financial Aid to Other
Institutions" (Annex 2, Table 1)             148,450
Total                                  548,450 (US$78,350)
Application
1.   Operating Costs
Personnel                                    368,424
Travel and Other                             131,576
Total                                  500 °°°
.~~



ANNEX 9
Page 3
*                      2.   Investment Cost
Equipment                                     48,450
Total Expenditure                       548,450 (US$78,350)
8.        The projected financial statements of the FONDO (Annex 8) relate
only to the operations under the Agricultural Credit Project, except for the
inclusion of a pro-rata assessment of the common expenditures incurred by
the FONDO for all its programs. According to the cash flow and the earnings
projections, the FONDO will need Government contributions of about IJS$1.0
million during the period of loan disbursement under the project (Annexes
6 and 8).
Staffing
9.        The FONDO has a full-time Director, appointed by the President
of the Central Bank, who is responsible for the operations of the F6NDO. He
will be assisted by a small staff and by the project managers appointed in
agreement with the institutions that finance each program. The proposed
Bank project wouldhe executed by a special project unit of the FONDO which
wouldbe in charge of appraisal and supervision of the sub-loans to farmers.
The staff would be composed of a technical director, a co-director, a crops
specialist,and other project technicians. The technicians employed by the
participating banks would also serve under the technical direction of the
Technical Director.
B. Participating Banks
10.       The Banco Nacional de Nicaragua and the private commercial banks
wouldbe eligible to participate in the project, channeling resources from the
FONDO and their own funds to sub-borrowers by way of loans for eligible pur-
poses in conformity with the terms and conditions of the project.
Banco Nacional de Nicaragua
11.       BN was incorporated in 1912 in Hlartford, Connecticut, to serve as
a commercial bank and to issue currency for Nicaragua. In 1924, the Govern-
ment of Nicaragua took over the bank and gave it additional functions, and
in 1940, it became the trading agent for the Government. Then, in 1961, the
Central Bank of Nicaragua and the Institute for Internatio,al Trade (INCEI)
were organized and took over BN's central banking and trading functions. In
1968, BN's organic law was again amended to expand its development bank
functions and to give more executive powers to its management.
0



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Organization and M4araRement.  BN is fully owned by the Government,
x hich has the power to nominate and appoint its Board of Governors. Policy
is made by its six-memiber Board wqhich delegates powers to the President of the
bank, who also serves as the chairman of the Board. Tne President is assisted
by an Executivye Vice President and six Vice Presidents w1ho head the Depart-
ments of Credit, Finance, Administration, Agriculture and industryf and Branches.
13.       BN's total personnel number 941, of t;ffom 275 are in the main of-
fice and 666 in secondary offices.  The technical departments for Agriculture
and Industry coordinate with the Credit Department in operational and plan-
nin'- activities.  In addition to their own  technicians, these deaartmeats have
engaged three foreign consulting firms, Latinoconsult, Tahal, and Weitz .let-
telsater, for technical assistance and personnel tra'ning.
14.       BN has an extensive network of offJ ces to serve the most impor-
tant ruiral areas of the country.  Before the earthquake of December 1972 . i-
had its main office in Managua, nine urban branches, and 44 rura l bran:aaaes
and agencies.
15.       Cai   Structure.  In accordance with its organic a law, BN has
an auithorized capital of C$130.0 milli-on, eqruivalent to US1$13.6 million, lbicut
it can be increased to C$300.0 million (TTSA43.0 million) through Covernmarknt
contributions. Legal reserves are built tin from, its own profits and coritri-
butions from the Central Bank's profits.  At year-end 197/2  tihe net worth 
and reserves accounts  notinted to C$199.4 million (US$i28.5_ ,illiona  rIn
1968, IISAID granted a USS9.0 million loan to the Government to increase B7Y s
paid-up capital over a period of several years.  Bad deb t reserves amoo..- ted
to US$)0.87 mnillion at year-end 1972.
16.       Denosits.  Deposits constitute the most iiportant source of  u..ds
for BN and, at year-end 1972, they .Tounted to JS$44.4 milllon, of zWhi;:-, tPr40
were on currrent account, 24% on time denosl ts, 24C on savings,9 and 1% o.n
other types of denosits.
17.       Bjorrowinms.  The CB has granter! short-term loans to 73N o£ about
US$11 million to finance its current operations.  Bonds have als o'eeri a
source of capital for BN and, in 196R, CB's Productiorn Developfi-lent fu-.nd
raised resources from the private banks and lernt them to BN.  BN also issued
a 11S52.9 million series of bonis on its own account, in 1965.  At the end
of 1972, BN's total liabilities amounte4 to US$140.9 million, of w1hich
US$65.1 milliort representedis external debt established vith foreign banks,
mostly American and British, foreign corporations (on suppliers' credit
arran-eonents) and foreign sources stuch as InB, U.TAID, and Eximbank.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
18.       Onerations.  While BN plays an inportant role in financing all
tynes of agricultural production in Nicaragua, it is also the only institu-
tion trying to reach small and mediuim size farmers. Loans disbursed by BN
to agriculture and livestock sectors constituted 67.2% of the total amount
disbtursed bv the banking system in 1971 and 56.8% in 1972. BN also disbursed
long-term livestock loans amounting to 64.6% of the loans granted by the whole
system and played a verv active role in financing certain crops. The
following is the purposewise break-up of the total loans of US$51.14 million
equivalent disbursed in 1972:
Anount          Percentage
Purpose                        (ITSS Million)
Commerce                          12.81                25
Agriculture                       21.37                42
Livestock                          4.61                 9
Rural Credit                       3.93                 8
Industry                           5.47                11
Small Enterprise                  2.85                  5
19.       Apart from lending for agricultural and livestock activities, BN
has also participated in various programs to provide supporting services or
technical assistance. These operations, though necessary, are performed by
BN on behalf, and at the request, of Government and represent a heavy charge
on BN's resources.  BEN also constructed storage facilities and passed them on
to INCET to operate.  All in all, such activities represent expenses of
about US$0.9 million per year, which are not being reimbursed by the Govern-
ment and have become an annual burden to the bank (Table 1).
20.       Loan Recovery.  One of 3N's major problems relates to its loan
recoveries. Its frozen portfolio made up of (a) loans that became overdue
but were rescheduled; (b) loans that remained overdue; and (c) loans over-
due and under legal action had reached the level of 34% of the total outstand-
ing loans in 1969 but has been slightly reduced more recently, as shown below:
USS million equivalent
Frozen Portfolio of BN
1969       1970          1971           1972
Commerce                0.93        0.75         0.80           0.86
Agriculture            17.01       13.10         12.47         11.19
Livestock               5.93        3.67          3.27          2.93
Industry                6.13        3.89         5.80           5.33
Rural Credit            5.19        3.85          3.66          3.44
Small Enterprise        0.60        0.48         0.57           0.57
Other                   2.70         -             -             -
Total Frozen
Portfolio          38.49      25.74         26.57          24.32
Z of Total Year-end
Portfolio             34          22            23            22



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Agriculture, livestock, and rural credit accounted for 73% of the frozen port-
folio in 1969, 80% in 1970, 74% in 1971, and 76% in 1972.  Short-term and
:ong-term. loans accouunt for about the sare proportion of frozen portfolio,
tbut there is a sl.ight tendency to more delinquency amorig short-term clientts;
in 1972, 53% of frozen balances were generated by loans maturing in less than
13 months.
2.9        Financial Situation.  As a res ul t of the M'anagua earthquake, re-
covery of commercial loans will be difficult.  From a total commercial port-
folio of TTS$6.,3 million, TIMI will recover, via rescheduling. about US$2.14
milllion  in th2 case of the intdustrial and smiall enterDrise portfolio, B.'-
expects to recover in 1975 through 1933, the renayments due betsx7een 1973 an.d
1975.  How7ever, in the case of agrictulture, livestock, a.nd. rural credit, B'.
exnects a collection rate of 95% for 1973 and the following %years.
22.        Due to BNT's heavy7 involvement 'n agriculture, some narketincg n.o--
lens of its borrowers, high administration expenses7 and t.he cost of tts
technical assistance programs, BE's profits nave been loiw, averagirng lens
tnan 1% of net wzorth over the last fouir vears.  Its earning ne,,er nan a.sa
been affected, mainly by (a) high borrowing costs;  (b ) 10low financial rez.ns
due to hich frozen Portfolio; (c) non-banking-, expenses incurred because of
Government development programs; and (d) high ad-ministrationr costs.  The `972
profit and loss accounts reflect a srall profit of US$0.25 mi lion, or o0r
of 1% of net worth.
23.        The high loan delinquency, the tigrt financial sitWatikon, and B-0s
policy on bad debt reserves led IDB in 194-9 to require B N as a eondition for
disbhursing its loans to BN', to engage a consulting, fiano to study the eauses
of high loan delinquency and make recommendations to reduce it anrd another
firm  later to inalement the recommendations arising from the studvy   On t'aIe
basis of the stuidy which, accordinLvy, was rlmade by Price Waterhouse & Co. ,
IDB obtainedr further assurances from pEN that i t would:  (a) ensure a m- atmum
of 85% annual loan recovery;  Oh) bring! the frozen nortror.io to less than 22s5
of the total-  (c) build up bad deh,t reserves bv an equivalent of 1% cf newieu
loans- and (d) encage a consultin-  firm to implement the recommenndations made
in the Price W,Taterhouse renort.  BTN coMnalieA  w,7ith m1ost of thlese conditi,oS
in 1P72, e.cept for engaging a consulting firm to implement the recommeenda-
tions,  Instead of building un bad debt reserves esuivalent to 1% of new loans
from osut of profits, ET ha!7 been writinca off such debts from  time to time b-
reducirnrg its own capital.
24.        Accountina  and Auditi.nr:  The Sunerintendent of Banks aludits BN's
accounts and supervises the account- na  arsNi adm,:inIstration nrocedures, while
t'wI(e tC, .3lt1l sthe annu1 pro -ections and,  ,ldets  external and internal
borr o.^'It   and1 thei llevel of BT's a-nm?al adrvances.  rxternal audit of BN is
Prforme- h-I    a selectel firm of ch-rtere( accountants.



ANNE1X 9
Page 7
N icaraguan-owzned Commercial Banks
25.       Three Micaraguan-onTed banks -- Banco Nicaraguense, Banco Calley-
Dagnall, and Banco de America -- account for 79% of the total assets of all
private commercial banks.  On TDecember 31, 1972, their assets totaled US$120
million and their portfolio, US$66 mi.lion; of which the folloVing is a
classification accordina to purpose:
Armount
(ISS million)
Current Loans
Commerce                        20.0              30.3
Agriculture                      9.0              13.7
Livestock                       11.7              17.8
Industries and Other            19.6              29.7
Arrears                          5.6               8.5
Total                      65.9            100.0
These banks have been borrowing from external sources and on December 31,
1972, thev had an outstanding external debt of USS1O.6 million, which was
wholly short-term.
26.       Banco Nicaraguense (BANIC).  The second largest Nicaraguan bank
(1AITC) had. total assets of US$54.4 million on December 30, 1972. Total loans
account for USS2R.4 million, of which 89.0% are short-term and 11.0% are
medium-term loans. Loans include US$8.3 million for commerce, US$4.6 million
for agriculture, US$6.8 for livestock and US$8.0 million for industry and
others. Frozen portfolio accounts for US$2.8 million, which represents 10Z
of the total.
27.       BANIC has six urban branches and 12 rural or departmental branches
well distributed over the main agricultural and cattle raising areas. Its
financino of a,griculture started with cotton growers back in 1966 and expanded
verv rapidily in this field of production.  Suddenly, hlever, the bank encoun-
tered some problems with the financing of marginal lands so that later on, it
started financing livestock onerations but on a limited basis. All appraisal
an(d processing of loans are handledl in the main office in which there is a
small aroup of technicians.  However, one tochnician for loan supervision
is stationed at each of the three branches lonated in the cotton area of Leon
and Chlnandega .
28.       Banco Caflev-Dag,nall (f.    The smallest bank in the system, the
BCTD, had total assets of U'SS3.6 million on December 31, 1972.  Total loan
portfolio wns TTS$2.3 million, of which 98% was for short-term and only 2% for
moditmm term.  The loans include US$1.12 million for commerce (48.7%), US$0.58
million for agriculture (25.7%1), USSO.08 million for livestock (3.5%), and
US$0.51 million for industry (21%). Frozen portfolio accounted for US$0.17
million, enuivalent to 7% of the total.



ANNEX 9
Page 8
29.       BCD has been growing slowly, being involved mainly in short-term
'ending for coffee growers and traders.  WhAien the main office was moved from
'atagalpa to Kasaya early in 1973 after the earthquake, BCD opened its first
I)ranch in the cattle area of Matagalna.  The bank has no technicians, except
for two vocational agriculturalists in charge of the inspection of coffee
plantations, but is interested in expanding operations in the livestock field.
30.       Banco de America (BdeA).  With total assets of TJSS62.2 million,
B'eA is the largest of the private commercial banks.  Total loans outstanding
on November 30, 1972 were US$30.63 million, of which 78% were for short-term.
operations and 22% for mediUm-term lending- of the total portfolio, US$8.3
million went to comTmerce (27%), UTS85.6 million to agriculture (18%), US$6.3
million to livestock (21%), and USW10.4 mill-ion (34%) to industry. Total
frozen portfolio accounted for US$1.7 million, or 6%.
31.       BdeA has been increasingly financing livestock investments, op--
erating through 22 branches, 14 of wzhich are outside Managua.  It has at least
one agronomist in each re-ional office and two technicians in the main office,
Loan applications are received and studied in the regional offices, but pro-
cessed. at headq,uarters where a credit tear, does all the appraisal and creclit-
worthiness investigations.
Foreign-owned Commercial Banks
32.       Three foreign commercial banks -- Banco de Londres y Montreal (BLM),
Bank of American (Bofa), and First National City Bank (FNC) -- account for 23oOW
of the total assets of the private commercial banks. On December 31, 1972, the
three had total assets of US$32.4 million and a total portfolio of US$15.4 mil-w
lion, as follows:
Current Loan              ITSS "illion             %
Commerce and Other            5.0                 32
Aerictulture                  '.7                 11
Livestock                     2.t                 14
Industry                      6.6                 43
Total:                  15.4               100
33.       These branches provide a linison between their ma4n offices
abhroad ancl the local branches in Nicaragua which seek to borrow from those
offices.  The branches also borrow fromi their main offices and had outstanding,
short--torm, external debts of USS2.3 million, as on 31 December 1972.  Ihough
they hnve exnressod some interest in e-nandinp their agricultural credit
operations, their lac!c of branches in the country might handicap such efforts.
October 23, 1973



ANNEX 9
Table 1
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Nicaragua
Net Profits and Current and Social Expenditure
(C$ 000)
1969        1970        1971        1972
Current Expenditure                 67.3         70.1       62.1         n.a. 1/
Current Income                      77.7         84.8       76.5         90.4
Gross Profit                     10.4         14.7       14T          n.a.
Rbural Credit Ex- enditure           8.0          9.9        10.0        n.a.
Rural Credit Income                  5.2          5.7         6.9        6.9
Rural Credit Loss                 2.8          4.2         3.1        n.a.
',ocial Development Expenditure      1.9          2.7        3.2         n.a.
Loss and Social Expenditure           T.7         6.9         6.3        n.a.
Other Expenditure                    5.1          5.8         6.7        4.8
=           Total Non-banking ]Xpenditure    9.8          12.7        13.0        n.a.
Net Profit                        0.6          2.0        1.4         1.8
1/   At the time of appraisal,the profit and loss account was still tentative and
therefore these amounts were not available.
July 1.7, 1973






NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 1:   Development of Rainfed Dairy Farm, 50 Ha
A. Farm Model
(C$ '000)
0
0
Before  --------             - -- Farm Year -----------------------------------------------------____
Category             Development         1             2            3            4             5             6            7             8             9             10
Investment Costs
Pastures                      -             11.8           3.0         3.0                                       -                           -             -             -
Fences                        -              6.0           6.0                       -                           -            -              -             -              -
Waters                        -             15.0          35.0         -                                   -                  -              -             -              -
Structure                     -             25.0           -           -             -              _-                        -              -             -              -
Equipment                     -              2.5           2.5                -                            -            -                    -             -              -
Breeding Stock                -             50.0           5.0        10.2           -              -            -            -              -             -              -
Total                    -           110.3          51.5         13.2          -                                                       -             -              -
Operating Costs
Wages                        11.2           11.6          12.5        13.8          13.8           15,0         15.0         15.0           15.0          15.0           15.0
Maintenance                   2.0            1.1           3.0         9.4           9.4            9.4          9.4          9.4            9.4           9.4            9,4
Animal Health                  1.0           1.0           1.1         1.3           1.3            1.3          1.3          1.3            1.3           1.3            1.3
Supplements                   2.0            2.5           2.7         3.2           3.3            3.3          3.3          3.3            3.3           3,3            3.3
Machinery                     -              -             1.5         1.5           1.5            1.5          1.5          1.5            1.5           1.5            1.5
Marketing                     0.6            2.1           1.6         1.6           2.3            2.6          2.6          2.6            2.6           2.6            9 A
InseminartiOn                 0.5            -             -           -             3.1           3.1           3.1          3.1            3.1           3.1            3.1
Total                _17.3 -          18.3          22.4         30.8         34.7           36.2          36.2        36.2           36.2          36.2           36.2
Total Cost                   17.3          128.6          73.9        44.0          34.7          36.2          36.2         36.2           36.2         36.2            36.2
Gross Production Value    24.0              47.2          41.1        57.9          66.8          86.1          87.6         86.1           87.6          86.1           87.6
Net Income before Froject  6,7               6.7           6.7         6.7           6.7            6.7          6.7          6.7            6.7           6.7            6.7
Net Flow from Project
lnvestment                  -            (88.1)       (39.5)         7.2         25.4           43.2          44.7        43.2           44.7          43.2           44.7
Incremental Herd Value        -              -                                       -              -       _                        -                     -            53.0
Financial Rate of Return: 19%
B. Cash Flow
(C$ '000)
Cash Inflow
Development Loan              -             88.2          41.2        10.6           -              -             -                   -             -              -
Sales                        24.0           47.2          41.1        57.9          66.8           86.1          87.6      86.1             87.6          86.1           87.6
Total                     24.0          135.4         82.3         As           66.8            86,1         87.6         86.1           87.6          86.1           87.6
Cash Outflow
Investment Cost               -            110.3          51.5        13.2           -              -                         -              -             - 
Operating Costs              17.3           18.3          22,4        30.8          34.7           36.2          36.2        36.2           36.2          36.2           36.2
Loan Repayment                -              -             -           -             5.0           20.0          20.0        20.0           25.0          25.0           25.0
Interest (12%)                -            10.6            15.5       16.8          16.8           16.2          13.8        13.7            9.0           6.0            3.0
Total                     17.3          139.2          89.4       60.8           56.5       _ 7_ 2.4          70.0         19.9          70,2          67.2           64.2
Cash Balance               6.  7          3                          .7            10.3         13,7        -E- 17.6      16.2           17.4          18.98          23.4 a3 4
_________                                                                                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 1; Development of Rainfed Dairy Farm, SO Ha
C. Herd Development Proiections
Category                    Before       -------------------------------------------------- End of Farm Year ---------------------------
Development        1             2            3             4            5             6             7             8            9            10
Herd Composition (No)
Buls and/or Al 1/                     1              1             2            2             2             2            2             2             2             2            2
Cows, milking                        30             30            35           40            40           46            46            46           46            46            46
Cows, dry                            15             25           20            18            20           14            14            14            14           14            14
Heifers, in calf                      6             12            12           18            18           18            18            18            18           i8            18
Heifers 12-24 months                 13             13            19           22            22           22            22            22            22           22            22
Heifer calves                       (14)           (20)          (25)         (27)          (30)          (30)         (30)          (30)          (30)          (30)         (30)
Bull calves 2/                      (13)            -             -            -             -            -             -             -             -            -             -
Steers                               10             -            -             -             -            -             -             -             -            -             -
Total animala                     104             94          111           127           130          132           132           132          132           132           132
Total animal units (AU)            77             81           86           100           100          102           102           102          102           102           102
Mortality, adult (No)               3              2            2             2             2            2             2             2             2            2             2
Sales (No)
Bulls, cull                         -              -             -            -             1            -             1             -             I            -             1
Cows, cull                          4             12           10             7            14           16            16            16           16            16            16
Heifers, in calf                    2              -             -            -             -            -             -             -             -            -             -
Heifers 12-24 months                1              _             _            2             4            4             4             4             4            4             4
Heifer calves 3/                    -              -            -             -             2            8             8             8             8            8             8
Bull calves                         -             19           25            27            30           30            .0            ,Z           30            30            30
Steers                              7             16                                               -            -             -                    -            -             -
Total sales                       14            48            35            36           51            58            59            58           59            58            59
Purchases (No)
Bulls and/or AI                      -              1             1            -             1             -            1             -             1            _             1
Heifers, in calf                     -             15             -            -             -             -            -             -             -            -,-
Total                              -             16             1            -             1            -             1             -             1            -             I
Technic al Coef f ic ients
Calving rate (7.)                   53             75           75            80            80           80            80            80            80           80            80
Average adult mortality  (7.)        3              2             2            2             2             2            2             2             2             2             2
Area of pastures (Ha)               45             50           50            50            50           50            50            50            50           50            50
Carrying capacity (AU/Ha)            1.0            1.5           2.0          2.0           2.0           2.0          2.0           2.0           2.0           2.0           2.0
Total capacity (AU)                 50             75           100          100           100          100           100           100           100          100           100
Female culling (7.)                 10             25            15           10            16           20            20            20            20            20           20
Length of lactation (days)         180            200           225          250           250          280           280           260           280           280          280
Cows in milk (No) + (%)          30-60           30-55       35-60          40-68         40-68        46-75         46-75         46-75        46-75         46-75         46-75
Total milk production('0001ts)  22.5               30.0         47.3          70.0          70.0         90.2          90.2          90.2          90.2          90.2         90.2
Calf milk ('000 lts)4/               8.1            6.0           7.5           8.1          9.0           9.0           9.0          9.0           9.0           9.0           9.0
Milk sold ('000 lts)                14.4           24.0          39.8         61.9          61.0          81.2         81.2          81.2          81.2          81.2         81.2
Milk production/ha (ita)             uu                         Z-          ,4C0         1 40:"       1.800         15OO          l.8RO        1,800         1,800         1,800
Froduction/cow/lactation(lts)  750             1,000         1,350         1,750         1,750        1,960         1;960         1,960        1,960         1,960         1,960
1/  Bulls or equivalent AI cost.                3/ Sold at weaning.
2 S Bold at week old.                           4/ Year 0, 400 liters; Year 1-10, 300 liters per calf to weaning.
ei.



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model : Development of Rainfed Dairy Farm, 50 ha
y~    D.  Direct operating Cost Projections
(C$ '000)
Before            ------                                    Farm Year -----------
Category                               DevelopMe              1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9         10
(Number of Cattle - No.)                  104                94       111       127       130      132       132        132      132       132        132
age-s
Owner 1/                                   5.0              5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0       5.0        5.0
Farm workers 2/                           6.2               6.7       7.6       8.8       8.8      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0      10.0       10.0
Maintenance
Buildings 3/                              0.6               0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6        0.6
Fencing and Water 4/                      0.5               0.5       0.5       2.8       2.8       2.8       2.8       2.8       2.8       2.8        2.8
Irrigation 5/                              --                --       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0         2.0
Pastures 6/                               0.9                --        --       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0      4.0         4.0
Animal Health 7/                           1.0              1.0       1.1       1.3       1.3       1.3       1 3       1 q       1,        1.3        1.3
8/                           2.0               2.5       2.8       3.2       3.3      3.3        3.3       3.3       3.3      3.3         3.3
MahneyOer o  9/                             --               --       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5        1.5
Marketing Costs 10/                       0.6               2.2       1.6       1.6       2.3       2.6       2.6       2.6       2.6       2.6        2.6
Bulls and/or Al 11/                       0.5                          --        --       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1       3.1        3.1
Total                          17.3             18.3      22.4      30.8      34.7      36.2      36.2      36.2      36.2      36.2       36.2
1   C$390/month  for 13 months -- opportunLtTcost of his labor.
2/  One general hand at C$ 390/month for 13 months.  Milking costs - incentive rate of C$ 0.20/gal.
3/ 2% of C$30,000.
2/ 8% of C$35,000 from Year 3.
5/ 10% of C$20,000 from Year 1.
6/ C$20/ha before development; C$80/ha from Year 3 onwards (includes fertilizer).
7/  CS10/head.
8/  C$20/head year  0,,C$25  thereafter.
9/ C$300/ha on 5 ha,
10/ About C$45/head of cattle sold.
T1/  Averaged otut by years, bull purchase or Al - 1.75 ampules at C$30/ampule/cow  (heifer)   C$50/cow/year,   First three years included
in capital costs.



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTUAL4 CREDIT PROJCT
Model 1: Development of Rainfed Dairy Farm, 50 ha
e
E. Sales Projection
(C$ '000)
WAverage
Unit Value    Before                          ----                       - Farm Year ------------------------------------
CategLory                                   of Cattle       Development         1        2         3         4         5         6         7         8         9        10
Cattle Sales (No. aid Value)
Bulls, eil (No.)                               --                                      --                  I         --        1         --        I         --        1
Bulls, cull (Value)                            1.50               --           1.5      --        --        1.5       --        1.5       --        1.5       --        1.5
Covs, cull (No.)                                -                 4           12       10         7        14        16        16        16        16        16        16
Cows, cull .Value)                             0.80               3.2          9.6      8.0       5.6      11.2      12.8      12.8      12.8      12.8      12.8      12.8
Heifers, in calf (No.)                          --                2            --       --         -        --        --                  --        --        --        --
Heifers, in calf (Value)                       1.00               2.0          --       --        --        --        --        --        --        --        --        --
Heifers, 12-24 months (No.)                     --                I            __       __        2         4         4         4         4         4         4         4
Heifers, 12-24 months (Value)                  0.70               0.7          --       __        1.4       2.8       2.8       2.8       2.8       2.8       2.8       2.8
Heifer colves (No.)                             -                            --                   --        2         8         8         8         8         8         8
Heifer calves (Value)                          0.50               --           --       --        --        1.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0       4.0
Bull calves (No.)                               --                --          19       25        27        30        30        30        30        30        30        30
Bull calves (Value)                            0.50               --           0.9      1.3       1.4       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5       1.5
Steers (No.)                                    --                7           16          -                 - --                -         --        -- -_               --
Steers (Value)                                 1.00               7.0         16.0      --        --        --        -         --        - -        -        --        --
Total cattle sales (No.)             --               14           48       35        36        51        58        59        58        59        58        59
Total cattle Sales (Value)           --               12.9         28.0      9.3       8.4      18.0      21.1      22.6      21.1      22.6      21.1      22.6
Milk sales ('000 litres)                              14.4         24.0    39.8       61.9      61.0      81.2      81.2      81.2      81.2      81.2      81.2
Milk Sales (C$ '000)             C$ 0.80/1            11.5         19.2    31.8       49.5      48.8      65.0      65.0      65.0      65.0      65.0      65.0
Total sales                                           24.4         47.2    41.1       57.9      66.8      86.1      87.6      86.1      87.6      86.1      87.6
*  ,1



*                                                                                     
AMICMMM1RL CREDIT MROJRCT
142dc1 2:  Devalop  l  fIrgtdDiyFarm. 20 Ha
A. Fare lodel
(C ' 000)
I.
-                                     Jefore    ---------------- --------------------------------- Farm Your ----------------------------ea------------------------
Category          Develop9ft         1           2            3            4           5           6             7                        9           in
.ID
Inv*t nt Costs
Pasture                     -            7.0           - 
Fnew                        _            4.5           _           _            _            _          _             _           _             _
water                       -            8.0           -           -            -            -          -             -           -             -           _
Structure                   -           29.5           _
Squfrmat                    -          121.2           -           -            -            -          -             -           -             -
*reoding Stoci-             -           62.1           3.5         4.2
Total                     -          232.3           3.5         4.2          -                        -            -           -             -
Oprwating Coats
vase                       11.0         12.9          14.0        16.2         16.9         18,2       18.2          18.2        18.2          18.2        18.2
Valateneasc                 -            5.0          14.5        14.5         14.5         14.5        14.5         14.5        14.5          14.5         14.5
Artel Health                -            0.6           0.7         0.8          1.0          1.1         1.1          1.1         1.1           1.1          1.1
Suppim_tt                   -            2.7           3.4         4.1          4.8          5.3        5.3           5.3         5.3           5.3         5.3
Electricity                 -            8.0           8.0         8.0          8.0          8.0       '8.0           8.0         8.0           8.0         8.0
lnumiaatioa                                            -            -           3.4        -4.0          4.U          '..u        %..           4..          4.0
Total                     10           2.           40.6         43.6        48.6         51.1        51.1          51.1       51.1          51.1         51.1:
Total Coat               11.0                                                   6
are" Producttoe Value    11.1           36.5          55.i        72.9         84.3        106.5       118.5        121.5       121.5         121.5        121.5
bt Incom  before Project  0.1            0.1           0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1           0.1          0.1
V.t Flow fran Im,eatment   -          (225.1)         11.1         25.0        36.5         55.3        67.3         67.3        67.3          67.3         67.3
Incrintal Ibrd Value        -                          -            -           -            -           -            -           - '                      92.
Financial lKat  of  eturul 1n
B. Ceah Flow
(C$o000)
Rewelo,mmt loan   -         ~185.8           2.8          3.4                                                                        12--  --    -2.
gal"                       11.1         36.5          55.3         72.9        84.3         106.5   _     8.5        121.5       121.5         121.5        121.5
Total                    11.1        222.3          58.1         76.3         84.3       106.5        118.5       L.ZL.5  _       I.)         LSA2.
Caik Out-flow
Imwato t Costa              -          232.3           3.5          4.2         -            -           -             -           -             -            -
Operating Coat.            11.0         29.2          40.6         43.6        48.6         51.1        51.1          51.1        51.1          51.1         51.1
lopatn      cosymts          -.         29-           40-          43-2000.                                           35.0        37.0          35.0         35.0
Interact (121)    -            ~22,2        22.6         23.1         23.1        23.1         2.             711,                       .           .
Total                    11.0         283.7         66.7         70.9         71.7          9.         0,            0.          0.             459.
Cauh taleac               0.1        (61.4)          (8.6)        5.4         12.6         12.3       16.7           18.3       20.6          27.0         31.2X
Ca h       al nc



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
4odel2: Development of Irrigated Dairy Farm. 20 8a (50 Farms)
n                                                                            C.  Herd Development Protection
Before       ----------------------------------------------  End of FArm Year ----------------------------------------------
Category                Development        1           2              3            4            5            6              7             8           9            10
Herd Compo5ition
Bulls l/(all Al)                     I                                              -            -             -            -                   -
Cows, milking                       18             35          40            47            54           65           65            65           65            65           65
Cows, dry                            8              9          10             9            13           17           17            17           17            17           17
Heifers, in calf                     6              8           9            15            19           17           17            17           17            17           17
Heifers 12-24 months                 8              9          16            20            23           21           21            21           21            21           21
Heifer calves                       (9)           (17)        (21)          (24)          (28)         (34)         (40)          (40)         (40)          (40)         (40)
Bull calves 2/                       (9)-
Total animals                     58             78          96           115          137           154          154           154          154          154           154
Total animal units (AU)           40             61          75            91           109          120          120           120          120          120           120
Mortality, Adult (No)                   -             1           2              2            2            2             2            2             2            2             2
Sales (No)
Cows, cull                           3              7           2             3             4            4           17            17           17            17           17
Heifers 12-24 months                 1              -           -              -            -            4            3             3            3             3            3
Heifer calves                        -              -           -             -             -            6           13            19           19            19           19
Bull calves                          9             26          21            23            28           34           38            38           38            38           38
Total cattle sales                13            33           23            26           32            48           71            77           77            77           77
Purchases
Al Services                        Yes             "           "             "             "                         "             "
Beifers, in calf                    -              20                                                                                                         -
Technical Coefficients
Calving rate  (1)                   55             80          80             80           80           80           0o            so           so            80           so
Adult  ortality (C)                  3              2           2              2            2            2            2            .2            2             2            2
Area of pastures (Ha)               20             20          20            20            20           20           20            20           20            20           20
Carrying capacity (AU/Ha)            2.0            4.0         6.0           6.0           6.0          6.0          6.0           6.0           6.0          6.0          6.0
Total capacity (AU)                 40             80         120           120           120          120          120           120          120           120          120
Fewle cullingC()                    10             20           5              5            5           12           27            32           32            32           32
Length of lactation  (Days)        180            200         225           250           280          280          280           280          280           280          280
Cows in milk (go + %)             18-69           35-         40-          47-           54-          65-          65-           65-          65-           65-          65-
Daily yield per cows (lts)           4.0            6.0         8.0            8.0          8.0          8.0          8.0           8.0           8.0          8.0          8.0
Production/cow/lactation  (Its)  720           1,200        1,800         2,000         2,000        2,000        2,000         2,000        2,000         2,000        2,000
Total silk production ('000 lts) 13.0              42.0        72.0          94.0         108.0        130.0        130.0         130.0         130.0        130.0        130.0
Calf milk ('000 lts)3/               3.6            5.1         6.3            7.2          8.4         10.2          12.0         12.0          12.0         12.0         12.0
Milk sold ('000 lts)                  9.4          37.0        65.7           86.8         99.6        119.8        118.0         118.0         118.0        118.0        118.0
milk production/Ha (lts)           650          2,100       3,600         4,700         5,400        6,500        6,500         6,500        6,500         6,500        6,500
l/ All AI after development.
2/ Sold at week old.
3/  Year 0-200 litres; years 1-10, 300 litres per heifer calf to weaning.
I 
9,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



*                                                                                    
NICARAGUA
ACIO CULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
model 2: Development of Irrigated Dairy Farm. 20 Ha
D. Direct Operatina Cost Projections
(C$'000)
Before               -----------------------------               Farm Year --------
Category                Development      1             2            3           4           5           6             7           8            9             10
Number of cattle (No)                  58           78           96            115         137        154          154         154           154          154            154
Salaries and Wages
Omner or foreman (vorking)(1)1/       6.0         6.0           6.0            6.0         6.0        6.0          6.0         6.0           6.0          6.0           6.0
Farm workers (1) 2/                   5.0         5.0           5.0            5.0         5.0        5.0          5.0         5.0           5.0          5.0            5.0
Milking costs (contract) 3/           -            1.9          3.0            5.2         5.9        7.2          7.2         7.2           7.2          7.2            7.2
Faintenance
Milking yard/shed, house 41           -           0.6           0.6            0.6         0.6        0.6          0.6         0.6           0.6          0.6            0.6
Fences, water supply 5/               -            1.3          1.3            1.3         1.3        1.3          1.3         1.3           1.3          1.3            1.3
Irrigation system 6/                  -           2.0           2.0            2.0         2.0        2.0          2.0         2.0           2.0          2.0           2.0
Pasture, fertilizer 7/                -           -             9.5            9.5         9.5        9.5          9.5         9.5           9.5          9.5            9.5
Other equipment  /                    -            1.1          1.1            1.1         1.1        1.1          1.1         1.1           1.1          1.1            1.1
Animal health 9                       -           0.6           0.7            0.8         1.0        1.1          1.1         1.1           1.1          1.1            1.1
Salt and minerals  10/                -           0.8           1.0            1.2         1.4        1.5          1.5         1.5           1.5          1.5            1.5
Supplments (molasses etc.) 11/        -           1.9           2.4            2.9         3.4        3.8          3.8         3.8           3.8          3.8            3.8
Electricity                           -           8.0           8.0            8.0         8.0        8.0          8.0         8.0           8.0          8.0            8.0
Artiicil inemiatio   12        -            -             -             -           3.4         4.0         4.0         4.0           4.0          4.040
Artificial insewdi-tion                                                                                                                                                  4.
Total                          11.0        29.2          40.6           43.6       48.6        51.1         51.1        51.1          51.1        51.1           51.1
1   Opportunity or actual cost; C$460 per month for 13 months;                         8/  2% of capital value of other equipment C$11,200.
irrigation ad farm work.                                                          9/  C$7 per bead/year.
/ Oe m  before development, ona mua thereafter,                                         10/ C$10 per head/year.
e C$390 per month for L3montha per year.  Mainly for                              11/  C$25 per head/year.
irrigation and general farm work.                                                12/  C$40/cow/year.  First three years after development included in investment costs.
3/ Contract incentive milking rate of C$0.055 per liter produced.
4/ 21 of C$31,000.
S/ 8 of C$15,800.
6/ 21 of C$100,OOO.
7/ C$475/ha/num.
Pd D



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 2: Development of Irrigated Dairy Farm, 20 Ha
E.
(C$ 000)
Average                   -------------------------------------------------  Farm Year  -----
Category                  Unit Value       Before
of Cattle   Development         1           2             3            4              5           6              7            8             9              10
Cattle Sales (No and Value)
Cows, cull (No)                          -               3            7           2             3            4              4          17             17           17            17              17
Cows, cull (Value)                       0.80            2.4          5.6         1.6           2.4          3.2            3.2        13.6           13.6         13.6          13.6            13.6
Heifers 12-24 months (No)                -               1            -            -                         -              4           3              3            3             3               3
Heifers 12-24 months (Value)             0.70            0.7          -           -             -            -              2.8         2.1            2.1           2.1          2.1             2.1
Heifer calves (weaned), (No)             -               -            -           -             -            -              6          13             19           19            19              19
Heifer calves (Value)                    0.50            -            -           -             -            -              3.0         6.5            9.5           9.5          9.5             9.5
Bull calves (one week), (No)             -               9           26          21            23           28             34          38             38           38            38              38
Bull calves (Value)                      0.01            n            1.3         1.1           1.1          1.1            1.7         1.9            1.9           1.9          1.9             1.9
Total cattle sales (No)               -             13            33          23            26           32            48           71             77           77            77              77
Total cattle sales (Value)            -              3.6           6.9         2.7           3.5          4.6           10.7        24.1           27.1         27.1          27.1            27.1  _
Milk sales ('000 lts)                    -               9.4         37.0         65.7         86.8         99.6          119.8       118.0          118.0        118.0         118.0           118.0
Milk sales (C$'000)                  C$0.80/lt           7.5         29.6        52.6          69.4         79.7           95.8        94.4           94.4          94.4         94.4            94.4
Total sales                                         11.1          36.5        55.3          72.9         84.3          106.5       118.5          121.5        121.5         121.5           121.5
s ro
0(
* I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



8~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                               p
NICARAGUA
Q                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
°odel 3:  Developnent of Rainfed Beef Breeding and Fattening Ranch. 300 Ha
A.  Farm Model
_0                                                                                                       (Cl'000)
Before   --------------------------------------------------------------- Farml Yea:r ------------------__---------------_--_--________.__________________
Category              Developnent      1             2            3            4            5             6            7            8            9            10            11           12
Investment Costs
Pastures                             -          28.8          31.2         12.5          -            -            -             -            -            -            -              -            -
Fences                               -          12.0          12.0          -
Waters                               -          15.0           -            -            -                                -             -        _         _
Structures                           -          37.5          11.0
Breeding Stock                       -          16.0           -            -
Total                              -         109.3          54.2         12.5          -                          -            -                         -            -              -            -
Operating Costs
Wages                               15.0        20.0          20.0         20.0         20.0         22.0          24.0         24.0         24.5         24.5          24.5          24.5         24.5
Maintenance                          6.8         5.3           5.3          5.3         11.3         11.3         11.3          11.3         11.3         11.3          11.3          11.3         11.3
Animal Health                        1.8         1.9           2.0          2.3          2.5          2.7           3.1          3.2          3.6          3.8          4.0            4.1          4.1
Supplements                          5.1         6.7           7,3          8.1          9.0          9.5         10.9          11.5         12.7         13.6          14.3          14.6         14.6
Machinery Operation                  1.0         2.0           2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0           2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0            2.0          2.0
Marketing Costs                      1.4         1.5           1.3          1.3          1.6          2.4           2.1          2.2          2.4          3.5          3.7            4.1          4.6
Bull Replacement                     5.0         -             -                        16.0          8.0         24.0           -            8.0          -            8.0            -             -
Sub-total                         36.1        37.4          37.9         39.0         63.4         57.9         77.4          54.2         64.5         58.7         67.8           60.6         61.1
Purchase of Feeder Steers         -          37.5           37.5         37.5         37.5         37.5         37.5         37.5           -                         -              -
Direct Feeder Stsc r Costs         -           -             3.8          3.8          3.8          3.8          3.8           3.8          -            -             --                          -
Total operating C;o,stS          36.1         74.9          79.2         80.3        104.7         99.2        118.7          95.5         64.5         58.7         67.8           60.6         61.1
Total Costs              _367.1 _   184.2              i3.4          92.8        104.7         99.1        118.7         95.5         fi4.5         '., -19                    60.6          61,7
cross Prod,sction V'al.pe           46.1       119.5         115.4        115.1        118.8        149.0        147.2         149.6         94.2        104.0         113.4         125.0         139.6
Net Income before Inv-specni        10.0        10.0          10.0         10.0         10.0         10.0          10.0         10.0         10.0         10.0          10.0          10.0          10.0
Net Flow frem  Investment            -         (74.7)        '28.0)        12.3          4.1         39.8          28.5         44.1         19.7         35.3          35.6          54.4         68.5
Incremental Ilerd Value              -           -             -            -            -            -            -             -            -            -             -             -          275.6
Financi.1  .tLe of Ret,.rn:     25-
B. Cash Flow
Cash Inflow
Development Loan (80)                -          88.7          43.4         10.0          -             -            -            -            -             -            -
Working Capital                      -          37.5           -            -             -            -            -            -             -            -            -              -            -
Sales                              46.1        119.5         115.4        115.1        118.8        149.0         147.2        149.6         94.2         104.0        113.4         125.0         139.6
Total                            46.1        245.7         158.8        125.1        118.8        149.0         147.2        149.6         94.2         104.0        113.4         125.0         139.6
Cash Outflow
Investnt Costs                       -         109.3          54.2         12.5                 -                   -                   -
Operating Costs 1/                  36.1        74.9          79.2         80.3         104.7         99.2        118.7         95.5          64.5         58.7         67.8           60.6         61.1
Loan Repayent                        _           _             _            _                          5.0          5.0         10.0          10.0         20.0         20.0           30.0         42.1
Working Capital Repayment                                                                              -            -           37.5           -            -            -              -            -
Loan Interest  (127)                 -                                       ;.u         I-I'.j. 17.1  17          IO.4         15.9          14.7    1     '.!             7 c
Working Capital Interest (12%)_  -               4.5           4.5          4.5           4.5          4.5          4.5          4.5           -            -
TotaI                             36.1       199.3         153.8         114.4        126.3        125.8        144.6        163.4          89.2         89.8         96.5           95.7       IUe3
Cash Balance                      10.0        46.4            5.0         10.7          7.5         23.2          2.6        (13.8)          5.0         14.2          16.9          29.3         31.3
1/  Includes purchase of feeder steers withl working cavital.                                                                                                                                               n



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRDJE a
Model 3 1evelopment of Rainfed Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranches. 300 Ha
0s
C. Herd Development Projections
Herd     ------f                                                                                        R       a     n     ca End of Rnch Year -----------------------ha---------------------- ---------------
Category                Before
Development     1             2            3           4            5           6            7            8          9            10           11          12
He rd Cooition (Hlo)
Working bulls                      4            4            4            4            4           5            6           6            7           7           7            7             7
Breeding cove                    100           97           106         110          120         130          144         160          178         178         178          178           178
Heifers, 24-36 months             21           22           21           29          30           36          40           44           48         53           59           66            66
Heifers, 12-24 mooths             23           23           30           32           37          41           45          49           54         60           68           68            68
Calves (average of 8 months)    (45)          (60)          (63)        (74)         (82)        (90)         (98)       (108)        (120)       (133)       (133)        (133)         (133)
Steers, 12-24  mthes              21           22           30           31           37          41           45          49           54          60          66           66            66
Steers, 24-36 months              20           20           21           29           30          36           40          44           48          53          59           65            65
Steers, over 36 months            19           19           15           15          20           -            -
Total Animals                 253          267          290          324         360          379         438          460        _509         544          570          583          583
Total Animal Units (A.U.)   208            207          227         _250         278          289          340         352          389        411          437          450          450
Purchasei steers                  -            50           50           50          50           50           50          50                 -                 -            -             -
Total Animl Units (A.U.)   206i            257          277          300         328          339          390         402          389        411          437          450          450
Mortality, Adult (No)              8            7             5           5            5           6            7           7            B           8           9            5             9
sales (No)
Cull bulls                        -             2            -           -             2          -             2          -            -           -                        -             -
-   Cull cows                     10           20           10           11          11           12           13          15           16         18          1            18           1
uliferl 24-36montha                8           -             -            4            6           5            6           5            6          29          30           36            43
Steers, 24-36 unths               -            -             5            6            8          29           35          39           43         47           52           58            64
Steers, over 36 monthb            19           19            19          15           15          20                      -             _         _-            _
Sub-total                      37           41           34           36          42           66           56          59           65         94          101          112           125
Purchased Sters                -            49           49           49          49           49           49          49           -           -           -            -
Total                          37           90           83           85          91          115    _    105.         108                                    1          112           125
Purchases
Bull                              -             2            -           -             2           1            3          -             I          -             I
Feedr steers                      -            50            50          50           50          50           50           50
Total                   _                   52           50           50           52          51           53          50            1    _        _    _
Production Data
Sffective calving rate(S)         45.0         60.0          65.0        70.0         75.0         75.0        75.0         75.0        75.0        75.0         73.0         75.0         75.0
Mortality, adult C)                4.0          3.0           2.0         2.0          2.0          2.0         2.0          2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0          2.0          2.0
Cow culling rate (%)              10.0         20.0          10.0         10.0        10.0         10.0        10.0         10.0         1O.0       10.0         10.0         10.0         10.0
Area of pastures (ha)            250.0        300.0         300.0       300.0        300.0        300.0       300.0        300.0        300.0      300.0        300.0        300.0        300,0
Carrying  WaeL.ty CA.U./ha)        0.8          1.0           1.0         1.5          1.5          1.5         1.5          1.5          1.5        1.5          1.5          1.5          1.5
Total capacity (A.lU.)        200.0        Q            300.0        450.0        450.0        5           450.0       450.0    4.A-.           450.0 .42.0              450.0
Cows milked (No)                  25.0         36.0         36.0         36.0         36.0        36.0         36.0         36.0        36.0         -            .            _            _
net anuanl yield/cow (It)        400.0        660.0           -            -           -
Total aet sales'000 (It)       10,0         23.0         25.0         25.0         25.0        25.0         25.0         25.0        25.0         -            -            -            -    a
lrtction rats (S)                   14.6       15.3          11.7         11.1        11.7         17.4        12.8         12.8         12.8        17.3        17.5         19.2          21.4   ,
length of lactation days          200.0       220.0           -           -            -            -           _            _            _          _            _            _
0                                         S                                                                      .                        9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 3;   Development of Rainfed Beef Breeding and Fattening Ranches. 300 Ha
D. Direct   sratin  Cot Proection
(C$' 000)
Before    -          -  _-----            -- - --------- - ------------- Ranch Year --------------   _--------------
Category                Development      1          2           3            4            5           6           7           8            9           10          11          12
Number of Cattle (No)                   253          267        290         324           360        379         438         460         509          544          570         583         583
Salaries & Wages
Foreman (1)                              9.0         10.0       10.0        10.0          10.0       11.0        12.0        12.0        12.5         12.5         12.5        12.5        12.5
Ranch workers (2) 1/                     6.0         10.0       10.0        10.0          10.0       11.0        12.0        12.0        12.0         12,0         12.0        12.0        12.0
Maintenance
Buildings, etc. 2/                       0.5          1.0        1.0         1.0           1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0          1.0         1.0          1.0         1.0          1.0
Fences and waters 3/                     2.3          4.3        4.3        4.3            4.3        4.3         4.3         4.3         4.3          4.3          4.3         4.3         4.3
Pastures 4/                              4.0          -           -          -             6.0        6.0         6.0         6.0         6.0          6.0          6.0         6.0          6.0
Animal Health 5/                          1.8          1.9        2.0         2.3           2.5        2.7         3.1         3.2         3.6          3.8          4.0         4.1          4.1
Supplements 6/                            5.1          6.7         7.3        8.1           9.0        9.5        10.9        11.5         12.7        13.6         14.3        14.6         14.6
Machinery Operation 7/                    1.0          2.0         2.0        2.0           2.0        2.0         2.0         2.0          2.0         2.0          2.u 0.V                  v C
Marketing costs 8/                        1.4          1.5         1.3        1.3           1.6        2.4         2.1         2.2          2.4         3.5          3.7         4.1          4.6
Bulls 9/                                  5.0          -          -           -            16.0        8.0        24.0         -           8.0            -          8.0         -            -
Sub-total                            36.1         37.4        37.9       39.0          63.4       57.9        77.4        54.2         64.5        58.7         67.8        60.6         61.1
Number of Feeder Steers (No)              -           50         50          50            50         50          50          50            -           -
Purchase of Feeder Steers 10/             -           37.5       37.5        37.5          37.5       37.5        37.5        37.5          .           -            -           -            -
Direct Feeder Steer Costs 11/             -            -           3.8        3.8           3.8        3.8         3.8         3.8          -           -            -            -
Sub-total                             -           37.5       41.3        41.3          41.3       41.3        41.3        41.3          -           -                         -           -
Total Direct Costs                   36.1         74.9        79.2       80.3         104.7       99.2       118.7        95.5         64.5        58.7         67.8         60.6        61.1
1/  two permanent for breeding herd and initial milking. Worker for steers included in direct feeder steer costs, inclusive for 13 months per year  (C$390 per month x 13), say  C$5.000 per year plus increments.
2/ 2% of capital value (C$50,000).
3/ 87. of capital value (C$54,000).
4/ C$20 per ha cleaning. Year 0-3 included in capital costs.
5/ C$7 per head per year.
6/ C$20 per head per year before development;C$25 thereaftec.                                                                                                                                                      o
7/ Negligible -- imputed figure only.
B/ Approximately C$45 per head for transport, conmission, etc.                                                                                                                                                     f'
9.' CP.',O  each.
I0/ C$750  per head on average.
II/ C$75 per head,including additional labor costs (plus transport of C$45 per head).



bICAPRAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
M1odel 3:   Oevriopmess of TaLofed 3Ree  frecsl:ng and F.ttenR Ranch"s, 300 71.
E, Sales Fro,es ons
CS' 000'
-~ ~ ~~C gr
r                                    m ~~~~~~~~~~~r5 Valor                                                                        Ranch Year
,.            ~~cr Legosr.             _     5 ..r '' n -'e        Core                          _     __
xc                               ~~~~ ~        ~~~~~~ears  roeas  Oevelaoosslt
3 ;           6-12                       1            2           3            4           5            6            7            8            9            10           i           I
Catce Sales (No 6 ValoeI
Cull bulls  I/ (No)              -              -            -           2           _            _            2           _            2            _            _            _            I           _
Coil balls value                 1.50           1.70         -           3.00        -            -            -           -            3.40
Call cors 2/ (No)               -               -            10         20           10           11           11           12         13            15           16           18          18           18           18
Cu1ll cows valoe                0.83            0.85          8.30      16.60         8.30         9.13         9.13        9.96       11.05         12.75        13.60        15.30       15.30        15.30        15.30
Heifer. 24-36 months  3/(No)   -                -             8          -            -            4            6           5           6             5            6           29          30           36           43
Heifers 24-36 mosths value      0.70            1.00          5.60       -            -            2.80         4.20        3.50        6.00          5.00         6.00       29.00        30.00        36.00        43.00
Steers 24-36  -onths 4/ (Na)    -               -             -          -            5            6            8          29          35            39           43          47           52           58           64
Steers 24-36 sonths valoe       1.13            1.27          -          -            5.65         6.78         9.04       32.77       44.45         49.53        54.61        59,69       66.04        73.66        81.28
Steers 36 months  5/ (No)        -              -            19         19           19 '.        15           15          20           -             -            -            -           -            -            -
Steers 36 seeths value          1.27            _            24.13      24.13        24.13        19.05        19.05       25.40        -             -            -            -
Sab-total (No)               -               _            37        41            34           36          42           66          56           59           65           94          101          112          125
Sab-total -aloe              -               -            38.03     43.73         38.08        37.76       41.42        71.63       64.90        67.28        74.21       103.99       113.40       124,96       139.58
P-rhnsed steers  6 '(No.        -               -             -        49            49           49           49          49          49            49-
Purchesesd steers value          1.17           1.27          -        57.33         57.33        57.33        57.33        57.33      62,23         62.23         -            -            -
Total -attle sales (No)      -               -            37        41            83           85           91         115         105           108          65            94         101          112          125
Total cattle sales vaiue    -                -            38.03    101.06         95.41        95.09        98.75      128.96      127.23        129.61       74.21       103.99       113.40       124.96       139.58
Milk Sales   ol1-  6, V; -loel
Litres ('000)                    -              -            10.00      23.00        25.00        25.00        25.00       25.00       25.00         25.00        25.00         -            -           -            -
Valor per liter (C$r)  '         0.80            _            8.00      18.40        20.01]       20.00        20.00        20.00      20.00         20.00        20.00
Total sales                  _ .                          46.03    119.46        115.41       115.09      118.75       148.96      147.23        149.61        94.21       103,99      113.40        124.96      139.58
Indicators
Weight of rattle prodoced
('000 kg)                     -               -            13.70     15.50         20.10        20.30       22.60        30.50       29.10         30.10        32.50       36.00        38.50         43.10       48.10
Estimated total beef
pr.ducti.o.(sO0kg)(50%Dw)    _                -             6.85       7.75         40.05       10.15        11.30        15.25      14.55         15.05        16.25        18.00        19.25         21,55      24.05
Beef prodoced/Ha (kg)            -              _            27.40      25.80         33.50       33.80        37.70        50.80      48.50         50.20        54.20        60.00        64.20         71.80      80.20
Incremeetal beef production
('000 kg                      -               -             0.00      0.90          3.20         3.30        4.45         8.40        7.70          8.20         9.40        11,15       12.40         14.70       17.20
a0e80 s.oo.iC;s6  >20e k- Z1,700.                                  +          0 k-, - C40,27°
2/ 330 kg @ 132.5  -, 340 kg - C$2.5.                                        6/ 400 kg - C$1,170, 420 - C$1,270
/  300 kg e C$700  +, C$1,000 Breeders (350 kg)                              7/ C$0.80 per liter (a-erage),
4/ 390 kg 1 C$2.9  - C11,130, 420 kg @ CS3.02 = C$1,270.
Total additional weight of beef produced dsring life of ranch project (kg'O00) =          101.00                                                                                                                                          e
lbs.  = 222,200.00.                                                                                                                                           x
*'                                                                                                                                                                                                             41



0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 4: Develoecnt of Irrigated Pastures Beefand Beef Fattening Farm. 20 Ha
A. Farm Model
a                                                                                                   (C$ '000)
Before    ----------------------------------             -       Farm Year --------------------------------------------------------------
Category          Development       1            2            3           4            5            6            7            8             9            10
Inve-tnt Costs
Pastures                    -             7.0          -            -            -            -            -           -             -
Fences                      -             4.5
Waters                       -            8.0
Structures                   -           21.5                       -            -            -            -           _             -            _
Equipment                   -           139.0                 -           -      _            -            .                         _ 
Total                                 180.0          -            -            -            -            -           -             -                           _
Operating Costs
Wages                        _           16.0          16.0        16.0         16.0         16.0         16.0        16.0          16.0         16.0           16.0
Maintenance                  _            3.8          13.3        13.3         13.3         13.3         13.3        13.3          13.3         13.3           13.3
Animal Health                _             0.6         0.8          0.8          0.8          0.8          0.8         0.8           0.8          0.8            0.8
supplements                 -             2.8          5.7          5.7          5.7          5.7          5.7         5.7           5.7          5.7            5.7
Electricity                 _             8.0          8.0          8.0          8.0          8.0          8.0         8.0           8.0          8.0            8.0
marketing Costs              -             2.4         3.6          3.6          3.6          3.6          3.6         3.6           3.6          3.6            3.6
Sub-total                 _            33.6         47.4         47.4         47.4        47.4         47.4        47.4           47.4        47.4            47.4
Purchase of Feeder Steers-             84.0         84.0         84.0         84.0         84.0        84.0        84.0           84.0         84.0           84.0
Total Operating Costs    -            117.6        131.4        131.4        131.4        131.4        131.            4         131.4        131.4          131.44
Total Costs                -          276          131.4        131.4        131.4        131.4       1.4          31.4          131.4        131.4          131.4
Gross Production Value       -          133.9        200.3        200.3        200.3        200.3        200.3       700.3         200.3        700,3          200.3
Net Income before
Investment                -             -            -            -            -            -           _
Net Flow frme investment   -           (163.7)        68.9         68.9         68.9         68.9         68.9        68.9          68,9         68.9           68.9
Fitnacial Rate of Return:  40%                         -            -            -            -            -          -              -            -
8. Cash Flow
Casb Inflow
Devslopment ILoan (90%)      -          162.0                                                 -
Working Capital              _           84.0                                           -                  -           -             -            -
Sales                        -          133.9        200.3        200.3        200.3        200.3        200.3       200.3         200.3        200.3          200.3
Total                     -           379.9        200.3        200.3        200.3        200.3        200.3       200.3         200.3        200.3          200.3
Cash Outflow
Investment Cost              -          180.0          -            -            -            -            -           -             -            -              -
operating Costs It           -          117.6         131.4       131.4        131.4        131.4        131.4       131.4         131.4        131.4          131.4
loan Repayent                _           32.4         32.4         32.4         32.4         32.4          -           -             -            -
iorking Capital Repayent  -                _           _            _            _            _            _           _             _                          84.0
Loan Interest (10.25%)       -            16.6         13.3         10.0         6. 6         3. 4
Working Capital Interest
(12%) 2/                  -             6.7         10.1         10.1         10.1         10.1         10.1        10.1          10.1         10.1           10.1
Total                    _           353.3        187.2        183.9        180.5        177.3        141.5       141.5         141.5        141.5          225.5
Cash Balauce             -            26.6         13.1         16.4         19.8         23.0         58.8        58.8          58.8         58.8         (225.2)
yj Includes purchase of feeder steers with working capital.
2/ Interest in let year for eight months only.



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 4: Development of Irrigated Pastures and Beef Fattening F-Xm (20 Hal
C. Direct Operating Cost Projections
(C$ 000)
Before    ----------------------------------------------  Farm Year --------
Category                 Development       1            2            3           4             5            6             7            8            9             10
Number of Cattle (No)                   -           120          120          120         120          120            120          120          120          120            120
Salaries/Waages
Foreman (working), (1) 1|             -             6.0         6.0           6.0         6.0          6.0            6.0          6.0          6.0         6.0             6.0
Farm workers (2) 2/                   -            10.0         10.0         10.0        10.0         10.0           10.0         10.0         10.0        10.0            10.0
Maintenance
Corral, house 3/                      -             0.5         0.5           0.5'        0.5         0.5             0.5         0.5           0.5         0.5             0.5
Fences, water supply 4/               -             1.3          1.3          1,3         1.3          1.3            1.3          1.3          1.3          1.3             1.3
Irrigation system  5/                 -             2.0         2.0           2.0                      ,C             ?'0                        ^          2.0             2.0
Pastures, fertilizer 6/               -             -           9.5           9.5         9.5          9.5            9.5          9.5          9.5         9.5             9.5
Animal health 7/                      -             0.6          0.8          0.8         0.8          0.8            0.8          0.8          0.8          0.8             0.8
Salt and minerals 8/                  -             0.8          1.2          1.2         1.2          1.2            1.2          1.2          1.2         1.2              1.2
Supplements (molasses/area) 9/    -                 2.0         4.5           4.5         4.5          4.5            4.5          4.5          4.5         4.5             4.5
Electricity                           -             8.0          8.0          8.0         8.0          8.0            8.0          8.0          8.0         8.0              8.0
Marketing costs lo/                   -             2,4          3.6          3.6         3.6          3.6             3.6         3.6          3.6          3.6             3.6
Total operating costs              -            33.6        47.4          47.4        47.4        47.4            47.4        47.4          47.4        47.4            47.4
Loan for steers (120)                   -             84.0        84.0         84.0         84.0        84.0            84.0        84.0          84.0        84.0            84,0
Total costs                        _           117.6       131.4         131.4       131.4        131.4          131.4        131.4        131.4        131.4          131.4
1/ C$460/month for 13 months/year.                                                                   7/  C$7 per head.  Year 1 for eight months only.                                             a
2/ C$390/month for 13 months/year, two men. For irrigating and all general work.                     8/  C$10 per head.  Year 1 for eight months only.
3/ 2% of capital value (C$21,500).                                                                   9/  C$25 per head.  Year 1 for eight months only.
4/ 8`4 of capital value (C$15,800).                                                                 10/  C$20 per head for transport. fees etc.
5/ 2X of C$100,000.
6/ C$475 per ha per annum (240 gg of urea @ C$30/gg; NPK 30 gg @ C$35/gg;
sulfate of ammonia 75 gg @ C$20/gg).
0                                                                                       *0
'                                                                                                         S *t *.



NICARAGUA
AGRICULTU7AL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 4: Development of Irrigated Pastures and Beef Fattening Farm (20 Ha)
D. Feeder Steer Purchase and Sales Proiections
Before    -------------- End of Farm Year ----------------------
Category                  Development       1             2            3            4            5            6             7            8             9            10
Purchases
Feeder steers 1/                         -           120          240          180           180          180          180           180          180           180           180
Value @ C$700/head(C$'000) 2/            -            84.0         84.0         84.0          84.0         84.0         84.0          84.0         84.0          84.0          84.0
Sales                                      -           119          178          178           178          178          178           178          178           178           178
Value @ C$1,125/head (C$'000)            -           133.9        200.3        200.3         200.3        200.3        200.3         200.3        200.3        200.3          200.3
Mortality                                -              1            2            2            2            2            2             2            2             2             2
Balance on herd end of year (No)         -             -           60           60            60           60           60            60           60            60            60
Production Data
Mortality rate (7)                       -              1            1            1            1            1            1             1             1            1             1
Area of pasture (ha)                     -            20            20           20           20           20           20            20           20            20            20
Carrying capacity (AU/ha)                -             6             6            6            6            6            6             6            6             6             6
Total capacity (AU)                      -           120          120           120          120          120          120           120          120           120           120
Average fattening period (days)          -           240           240          240          240          240          240           240          240           240           240
Average weight at purchase (kg)          -           255          255           255          255          255          255           255          255           255           255
Average weight at sale (kg)              -           390          390           390          390          390          390           390          390           390           390
Average gain per day (kg)                -             0.57          0.57         0.57         0.57         0.57         0.57          0.57          0.57         0.57          0.57
Irrigation period (months) 3/            -             6             6            6            6            6            6             6             6            6             6
1/ Maximum number of steers on the farm of any one time - 180 x .67 - 120.  Purchase will begin 3-4 months after pasture seeding in first year.
2/ Maximum, renewable short-term loan required is C$84,000.
3/ December 1 to May.






FeC   A G U A
A0CY .LTRAL CRONT FdOJdCT
n                                                                                         Fat= it ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M del 2:3-o rleteds Flooej
OeNOlopornit      1              2               3              4__            5              6.              7       B._                    9     _        i  _                                                  ,|_.
i. rUNOP tOD3L
Laud eporetloo OM(iIn.1diUg plFiNOOM tnd
oseIhleet of o5odbreak)                             -              4B.8              -               -
Meohi-orr *2d "q111.eeN                               -              61.7              -               -              _              -                              _           52.5 1/
Oelgotloo OEqoilneet                                _               125.0 
ob-cototl:                _        _                     255.N3       _     _               -                                                                       _ _        _       _ 52.5  _  _
Lober                                                 -              20,9           25.6           25.6            25.6           25.6           25.6            25.1           25.6            25.6           25.6
roerellleera Md PlichIdea                             _              34.5           36.5           36.5            36.5           36.5           86.5            36.5           36.5           36.5            36.5
MnetIting Cole                                        _               350            7.0            10.8           10.2           10.8           10.0            10.0           10.0            10.0           10.0
Malooteoeooe                                          -              14.0           18.5            18.5           1M.5           18.5            18.5           18.5           18.5            18.5           IM.5
Petrol. 061, end Lobr"ocee                            _               3.0            3.0            3.0             5.0            3.8            3.0             3.0 0.M                        3.0            5.0
orrigetlon °P"'etlooe                                 .              20.0           02.0             .O2          20.8           28.8           20.8            20.0           22.8            20.0           27.0
6tot.eota:                             -                  895.4         110.6          11 3.6          113            213.           113.6           123.86         111,L 11.8                     113.6
Total UCote,550.9                                                       118.06         115.6          I11.6           113.6          113.6           113.6          218.1           113.6          113.6
GIoa.  ProductIo-   V.Ice                             -              66.6          155.3           221.9          221.9          221.9           221.9          221.9           221.9          221.9          211.9
Net 1800 before Project                            11.0  2/          1 10.0         10. I0 18.8                    1q             18.0            18.8           12.0           1O0 RAO                        10.2
Rae Flow froe rcja-t:                         -74,3                             34.7            983             83            98.3           98.3              43 43R                       98.3           98.3
_r P*Po1a 8ete of Mecuo: 2632
B. Ft_3B FLOR .0
_aSMI_ 6COG7                                   18,0  2/          66 6          155.3          221.9           201.8          221.9          221.8           221.9          221.9           221.9          221.9
Boet-etel ee4eusee 4/                                        1_0.0           100.0          108.0           100.0          100.0          100.0          100.30          100.8          100.0           100.0
Io-A-                                   18.0             355.8          855.3          521.9             3.            30              31.8           3 0           32.9             3.             32.9
hIteet  Cr te  2o9t                                                6           118.0          113.8           115.6          115.6          813.6            115.6         015            115.6           1-9.6
e)eboeler-Tito 4/                                ,             15.            18.            128.8          10200.0        1235.0          12.0A          17030.0         108.8          102.030         10.2.0
5)  long   2ee                                                  6           2.6            23.6           23.            23.             2362.                           5.562.
82  500 t te d 7/                             -                2..6           232'.86        232.°6          308.           10.0°O         14.1            11.3            3d.5            56             U.S
Tot-l:                                                   459.5          036.2          262.0          260.0           150.1          554.0           125            301.2            h.            840.0
Cbah  elneet      go b3d of FetY:                 10.8             1808.55          19.2            59.1           60.9           64.0           62.6            7U.4            22.2           70.1           28.9
8MIONF5IU08
1.   cOoldo:        teor 1              6                                                       2.  Fr-eoto   ree:         for euleal fe-d 11202               21
0000 2             14                                                                                   fot --000 coleUo  (90.)          354
ee1r 3-0           20                                                                                   6o10ht-2 ocetcgc                   317
CS/h                                                                                                                    Cl$/ho
3. Totel  ocbOt=qnO Coeto:          6,729                                                       4.  01cp0l                           .So         ...
3-10/                    3,247
i  Nech,letytolccootoOtcCoetCOOtor ol-.c....     15Y flo         I'llc uF oi, 004lF00c.
/2  Incp=p behere dotflccOcct Ueclved frole,Oloc I-is ld   -t         -o ,Ottl    reoO   fC1$ 2D0pr 0scn4
/3 tOvoloFOOOt  ooOoatoctadocd too.oe .1.,80/2. ofeico,otocotccoto  foci10 UeoOeOwithtOO  reoto of 8roccoocloitecoeto t 12l pooocco.
ci5S,llO   -d sr -      -coe l reigd cftht l oht-h- , o ctt  ncd t          r              h o .   3ce-7   d9-IO, Yt6ci"                                   -ldco' i-t hf nh            -k*ro   -ropitol ge reti4
fro fta e o-i f-cdo.



N I C A R A G U A
44R81CnT1NAL ClEwo FPROJECT
Fdt. Nodel and Cash PlOw
nModel 6:  20  e Yigated sogacCna
r  DOveOPaslOO   1/    1               2               3              4                5               6               7               a                9               10
A. 7A1d 97DBL
Land 1,00l11g -od Irrigation Chan.-lo                    -               36.0
Irrigation Equipor-t                                   _                69.0                                                                -                                              _               _               _
S.b-tOtal:                                 _                105.0 0-
Plant-ig wad Coltivat-  os                            1.8                 5.3             2.4             3.0             3.0             3.0             3.0             3.0              3.0             3.0             3.0
P-rlhli-ar and  aHlbioid-w                            2.1                 5.6             4.5             4.7             4.7             4.7             4.7             4.7             4.7              4.7             4.7
MNintenan-                                            2.0                 4.8             4.8             4.8             4.8             4.8             4.8             4.8              4.8             4.8             4.'
Irrigation op0Oaiofl. .                                                  15.5            15.5            15.5            15.5            15.5            15.5            15.5             15.5            15.5            15.5
H.ta-ota.g                                            2.3                 8.5             9.5             9.3             9.3             9.3             9.3             9.3              9.3             9.3             9,3
Swb-1tot1l                                 0.2               39.7            36.7            37.3            37.3            37.3            37.3            37.3             37.3            37.3            37.3
Total:                                    0-.               1i4              36.7            37.3            37.3            37.3            37.3            37.3                     373        37.3
OroGa Prod-ltiao  VwlI.                              18.0 1/             71.4            79.8            78.1            78.1            78.1            78.1            78.1             78.1            78.1            78.1
tat I.oowa b.ofo- Proj-nt                            10.6               10.6             10.6            10.6            10.6            10.6            10.6            10.6            10.6             00.6            10.6
Nat Flow fr-n Poajact ItowotwOwo                       _83.9)                            32.5            30.3            30.2            30.2            30.7            30.7             30.2            30.2            30.7
Financial Oato af Raftowo, 347
B. FARM CH3N FLOW
Coat Inf lov
balas                                           18.8               71.4             79.8           78.1             78.1            70.1            78.1           70.1             78.2            70.1             70.1
D-elop. wolo.. 2/                                  -               94.5                -               .               -               -                                                -               -               -
Sbo_t t-rw b-orrowog far
wp-rati-otl wwpoo-p  3/                        8.0               30.0            360.0           36.0            30.0            36.0             36.0            96.0            36.0i           36.0             36.0
TataIf                                   26.8               203.9           115.0           114.1           16.1           6114.1           14.             114.6            114.1           114.1           504.1
Calh OutflvW
IDy*stcent  1o0t5 -                                               105.0                -               -               -               -               _                                                _ 
O" eatito  -owts                                 8.1               39.7             36.7            37.3            37,3           S3.3             37.3            37.3            37.3             37.3            37.3
LOwa rapayflantN:
al  wwost cwww 3t                              8.0               31.0            36.0            36.0            36.0            36.0            36.0             36,0            36.0            36.0             36.0
b)  lawS tetc                                    _                  _            10.5            10.5            10.5            10.5            10.5             10.5            10.5            10.5            10.5
a)  abort  at-N 4/                             0.5                0.3             2.2             2.2             2.1             2.2             2.1              2.2             2.1             2.2              2.2
b)  loDB  t.7 s271 -b.6                                                                                          7.                6.4.          .5.4             .4.5            3.3               2        .1     Ll
Iota1:                                   16.6               194.7           9,1             94 6            93.4            92.4            B9.2             90.       3     89.2            00.1            07.0
Cash  Yalant, at Ceoa  twO                           10.2                 9.2            20.7            L93             20.7            21.7            24.8            23.0             24.9            2.              27
A85h'TION5
la/h                                                                                                0/c  tan
1.  Yield,    1.    0efore                        40                                              2,  Pi-lS
2     Yea,01                                                                                            Far-gat-                         42
3.    30000 3-10                   93
IlAvrago wf I plant
,nd 4owttatOO opo)
3.  toT-l  loo-at..nt Col-                       5,250                                            4. Anroal oparattg  toOts
at dull 7000 lopnwnt
(10009  3-10f                 1,065
;] l evolnpwaot bo  ooan  n   l foawOnO' COwo,la.e.O Ovinngt 90Y oof  ntowOotnto5ta  Sod fr10 peardwil one yearofn gooneo  0 lI' perwoCow.m
t3  Sh-,ttnh Oo- b -oliOg C   o12Oaooaf produtlon COtlOoCOld Inoawa year,
74  96ort.00rm boorovinR  0000.= 123. per00000w. 
l ~ ~~~~~~~~~hn.n.  hooOn  tat  1007  Ot  000



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
NICARAGUA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculations
1.        The rates of return from the project to the economy have been
calculated separately for each farm model, as shown in Appendix 11-1, on
the following assumptions:
I.   Prices
(i) Beef Development: The prices shown below and used for
farm models (Appendixes 10-3 and 10-4) were reduced by
5% to allow for the impact of possible decline in world
beef prices.
(a)  Cull bulls were priced at ¢1,500 (US$215) for years
O to 5 and at ¢ (US$243) from project year 6 onward,
assuming higher liveweight as a result of improved
techniques.  These prices correspond to US$0.45 to
US$0.49 per kg. liveweight, according to the size
of the animal, and are those paid currently by the
local slaughterhouses who export to the U.S. market;
(b)  Cull cows were priced at ¢830 (US$119) for years
O to 5 and at ¢850 (UTS$121) from year 6 onward. The
average price per kg. liveweight is ¢2.50 (US$0.36);
(c)  HIeifers 24-36 months were priced at 0700 (US$100)
for years 0 to 5 and at ¢1,000 (US$143) from year
6 onward. The liveweight varies between 300 and
350 kg.;
(d)  Steers between 24 and 36 months were priced at
t1,130 (US$161) for years 0 to 5 and at e1,270
(US$180) from year 6 onward.  For steers of more
than 36 months the price assumed for year 0 to 5
was 01,270 (US$181).
(ii) Dairy Development: A reduction of 10% was made in the
average sale price of 00.80 (US$0.11) per liter which
had been assumed for farm models (Appendixes 10-1 and
10-2) on the basis of the prices paid by local consumers
on retail sales and those paid by the processing factories.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2 of 2
(iii) Irrigated Crops: The prices assumed for sugarcane were
5% less than the prevailing U.S. Preferential f.o.b.
prices.
(iv) Current domestic market prices were used for pastures
and plantains, which are regarded as non-tradeable
commodities.
(v)  Current price levels have been used for investment and operat-
ing costs wqith due allowances for prevailing taxes and customs
duties on imported items as shown below:
Other Implements
Including Irriga-   Fertilizer and
Tractor   tion Equipment        Insecticides
Import duty           7%           5%                   5%
Other taxes
charged on CIF
value and duty       2.2%         2.2%                 2.2%
(vi)  Salvage values proportional to unexpired asset life have
been included; and
(vii)  The demand for labor in rural areas shows a seasonal pattern
with peaks in July-September and December-January which
correspond, respectively, to cultivation of basic grains and
harvesting of cotton, coffee and sugarcane. On the other
hand, in the months of lowest demand, 20 to 35 percent of
available labor is underutilized. On the basis of the avail-
able information in regard to seasonal fluctuations in employ-
ment, the widespread under employment on subsistence farms and
the fact that, a large part of the labor to be employed on
the Project would be unskilled, labor has been costed at 50%
of the prevailing rates.
Economic Rate of Return
2.        When weighted according to the relative share of various models in
the total project cost, the overall economic rate of return of the Project is
25%.
October 23, 1973



*                                                                                                               0                                                           
NSECAOAI(UA
AGRICULTURAL CRLDIT PROJECT
E-coomic Rates of R.eucnto the Enterprises
(Cs '000)
--er
---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Y-sr ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
I               2               3                4                5               6                7                8               9                10              11               12
I.   IRRIGATED DAIRY
-                  Increnental Benefics                           43.8             70.7            66.5             77.8            97.8            108.6           111.3            111.3            111.3            290.4
Increnental Operating Costs                    62.4             32.8            34.7             38.6            40.0             40.0            40.0             40.0             40.0             40.0
or                leveoti-ent Cost                               222.1             3.3              4.0
'0                Net Flow                                      (240.7)           34.6             27.8            39.2             57.8            68.6             71.3             71.3             71.3           250.4
Etonmsio  Rate of Return:    207,
1I.   RAINFED DAIRY
Increnental Benefits                           39.8             45.1            46.4             55.4            71.8             72.1             71.8             73.1            71.8            142.8
Incre=ental Operating Costs                    39.9             16.5            23.0             26.0            27.3             27.6             27.6             27.6            27.6             27.6
Invente..t Cost                               106.8             50.5            12.8                        -                -                        -                -                -
Net Flv                                      (106-9)           (21.9)           10.6             29.4            44.5             44.5             44.2            45.5             44.2            115.7
Econo=ic Rate of Retaun:    20/,
III.   RAINFED BEEF BREEDINE AND FATTENING
Incre.ental Benefit.                          108.5           127.5            102.3            106.9           135.6            134.8            134.1             81.5            89.8             99.7             ES9.8          422.8
Incre=ental Operating Costs                   109.4             66.4            67.4             89.9            83.6            101.2             80.2             49.2            44.8             52.3             46.6             47.1
Investnent Cost                               IC.6                5      .      11 0
Net Flo.                                     (106.5)             8.8            23.0             17.0            52.0             33.6             53.9             32.3            45.0             47.4             63.2            376.7
E-conic Rate of Return:    30b
IV.    IRglCATED FAS PURES AND BEEF FATTENING
Increanetal Benefits                          140.0            243.0           195.0            195.0           195.0            195.0            195.0            195.0           195.0            332.0
Increnental Operating Costs                   219.0            116.0           116.0            116.0           116.0            116.0            116.0            116.0            116.0           116.0
Investment Cost                               170.0                -                                                                 -                                 -                -                -
Net Floe                                     (249.0)           127.0             79.0            29.O             79.0            29.0             79.0             79.0             79.0           216.0
EconoicRa_te of Retain:    36%
V.   IRRIGATED PLANTAIN
Incremental Benefits                           89.6            205.3           222.9            222.9           222.9            222.9            222.9            222.9            222.9           302.0
Incremental Operating Costa                   174.9             85.2            86.7             86.7             86.7            86.7             86.7            137.5             86.7             86.7
I-mestoent Cost                               202.0                -                -                .               -                -                -
Net Flow                                      (287.3)          120.1            136.2           136.2            136.2            136.2            136.7            85.4             3_              216.
Econonin Rate of Retarn:    44X
VI.   IRRIgATED SUGARCANE
1--remental Benefits                           69.7             65.7             63.1            63.1             63.1             63.1            63.1             63.1             63.1             93.1
Incremental Operating Costs                    56.4             24.0             24.9            24.9              -                                 ;_                      , ; 2'  ^  24.9    2      4.9
Investment Cost                                99.1                 -               -                -               -
Net Flow                                      (85.8)            41.7             38.2            38.2             38.2             38.2             38.2            38.2             38.2             68.3
Eoononic Rate of Retarn:    45%






0                                                                    -~~~~~~. 
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-
-T Z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
-- ~~~~~~l                                     0  
-~~~~                     0                                        L.0.             C                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~ 0,r 
o ~~~~~~                                                                                                            0                      2~~> 0   
Z  I<            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~ ~~~), ~~~                                                                                           0 ~ zg-:~
CC   !- ~~~~ ~-                   o       o3- 
Z                                                                                                                                ow
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~g00






IBRD-104419R
J                                                                                                  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'  3 COE 197j
_1CARAjjA                                          R S Q w                   A is
TAGRICULTURAL, CREDIT PROJ E -                                                                                                     ilwaskB'rm5
PR,JECT AREAS QOF CONtENTRATION                                                                                  i .ap.m
' A                   i n :   ~   ~     ~~~~~Ra  n                     A 
-        ot r Amer40inat Rwndo W                          Bonmnz
iS  t iS   XliV@ri XtAto =  U > J sUit p+; z8)Jciow             ~~~La Constrancia  **s;Rosita   o-i,                    uro  aeas1 
Purto Isobel     |
9  )   A  $,  Ab~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PirtniraP <OI                         '  M  carstaca      0    20    40     60    80    I 00
O C E A N   Pue!to SomcW  t o y r                tt  Sotato,>o             ,: d   Rrnmc                       PROSECTC~~~~~~~~~Purto sobe
L12 \ X a E 0; (3 P.oKilometers
_   :                       iN          \  X: " .- ai 'Som dil  ste  i\
"_: 8 Scn lu~~~~pan  dlS  t Sag  Calos4XJ\  Raio  P:dsanco
SEARIBA
GI 10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
P      G    u    A A} 1 F I?0z C                                                                    3                                        2z}  Irrigoted C-ops & DaAta i C
Corinto             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   upl     eoie  etr
Poneloya  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s~CnrctMcoar  opn
u  d Rcma ~ ~   ~    Se  Mlrp,oto Cne
PdC/FlC  OC{d  <' H  r ;t:) - o /0: 22 AiEl SanJusndelNortk ~~~~~~~~~~ Naturol Zone loeghtndroess
0 CE AIVaA      Puerto SoEtSn  araU                                                                                                          Mil PRJCToigPat
2 \ PANA f Re  ,Air/Ba*
ad                                                                               Cottle Mo,,ke iga t Ca   C a  /t83
cu;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  i- A o    D ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     -   aare  on   ondre
JAtA                                                                                seed Multopl,cotio,, Cent.r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8



