077 r
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1361 MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
for a World Bank Loan pertaining to a
Third Agricultural Credit Project
in the Kingdom of Morocco and for amending
certain agreements entered into among
the parties hereto with respect to
Loan No. 861 and Credit No. 338
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
Dated February 7, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank), INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE (here-
inafter sometimes called the Borrower or CNCA).
WHEREAS (i) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a
loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million
dollars (t35,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
hereinafter, and (ii) the Bank, the Association and the Bor-
rower have agreed to amend certain agreements entered into
among the parties hereto with respect to Loan No. 861 and
Credit No. 338;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Guarantor" means the Kingdom of Morocco.
(b) "dirham" means the currency of the Kingdom of Morocco.
(c) "Agricultural Credit Dahir and D*cret" means the King-
dom of Morocco's Dahir No. 1-60-106 and the Kingdom of Morocco's
Decret No. 2-61-607 both of 25 Joumada II 1381 (December 4, 1961),
as amended to the date hereof.
(d) "Recovery Dahir" means the Kingdom of Morocco's Dahir
No. 1192 of 20 Joumada I 1354 (August 21, 1935) as amended to the
date hereof.


﻿-3-
(e) "CRCA(s)" means Caisse(s) Regionale(s) de Cr'dit Agri-
cole established, or which may hereafter be established, pursuant
to the Agricultural Credit Dahir and D4cret and which operate(s)
as (a) regional branch(es) of the Borrower.
(f) "CLCA(s)" means Caisse(s) Locale(s) de Cr4dit Agricole
established, or which may hereafter be established, under the
laws of the Kingdom of Morocco and which operate(s) as (a) local
branch(es) of the Borrower.
(g) "MARA" means the Kingdom of Morocco's ministry responsible
for Agriculture et Reforme Agraire.
(h) "ORMVA(s)" means Office(s) R gional(aux) de Mise en
Valeur Agricole, agency(ies) for land development established, or
which may be established hcreafter, within the framework of MARA.
(i) "ORMVASM" means the ORMVA established for the Souss
Massa Region of the Kingdom of Morocco.
(j) "Coopgrative(s) Agricole(s)" means the agrarian coopera-
tive(s) established, or which may hereafter be established, pursuant
to the Kingdom of Morocco's Dgcret royal portant loi No. 267-66 of
15 Rebia I 1386 (July 4, 1966) and Dahir No. 1-72-277 of 22 Kaada
1392 (December 29, 1972).
(k) "farmers' association" means any groupement constitug
en vue de l'utilisation en commun du mat4riel agricole.
0


﻿(1) "1965 Loan Agreement" and "1965 Guarantee Agreement"
mean respectively the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower and the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of
Morocco and the Bank, both dated November 8, 1965.
(m) "l1972 Loan Agreement", "1972 Guarantee Agreement", "1972
Credit Agreement" and "1972 Project Agreement" mean respectively
the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, the Guaran-
tee Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank, the
Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and
the Association and the Project Agreement between the Association
and the Borrower, all dated October 10, 1972.
(n) "Sub-borrower" mesns any individual farmer, Cooperative
Agricole, farmers' associaion or other person, entity or group
eligible to recei-.e- a Sub-loan under the Project.
(o) "Sub-loan" means a medium- or long-term loan made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower to a sub-borrower for on-farm
investments and to be financed under the Project.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to herein, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-five million
dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for amounts
disbursed under Sub-loans and for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for Parts F and H of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy-hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A through
G of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural, banking and financial standards and
practices.
(b) The Borrcwer shall make available to ORMVASM, as and when
needed, the proceeds of the Loan required for the carrying out of
Part H of the Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including, inter alia, the obligation of ORMVASM to carry
* out Part H of the Project and undertakings of ORMVASM related
thereto.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, the Boirower, in carrying out Parts A through E of the
Project, shall make Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers, with the assistance
of the Guarantor, in accordance with its current lending and oper-
ating policies, including those set forth in Schedule 4 hereto; it
being understood that the policy with respect to financial charges,
as set out in Section I (A) and (B) of such Schedule, and the poli-
cies and procedures, as set out in Section II (B) thereof, shall
have come into full force and effect not later than September 1,
1977.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of any Sub-loan to be used exclusively for the
purposes for which the Sub-loan was granted.


﻿-8-
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain records adequate to record the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan, to identify the Sub-loans made under
the Project and to reflect in accordance with appropriate account-,
ing practices all financial transactions of the Borrower with re-
spect to such Sub-loans;
(b) enable the Bank's representatives to inspect the farms
individually )r collectively owned for which Sub-loans under the
Project are made, the goods financed out of the proceeds of such
Sub-loans and any records and documents pertaining theret;; and
(c) furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan, and the Sub-loans made under the
Project.
Section 3.05. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall make a Sub-loan for the purchase
of 75 or more imported heifers to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, only if the contract for the supply of such heifers
has been procured, with the assistance of the Guarantor, in ac-
cordance with the pertinent provisions of paragraphs 3.3 through
3.10 of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 and after
soliciting of bids from suppliers from at least three countries
other than the Kingdom of Morocco.
(N*


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its af-
fairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion
and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
agricultural, banking and financial standards and practices and
under the supervision of qualified, experienced and well-trained
management and staff. In particular, the Borrower shall, for the
purpose of all its operations, continue to maintain in full force
and effect at all times, with the assistance of the Guarantor, its
current lending and operating policies (including those set forth
in Schedule 4 hereto) and shall review them, in consultation with
the Bank, as and when required for the Project and/or for carrying
on all its other operations, in accordance with such standards and
practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in
such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, with the assistance of the
Guarantor, maintain, in full force and effect, a compensation and
incentive system for the benefit of its personnel equivalent to
the system applicable in other comparable institutions.


﻿- 10-
Section 4.05. Not later than August 31, 1977, unless the Bank
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall set up
and, thereafter, maintain in operation, a monitoring and evaluation
system to measure, in a selective fashion and on the basis of an
appropriate sample, the effects and impact of its lending operations,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. To that end the
Borrower may, if needed, employ a qualified and experienced monitor-
ing consultant under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain accounts and prepare financial state-
ments reflecting separately the resources, use of resources and
-perating results of the CLCA(s) and of the operations, if any,
administered by the Borrower on behalf of the Guarantor.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) and those referred to in Section
5.01 (b) hereof for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
sound auditing principles consistently applied, by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of those finan-
cial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank such other information concerning those accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 12-
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes What, except as the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create
any lien on any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien
will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at
no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt,
the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to, (A) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the pur-
chase price of such property, or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Bor-
rover which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially and ad-
versely affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obli-
gations.


﻿- 13 -
Section 5.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur any debt if,
after the incurring of such debt, the total debt of the Borrower
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than four times
the capital (dotations), general reserves (reserves globales) and
surplus (benefice net   r8s provisions) of the Borrower.* For the
purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is original-
ly incurred (including deposits whose maturity is more than one
year).
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down pursuant to such loan contract or agreement;
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement provid-
ing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding; and (iii) in the case of
deposits, on the date the deposit is made.
(c) Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of dirhams debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing rate of
exchange at which such 6ther currency is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servi.c-
ing such debt.
*    See Section 2.01 (17) of General Conditions for definition
of "incurring of debt".


﻿Section 5.06. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies used in its operations.
Section 5.07. (a) The Borrower shall at all times charge in-
terest rates and/or fees on all of its loans such as to enable it:
Ci) to cover all its operating expenditures and charges,
including taxes (if any) and interest payments on
borrowings less any Guarantor's subsidy (if any)
for the CLCAs' operations;
(ii) to make adequate provision for bad or doubtful loans;
and
(iii) to accumulate adequate general reserves.
(b) Without any limitation upon the generality of the fore-
going, and unless the Bank shall otherwise ugree, the Borrower
shall implement, with the assistance of the Guarantor, the policy,
with respect to financial charges for certain categories of loans,
set forth in Schedule 4 hereto.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary steps to set and
maintain, within the framework of the applicable laws and regula-
tions, interest rates payable on its time and savings deposits
which shall at all times be competitive with those paid by institu-
tions of the banking system for deposits of comparable maturities.


﻿-15-
Section 5.09. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current assets
to current liabilities of not less than 120%. For the purpose of
this Section:
(a) "current assets" shall include cash, pre-paid expenses,
short-term loans and all other assets which could, in the ordinary
course of business, be converted within twelve months into cash; and
(b) "current liabilities" shall include customer deposits,
advances granted by the Guarantor, the Banque du Maroc or any other
similar institution controlled or owned by the Guarantor, debt ser-
vice obligations, income taxes, dividends, bonuses and all other
liabilities (including long-term debt) which will be due and pay-
able or could be called for payment, within twelve months.
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall utilize all funds repaid by
Sub-borrowers under Sub-loans financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and which are not needed immediately to make payments of
principal, interest and other charges under the Loan Agreement
for making Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers, as and when requested, in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.11. The Borrower shall, as from September 1, 1977,
cause (i) the amount of the financial charges specified in Section
I (A) of Schedule 4 hereto to be credited directly to its income
account (compte produits) and (ii) provisions for the CLCAs' guar-
antee fund to be set aside, on an annual basis, from the income of
the CLCA(s) in an amount as may be required for the purpose of
covering the bad or doubtful loans granted by the CLCA(s).


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Amendments to Prior Agreements
or Inconsistency Therewith
Section 6.01. The 1972 Loan Agreement and the 1972 Project
Agreement are hereby amended, as from the Effective Date hereof,
by:
(a) the deletion of all provisions included in, or all ref-
erences to, Sections 5.07 and 5.10 of the 1972 Loan Agreement;
(b) (i) the deletion of all provisions included in, or all
references to, Sections 5.01, 5.02, 5.05, 5.08 and 5.09 of the 1972
Loan Agreement and the Schedule to the 1972 Project Agreement
and (ii) the substitution therefor, and the consequential incor-
poration into said Agreements of, respectively, Sections 5.01,
5.02, 5.05, 5.07 (a) and 5.08 of, and of Schedule 4 to, this
Agreement, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth therein; and
(c) the incorporation into said Agreements of the provisions
of Section 5.09 hereof, with the saee force and effect as if they
were fully set forth therein;
provided, that, in the 1972 Project Agreement the terms Guarantor,
Borrower and Bank in the new Schedule shall be modified to read
Borrower, CNCA and Association, respectively.


﻿-17 -
Section 6.02. If any provision included in the 1965 Loan
Agreement, the 1972 Loan Agreement or the 1972 Project Agreement
is inconsistent with any provision hereof, the pertinent provision
included herein shall govern.


﻿-18-
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) The Agricultural Credit Dahir or D6cret or the Recovery
Dahir, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of the Borrower to carry out any of its cove-
nants, agreements and obligations set forth in the 1965 Loan Agree-
ment, the 1972 Loan Agreement, the 1972 Project Agreement or this
Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan under which foreign ex-
change is made available for the Project and
which is made to the Guarantor or the Bor-
rower, as the case may be, shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.


﻿- 19 -
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Guarantor or the Borrower, as the case may
be, establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank
that adequate funds for the foreign exchange cost
of the Project are available to the Guarantor or
the Borrower, as the case may be, from other
sources on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof, namely that any event specified in paragraphs
(a) or (b)(i) B of Section 7.01 hereof shall occur.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion to be furnished to the
Bank by the Borrower, namely, that the policy with respect to fi-
nancial charges, as set out in Section I (A) and (B) of Schedule
4 hereto, and the policies and procedures, as set out in Section
II (B) of such Schedule, have been duly ratified by the Borrower
and will legally be binding upon the Borrower, not later than
September 1, 1977.
Section 8.02. The date May 10, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 21 -
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) of
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 22 -
For the Borrower:
Caisse Nationale de Cr4dit
Agricole
2 rue d'Alger
Rabat, Morocco
Cable address:                 Telex:
CREDIAGRICOLE                 CREDAGRI
Rabat, Morocco                31.657.M


﻿- 23 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Mi'lle East and North Africa
CAISSE NATIONALE DE   EDIT AGRICOLE
By /s/ Abdelhadi Boutaleb
Authorized Representative


﻿-(24
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans for on-          26,000,000    )
farm investments                        )
under Part A of                         )
the Project                             )
(2) Sub-loans for on-           5,000,000    )   27.5% of dis-
farm investments                        )   bursements ac-
under Part D of                         )    tually made by
the Project                             )    CNCA
(3) Sub-loans for agri-           500,000    )
cultural machinery                      )
under Part E of the                     )
Project                                 )
(4) Technical Assistance           50,000       lo%
under Part F of the
Project
(5) Research Program un-          300,000        100% of foreign
der Part H of the                            expenditures
Project


﻿-25 -
Amunt of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(6) Unallocated                3,150,000
TOTAL      35,000,000


﻿- 26 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(i) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments
made for expenditures prior to the date hereof, ex-
cept that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $100,000, may be made
in respect of Category 5 on account of payments
made for such expenditures before that date but
after November 22, 1976; and


﻿- 27 -
(ii) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of dis-
bursements made for Sub-loans under Categories
1, 2 and 3 prior to the date at which the policy
with respect to financial charges, as set out in
Section I (A) and (B) of Schedule 4 hereto and
the policies and procedures, as set out in Section
II (B) thereof, shall have come into full force
and effect (as provided in Section 3.02 hereof),
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $5,600,000 may be made
in respect of said Categories on account of dis-
bursements under such Sub-loans granted before that
date but after the date hereof; it being understood
that such policies and procedures shall not be appli-
cable to such Sub-loans.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a lending program to finance agricul-
tural development in the Kingdom of Morocco over a period of about
three years commencing in 1977, and consists of the following parts:
Part A:   The provision of Sub-loans to individual small/medium-
sized farmers borrowing through the CLCA(s) for on-farm
investments;
Part B:   The provision of Sub-loans to individual medium/large-
sized farmers borrowing through CNCA headquarters and
the CRCA(s) for on-farm investments;
Part C:   The provision of Sub-loans to ORMVA(s) and provincial
offices of MARA for investments undertaken by farmers
under their supervision for comprehensive crop programs;
Part D:   The provision of Sub-loans to Cooperatives Agricoles
for their own on-farm investments and those of their
members;
Part E:   The provision of Sub-loans to farmers' associations
for agricultural machinery;


﻿- 29 -
Part F:   Technical assistance to CNCA for establishing a monitor-
ing and evaluation system;
Part G:   Consultants' services to CNCA for studies on banking
development and personnel training and provision of
audio-visual equipment for such training;
Part H:   A research program in vegetable cultivation by ORMVASM.
*         *         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1979.


﻿- 30                                      0
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1980
through   February 15, 1990                  1,750,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-31 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         2.00%
More than three years but not
more than five years
before maturity                         3.35%
More than five years but not
more than nine years
before maturity                         6.00%
More than nine years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         7.35%
More than eleven years
before maturity                         8.70%


﻿-32                                       0
SCHEDULE 4
Lending and Operating Policies
Section I.     Policy to be implemented for certain categories
of loans (including Sub-loans under the Project) with respect to
financial charges applicable thereto
(A) Loans granted by CLCA(s):
The following policy will be implemented with respect to
financial charges pertaining to all CLCAs' loans:
(i) the financial charges on medium-term loans will be
set at such levels as to result in a notional
interest rate to be identical for all such loans
irrespective of their respective maturities;
(ii) the financial charges on short-term loans will be
set at such levels as to result in a notional
interest rate not less than the interest rate
referred to in (i) above;
(iii) the notional interest rate referred to in (i)
above will be set, not later than September 1,
1977, at a level equivalent to the average interest
rate applied to CNCA's credit operations (exclud-
ing those of the CLCA(s)); it being specified that
such rate will be weighted on the basis of the
annual average amount of such operations outstand-
ing during the CNCA's fiscal year ending on August 31,


﻿-33-
1976. (This average interest rate will be computed
taking into account the conventional interest rate,
the penalty interest rate applicable to late pay-
ments and the fee rate charged for the appraisal
of a farm); and
(iv) the above notional interest rates will be reviewed,
as and when needed.
(B) Medium- and long-term loans granted by CNCA to Coopgra-
tives Agricoles and farmers' associations.
Age of coopgrative
or association      1 year   2 years   3 years   4 years   5-years  6 years
or more
Annual interest
rate of not
less than             7%       T%        7%        7%        8%      8.5%
(C) Medium- and long-term loans granted by CNCA to ORMVA(s)
and provincial offices of MARA and loans granted by
such entities.
Interest rate: not less than 8% per annum
(D) Other loans granted by CNCA.
Interest rate for medium- and long-term loans to indivi-
dual farmers: not less than 8.5% per annum.


﻿- 34~
Section II. Policies and Procedures to be followed by CNCA
in making loans (including Sub-loans under the Project)
(A) For medium-term loans to Cooperatives Agricoles the
appraisal, decision process and supervision of said
loans shall continue to be entrusted to the CNCA or
CRCA personnel, as the case may be.
(B) The financing ratio of the Coop4ratives Agricoles shall
be as follows:
Age of the
Cooperative
Agricole       1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years 6 years
or more
Percentage
financing of:
- short-term
inputs       100%     80%     norm    norm     norm      norm
- new invest-
ments        100%    100%     100%    100%    100%     100%
- investments
for renewal  norm    norm     norm    norm     norm      norm
For the purpose hereof the "norm" shall mean the financing
norm that would be applied to an individual farmer in the same
location for the same activity or investment, in accordance with
the Borrower's usual lending and operating policies.
(C) Approval of medium- and lodg-term loans shall be made
after careful appraisal, based on development plans
of the beneficiaries. Aside from security considera-
tions, medium- and long-term loan applications shall


﻿-35-
be evaluated in terms of incremental returns from the
additional investment to be financed and in terms of
the repayment capacity of the beneficiary.
(D) (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no loan to any beneficiary shall exceed the fol-
lowing, unless the excess is fully guaranteed by the
Guarantor or a responsible financial institution:
20% of the sum of CNCA's net worth and the total
principal amount outstanding (if any) of the Guarantor's
long-term advances to CNCA.
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a):
(i) CNCA's net worth shall mean its capital
(dotations), general reserves (reserves
globales), liquidation account (compte
de liquidation) and surplus (benefice net
aprs provisions); and
(ii) long-term advances shall mean loans or advances
having outstanding maturities of not less than
five years.
(E) CNCA shall obtain adequate security on loans. Aside
from security considerations, CNCA shall not make any
loans unless it is first satisfied with regard to
the viability of the development plan or operations
to be financed therewith and the earnings potential
of the enterprise.


﻿- 36 -
(F) CNCA shall, if necessary to carry out the development
plan for which a Sub-loan is to be granted, finance
the working capital requirements of the Sub-borrower
or assure that adequate financing is available for
current expenditures and inputs.
(G) (a) Sub-loans shall be made under written agreements
with the Sub-Borrower which shall include, without
limitation, provisions implementing the pertinent terms
set out above and obtaining the following rights:
(i) the right to require the Sub-borrower to carry
out the development plan approved by CNCA, and
to carry on its operations with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, agricultural, commercial and financial
practices and standards, and to maintain adequate
records as appropriate;
(ii) the right of CNCA and the Bank to inspect the
premises the improvement of which is financed
by the Sub-loan, any equipment, materials or
inputs financed by the Sub-loan, the operations
of the Sub-borrower, and any relevant records
and documents as appropriate;
(iii) the right to obtain all such information as
CNCA'or the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the operations
and financial condition of the Sub-borrower;


﻿- 37 -
(iv) the right to require that the proceeds of the
Sub-loan financed out of the Loan not be expended
for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, any country which is not a member of the
Bank (other than Switzerland);
(v) the right to require that the goods and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-
loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency
and reliability thereof, and availability of
service and spare parts therefor;
(vi) the right to require the Sub-borrower to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers
insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with sound
practice; and
(vii) the right to suspend or terminate access by
the Sub-borrower to the use of the Sub-loan
upon failure by him to perform his obligations
and, in appropriate cases, to premature the
Sub-loan.
(b) CNCA shall exercise its rights under the Sub-loan
agreement referred to in sub-paragraph (a) above
so as to protect the interests of CNCA and the
Bank.


﻿- 38 -
(c) CNCA shall supervise and monitor Sub-loans made
by it in accordance with sound banking and agri-
cultural practices. Such supervision and monitor-
ing shall include periodic visits to farms or
marketing facilities, as the case may be, to en-
sure that the proceeds of Sub-loans are being
used properly and that satisfactory progress is
being made in completing the investment and in
reaping its benefits.


