CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1361 MOR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
for a World Bank Loan pertaining to a
Third Agricultural Credit Project
in the Kingdom of Morocco and for amending
certain agreements entered into between
the parties hereto with respect to
Loan No. 861 and Credit No. 338
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 7, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 7, 1977, between the KINGDOM OF
MOROCCO (hereinafter sometimes called the Guarantor) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith among the
Bank, the Association and Caisse Nationale de Cr4dit Agricole
(hereinafter called the Borrower) (i) the Bank has agreed to make
to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
five million dollars ($35,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided and (ii) the Bank,
the Association and the Borrower have agreed to amend certain agree-
ments entered into among the parties thereto with resDect to Loan
No. 861 and Credit No. 338; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the foregoing,
has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower, and
the Guarantor and the Bank have agreed to amend certain agreements
entered into between the parties hereto with respect to Loan
No. 861 and Credit No. 338;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the Agree-
ment.
Section 2.02. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 hereof, the Guarantor shall make ar-
rangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to provide or cause the
Borrower to be provided with adequate resources (including, if
needed, foreign exchange resources) (i) for the Borrover's own
credit operations (including those of the CLCA(s)) and (ii) for
the credit operations administered by the Borrower on behalf of
the Guarantor.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of subsection (a) above, the Guarantor shall cover (i) by means
of subsidies, all losses incurred by the Borrower on its CLCA
credit operations and (ii) all expenses incurred by the Borrower
with respect to the operations (if any) carried out by the Bor-
rower o-1 behalf of the Guarantor.


﻿Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall take all steps necessary
to enable the Borrower to set and maintain interest rates on its
time and savings deposits in accordance with the provisions of
Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members, not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provi-
sion to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-6-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by Banque du Maroc or any institution performing the functions
of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar func-
tions, for the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions or
the Banque du Maroc to take, any action which would prevent or inter-,
fere with the performance by the Borrower of its obligations con-
tained in the Loan Agreement and will take or cause to be taken all
reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable the Borrower
to perform such obligations, including, without limitation, the
obligations which are to be fulfilled by the Borrower, with the
assistance of the Guarantor, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tions 3.02, 3.05, 4.0l, 4.04, and 5.07 (b) of the Loan Agreement;
it being understood that, in this latter instance, the assistance
to be provided by the Guarantor to the Borrower shall include
all administrative, legislative and financial measures or support
required for the purpose.


﻿7
(b) The Guarantor shall cause ORMVASM to carry out Part H
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate agricultural research standards and practices
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall make, and maintain in ef-
fect, arrangements to protect the Borrower against losses in con-
nection with the payment of interest or other charges on, or the
repayment of Drincianal of, the Loan resulting from changes in
the rate of exchange between dirhams and the currency or curren-
cies in which such payments are to be made.
*            Section 3.0L. The Guarantor shall facilitate the Drompt
issuance of all necessary licenses and permits for the importation
of goods and livestock required for the Project, if unavailable in
the local market.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall continue to guarantee loans
to Cooperatives Agricoles under terms and conditions of the same
import as those set forth in D4cret royal portant loi No. 358-66
of 15 Rebia I 1386 (July 4, 1966).
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall continue to assign the
newly graduated technical agricultural personnel to all the MARA
departments and agricultural institutions (including the Borrower),
as and when required by such departments and institutions and in
accordance with the priorities determined by the Guarantor.


﻿-8                                      0
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall take all appropriate steps
to revise, with due diligence, the laws and regulations governing
the agricultural credit operations in the Kingdom of Morocco in
order to ensure that the Borrower's actual lending and operating
policies be consistent therewith.
Section 3.08. The 1972 Guarantee Agreement and the 1972
Credit Agreement are hereby amended, as from the Effective Date
hereof, by (i) the deletion of all provisions included in, or
all references to, Section 2.04 of the 1972 Guarantee Agreement
and (ii) the substitution therefor, and the consequential incor-
poration into said Agreements, of Section 2.02 hereof, provided,
that, in the 1972 Credit Agreement the terms Guarantor, Borrower
and Bank in the new Section shall be modified to read Borrower,
CNCA and Association, respectively.
Section 3.09. If any provision included in the 1965 Guarantee
Agreement, the 1972 Guarantee Agreement, or the 1972 Credit Agree-
ment is inconsistent with any provision hereof, the pertinent pro-
vision included herein shall govern.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of the Guarantor at the time re-
sponsible for finance is designated as representative of the Guar-
antor for the purnoses of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministere des Finances
Rabat, Morocco
Cable address:                Telex:    31936M
MINISTERE FINANCES
Rabat
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Abdelhadi Boutaleb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


