Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/j v. Ys-2- j%
Report No. P-3840-PO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT To US07.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
May 31, 1984
This document has a restricted disribution and maw be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PORTUGAL
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Portuguese Escudo (Esc.) 1/
Calendar 1983                     March 1984
(Average)
Esc. 110.78 = USti.OO             Esc. 135 = UStl.oo
Ese.   1.00 = UStO.0090           Esc. 1.00 = Usto.aO74
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CAP         Common Agricultural Policy of the European Economic Community
CCAM        Caixa de Credito Agricola Mutuo (Agricultural Credit Cooperative
Bank)
CIYPA       Interministerial Commission on Marketing of Agricultural Products
EEC         European Economic Community
FAO         Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FENACAN     Federacao Nacional das Caixas de Credito Agricola Mutuo
(Rational Federation of Agricultural Credit Cooperative Banks)
DGRE        General Directorate of Rural Extension
INIAER      Instituto Nacional das Investigacoes Agricolas e de Extension
Rural (National Agricultural Research and Extension Organization)
MAFF        Ministerio da Agricultura, Florestas e Alimentacao (Ministry of
Agriculture, Forests and Food)
PADAR       Program of Support to Regional Agricultural Development
UINDPI      United Nations Development Program
OPE          Office of Project Execution
USAID       United States Agency for International Development
1/ The exchange rate of the escuio is being adjusted monthly on the basis of
a "crawling peg" system.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrover:              Republic of Portugal
Amount:                t7.4 million equivalent.
Terms:                 15 years, including three years of grace, with interest
at the standard variable interest rate. The Govern-
ment would bear the exchange and interest risks.
Prcject Description:   The project's objectives would be to help the Govern-
ment formulate an agricultural development strategy in
the context of Portugal's anticipated entry into the
European Economic Community (EEC). It would help pre-
pare action plans and investment programs to strengthen
agricultural support services in the fields of agri-
cultural research, extension, marketing, credit, irri-
gation and seeds.
The project includes: (a) the elaboration of a
national master plan for research, the design of
priority research programs and development of selected
adaptive experimental farms; (b)the reorganization and
strengthening of extension services in seven represen-
tative agrarian zones, on a pilot basis, for eventual
replication on a national scale; (c) review of in-
vestment plans and establishment of priorities for
large, medium and small irrigation schemes, promotion
of efficient water use and cost recovery procedures;
Cd) studies and technical assistance to strengthen
agricultural cooperative credit banks, and to estab-
lish a central cooperative Bank; and (e) review of the
national seed industry, promotion of seed production
and certification, and feasibility studies for the
extension of seed production and certification. It
would consist of the provision of 316 man-months of
technical assistance, equipment for research, seed
treatment and extension services, and 103 man-months
of training.
The project's principal benefit would be the formula-
tion of specific medium-term investment programs with-
in a coherent plan. The project faces no special
risks, except possible delays in implementation due to
delays in recruiting consultants and to funding con-
straints. Actions already initiated to recruit ex-
perts, and mechanisms built to ensure timely funding
would minimize this risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
th official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



s mllio
Estimated Costs (excluding taxes and duties)        Local     Foreign      Total
(a) Technical Assistance and Studies                 0.45       2.95        3.40
(b) Equipment                                        0.55       2.18        2.73
(c) Civil Works                                      0.29       0.13        0.42
(d) Training                                                    0.34        0.34
(e) Operating Expenditures                           2.21       0.58        2.79
Sub-total 1/                                3.50       6.18        9.68
Physical Contingencies                      0.06       0.25        0.31
Price Contingencies                         0.66       0.97        1.63
Total Project Costs                         4.22       7.40       11.62
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                    -        0.02        0.02
Total Financing Required                    4.22       7.42       11.64
t million
Financing Plan                                      Local    Foreign       Total
Bank Loan                                        -          7.40        7.40
Government                                       4.22       0.02        4.24
Total                                           4.22       7.42       11.64
Estimated Disbursements;
-  million
Bank FY    85    86    87    88    89
Annual                                      0.7   2.2   2.7   1.4   0.4
Cumulative                                  0.7   2.9   5.6   7.0   7.4
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Appraisal Report: ND separate Staff Appraisal Report
1/ Based on May 1984 prices



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBED
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US07.4 million to help
finance an Agricultural Services project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1,
2.       The latest economic report, entitled 'The Portuguese Economy, 1980-
82, An Updating Report" (No. 4004-PO, dated March 1, 1983) was distributed to
the Executive Directors in March 1983. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I. An updating economic report is being prepared and will be discussed
with the Government in the next fiscal year.
Background
3.       The revolution of April 1974 radically transformed Portugal's econ-
omy. Major sectors of the economy were nationalized, and a comprehensive
land reform was carried out in the central and southern parts of the country.
Trade union activity was legalized and workers' rights safeguarded. The
Government increased its intervention in the economy through wage and price
controls, as well as by a significant increase in public expenditures. The
disruptions from these structural changes, together with a combination of
adverse external factors, resulted in a sharp deterioration in the balance of
payments by 1977. In 1978, the Government adopted a comprehensive adjustment
program, in--luding a Standby Agreement with the IMF, which reduced the current
account deficit to virtually zero. The period since 1979 has seen the pro-
gressive deterioration of economic performance in most major aspects and
again in relation to the balance of payments.
Recent Developments
4.       The combination of high accumulated current account deficits since
1980, the political uncertainty which followed the fall in December 1982 of
the AD coalition, which had been in power for about two vears, and lack of
economic leadership during the first semester of 1983 (pending general elec-
tions), led to a serious deterioration in Portugal's credit rating in inter-
national capital markets. Difficulties were e-.countered in renewing part of
the short-term external debt of public enterprises and payments on external
1/ Identical to Part I of the President's Report No. P-3798-PO dated
April 27, 1984, for the Textile Restructuring Project, approved by the
Executive Directors on May 24, 1984.



- 2 -
short-term capital, mainly by public enterprises, exceeded receipts by about
t600 million during 1983. A large parr of the current account deficit in 1983
was financed through reductions in net foreign assets (about $1.1 billion).
5.       The new Government, which took office in June 1983, arranged immedi-
ately a number of measures (including devaluation of the escudo and reduction
of subsidies) to start addressing the country's deteriorated economic situa-
tion; it has developed a comprehensive adjustment program aimed at reducing
the balance of payments deficit and at maintaining indebtedness at a sustain-
able level.  A Standby Agreement with the IMF was signed on October 9, 1983,
and includes ceilings on domestic credit and on external borrowing. It
appears that the economy has already started to respond to the Government's
economic policy measures. For 1983 as a whole, imports are estimated to have
declined by at least 10 percent and exports have increased by at least 15
percent in volume, compared with 1982 levels. The current account deficit
for the first semester of 1983 declined to tl.4 billion from $2.2 billion
during the first semester of 1982, and for the whole year 1983 the current
account deficit is estimated at about $1.7 billion, compared to $3.2 billion
for 1982. However, GDP growth in 1983 is estimated at close to zero; con-
sumption has declined and investment has declined even more.
6.       Inflation accelerated during 1983, exceeding 33 percent in December
1983 on an annual basis.  It seems tlat expectations have not changed and
that capital flight continued in 1983 despite a competitive exchange rate,
largely positive real interest rates, and the agreement with the IMF. Because
inventories t-lve been run down, a continuation of the growth of exports will
require increased imports, which in turn, depend largely on the availability
of foreign exchange.   The principal source of weakness in economic manage-
ment remains in the area of public sector finances. The deficit of the
general government on a cash basis reached 11.7 percent of GDP in 1982. In
addition, arrears equivalent to about 6 percent of GDP remained outstanding
from the Supply Fund towards public enterprises. The Government has taken
some measures to pave the way to financial rationalization, but much remains
to be done.
The Need for Structural Change
7.       Stabilization must once again dominate the formulation of economic
policy in Portugal. Growth rates of the order of 4 tc 5 percent per annum,
which were earlier thought to be possible, now seem to be inconsistent with
the maintenance of reasonable equilibrium in the balance of payments over the
next three to four years. The dilemma which the Goverrment is now grappling
with is to address the serious deterioration in the economic situation, while
at the name time undertaking structural changes. Efforts to restructure
industry, to encourage investment attuned to energy-saving and to improve the
generally weak productivity performance of Portuguese agriculture will need
to be pursued in a framework which is consistent with stabilization policies.
If reasonable domestic growth is to be achieved in spite of oil, food and
other structural dependencies on the import side, Portugal will require
continued growth of visible exports at rates significantly higher than the



growth of world trade. Portugal will also need to follow policies which can
maintain migrants' remittances at a high level.
8.       Industry is the leading sector for exports, and particularly in line
with the prospective EEC accession, requires restructuring to fully exploit
its comparative advantage. This will mean emphasis on labor-intensive indus-
tries, both light industries (textiles and footwear) and heavier items (in-
cluding electrical machinery and transport equipment). Although Portugal's
industrial strategy must give priority to exports, the development of basic
industry to supply the domestic market should also be pursued whenever ade-
quate returns can be demonstrated. It will also be important to simplify
(and in some cases dismantle) many of the complex Government interventions to
which Portuguese industries have become accustomed.  These include the system
of investment incentives, the price control apparatus, the arrangements for
export incentives, and extensive non-tariff barriers to trade.
9.       The need for structural change is particularly acute for non-
financial public enterprises (NFPE). This is true for several reasons.
First, there has been little direct pressure on these enterprises to adjust
to changed circumstances, resulting in low profits, if not losses, for many
of them. Administered prices, rigid labor laws. inadequate managerial incen-
tives/accountabilitv, and insufficient self-financing requirements for
investment have retarded rationalization at the enterprise level. Second,
exogenous circumstances have aggravated the adjustment problem; these include
the concentration in the public sector of industries which are economically
depressed worldwide (e.g., shipbuilding, steel, cement, and international
transport); the delays and uncertainties in budgetary transfers and invest-
ment approvals due to changing governments; and the strong position of labor
unions in the large public sector enterprises. Social service obligations,
such as maintaining strategic reserves or uneconomic services, might also
fall into this category. And third, the UPPEs have been required, to some
extent, to bear the burden of adjustment of the rest of the economy through
accumulated net budgetary arrears. It seems essential, therefore, that some
financial restructuring at the enterprise level should take place to relieve
liquidity pressures. It must also be closely tied to institutional changes
and physical restructuring to increase long-run profitability. The Bank is
closely associated with work under way at the Government level to formulate a
restracturing program for NFPEs.
10.      The private sector is likely to be the major contributor to economic
growth foreseen for the 1980s and is expected to account for about 60 percent
of the investment in the period. The large increases in exports in 1979 and
in 1983 are evidence of the gains that the private sector can make in major
markets. However, private investment is still hindered by several factors.
Profitability, though rising in recent years, is still relatively low by
historical s.andards and is likely to be squeezed in the near future. Credit
availability to the private sector may be restricted by the continuing large
public sector borrowing requirement. Potential investors have considered
current interest rates too high and the investment incentive schemes are
essentially designed to mitigate the perceived high cost of capital. Given



- 4 -
the relativelv poor response to its incentives programs, the Government is
considering ways to revise them, through better targeting and reducing their
overall cost.
11.      Measures to improve the conditions in the agricultural sector are
also underway, but are slow in producing results. Credit needs to be ex-
panded furthe- and focussed on production-oriented investments. The mech-
anism and structure of agricultural lending rates needs to be rationalized to
provide appropriate incentives for long-term investments. While increased
on-farm investments are necessary, little will be achieved without substan-
tial advances on the technical side as well. The extension services of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry (MAFF) need to be upgraded, and
their links to research and to the farmers need to be strengthened. Recent
efforts to train agricultural extension manpower and the farmers themselves
need to be intensified. The Bank has carried out a joint review with the
Government of the prospects for improving the performance of the agricultural
sector, and its report is expected to provide a basis for further
collaboration.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
12.      The total external debt of Portugal increased from $7.3 billion at
the end of 1979 to $14.5 billion by August 1983; at the end of 1982, total
external debt amounted to about 57 percent of GDP. Almost 80 percent of the
total outstanding debt has been contracted by the public sector, with public
enterprises accounting for 60 percent. Public and publicly guaranteed debt
accounts for 96 percent of all medium- and long-term debt. Short-term debt,
which is estimated at the end of 1983 at $3.5 billion, has been the fastest
growing component of Portugal's external debt. More than 91 percent of the
short-term debt has been contracted by NFPEs, essentially four of them.
During the first semester of 1983, the short-term borrowings of the Treasury
and NFPEs were contracted at rates one-half to five-eighths above LIBOR.
13.      Portugal is a regular borrower on international capital markets,
either directly by the state or through public enterprises. About two-thirds
of total borrowings, and virtually all of the short-term borrowing, has been
contracted from financial institutions. Multilateral lending constitutes
only about -13 percent of Portugal's medium- and long-term debt outstanding,
and is slightly Inss than bilateral lending.
14.      The steady increase in Portugal's external debt, coupled with a
weakening in the rate of growth of foreign exchange earnings, has resulted in
a considerable deterioration in the various debt service indicators. The
broadly defined debt service ratio (including interest payments but not
amortization on short-term debt) rose from 14.5 percent in 1980 to 27.5 per-
cent in 1982. For 1983, it is estimated that debt service payment<, exclud-
ing the rollover of the outstanding in short-term debt, exceeded $2.2 billion
(or about 28 percent of foreign exchange earnings). In addition to the rapid
build-up in Portugal's external debt, the recent deterioration in the debt
service ratio has also been the result of large amortization payments falling



due on the medium-term debt contracted in the late 1970s. Keeping the ex-
ternal debt situation manageable in the next few vears will require a reduc-
tion in the current account deficit as a proportion of GDP, attended by rela-
tively slow GDP growth (not exceeding 3 percent), and a greater effort to
expand exports (by at least 7 percent per year).
15.      The IMF agreement mentioned in preceeding paragraphs established a
ceiling on the increase of total external debt outstanding by the end of 1984
of $1.2 billion, of which $200 million can be short-term. Despite Portugal's
gold reserves (20.44 million troy ounces in June 1983), which are still per-
ceived as Portugal's main guarantee by most lenders, some difficulties may be
encountered over the next 12 months to roll over the existing debt and to
extend the needed additional loans. The necessity of carefully managing its
foreign exchange position and external financial arrangements will remain an
issue for Portugal until the end of the decade.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL 1/
16.      The first phase of Bank lending to Portugal, during the period 1963-
66, was concentrated in the power sector; this reflected the Government's
development priorities to meet the power needs of a rapidly developing indus-
trial sector. The events of the more recent past have created special prob-
lems; the trans dion to an open political system has revealed social and
economic weaknesses which are unusual for a relatively high-income developing
country. The Bank has responded to Portugal's needs by identifying, prepar-
ing and financing projects, and through economic and sector work in a number
of areas.
17.      The proposed loan would be the twenty-fifth to Portugal, the
twentieth since the resumption of lending in 1976.2/ Bank operations since
1976 amount to about $851 million (net of cancellations), and have been
concentrated in the industry (7 projects for $357.9 million) and energy (4
projects for $212.4 million) sectors. About 39 percent of the total lending
has been channelled to public enterprises, about 39 percent via lines of
credit for onlending to individual enterprises, with the remaining 22 percent
in support of activities undertaken by the Government administration.
18.      As of March 31, 1984, total disbursements from loans made after 1976
amounted to over $343 million. The first three loans (Sixth Power, First
Banco de Fomento and First Highways) are fully disbursed. Given the profile
1/ Substantially the same as in the President's Report No. P-3798-PO dated
April 27, 1984, for the Textile Restructuring Project, approved by the
Executive Directors on May 24, 1984.
2/ Excluding the proposed Manpower Training project which is being processed
simultaneously with this one and is scheduled for consideration by the
Executive Directors on the same day.



of commitments and some recent improvements in the implementation of the
projects under Government administration, overall disbursement performance
has been improving; disbursements in FY1983 amounted to *97.5 million eqaiva-
lent. A full review of the performance of the portfolio was held in Lisbon
in March 1984 to seek further improvements. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.
19.      Ongoing projects with public enterprises are all progressing well in
physical project terms, with all but the most recent loan to the electricity
corporation (FY1983) nearly fully disbursed; as noted above, many public
enterprises (including some public enterprises which are Bank borrowers) are
experiencing serious financial difficulties. This situation is under close
scrutiny by the Bank and the Government, and special efforts to address the
underlying and institutional causes are being designed. The loans for on-
lending via lines of credit have recently slowed in disbursements. With the
devaluation of the escudo over the course of project execution, the first
Small and Medium Industry (SMI) line of credit required about twice as many
sub-loans denominated in local currency to be fully committed as were ex-
pected at appraisal. Commitments under the second National Development Bank
loan have been adversely affected by the slowdown in investment in Portugal,
which appears to have particularly affected its larger-scale enterprise
clients. The agricultural and fisheries credit project experienced severe
institutional difficulties, and was executed in a period of over-liquidity in
the banking system. It has not been able to reach the target population, and
consequently most of the line has been cancelled.
20.      The Bank is also assisting the Government in an intense parallel
effort at macroeconomic and sectoral levels to review policy and management
issues.  The report "Policies for Industrial Restructuring", dated August 4,
1982, laid the basis for a number of policy improvements and identification
of projects for possible Bank assistance, including the recently approved
Textile Industry Restructuring Project. This report was followed-up by an
updated economic memorandum and a special report on "Prospects for External
Trade in Light of EEC Entry - with Special Reference to Agriculture," both of
which were distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1983. At the
sectoral level, we are nearing completion of an Agricultural Sector Survey,
which will be discussed with the Government by mid-1984, and an Energy
Assessment Report, which has already been discussed with the Government and
will be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. The major ongoing
effort is the preparation, at the request of the Government, of a report on
the public enterprise sector. We also expect to launch additional work on
the overall financial sector, in close association with the IFC, in the near
future.
21.      The industry, energy, and agriculture sectors have been identified
as the most appropriate areas of concentration for Bank work. The importance
of the industrial sector cannot be overemphasized, as it is expected to be
the major growth point for the Portuguese economy and exports. The main
objectives of Bank assistance to the industrial sector are structural reform,
export promotion and efficient import-substitution, employment creation and



preservation and promotion of energy-saving. Restructuring projects for a
number of industrial subsectors are being prepared, as well as a project to
promote technological improvements; a manpower and vocational training proj-
ect is being processed for consideration by the Executive Directors in this
fiscal year. Bank activities in support of the development of the energy
sector in Portugal are also important, given the continuing high dependence
of Portugal on imported petroleum products, the attractive potential benefits
from energy conservation, and the very large share of energy investments in
the overall public investment program. Follow-up projects for the electricity
corporation and energy savings projects are planned, and a project for coal
handling port facilities is being prepared. In the agricultural sector, Bank
assistance will be focused on institution-building programs and technical
assistance.  Besides the proposed agricultural services project, ot%er proj-
ect proposals identified in the draft Agriculture Sector Survey include pro-
grams for livestock and dairy development, wheat, and regional agricultural
development services.
22.      In the context of the stabilization program, the overall investment
program of the Government and the public enterprises has been severely con-
strained; in 1984, public investment is expected to decline in real terms.
The slowdown of growth for the general economy will also dampen private
sector investment levels as well. The Bank program of assistance is there-
fore designed to address policy level issues which will facilitate the pro-
gressive return to robust growth, and targetted at those specific investment
areas which should receive priority, especially in the constrained circum-
stances.
PART II! - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
23.      The evolution of the Portuguese economy over the last 25 years has
been accompanied by few structural changes in the agriculture and fisheries
sector, and has been characterized by a disappointing performance of the sec-
tor. The share of agriculture in GDP declined from 30 percent to about 10
percent. Agricultural employment fell from 47 percent to less than 25 per-
cent of total employment. As total GDP rose, so did personal incomes and
aggregate demand for food. But agricultural and fisheries production almost
stagnated in real terms, so that food imports have soared and agricultural
exports faltered, resulting in a negative trade balance. Improvements in the
production levels and productivity of the agricultural sector have become
indispensable to the economic transformation and growth of the country. Such
improvements have also become urgent in the light of Portugal's anticipated
entry into the European Economic Community (EEC), as its acceptance of the
EEC's Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) will have a profound effect on
Portugal's agriculture, particularly with respect to pricing, institutional
support measures, protection against external competition, and the access to
external markets for a wide range of products. Portugal and the EEC have
been discussing for some time and have reached some understandings on a
number of measures affecting the agricultural sector.



24.      The Common Agriculture Policy of the EEC which is based upon the
three principles of common prices, community preference, and common financing
will continue to evolve to meet changing circumstances. Portugal will have
to adopt its centrel features upon accession to the EEC. This would involve
(a) bringing producer support prices into accord with EEC levels and elimi-
nating subsidies; (b) giving preference to community production at prices
possibly higher than world market prices to satisfy Portuguese import demand,
and (c) subjecting imports from third country sources to levies and remitting
the proceeds of these levies to the EEC Guarantee Fund and (d) liberalizing
marketing arrangements. Clearly, the CAP will have significance for both
agricultural producers in terms of lower support prices and for consumer in
terms of higher prices.
25.      Price harmonization would affect the different regions of Portugal
unequally, with producers of livestock products and cereals especially in the
Entre-Douro-e-Minho and Beira Littoral regions being the greatest losers.
The producers of fruits and vegetables in the Algarve would be the largest
gainers. Steeper downward price adjustments would be required to reach EEC
price levels, especially in cereals and livestock. Resource use would have
to be adjusted to reflect these likely changes, and the sector has to be
strengthened to carry out the needed adjustments.
26.      Marketing:  Marketing reform is needed to bring Portugal's policies
in line with EEC rules, which require greater internal freedom of trade and
the elimination of state monopolies in agricultural trade. In general terms,
marketing problems in Portugal are of two types:  first, in the institutional
area, there is the need to begin (i) the process of deregulation of prices
and margins; (ii) the phasing out of monopolist buying and selling organiza-
tions and (iii) the development of incentives and information systems to
foster private sector involvement; and second, there is a need to develop
market facilities, roads, storage, processing equipment, etc. Under the
Procalfer Program financed by USAID, a study was recently prepared (April
1982) which identifies priority agricultural marketing projects to address
marketing problems of critical importance to the agriculture of Portugal.
The Government has already committed itself in principle to alter the exist-
ing arrangements and to disband gradually, beginning in 1984, the parastatal
marketing monopolies in charge of cereals, oilseeds and sugarcane. In October
1983, an interministerial commission on the marketing of food products (CIDPA)
was established to formulate proposals for a phased transition of marketing
from monopolies to arrangements acceptable to the EEC. CDMPA is also charged
with defining proposals regarding minimum access to various markets on the
part of the private sector, cooperatives and public agents.
Constrairts to Agricultural Development
27.      Portugal's agricultural land base is small--about 5.0 million ha.,
excluding forests-and half of that land consists of relatively poor soils.
While Portugal's climate and agricultural land are comparable to those of
northern Mediterranean countries such as Spain and Italy, its yields are, in
comparison extremely low.



- 9 -
28.      Aside from the paucity of good quality arable land, several major
constraints have prevented agriculture from realizing its full potential.
First, the agrarian structure that prevailed until 1975 restricted the access
of the population to resources and kept a large proportion of the rural pop-
ulation poor. Second, the institutional role of the government in the sector
was essentially limited to regulating markets and administering subsidies.
The need for government action to provide a broad range of technical and
financial services to the sector was not appreciated until after the Revolu-
tion, and even at present the lack of experienced manpower and adequate
organizational structures remain constraints in building viable programs.
Third, economic policy has led to distortions in resource allocation that are
deeply ingrained in agriculture. An elaborate system of administered prices
and subsidies has kept producer prices of some major commodities artificially
higher than import prices, thereby promoting development in some cases along
lines in which the country does not have a comparative advantage.
Agricultural Development Strategy and Sectoral Policies
29.      The Government has assigned a high priority to the development of
agriculture and seeks to bring about increases in productivity and in produc-
tion. The Government continues to pursue measures to resolve outstanding
issues which arose out of land reform in the south, following the Revolution
in 1974. The land tenure situation in the north, where farms are very small
and not economically viable, requires the Government's attention to consoli-
date farms and increase their size. This issue will be addressed in upcoming
regional agricultural development projects. The Government is also strength-
ening agricultural support services to help overcome constraints impeding
agricultural development (see paragraphs 36-40). It has taken measures to
eliminate subsidies to consumers and reduced subsidies to producers. Though
producer prices are higher than in the EEC, the Government views them as
needed incentives for increasing production in the short run and intends to
bring domestic agricultural prices gradually in line with EEC prices prevail-
ing under the CAP. However, the Government has act yet defined a set of
consistent policies likely to bring about a comprehensive development of the
sector. In addition, institutional structures would require strengthening
for such policies to be implemented. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forests
and Food (MAFF) is very large in terms of numbers of employees, most of whom
are located in Lisbon, but its activities need better coordination and
orientation to the needs of farmers. The proposed project would help to
carry out studies, develop action plans and introduce institutional reforms
to bring about efficient agricultural development in the medium term. The
focus of the overall strategy and of action plans would be on assisting key
areas of the sector identified in the Bank-Government joint agricultural
sector survey in 1983, to adjust to the changed economic environment of the
EEC, and to take advantage of new market opportunities upon Portugal's
expected accession to the EEC. The proposed project focuses on agricultural
research, extension, irrigation, credit, and seeds.



- 10 -
Bank Assistance to Agriculture
30.      Bank lending for the development of Portuguese agriculture has been
relatively modest. So far, three projects have been approved in this sec-
tor: the Agriculture and Fisheries Credit Proiect (Lu. 1603-PO of FY78), the
Forestry Project (Lu.1853-PO of FY80) and the Tras-Os-Montes Integrated Rural
Development Project (Ln. 2175-PD of FY83). The objective of the Agricultural
and Fisheries Credit Project was to support the institutional framework of
the Government's new agricultural and fisheries credit system. The Forestry
Project supports the formulation of a long-term forest development strategy,
the modernization of forest management practices and afforestation to meet
the raw material demand of forest-based industries, especially for export.
The Tras-Os-Montes project is Limed at improving farn incomes and living con-
ditions in the Tras-Os-Montes Region, which is the poorest in Portugal. In
addition, the Education I project (Loan 1593-PO) assisted in the establish-
ment of seven farmers' training centers. The implementation of the Agricul-
ture and Fisheries Credit Project has been very slow, due largely to inade-
quate coordination amongst participating agencies and the excess liquidity in
the banking system which, coupled with strict credit ceilings, sharply
limited participating banking institution (PBI) recourse to refinancing from
the Agricultural and Fisheries Development Fund (IFADAP). As a result, and
at the Government's request, the Bank cancelled *55.0 million of the $70.0
million loan. The experience in this project highlighted (i) the need to
develop sound technical packages, and to strengthen and carefully supervise
extension services to ensure farmers' adoption of the packages; and (b) the
advisability of starting pilot projects to gain experience before embarking
on large-scale projects in the sector.  The Tras-Os-Montes project, which
drew heavily on the lessons learned in this first project, is progressing
satisfactorily. The forestry project, which became effective in March 1981,
is also progressing satisfactorily. In addition to these ongoing lending
activities, the Bank carried out a study on agricultural prices and subsidies,
distributed to the Executive Directors on August 28, 1979 (No. 2380-PO), a
study on the prospects for external trade in the light of EEC entry with
special reference to agriculture (Report No. 4109-PO dated March 3, 1983),
and recently an agricultural sector survey which was jointly prepared with
the Government (para. 20).
31.     The proposed project is in response to the Government's request for
Bank assistance in addressing key institutional and sectoral constraints in
the areas of extension, research, and credit to develop a more coherent agri-
cultural development strategy and prepare for EEC entry. Future Bank assis-
tance would help address otner production constraints. The Bank's continued
involvement in the development of the project's studies and masterplans would
help promote new approaches to agricultural planning, investment and policies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.      The proposed project originated from the findings of the joint agri-
cultural sector survey which was carried out by the Bank and the Portuguese
authorities in March 1983. It was further identified by a Bank mission



- 11 -
during the discussions with the Government of the main recommendations of the
survey and the strategy it proposed. The project was appraised in February
1984. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1984. Portugal's delega-
tion was led by Dr. Carlos Gaspar, of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.
33.      The main features of the loan and the project are shown in the Loan
and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map (IBRD - 18154) showing the
regional agricultural zones and the seven agrarian zones selected for ex-
tension activity is attached. Since this is mostly a technical assistance
project, no separate staff appraisal report is being distributed. A table on
project costs and the project implementation schedule are set out in
Annexes IV and V.  A project file has been prepared containing background
material and detailed terms of reference for the consultant services and
studies.
Project Objectives
34.      The project's main objective would be to help the Government develop
a sound agricultural development strategy along lines consistent with
Portugal's comparative advantage. It would reinforce the Government's
efforts to (i) strengthen its technical support services to ensure a smooth
adjustment by the sector to the economic environment and market opportunities
in the EEC and (ii) harmonize its policies and institutions with those of EEC
so as to prepare for Portugal's entry into the EEC.
35.      The project's specific objectives are to:  (a) carry out studies and
develop prioriry action programs to initiate improvements in the fields of
agricultural research, agricultural extension, irrigation resource use,
credit and provision of improved seeds and planting material; (b) train
Portuguese personnel in the above areas; and (c) to introduce on a pilot
basis extension methodologies in seven selected agrarian zones, which would
provide a sound basis for their wider application on a national scale as part
of the Government's program to promote regional agricultural development
(PADAR). These are described in detail below.
Project Description
36.      National Agricultural Research:  Agricultural research is mainly the
responsibility of the National Institute of Agricultural Research (INIA),
which was created in 1974 to manage and expand the research facilities of
MUAFF. The main weaknesses of the national research program are its isolation
from farm-level issues and the inappropriate selection of research themes
unrelated to the nation's priority requirements. Weak coordination between
research institutes and the Regional Directorates of Agriculture, responsible
for extension services, has resulted in a failure to translate research
results into farm technologies appropriate to the production systems in the
country. The proposed project would help to overcome these weaknesses. The
project would Ci) help to develop a national agricultural research master
plan and establish priorities and at the same time develop a consolidated
network of adaptive field experimental farms; (ii) assist in the preparation



- 12 -
of priority research programs; and (iii) organize training sessions for re-
search scientists and seminars for extension subject matter specialists bv
financing short-term visits to Portugal of about 15 eminent foreign scien-
tists. Thirtv-nine man-months of technical assistance are included for these
activities. To promote better coordination among the agencies at the national
level dealing with research, extension and other support services, the Gov-
ernment promulgated an enabling decree-law in july 1982 (293/82) to reor-
ganize the directorates dealing with extension, research, seeds and plant
material and plant protection, and to merge them with INIA to become the
National Institute of Agricultural Research and Extension (INIAER). To give
administrative effect to this decree-law, the Government has set up three
working groups, relating respectively to extension services, research, and
the linkages between research and extension, to review existing arrangements               S
and to propose necessary organizational changes. Their reports are being
considered by the Government. Following a review of the working groups'
recommendations, the Government has agreed to take appropriate and timely
measures to define the relationships between the national research, exten-
sion, and crop protection services, and between these units and the regional
agricultural directorates (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). Understandings
were reached that these measures would be taken by March 31, 1985.
37.      Agricultural Extension;  To promote productivity in agriculture, the
DGRE was established in May 1977 and charged with the formulation of a new
national extension program. Technical assistance has been provided since
1977 by the Government of Israel and through two United Nations Development
Programs/Food and Agricultural Organisation projects to set up an extension
service organized along the lines of the training and visit (T&V) system.
Initial operations undertaken under these projects are progressing well. In
March 1983, MAFF completed the preparation of a Program to Support Regional
Agricultural Development (PADAR), which aims at reorganizing and strengthen-
ing the regional extension services. The PADAR still needs to define the
organization, distribution and training of staff, and to refine methodologies
for certain specialized farm support activities. Pilot extension operations
would be established to demonstrate and refine the extension arrangements.
The project would provide 126 man-months of long- and short-term consultants
to help reorganize and strengthen the extension services in seven represen-
tative agrarian zones, one in each of the seven regional directorates. Under
the project the Government would (i) maintain a central team for project
planning, implementation and monitoring with qualified and experienced staff
in adequate numbers; (ii) provide subject matter specialists in each of the
seven regional agricultural directorates in the country; (iii) provide an
adequate number of extension staff, housing, transport and other facilities
for the staff at the zonal, regional and central levels, (iv) help develop
technologv appropriate to each agrarian zone through adaptive trials in
experimental farms and in farmers' fields in coordination with INIAER and
Universities, and establish a system of training for the extension agents.
The lessons learned from the project would provide the basis for preparation
of a national extension project. The Government has established a working
group comprising the services of administration, planning methodology,



- 13 -
extension training and farm management units staff, under the NAFF's Planning
Department to define the proposed organization, distribution and training of
extension staff, and to define extension methodologies for certain specialized
farm support activities. This group is also vested with responsibility for
developing the Ministrv's PADAR program. Pending the promulgation of regula-
tions governing the organizational structure of INIAER, especially as it
relates to the extension and research wings of INIAER and between INIAER and
the regional directorates, the Government would maintain this working group
to be responsible for the implementation of the extension activities (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03(b)). To ensure that the regional extension staff
would be able to devote full time to the dissemination of farm technology,
the Government has agreed to relieve extension workers of their current
regulatory and administrative responsibilities in the seven pilot agrarian
zones included under the proposed project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
38.      Irrigation:  Outlavs for expanding irrigation have accounted for a
significant part of the total public expenditure for agriculture, but they
have yielded less than optimal benefits, as the irrigation projects have not
adequately taken into account the land-use capability of the areas to be
irrigated and their economic costs and benefits. To improve coordination
between irrigation development and agricultural planning, the General Direc-
torate of Hydraulics and Rural Engineering was transferred from the Ministry
of Public Works to the Ministry of Agriculture in 1978. But it is short of
staff qualified in agriculture and economics. Under the proposed project,
studies would be carried out to review existing proposals, and studies for
priority irrigation zones already undertaken by the Government, taking into
account production possibilities as well as costs. Fifty-one wan-months of
consultant services would be provided to (i) accelerate urgent planning work
in the Algarve region where irrigation would permit development of high value
crops; (ii) review the engineering and economic feasibility studies and set
investment priorities for irrigation schemes in the Tagus Valley; (iii) ex-
amine and set investment priorities from a large list of possibilities for
improving traditional schemes or creating new small schemes in the regions;
and (iv) advise on further strengthening of the administrative procedures for
cost recovery and their application to small and large scale irrigation
schemes with a view to promoting efficient water use. It is expected that
investment p-rojects would result from the studies particularly with respect
to small traditional irrigation schemes.
39.      Credit:  The percentage of farmers receiviv- credit is extremely low
despite the fact that numerous credit outlets, including agricultural credic
cooperatives, are available and generally well distributed in the country.
Agricultural interest rates for productive investments are subsidized on a
gradually declining basis. The current interest rate policies are under
review by Government. To restructure the agricultural credit system, the
Government established in August 1977 the Agricultural and Fisheries Develop-
ment Fund (IFADAP) as an apex agricultural credit institution. IFADAP's
development was supported by the Agricultural and Fisheries Credit Proiect
(Ln. 1603-PO).  IFADAP's role in stimulating agricultural development through



- 14 -
credit has not been conclusive. There is also a need to reduce the institu-
tional bottlenecks which affect the demand for and the supply of agricultural
credit. The system of Caixa de Credito Agricola Mutuo (CCAMs) entered a new
state of development with the passage in 1981 of a law integrating them into
the financial system as specialized agricultural credit institutions. Since
then their growth in terms of deposits and lending especially to small farmers
as been notable and indicates their potential contribution to the agricul-
tural credit system. A National Federation of Agricultural Credit Coopera-
tion Banks (Federacao Nacional das Caixas de Credito Agricola Mutuo (FENACAK)
has been established to help strengthen the CCAMs.  The Government has agreed
in principle to the establishment of a central cooperative bank to permit
better coordination and utilization of the resources of the CCAMs. A working
group comprising representatives of FENACAM, the Bank of Portugal and the
Government is presently reviewing the broad legal framework of the proposed
central cooperative bank. To ensure their healthy development, CCAM's weak-
nesses in terms of staff training and financial management practices have to
be addressed. Fifty-four man-months of consultant services would be provided
to study and advise on (i) means to strengthen the financial management and
personnel qualifications of CCAMs which are becoming an important source of
small farmer credit; and (ii) methods of operation of the Central Cooperative
Bank which would serve as banking headquarters of the CCAM system.
40.      Improved Seeds and Planting Materials:  Inadequate provision of good
quality seed and planting material of improved varieties is also a constraint.
Suitable varieties are in many cases locally available or easily imported.
Vriety testing, seed multiplication, certification and distribution are,
however, not adequately handled and the seed and planting materials available
to farmers are often of poor quality and result in low yields. Forty-six
man-months of technical assistance would be provided to (i) help a review of
the national seed industry in Portugal; (ii) assist several separate programs
which require immediate attention, including the propagation of certified
fruit tree seedlings, reestablishment of vegetable seed production, harvest-
ing and certification of subterranean clover seed, creation of a national
variety testing program, mobile seed cleaning and treatment of farmers' own
seed; (iii) formulate feasibility studies for establishing seed enterprises
in the private sector.
41.      Training:  103 man-months of fellowships for the training of Portu-
guese personnel are included under the project.
Project Costs
42.      The total cost of the project, excluding the front-end fee is esti-
mated at t11.6 million, of which $7.4 million (about 64 percent) is in foreign
exchange (Annex 4). The cost estimates include about $2.0 million for price
and physical rontingencies. Price contingencies for the foreign component
have been calculated at 8 percent for 1985 and 9 percent for 1986 and there-
after. Local price contingencies have been calculated at 23 percent for
1984, 20 for 1985 and 16 for 1986 and thereafter, and adjustments have been
made in regard to local costs for variations in exchange rates.  The cost
estimates include 316 man-months of consultants services.



- 15 -
Financing Plan
43.      The proposed Bank loan of $7.4 million would finance almost the full
estimated foreign exchange cost of the project, or about 58 percent of total
project cost. The balance of the project costs, other than $l00,000 which
FENACAM would meet from its own resources, would be financed by the Govern-
ment. To expedite project implementation, retroactive financing of up to
.0_2 million for expenditures incurred after May 1, 1984 for consultant
services is proposed (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3).
Project Implementation
s       44.      The project would be implemented over three and a half years, in
accordance with an agreed schedule (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01)- A coordi-
nating group has been established in MAFF to be responsible for overall
coordination of the project. The Government would maintain this coordinating
team for the duration of the project, and also designate a Project Manager to
address day-to-day problems in project implementation (Loan Agreement, Sec-
tion 3.03 (a)). Specific agencies within MAFF would be responsible for all
aspects associated with the execution of project components related to them.
The credit component would be carried out by FENACAM. To facilitate smooth
implementation of the project, the Government agreed to establish and main-
tain a special account, with an initial deposit of t0.5 million. The estab-
lishment of the special account is a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Sec. 2.02 (b) and Sec. 5.01). In order to ensure that project
implementation is not constrained by inadequate funding, understandings were
reached during negotiations that the annual budgetary requirements of the
various MAFF agencies would be reviewed with the Bank not later than June 30
of each year, and fully incorporated in MAFF's annual budget for development
and investment expenditures for the subsequent fiscal year.
45.      Detailed terms of reference for the various consultant services and
studies included under the project have been agreed with the Government. To
ensure that the proposed technical assistance for the proposed central
cooperative bank would be in conformity with the banking laws governing its
establishment and operations, consultants would be employed for technical
assistance for the proposed central cooperative bank only after receipt of
evidence by the Bank and the Government that a central cooperative bank has
been formally registered by the Bank of Portugal (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(c)). To eliminate delays resulting from the lengthy Governmental pro-
cedures for recruiting consultants, the Government has already initiated
action to enter into an agreement with UNDP to act as its agent for recruit-
ment of consultants and it is expected to conclude a formal agreement with
UNDP's Office of Project Execution (OPE) immediately following approval of
the proposed Bank loan. A similar arrangement has been successfully adopted
in the ongoing Forestry project. UNDP/OPE would follow the Bank guidelines
for recruitment of consultants. The Bank is at the same time pursuing with
the Government, under ongoing projects, the simplification of these consul-
tant recruitment procedures.



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
46.      The Government would employ consultants with terms of reference, and
employment conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with Bank
guidelines. To maximize the benefits to Portugal of the technical assistance
proposed, the Government agreed to assign an adequate number of suitably
qualified counterparts to work with the consultants employed under the proj-
ect and to ensure that they would be available before the consultants take up
their positions (Loan Agreement, SectLion 3.02 (b)).
47.      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Procurement Method
Project Element          ICB      LCB       Other      NA    Cost
--------ijSt million
Civil works                          0.5                        0.5
(0.2)                      (0.2)                  q
Vehicles & Equipment       2.1       0.3        0.9             3.3
(1.7)    (0.2)      (0.7)            (2.6)
Technical Assistance                           4.4              4.4
Studies & Training                             (3.9)           (3.9)
Other                                           3.4             3.4
(0.7)           (0.7)
Total                    2.1      0.8        8.7             11.6
(1.7)    (0.4)      (5.3)            (7.4)
(Figures in parenthesis represent the amount of Bank financing.)
Project vehicles, valued at US$O.5 million, would be grouped in appropriate
packages and procured by international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with Bank guidelines. When such grouping is not feasible, contracts for the
procurement of vehicles, not exceeding the equivalent of USt150,000 in aggre-
gate, would be awarded according to local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
which are acceptable to the Bank. Agricultural and research equipment
totalling about USSI.5 million would be procured through ICB. Contracts for
equipment valued at UStIO0,000 or less, and not exceeding t500,000 in the
aggregate, would be awarded through appropriate shopping procedures on the
basis of not less than three quotations from suppliers. Contracts for other
equipment costing US$1,000 equivalent or less may be procured through normal
commercial channels. Contracts so procured shall not exceed $200,000 in the
aggregate. Civil works valued at UStO.5 million are widely dispersed and are
not suitable for consolidation for ICB, and would be procured by LCB proce-
dures, which are satisfactory to the Bank.
48.      The Bank loan would finance 85 percent of the expenditures on con-
sultants services, 80 percent of expenditures on equipment, 30 percent of
expenditures on civil works and 25 percent of operating expenditures related



- 17 -
to extension and research activities, representing the foreign exchange costs.
Disbursement would be made after receipt of full documentation except for
incremental operating expenditures for which disbursement would be made
against certified statement of expenditures. Detailed documentation for dis-
bursements against statp%ents of expenditure would be retained by the Borrower
for review by Bank supervision missions Since most project expenditures are
related to studies which will take place during the first and second year of
project implementation and executed through consultants who can be expedi-
tiously recruited by U'DP/OPE following Bank guidelines, it is expected that
the Bank loan would be fully disbursed within four and a half years from loan
effectiveness. Accordingly, the closing date of the loan would be June 30,
1989.
Accounts and Audit
49.      Accounts of project expenditures would be maintained by each of the
agencies involved in implementation and would be audited by Government audi-
tors according to standard Government practice, which is satisfactory. In
addition, FENACAM's project's accounts would be audited annually by an inde-
pendent auditing company acceptable to the Bank. Audited statements of all
project accounts and audited statements of expenditures of the extension
component would be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of the
fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02(c)).
Project Benefits and Risks
50.      The principal benefits of the proposed project would be to review
the existing weaknesses in the technical services hindering agricultural
development in Portugal and develop action plans and investment programs to
strengthen national agricultural research, extension, credit, and other
support services. It would also help develop a strategy for transforming the
Portuguese agriculture in line with its comparative advantage and meeting the
competitive pressures it would face upon Portugal's entry into EEC, and
thereby strengthen its balance of payments over the medium term. It would
also help formulate specific investment plans in the agricultural sector
which could attract potential sources of external assistance including the
Bank and the EEC.
51.      The project faces no special risks.  An inherent risk is that a
change in Government might result in a lesser commitment to the approach
adopted in the proposed project. This risk is not perceived to be serious
given the imperatives of improving Portuguese agriculture in general and
especially in the light of its anticipated EEC entry, and the strong commit-
ment at the technical level of the HAFF. The other potential risk is that of
possible delays in project implementation due to delays in the recruitment of
consultants and possible funding constraints. The measures already initiated
to implement the project, and the assurances obtained for satisfactory fund-
ing of the project, minimize these risks to an acceptable level.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL TNSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are
listed in Section III of Annex III. The establishment of a special account
with an initial deposit of t0.5 million to finance project expenditures is a
condition of effectiver2ss.
53.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
54.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
May 31, 1984



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                       Page I of 5
TABL     3A                                     PACE I
PORILSO -CLOCL  IUDCATOR5 DATA SHEET
PORI-GAL                           EwlEREECE   UPS (IElCIED AvERAGEs) 
EDST                    (MnST RECENTr ESTIAZE) lb
I%Ofb  t970fb REMT  ,          gMIDDLE INCU             IUSTRIAL
1 96t~  1970'  l7~ lf                  ltnOPE           KANET zwmnES
A    (     0SA. 5Q. R0
TOTAL                             92.1       92.1        92.1               .
AGRICULTURAL                      48.4       43.1       40.6
COP PIM CUTA (13s)                  350.0      890.0     2520.0            2453.6                11112.7
urn wnimn   PIM cairn
(XILOCAMS Or COAL EQIVALENT)     536.0     1077.0     1822.0            1580.8                 7500.6
wIns aD nra surt
POPJLATION.IU-TlEAR (THOISADS)   882L6.0   904.0       9826.0.
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)     22.5       26.2       31.2              47.8                   7B.2
POPULATION fltOJECWroS
POPULATION IM TEAR 2000 (MIL)                          11.4
STATIONAW  POPUATION (MIlL)                            14.0
TEAR STATIONARY POP. RrACNSD                          2070                .                       _
POPULATION DENSIrY
PER S. CI.                     95.9       98.2       105.9             S2.0                  139.0
PER SQ. XM. AGRI. LAMW         182.4      Z10.1      239.0             157.2                  514.2
POPULATIW ACE STRUCTURE CT)
0-14 YRS                       29.2       28.4        26.5             31.9                    22.4
15-61 INS                       62.9       61.9       63.3              60.9                   66.0
65 ARD ANIVE                     8.0        9.7       10.1               7.2                   11.6
POPULATION CROUPl RATE (I)
TOTAL                            0.5/c      0.2/c      0.8/c             1.6                    0.8
URBAN                            Z.1        1.3        2.3               3.4                    1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TWOOS)      24.2       19.1       16.3              25.0                   13.8
CRUDE DWAT RKTE (PER TOUlS)       10.8       10.3        9.9               9.1                    8.9
CROSS REPQRGIt TION RATE           1.5        1.5        1.1               1.7                    0.9
FAMiLY PLAJUIN
ACuTS. ANNUA L                    ..         ..C.
USERS (Z OF MARRIED 1ME           ..         ...
FOD  AM leTRXI
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     92.0      105.0       63.0             108.4                  112.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF RDWUINDEENrS)   119.0      128.0      1Z9.0             129.6                  134.4
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER OAY)        80.0       89.0       85.0              92.3                   99.0
O*F YNICN ANISA AND PILSE      33.0       39.0       39.Old            34.6                   61.4
UIXLD (AGES 1-4) DEATN RATM        9.2        5.0        1.4              10.4                    0.4
LIFE EXPECT. AT sIRTH (YEARS)     63.3       67.1        72.1             67.2                   74.9
IINFANT ORT. RATE (PERl 70US)     82.0       58.0       26.0              71.4                   10.7
ACCESS TO SAFE MATER (%POP)
TOrAL                           Z8.9        34.5       65.01e
URBAN                           32.          ..       90.07;
RURAL                           14.4          .        56.6r_
ACCESS TO EXQRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOML                              ..         ..
URBAN                             ..         ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
POPULATION PER PYSICIAN         1250.0     1110.0      540.0            1094.8                  553.6
POP. PER NCRSINC PERSON         1420.0/f   10B0.0      650.041           762.5                  182.9
POP. PER HOSrPTAL BM
rOTAL                          180.0      170.0       190.0/d          334.0                  119.8
UmBAN                           70.0/f     70.0       8o.07;           216.0                  143.2
RUMRL                             ..         ..
ADItSSIONS FER HOPIETAL. BED        ..        9.8       13.5/d            20.0                   17.7
ATERACE SIZE OF HO0SEhCOU
TOTAL                            3.9        3.7
URBAN                            4.0 
RURAL                            3.9
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROEPM
rIAm.                            1.1        0.8
URBAN                            1.0         ..
RURAL                            1.1         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (S or DUYLtINCS)
TOrAL                           40.5       64.2
URAN                            88.5         ..
RURAL                           27.4         ..



-20-                                               ARNMA  I
- 20 -                               ~~~~~~~~~~Page   of S
TA 8 TE  3A
POTUCML               - SOCIAL DUICATORS DATA SlT
FORTUCAL                            REMERE       PS (WICifbD AikVEIAS   Ias
MMOST                    (MST RCCCT ESTYfIA) fb
XUCSUT  MbIDLE 1lC IIsIL
net4        t97e- EST;IAThL-            ERa               MASKT umums
ADJUSTED ENRULWT RATIOS
PRIIIARY:  TOAL                    ,,       93.0       118.0/            102.2                   lO1.5
MALE                     ..       99.0       12O.0jj          107.2                   103.3
TUEALE                   .        96.0       116.02             97.9                   103.3
SECNIDARY: TOTAL                   ..       57.0        55.Old            56.5                    69.2
LE                      ..        63."        54.071i           63.4                    33.5
TKALE                    ..       51.0         6.d7;i           48.9                    86.0
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONILRf)        46.4       33.6        16.5/d            22.4                    18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PTIIHAIT                         34.0       34.0        19.O/             24.7                    20.2
SECNDART                         19.0       17.0        23.076            22.1                    14.4
AMLT LITERACY RATE (2)             62.9       nl.0        76.0              69.7                    98.9
PASSENIZR CARSITROUSAND  OP       17.9       60.9       120.9/8            52.9                   356.5
RADIO RECEIVERSfTHOUSAID POP       96.1      151.3       161.6             165.5                  1085.4
TV RECEIVERS/TISAND POP             5.2       43.0       141.7             124.2                   449.5
NIUSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTERESr) CIRCLATION
PE TNmoAND POrUATION              63.2       82-2        50.8              96.3                   331.3
CINES ANNu  ATrENDAIICAPITA         2.9        3.1         3.4               2.9                     3.5
LADi
TOTAL tAROR FORCE (TIIOUS)       3397.0     3550.0      3797.0
TTULE (PERCENT)                  17.9       24.8        25.9              34.5                    36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            44.1       33.3        23.2              40.7                     6.2
xm,STir (PERCEIlT)               29.0       33.2        35.1              23.4                    37.8
PARAtTIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            38.5       39.3        38.6              42.0                    45.5
IALE                             66.0        62.3       60.4              55.2                    59.0
FALE                             13.2       18.5        19.0              29.1                    32.5
ECMNOC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.0        1.0         0.9               0.9                     0.8
D-iCM DISTRI3UrTI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIMD U
N'aIEST 52 OF ROUSEHICDS           ..
RICHEST 202 OF OUSIIEHLDS          ..       56.llb 1   56.31h,0             .                     43.1
LOWEST 2M OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..         6.2it    7.3/h. iT                                   5.5
LO1EST 402 OF ROUSEILDS            ..       zo.67S;   21.4                  ..                    16.5
PMZnT TAR    CIIPS
ESTrIATED ABSOLUTE pOVERTr INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBA                               ..N
RURAL                              ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERIT IECGE!
LIVE. (US$ PER CAPITA)
BAN                                ..          ..      480.0/d
RURAL                              ..         ..       480.07;i          409.
ESTUCATED POP. 30.O  ACLTUTE
POVERTr IDCEC LEVEL (:)
URBAN                              ..
RMlUL
NOT AVAILABLE
MtT APPLICATLE
NOTE S
la The group averages for each Indicator are popndattio-weghted aritmetic  _ana. Coverqe of cmntrL-w aamu  the
tudicators depeoda on availablirty of data and in not uniform.
lb Unless otherwise noted, -Data for 1960- refEr to any year betwe2n 19D9 ad 1961: 'Data for 1970' bahmen 1969 and
t971: and data for Nost Recent TJti_ate  between 1979 and 1981.
/c DOe to emgration population growth rate Ls lower than rate of nateral Increase; Id 1977: a 1976: If 1962;
I 1978; lb Sigbest 2Y. loweast 251 and 5(3 of bouaeholdo I! 1968; 1i 1973-74.
ty 1983



- 21 -                                                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
Mdll'IOff109 OP  OCt0A. lelcoMts
tat..    Iu.nbIt  ise  ee ron  Ion  nipla    -1eril  judia  at. aaatl- a   -tt.rtetlo    s.  rtItble. It should tlso  h. -aS  lte.  iay -, -t hettrstn.l
dsr I.et.. of1 saItmi..   laicl  ts           .. el ri.atnrlin -t.n .  .s.r mltfrsc_bas..r.mpio
irf  lsdt- o  ln  lels.v.  tine. tIc  asosoo  ctanpts- i..b  -r   rlSltsZ)              t. d- lad I--  Iti   .ata.ollblIt    r of  ot.sa  Is tn.e   lb.to   calyninssI   tbe
corio    t         P.oit   s.ctgs  _5 5.i  airstp -.sti...T.. s-         soga  1  sIp ...f..'l s c.pscla  ii. val.- t.  a.  lalad tatn                        qtm   a.r 
tlial -Tolol or  .     coutt .lt   loo       -=s at    is -ini...  -isl.   W'k ~                   fliUM    .It LflUWoasv a."co .0.01. Iat -of.-otolty                - Laa.
ARAIVh o... t   it.                                                                                   ssItt W        P torstno Tres  - topoltl. &dIl  by  ..ac  o    vsntln
alTnltro   - t.tn..   st  -pialtnr,  area wind Wopvc tL.          -    prs.nlpuIao   tes.  psdotMM_5s  Islt-o -ar                                          . prcyca  st-e.'
1970D sod 190  das.-t.tls:c ollU                                                                                                       IF.Lt.ats.. oad pby -baftp.t.tlo (ttt.1q
ac*           ioldd hMthoi  rMoalltn. ta ..of t%-Pit.& US.
sup ro corr. (i act    map  a. essmo    talasr,. -      -uetti  .bt p,1...                     -Idlot4o  I. glatlt  sod pivots 5-orat sad apnosto.d  hospltsl s.d
~fletiiUbj5.crsnecssa .t.i.  .r   nti  Ini ala. (tIll-a  hea.)1                                 tahbillinlo.1   anm.r      -bpti-S  -e   toltac   pnn..ntty stoW11
th61. 1971.  Wo  [4110  dot,                                                                           byF st toat -   pmneo.tsatoblt.6ssmm     ptscilsg  pctnlp.llp ematodal
cc   -ns  Incladad.  loal'.  hospislo. h-.ovo. staclnl   heolti.n
toOgLIm)liilofllf   E CAPI A -    h I-ocsnl  isoi .n at cecylco                                 tIdies  esaicr  alt, ca, .vtp .taf.d by I timyslols  C(I, by o  dl
prsPr   ryls    r &tst=imocmn   mt..  o  s.d tde.-CasotTP  sLtsf.  -svo. adults, tat.) Slaft  sfo W.Lsaaletse.nto    .ld
lees. 1910. so  IQO dots,mtt,hptl  tImda SEmIs Pv.tplgn.oltoltol.  an  tap
i.spicl..Inkse  seo  ItOpil.           oulsm   .d arteclt  cIn-ec.
tommie.w Am  m9a  STATIITIC5                                                                             tptisctotld hoapllol. me  Inctads sni  mssr  tst.1
locl Pploltn  ied-tor(ths         A.t) - rls   JinLY I[WA. 1970. sdal  1901                                          S"so.    rloala   e   - ThIt.  ..0s    I.aatn    ntdotrs
I~~~ts.                                                                   Yr.. imsopl~~~~~~~~~~~~ttl .ilr&d.d by It.  .O., .1  Sas..
dm0tiis  i.l.tlns  f  mema.or..sata--e p snpartlltt  of -dot sM                          CE ttiC            W-.             b"                  y--     9   .I             aA
frac~~~~5~~lfrf~~~~i5plti                                                                   - ALastnidc.         it n      rs -lt.t -.odrdsL  So r-t  liigaer
Taitton,yrr    t0 -Cstst  notrsntrjcto.t mt..   s a-o t1t  a.  sls   AtsPt  - sgo    y  rnpsc  oInld. 
iiThI~iliiiilns  so  -. sis theI  nte -slt       -.1 tartitt                         It  hsttildtn    talsttl  t              tos
rs-met   Paoj ci Ian pocs-Icts fo   airlotily           w ro -oaws    st- itro                         'I.so    Inht.  Epa.   m.-l..   i.l-5itlottg
Issit. ssate  lit  ospscttay 01 bith  Inero plec ali  cnalp.                          ...Icas. pt.r ra      --I0 arbLotm    . sa-P-.scatd  onsoo
osro.Il  2ma pront.            fo   .rily   eol.t.   lb-c thes  -teo.hosipo                                       Pn
.s.ot.qdeat,.t.  srtlli  seni.g  I. imma  leel.   positfuly                              cns-Esleirtr.o itstigs-tta.es.cdntl-
eoimstln   sI  trtl _ardteetltt tra-        s for. prtsjeri.   peces aa t                      t-tld,rhs  oath espo  dun1-f-li tleg.r ittaly.  Oa-     m4~1
"Plssr    salis   -   L.mm    - ttc. .7   cptsl.   mios It  4- gtttilimt"E                                                   iff-IIN...   pl 7              - tl
nrtaear. tn.ismsnmcat.   ml  Is  Timtyc.r no-y -*1 trfrtllt  rsPllbes-                                                           -Lt  11..  .h[
sorb onnorom isnot se   r.ptseou  Itsoif ecscty   time clotlonary   taniloetI 01 oil  ~   at i. priasey  totet -  r.ronloanP  sf penpootiv
poottitato    tai-Wlo     - i.  ot.o  dI.    Camnlo I-t.vortr                                 pI.-p. seotoop.soto. senlpIcan    bttso                                   rI
ntle.of lbI6 .   Irtm.tmlni  Its reo  29h   .   b    s.o   acttM!ofpapal. tot njnnt  far dtOan  ttiiY_rn.,oo i.   e
icr  I i. rscr   eLscanem-o--le.st-                                                                  W-co,if.L a ly    otnotset.nmalnn   .   ssd10p
.ear stIonar  rnssta   .  nbdese.  a    olnaeht.       t.   b   iito   coloo
ftw% .Its   ni,t.  il  h  r(P.-    s..                                                               Ssrsdot trod     toal.-eI  no-f-nlO    (rkali-abe.1   octdar
pnemlsrtcs besiW  -) wte                                                                            sda rnlvrqrnat o.fur    y-toe   fs.cI.odpmvyl.rto
if .,t.-  ttes    spltinp.   q-elmnsor(il mlooro   f                                             rois   .nrl   oataet   ttaea   Teslog l.trtto.   far.  L
101.1 sres: 15145* 1910.  ind      -I3.,d-dots.                                          p.pltuulyd1 MFMIIa  ipoiSot  esrrIM              .spnds. ltot..
tbintItsn~e ttsrlsn (trtstu   - fmtldSmt4 10t   nr)  or.t-g   il                            nl          to telcal   if -lsot pis. 51-1e  pfngve -r wilbtptolSp
popl,hou  191,   190... 1b-,   1 daIs. dopt-ostsrp51.- tlbrea..e.aaW   r                                                                             Thtat alas.WorI-a   in
tns inGa. bat Iltcvr."I  -Istl-*mm.  rnt.rts.  hm    i-prsv   a -                                      tL       .nr  leotl  lis   ysannoftnlr                         I.ve
inoltlnC..t;lt  teotini -st -          - ems._P-I    grni   so    intm                          al   ts.vrbttrol                   - U  Io-t  Mal J   its tol  vss  oS-  atic -J
poploc...tsr195-hO   190-7. af     lIt-S.                                                     apote-tm  e  10.1  dal  poalotansas  lbpess ad oce
p.r pimyalseton  lies. t.rt. ai 1901 dot..                              UII.-tltTlOi"                            al    .  __.   -t
Crud. !al. Er te  tmsei - ht. (Insia -. tAmoesed of aid                      t-ysrtno.rCr  (as    A..nso  conai.     Peeftcr  c.on 
Atts sctsctontot  -Myon  nnlr a  dmiimst o  .11  hstis.1 TV                         r  tAbi1l.1a     tr      s
1901.                                                                  Ilcanans r.osirsra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P In=satin  ."  1. psaTim.  -nllnto    ftS
41 tlettrvto  devct  mase   nnpte.  mi  otusil.l,rlsts                                                nallo-btIhd  ies'g
I-sll    F-Imnm Y- taen foreto   ttldsn)-  ecnaro  n.dtld                                               Weao  poimlir  pot1 drt.n.. - p1.1t cat ecfd-    ntons    Ivsaec
sit n.rld   memnee I. a.n   oje Ccrssp- W-1  B".  (..S.sC ar A_IrrolsIlo   tir tbasss.  at tS.-   -  it..  tlo ocsrsnt
lade. oProse Prdortten  ar (sel. lli.i ..?a Wt   -   Immllmtpyepi .mtmitml..r.st&.mdti prsli.t  rerardlig s"Ierollsat.  It I                                            oa   Mdsd
:fcat-c.mrtsm   t Wit.W"      ettdii.             rdcl.acmaasSndt   en5l,   tI   pot  Itotia   I.     nk
coltro sod t.n nvs eaclmmilsill-  lostosatr credmetiss .f narll rssttvv  Is  n.bila asils.-ft.
_P.n.d so  rotion.   steog  prok.rz  :.prIesltah-Im    li-1b.1 19. -.W- 1981                                       lw         97   .   10     u
'at-,rts IL se-t ci cmsrs   (crcs   c            - rtela.tn i-b1- Cao    n                         E        s  P.m            .Iosseo  - esn tyato    oas.Lsoaig  ma
= rtlb.nosol   t=at.fdnpls   91bIsI   snr   e byplto  por1 ntI-. so --npIand_ in  sarf-dtm   honoai. a.ais  ft-e, ooc
ar t.,sde.ts  1   lr,ltamels   mesasls o,                               ro.,cooril;  1940t.                            1910 ..d  -911 data f. -;10    S                     9:d
.mstI.  ns1sfn   _cceaotp.W  ot-  ,nAs   It                  Flrrbtta                                fap-4y1jgt ypoyl-    -  Lasole  Cobo  loe.nopra nof.1tai    ots
sclac  smShsti  easdaio  sntes.es   sanin0    bad  slomI,                                       isia .-s1. potinulos  ofd aos        abo, ane   fIO   191 .b5  19- data.
Patcol. asartv cfcrw.( eta p;do) - fralt.l -omtat ofprv esp1a                                         1170 s.ad  t90  dt
X_oraat   .   t   rim_rln    entsittst.d    .. b 20005 _  Is   _sr nnlas                   tctiity   ot       t.l -sopo ad no  alI. s-i.  sot-  fassi    p.ber pIsre. 7-
in1   c011.  i  511e. t  rs.   si.t    -slalpytl.  lim..                                       l9A7  910. oad  931 dat.  Th-r  -e  honed on ll's poniclp.-i-m   a.
a            nla.dsrd. .rc  lamar rt.. flote .t I'S ot.-.1  tota  -pCloI  an  21 aeon                             t.flctts   Wg---o  tlra v    C1 Ila rrslntc. s..  Inn    J-s  u_.S.A
af at.a  pronlaso  n sscss  tir.  lie int. tWt.a, by tFM In It                               nsOilaa   e            P ..  1  o-I  c ea
W-rdViId foci baroy:               197-l.Ift .5  1t0 daI..tssl   ontr   InL.- a balla n  poptons  ondo  Ii dad 5 A)sdottt
Pa   stl    roetourrIrnoialsi  na -; Ptaenln rppLy of Itnd                                        lb    li ltr fv..
-trta    I o  seIas taeI    rirrd    11*1-AS. 1170 aS0 1911
data.   fil  tIlIEOtI
noeou   -Apte,t   -hldvc   Ishsse                    .;tr asac sstolptt                           Naco. tieins   20  otee .:pasti   a  sI   o  psovts  40 po,ta,nt nI
rarr -sdae .ais  ft.  Lin. t.blo; 19*0. 3970 io   10 IOdotlonnsl.
IULSI                                                                       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTIlS   TAIT  alo
U7  ticriose  st lilb leerci -Ateen. ntt.  of Yest  oF ilt. relalog                       -S'TlXMtWda          t..  -t  wry aosI-l  at.r- by poo-rty le-d., am
tu.css  lortlily  ots Iat ebmandl- -ro I d-oalt et isIssa  1sdr  oofntntn  SAbIc-                              PsItI... Cea                 -P0 r so..) - srim- s-d r-.l
Mesas c  Safe   ot.t tetteolof roctotlou  - tminl. acaa. .W 'enro  -                 s 1ti1onily odoq-st dint Pin. ..-.i1 ims."la  rotvnot  I 
aste  suply tmmelen  eastd aafsiomacr. armcatSbtttatsEito   tarstt  hen. leve .CuII ttr rorit) - t0.rt    a-p. -I
omaerolste  uarenac  -rht ftaproeeti  orholo.opIsn.  nd                                  ari risio   porrt  lss   t              Ic isoPtId  1         s.,po  oaplt.
assltay mirtsi 5.  ortaulgas el thor tsot   rpstlsoin. bs                                  po:este s  01 It.   -try.  Urt.. Lees  Is  hoia   e                  .th  rees
ar.   tonpebIlI  f-tmr. or nIsAip,-   -osaIo it   b.   0   str_I I  lIm. sdssost  n  imlar os   f1i.lmq In s.tb.a 
%,crn      I-Vtavat  ttss .l ttlr!   of- vorllte V   eal           p-bs,s.
n.y larmids Is esilerion ad 4m~e~t. altm or .ctiasstirsIso It 1t l    sod  Sato  lots                                                                 D.css
rrltit   of5 n1n1lor  fat,lnln.                                                                                                                           a  1502



ANNEX I
-22                                                               Page 4 oE 5
ECONONIC wVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in Millions of US Dollare)
Actual                     Annual Crowth Rate (2)                 Share of CDP at Market
1982                               Actual        .              Prices (Current Prices)
(I-Eac. 79.473)    1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982            1977   1980   1981   1982
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domeatic Product a/               23,711         5.6    3.2    4.5    4.9    0.8    3.0          loo.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                              2,028       -10.0    4.0    9.0    3.0  -13.2    6.0           12.2   10.2    8.3    8.6
Industry                                9Y118          9.5    3.2    5.0    6.0    1.6    2.4          25.4   30.0   29.4   29.3
Services                                12,565         5.9    3.0    3.5    4.5    2.8    2.8          62.4   59.8   62.3   62.1
Consumption b/                          19,615         2.6    1.5    2.4    4.5    3.2    2.8          86.7   80.9   83.4   82.7
Cross Investment                         8.662        34.7   -4.7.  -2.1   14.7    5.1    4.9           29.7   33.8   35.9   36.5
Exports of CNFS                          5U804         5.9   14.6   27.3    8.3   -2.8    5.8           17.1   27.1   25.5   24.5
Imports of CNFS                         10.370        12.0   -1.8    7.8   12.8    6.7    5.6          33.2   41.8   44.8   43.7
Cross NationaL Savings                                25.9   23.6   34.3   17.8  -10.5   -0.2           17.3   20.5   23.8   23.3
Prices
Rate of InfLation (Consumer Price Index)            26.0   19.3   24.3   17.0   20.0   22.4
Exchange Rate                                       38.28  43.94  48.92  50.06  61.5   79.5
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                  Annual Crowth Rates at Constant 1970 Prices           As Percent of Total
1970   1975   1980   1982
lmports                                  9 528        12.8   -2.1    6.7    9.0   5.6        6.4      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Food                                      17        -7.5   -3.1   1169    87   4.6        fl        -11.0   16.6    9 3   11.7
Other Consumer Goods                     948       -23.9   -9.7    4.1   10.9   1.7        6.1        9.3    8.3    6.1   10.0
Petroleum Products                     2.470        -1.5   10.6   15.3    2.5  -7.7    14.7           9.5   16.4   24.3   25.9
Intermediate Goods                     2.507        19.4   -3.5    3.3   10.9   0.0       2.6        41.5   36.8   37.5   26.4
Capital Goods                          2,486        26.7   -5.8    3.6   11.0  16.0       4.5        28.6   21.9   22.8   26.0
Exports                                  4 187         4.1   11.1   29.3    7.1  -2.0    11.2         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture and Food                     486        -           6   15.3    rS :118   =70            20.9   16.8   12.1   11.6
Wood. Cork. Paper and Pulp               620        -3.8    3.3   28.2   17.3  -6.8        6.4       16.1   15.9   17.7   14.8
Textiles and Clothing                  1,218        -0.5   22.1   26.2   -8.0   4.1    18.9          26.4   27.3   25.2   29.1
Petroleum Products                       292        11.0    9.6   33.6   50.0  10.0    23.3            ..      ..    6.3    7.0
Other Manufactures                     1,571                               13.0  -5.2    16.3        36.7   40.0   38.8   37.5
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                 1975-100                1980-100
Export Price Index                                 145.1  179.0  229.1  315.7 113.2   131.9
import Price Index                                 143.9  177.5  240.0  381.0 121.2   141.7
Terms of Trade index                               100.8  100.8   95.5   82.9  93.4    93.1
Current Prices (Billion Eacudos)             As Percent of GDP at Market Prices
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                         1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
Current Receipts                                   173.6  212.2  264.3  362.6 449.7   536.7          27.9  27.2  26.9  29.3  30.1  285
Current Expenditures                               182.1  238.5  302.2  404.6 526.3   643.6          29.3  30.6  30.7  32.6  35.2  34.1
Current SurpluslDeficit (-1 of the State            -8.5  -26.3  -37.9  -42.0 -76.6   -79.9          -1.3  -3.4  -3.9  -3.4  -5.1  -4.2
Capital Expenditures (Net)                          34.5   39.1   42.7   64.3  68.2    83.8           6.4   5.0   4.3   5.2   4.6   4.5
Net Financing Requirements                          43.0   65.4   80.6  106.3 144.8   163.7           8.0   8.4   8.2   8.6   9.7   8.7
Financing Needs                                     44.7   75.8   97.1  127.4 163.8   189.6           7.2   9.7   9.9  10.3  10.9  10.1
Debt Amortization                                   -1.7  -10.4  -16.5  -21.1 -18.2   -25.9           0.3   1.3   1.7   1.7  12.2   1.4
d/
LABOR FORCE                                                           TOTAL LABOR FORCE c/
In Thousanda                              Percent of Total                       Annual
Growth Rate(Z)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982 d/         1978   1979   1980   1981    1982              1980-81
Agriculture              1.187   1,176   1L,20   1,D58   1,051             31.8   30.9   29.9   26.7    26.5              -5.5
Induatry                 1.283   1,323   1,387   1,424   1,440            34.4   35.1   35.6   35.9    36.3               *2.7
Services                 1,259   1.352   1,417   1,486   1,477            33.8   34.0   34.5   37.4    37.2               .4.9
Total                  3.729   3.851   3.924   3.968   3.968           I10.0  100.00  1000   100.0   100.0                1.1
a/  At market prices.  For 1960-79 sectoral components are expressed at factor costs and will not add due to exclusion of net indireet
taxes and subsidies.
b/ Statistical discrepancy is included in the consumption data.
c Total employed labor force excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
d/ Firat semester.
February 17, 1984
(0340C)



- 23-                                                               pacem:f
maX   or  rsiPIs SA   m3381. ASSISTANE ANC  DTa
(Amouts in Millios of U5 Dollars at Oarrn  Prices)
Ett.
SIAfl 07 rOF  BAAC CPAArMS        1974 .1975  1976  1977  1978  1979   1980   1981  1982  1983
xp.orts (7JO.5)                 2238  1936  1790 2001  2379  3510  4575  4088  4119   497
sports (7.0.-54                 4277 3606 3965 4533 4787  6182  8781   9240 8s9    7259
Trade IsLesc  CMN               -203  -1679 -2017  -232 -240- -2432  -420  -5152 -241- -2bb2
lec Inn-Factor Services         -74  -170    54   82   276   541    SU    431   176   250
Tonrian Receipts (Gross)       (513) (360) (327) (403) (592) (942) (1148) (1024) (85) (840)
Resorcte  eLaance               -21113--2121 -2450-2132 -20N  -363S    721  44   -2412
met Ineesmuc inca -J              129  -14  -133  -179  -329  -437  -612  -991 -1245  -1500
met Transfers b/                 1111  1037  96L 1134  161  246   3000   2917 2661  2207
balance on Curat Acount          -873  -817 -1290 -1495  -1824   -52  -1250  -2795 -3231  -1705
D.rect Foroeig  lsvetosnt         109  122   51   52   56    59   124   147   122
Cuanges, i Officel Liquid
Foreign Euchnge Reserves
t- - Incresse)                554  688   128   359  -103  -64    179    2        7b    54
Officil Rsre
Cross End of Texr el           6317 4278  3905 4343  5872 12262  13864   9335 9609   7785
Of which: Cold                 5192  3887  3729  3971  5001 11331 13069  8801 9162   7448
Forei  Exchange    1125   390  176   364  871  931    79S    534  4-     337
Actual
Gaar A   LoAs cnmrlnrExS                                                                     DESr A DD MT SERCE di 1976 1977 1978 1979  1980  1981  198Z
OGtacial  Groats ad Crest-like            3    -    -                                      Total ILT Debt Outstand-
Lug and Disbured -
Public IM1 Lon                                                                               Public Debt Only       137S 2266 2862 5283 6365  7160 9099
D                                -          36   74  131   143    134    120    -   Interest c  Public Debt         41   78  154 32  467  797  571
-        - -    -    -    -         -      -     -  Repayments on Public Debt   102  140  257 17   510  689   703
O-her putaltateral               .      4   123   87   112   89    187   243  472  Total Public Debt Service    143  218 411  742  977  186  1574
Cve ra  sts                            71  156  428  915  227    187    176   24
bspplierr                              54   41    73   56    4    106   143    14
Public Debt Service Ratio   4-1  5.4  7-9 9.1  14-6  1643  18.6
Financil Msrketa                  .   9   388  44   76b  1063  1217   2115  1750
Public Loans n.,,.               ,, _                                             - 
Total Public  .LT Loans           460   228   74  1060  1980  1536  1831   2797  2260    Average Ter  of Public
Debt (Crane Eluentl    11.1 12.9 4.S -2.8   0.4  4.2   4.1
Debt Oetstendins o  DecTer 31. 192                   Interest on Public Debt I   643 64.  7_6  7.5  8.1   946  9.6
vinA OMT abr                                                     Percent
ISM                                          le5                2.0                     _rtization as *    Prior
IDA                                          -                   -                        Tesr Public 006D           9.6 10.1 11.3 14.6  9.7  10.8  9.8
Othe 1HlcuIateral                            972                10.7                    1T8  Debt Outstanding
Goverments (Bxilteral Los)                  1308                14.4                      and Disbursd               35.6 32.2 36.1 63.1 109.4 132.0 184.7
Suppliers' Crdits                            307                 3.4                    I[RD D06D a 2 public Debt
Fr ncial Institutis                         6327               69.5                       Outstanding and Disbursd  2.6  1.4  1.3 1.2  1.7   1.8   Z.0
Intel publi and Publicly Coranteed Debt  9099 .1                96.2                     180 Debt Service -s 
Total Public and Private D5L? Debt fl         9U7                100.0                       Public Debt Service       4-3  3.1  1-S  1.7  2.0   1.7   2.6
Sort-ten Dabt (gatanted) A/                 3917
-,  largly interet paVuents-
/ Larely weake   - mattnes.
c/ Gold valsed at the end of pnrsed London morbet price. and Special Drawing tigbts.
Ci  Debt service - a ratio of esruig  fron exports. s-factor serices and eorker' remittances (on medion- and long-ter debt only).
el K-t%nste fur pblic debt and publicly gsreanteed debt baed - Trery data pocessed by thc  world Dank Debt Reporting Syute.
f/ Includes 6358 million of priwate non-guaerateed debt (not included in D8S).
gJ  Source: Nas of Portugal.
b/  If abort-ten interest payunts on Public Debt and total debt smice o  non-guaranteed privste debt are added, the debt service ratio wuld reach 27.82
in 1982 (IMF estmsteul.
.bt available.
Europe. Middle tEat and North Africa leio
March 8. 1905
(3LOG)



- 24 -
ARNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
As of March 31, 1984
(I million)
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS 1/
Loan                                                      Amount (less cancellation)
No.  Year     Borrover                Purpose               Bank      Undisbursed
Six loans for power development, one for
industrial finance, and one for industry
fully disbursed                                       197.5          -
1334 1977 Republic of Portugal      Highways                24.0            0.1
1541 1978 Republic of Portugal      Water Supply            40.0           16.6
1559 1978 Republic of Portugal      Education 1             21.0           12.1
1603 1978 Republic of Portugal      Agricultural Credit    15.0            11.9
1700 1979 Republic of Portugal      Highways II             40.0           27.0
1701 1979 Republic of Portugal      Small and Medium
Industry (SKI) I      45.0           18.2
1793 1980 Republic of Portugal      Education II            40.0           34.8
1853 1980 Republic of Portugal      Forestry                50.0           37.3
1874 1980 COMETNA 21                Mechanical Industry    25.8             6.7
1875 1980 SOREFAME 2/               Mechanical Industry      8.1            0.1
1942 1981Banco de Fomento Nacional Development Finance   100.0             76.4
2024 1981 PETROGAL                  Petroleum Exploration  20.0             5.7
2168 1982 Republic of Portugal      Industrial Energy
Conservation           30.0          29.6
2175 1982 Republic of Portugal      Tras-os-HMontes Rural
Development            51.0          50.9
2240 1983 Electricidade de
Portugal, EdP            Power VII              126.4         105.6
2263 1983 Republic of Portugal      SKI II                  40.3           40.0
TOTAL                                            874.1         473.0
of which has been repaid                        129.0
TOTAL now outstanding                            745.1
Amount sold                         2.6
of which has been repaid           2.5            0.1
TOTAL now held by Bank 3/                        745.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                              473.0
1/ The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/ Loans to two companies under the same project.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments



- 25 -
ANE II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMERT OF IFC UNvqsTHENTS
Year        Obligor             Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1981 SPI Sociedade Portuguesa   Development Finance   10.0      1.0     11.0
de Iuvestimentos, SARL     Company
1983 Sociedade Portuguesa de    Money and Capital        -      0.3      0.3
Locacao Financiera, SARL   Narket
1984 Solt-jo - Sociedade Hoteleira                      2.0      -       2.0
DoTejo, SARL               Tourism
TOTAL Gross Commitments                       10.0     1.3     11.3
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments, Sales                          -  
TOTAL Commitments now held by IFC             12.0     1.3     13.3
TOTAL Undisbursed                              3.1      -       3.1



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by government to prepare      2 months
the Project:
(b)    The agency which has prepared the      Ministry of Agriculture,
Project                                Forestry and Food assisted
by the Bank
(c)   Date of first presentation to the       December 7, 1983
Bank and date of First Bank mission
to consider the Project
(d)   Date of Bank Appraisal Mission;         February 6, 1984
(e)    Date of Completion of Negotiations:   May 11, 1984
(f)    Planned Date of Effectiveness:         December 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness:
Ca)    Establishment of a special account (para. 44).
Other Conditions;
(i)   Defining the relationships between the national extension,
research and crop protection services and between them and the
regional directorates of agriculture (para. 36).
(ii)   Relieving the extension staff in the seven selected zone agrarias
of their regulatory functions (para. 37).



-                                                                                            -         0
ANNEX IV
POWIUOAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Ectlmated Pro ect Costs
(usl '000)
--------------- Year.........- - ---                   foreign Exchange
Subproject                       Unit       No. of Units   1985          1986        1987      1988      Total        I       Amount
National Agricultural
Research
Studles                  man/months            39         64,59      248.54    108.73        -        421,86       91       385.86
Training 6 visits        man/months             8           -          13.08      13,08       -         26,16    100          26.16
IquLpuent                                       -          -         200,00    400.00        -        600.00       so       4d0.00
Operating expenditures                                     15.00      27.50       19,00       -         61.50       -          -
Irrigation Resource
Use
Studies                  man/months            51         86.12      462.90       -           _       549,02       86       472,52
Credit
CCAH
Studies                 man/months            54         96.89      290.65    193.77        -        581.31      86        500.31
Training 6 Vlslts       man/months            20          -          32.70      32.10       -         65,40    100          65.40
Improved Beeds and
Planting Haterial
Studles                  man/months            46        150,71      312.18      32,30        -       495.19       86       426,19
Training & Visits        man/months            IS         22.89        26.16       -          -         49.0    100          49,05
Equipment                                       -        346.24      312.55      81.21       -        740.00       so       592.a0
Operating Expenditures                                   140.29       169.43     144.96       -       454.68        -
Agricultural ExtensLon
Technical Assistance
Studies & Training    man/months             126        398.31      516.72    355.24       86.12  1,356.39       86      1,167.39
Training & Visits       man/months            60         32.70       65,40      65,40      32,70    196,20    100           196.20
Development of
Extension Service in
7 Agrarian Zones
Equipment                                      -        195.00      586.00    561.00       43.00  1,385.00       80      1,108.00
Civil Works                                              80,00      237,00    100,00        *        417,00      30         125,10
Operating Expenditures                         -        13700       565-00    683,00    88700  2,272,00           25        576.90
Total lase Costs                                         1,765.74   4,065.81  2,790.39  1,046.82  9,670.76           64     6,171.18
Physical Contingencise                                      68,06       151,78      89.11       6,15    315.10       80        250,68
Price contingencLes                                         80.05      566.53    651,46    340.86  1,638,90          60       975Mqo
Total Project Cost.                                      1,913.85   4,784.12  3,530,96  1,395.83 11,624,76           64      7,397,66



L~~~~~~~~~~ V
AGRICULTIJRAL SERVICES PROJECT
Twlsugtgtla Sduila
--                                  k~~~~~~~~~~Ativties am Dot-                     
Tea  of         I                                                   tt 2vtua  fltaiJ         Drft                lWpolt-   wnt of
Pat tcu     for P epo-  of Prepowalu                              ineit    lteorla           irtal               mt af    PwJct
Mhjistratinn    )bwibww    a t        idid    ii"i or      oQ           amoitata   Aazrd        af fta 6n  bport &           Wo,t    p Vlot    ftealmn    Cuetat
Ta*k                        in Qam"         PR frd       1oauts         aide        Bus            Selaetiao   Cotrat    ktivIial    Di.uasiai Diualcm   Rpat    Sutt                 Pats
HItlonal Arioultuel
h Mist e  Plan tstIy IW R                    24          5/84        10/84       11/84             12/84       1/S5          1/65          /6       10(86    12/86                    10/84              w
Ad ptiv  man  stir
Rdec Pro                  lDl                                                                                                4/86         6/86      IC/S6   U2l86                      2/S6
Iqdapzt                     hM                           10/S5       11/8S        2/66                         2/86
ow- a         ltats       1IAnM              15                             7 a inn  86n rd IS    in f87
Trainin Visits            11AM                8                             4  lin FV86 &W 4 gd    In Fm7
IrniUtln Reaowm   Use
Alga   Rdy                am                  7           5/84        984        10/84             11/8%       12/84         2/85                    11/85     1/86                   1118
Tqw Val1ey Stauy La       DMlA               28           5/84        9/84       10/84             11/84      12/84          2/65                    U/|5     3/S6                    11184
Trditicl In-lDni
ktuiy1! /aDGA                               16          9/18         1/85        2/85              3/85       4/85          6/65                    3/66     6/86                    i114
Cmdit (OCaO
Studt  4n   Sy*is t       VAM              Is           5/84       10/84       11/S4             12/56       1/85          2/65         465         7/85    8/85                    11/S4
Tldmionl AMvke to
OQhK                  fIWU                36          10/85        11/85      12/85              1/86       2/S6          3/86                             3/87                     1/86
rdllowvhlp ad Tmi8                                                                                                                                                                                    N
Vists          F       mum                20                            10 "h In RB6 ad 10 l  in IY87
/a 0 awtxn study imuct .
05



AGRICULTURAL SERVlCES PROJECT
-ActeM tIN am UK
_ -h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tl o Ste                                                                                           Ap n-----------
Tog  of    hdce4pt of    evoluaio                                  mw or Smi                  Dt                   Appolnt-   Mt        c
Pat   nc     mmfip  of Pro posal                                   1c           Interia       Firnl                mit  of    Pwott
s n.trmtion    H         th    or      ru                     or          Consultnits  Awad        of hte*n aort              R oft 6    Final   btmu
Tadt                        InOar            Rqauied      Docuti                        id.          ble1etti.   Ccntrot       tIvItlee !     .uaala Di aw Lon  Repwt    Staf              Patta
1awvad  Sh  and Plamtiw
R4vlg 9Sal Io6itry         INAMR              9           5/84        10/84       11/84             12/84        1/85          1/85         3/35        4/85     8/85                     6/84
cOO11InfltNMN FR3it                                        3              85                          2/865
Vegetable  eed Pr&tion  MM               L     7          5/84          183         2/85              3/865      4/85          5/856                     186      7/ 
Vetable  Seed PC ountLrg   INIAM E  uR   21    6          2/86          5/86        7/86             8/86        11/86          1/87         2/86        3/87    4/87                      1/86
&j,:rv.  Clove Samd
S  t SlioJgx    for   t1rAM                   7          5/84          1/85       2/85              3/85        4/85          5/85                               7/88                     3/85
H1bile SeW  ClaaniqM9/8
Fiq.ytuu                 INUAR                5          7/85          9/85       61/85             2/86        3/86          6/86                              10586                     2/6
INIA                6          9/84         12/84       3/85              4/85        6/85          7/85          7/85        9/85    10/85                     3/85
Katabliahmst Coop. for
Sood Pwductin             INLAIR              7          5/84         11/84        2/85             4/85         5/85         1 1/85        4/86        8/87    9/87                      4/85
Glaul~~~~aaeE~~~~~~~..t ~1/85                            2/85        6/85                          6/85
01... baa..~~~~~~IH    0.8                                   t/uIN                                       I
7/85         9/85       11/85                         2/86          3/86
11/84      Wm         8   /85                          3/85          6/85
lTreibiagVita    I NI1ARMS 7I   F             1.5                 7 / i                  FY86
Ariultal IexaLan
(a) TodmleAl AaaigztmmO'8
Cutrel Teoem      Stdles 111AM                           5/84   10 48            4                              11/81        1/85              (3 qpedAliate for 30 i     w eah)        10/84
m COMIt"s 1D1AM                                    15 I.                     FY57 ml 1(
Seaj-Teml CoriujluntaeIAM                  60                  10 v  In.85:32w             FY86, 20    I n FYS8 2 0 Y87aul10  m  l FY 88
(b) Dveqwmt of lt.sion
in 7 Agrarm 7Znms
Vehicle                                                 AccoWiLto stan           esign or toatapeelar eant ,    e ppu pristse.                                                                       N
Ctz L Wosb ~~~~~~~~~~~~Tewdr,   umcnts salble, prcunwt as    SAM   reqiW.
/a 3 w/'u camultamy for ac phryaiolocuia (9/86IO/85)1
3 Wm cwomultwyY  for cuW aP t dist fooits se   ipleurteion mhalule as above in 1985/86.
063UE



l~~~~~~~~ SOMco                                  jL  
'  S    P   WA   I  -SP A N
VJaI/(             ~~PORTUGAL
X ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
es)                                     ~~~~~~~PROJECT 
-. Pot PQWCt ~ETftAIrr    ZONES
RfGIONS
EP:TRE OWLC' * UIN4O
SPL    TR~~?AS 0Y.-MON7ES
P*A' f0    OFS Tf
y  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t         AL HE6Gt %E  E@S
.2                                                               EGT f   V RSV 
20,0~~~~~~1
CAIE~~~~~~~~~~~Sfd. *A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'WAI
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c"L
_.'o--  ~ * NAT.ONAI C.-,At 
LIBO                                        ea, ,-                   BOU'l,,:D4  lE
I ACAI(a                                                           NT=RNATIONAL BOUNODAES
2 is                         Fu                             05  "S  v 0         0
5-43,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
SPAIN  ~ ~~~~~C'F R AN C E
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ P A I N
L'\\~~~ SAaS 



42                                                    [
id  ' ' O' d-XN  N rF <  _                    ERAG NCA
VIANA DO CASTELO                                      A
PORTUGAL                                         ........... . ..a
x                              ~~~~~N
DISTRIBUTION OF '                                                            A                                                A)
BANK ASSISTED PROJECTS                                                              .                       0 MONTES  ,.7
BY SECTOR                              4tt*..A   .  ;  YLAREA.
PORT%9s       S                                              A         'w
41.'T PROJECTS                                              )           .'T    Vtp  Ur
PerJem|1 """ '.........   .,,.'', ..... /J- 4,
: ..... .Forestry                             I  Ot      A                           A :...          .. .+    / %
*A    Education                                            '''::..::.                 :.        / 
Highways                            AVEIR                   ..         ...
*  Woter Supply
Indostriol
*     Power Stotione
Tronewisejon Lines                                                     ,  0I
EXISTING FEATURES                    /
3 District Copitols                  Figuerre    COMF                  c11 ,
4      S     Notionol Copitol                    r                               . . /    I
+      Airports                           A:                                                     A   T       \
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                      .    ..:::..  ...:.:::::: .  , . ....:::::
wi     Porte                             {,,.::::i-fs:::::                                  tr                                       Cc
Risers                          ,-- ll   Z                                                                                    4
-          Priwary Roods                i LFlAq ASEELO BRANCO
Secondary Roads
Roilways                                            oz
_.  _   International Rourrdarres    -f  7)C_76                         .          r 
U >t  o Mbodwfd
m~~~~~~l50Z,%                                                         --SLNTJ  
yr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
nAt|                          arcw                                                              so,A  .
A4rwe      -I Md, 
PROJECT             FISCAL YEAR APPROVES
Electric Power!                    1464            ..     ,                                                           20      0 CF   so
*Elecsrrc Power                   1964        5        . J                                                                cirous ri
+CErrogodo t Power                 1965 4. ,r O(                                                                                    o,rs
4co-god. r P.-        ZS       ~       ->.                                                                5OrOfl..
oCarrapar-lo I Power               966
*C-rrejodo IL Power                1966                                                                                 .'sj,, r= rsc=onM/=r
Highways                         1977    Sr~                                                                           ,rc,i
Deoeloywent Finonca EFN I)*    1977          V  ""'> '"     "         'lla                                            r roruo.   r.r    S
Lisbon Rgion Woter Supply        197e           . 1   : 3:               A b
Education 1                      1978                      r,'                                    /
AgricuIsuroI and Pish-eris Credit  1978                                                 |
Frti liosr Modericati-           1979/                                                                                orwc,
Highways 0                       1979    ODEMIRA
S-ml ad M.diun, ,.I. r    '                                                                                                       F S  A N C d
Education I                      1980
F.,.,t,y                         198          A1 .s                                                                               . . N
Mechomnol ,ndustries             1980
DeOelopnent Finance (BFNII)'  1981
Fatrutaum Eplortion              1981                                                                                    S P A I N
Industrial Energy and C .ns.r.o...n' 19821                                                        ,lla            o
1res-os-Mwnras Rura cuslvoyrnent i982      /ceoS         -- -H04fv*  tnr
Powe OL                         1983       Los&                                       tcr
Small and M.d-um Sc-la Industry    1983                                            0, uiiro
Osuelopoens U *                                                     FARO     -                                            Ut
Not Larer-on aperif   a Proonts Cowspl-d                                                                                M.-o    AiCCr_






