Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11728
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 2457-PO)
MARCH 17, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Portuguese Escudo (Euc.)
Appraisal year average
exchange rate:              US$1.00 - 172 Euc.
ABBREVIATIONS
ASP   -     Agricultural Services Project
EC    -     European Community
BTO   -     Back to Office
PCN   -     Project Completion Note
PCR   -     Project Completion Report
J ISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Note on Portugal
Aaricultural Services Project (Loan 2457-PO)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Note on
Portugal Agricultural Services Project (Loan 2457-PO)" prepared by the Europe and
Central Asia Regional Office.
The loan was approved by the Board in 1984 but never signed. The
attached Project Completion Note is provided in lieu of a PCR.
The Note recognizes that Bank management and staff should have
foreseen the availability of European Economic Community (EEC) funding for sub-
sectoral studies, in preparation for Portugal's entry in the EEC. In particular, the Bank
should have scrutinized the justification of Bank funding and explored co-financing
opportunities. Nevertheless, Borrower and Bank efforts during project preparation
were not entirely wasted, since many project components were later undertaken by
the Ministry of Agriculture under EEC financing.
The project is not rated and will not be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PORTUGAL
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT (ASP)
(LOAN 2457-PO)
Prolect Identity
Project Name:     Agricultural Services Project
Loan No.:         2457-PO
RVP Unit:         Europe & Central Asia
Country:          Portugal
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsector:        Research and Extension
Background
This is a Project Completion Note (PCN) of the ASP for which a $7.4
million loan was approved by the Board on June 26, 1984. The loan proposal was
withdrawn with government agreement on July 15, 1985. Legal documents were
never signed. A PCR is not being prepared because operations under this
project never got started. The PCN was prepared by the Agriculture Operations
Division, Country Department I, of Europe & Central Asia Regional Office
(EClAG).
The loan documents were never signed because of disagreements in the
Ministry of Agriculture with project objectives. A contributing factor was
that in 1985 Portugal was on the verge of becoming a member of the EC, which
agreed to provide funding for this project under an earlier aid scheme. The
only supervision mission to assess progress towards effectiveness, in case of
loan signature, took place in October 1984.
The present PCN is based on the review of the staff appraisal report;
internal Bank memoranda on project issues as contained in relevant Bank files,
minutes of the Board discussions, Bank supervision and BTO reports, as well as
interviews with Bank staff who were associated with the project.
The project, which provided funding for studies to be made in
specialized areas such as agricultural research, extension, irrigation, rural
accounting and monitoring services, was designed on the basis of a 1984 Bank
agricultural sector report (5007-PO), whose recommendations were fully
supported by the Government.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Proiect DescriDtion
The objective of this loan was to help the Portuguese Government develop
an agricultural development strategy. This was considered important in view
of Portugal's forthcoming entry in the EC, of the backward nature of its
agricultural sector and of the lack of an adequate policy framework for the
sector.
The loan was approved by the Board on June 26, 1984. Signature was
first delayed because of internal disputes within the Ministry of Agriculture
over project objectives. In late 1984, the Minister of Agriculture confirmed
his full support of the objectives of the project, but noted that the project
stood a good chance of being cofinanced by the EC. He expressed a desire to
pursue this option prior to signature of the Bank loan. The EC shortly
afterwards confirmed its agreement to consider this project on a priority
basis and in April 1985 agreed to cofinancing to the extent of S4.0 million.
This would have reduced the Bank loan to $3.4 million. The Bank agreed to this
solution and indicated its willingness to cancel unrequired funds, had the
Government so requested. However, as no decision was being made, in early
June 1985 the Bank informed the Government that if the Loan documents were not
signed by June 30, 1985, it would withdraw the loan. This was done on July
15, 1985.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Despite the withdrawal of the loan proposal, all preparatory work done
by the Bank was not lost as the Ministry of Agriculture carried out many of
the project components under EC financing.
The short experience with the project permits no major lessons. It
might be suggested that Bank management and staff, knowing that Portugal was
about to join the EC, might have sought to cooperate more closely with the
Government in the preparation of a cofinancing scheme under which to finance
the project.



-3-
ANNEX
KEY PROJECT DATA
Total Project Cost (USS million)          11.0
Total Project Cost (Escudo million)   1,892.0
Loan Amount (USS million)                  7.4
STAFFWEEK INPUT
FY84  FY85                     QThM
Identification/Prep       4.0   -    -      -            4.0
Appraisal                25.0   -    -      _           25.0
Negotiations              4.0   -    -      -            4.0
Supervision                -   2.0                       2.0
TOTAL                  33.0   -                       35.0
MISSION DATA
Mission                  Mandays
Dates      Persons      in Field
Appraisal            02/84        5            60
Supervision I        10/84        2            10
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower:                Government of Portugal
Executing Agency:        Ministry of Agriculture
Fiscal Year of Borrower:               January 1 to December 31
Appraisal Year Average exchange rate: US$ 1.00 - ES 172



