DOrsnt or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
C/'. /Go-zX
Report No. P-4288-EG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 5,400,00
AND A PROPOSED SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
OF SDR 3,600,000
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
FOR A
REHABILITATION IMPORT PROJECT
April 16, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  CFA Franc
US$1.00          =  CFAF 378.05 (December 31, 1985)
CFAF 1 million - US$2,226 (average 1985)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                  US Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)    =    0.621 miles
1 hectare (ha)            2.471 acres
1 kilogram (kg)     =    2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (t)    =    0.984 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BADEA =   Banque Arabe de D6veloppement Economique en Afrique (Arab Bank
for Economic Development in Africa)
BCD   =   Banco de Credito y Desarrollo (Credit and Development Bank)
BEAC  =   Banque des Etats de I'Afrique Centrale (Bank of the Central
African States)
CCCE  =   Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (French Central Fund
for Economic Cooperation)
CFA   =   Comunaute Financiire Africaine (African Financial Community)
FCFA  =   Franc of the African Financial Community
CLUSA =   Cooperative League of the United States of America
FAC   =   Fonds d'Aide et de Coop&ratiou (French Aid and Cooperation
Fund)
FAO   =   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
GTZ       Gesellschaft fuir Technische Zusa-menarbeit (German Agency for
Technical Cooperation)
NCESD =   National Council for Economic and Social Development
OPEC  =   Organization of Petroleum-Exporting Countries
RIC   =   Rehabilitation Import Credit
UDEAC =   Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (Customs Union of
the Central African States)
WFP   =   World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
REHABILITATION IMPORT CREDITS
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Equatorial Guinea
Executing Agency:        Ministry of Finance
IDA Credit Amount:       SDR 5.4 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
Special African Facility
Credit Amount:           SDR 3.6 million (US$4.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms
Description:             The proposed credits would help the country
increase its productive capacity and exports
during a critical phase of the economic
rehabilitation program on which the Government has
recently embarked and which aims at restoring
balance of payments and budgetary equilibria while
allowing service of the external debt. They would
provide funds over the short term to import
critically needed agricultural inputs and
rehabilitate selected infrastructure and social
sectors. The credits would finance eligible
imports of (i) agricultural inputs and tools,
spare parts for agricultural machinery, and
equipment, including fishing equipment; (ii)
vehicles, maintenance equipment, spare parts, and
fuel for the transportation sector; (iii)
vehicles, equipment, and machinery for the water
supply/sanitation sector; (iv) equipment and spare
parts needed in the electricity and
telecommunications sectors; and (v) vaccines,
equipment, vehicles, and medicines for the health
sector. The credits would also finance technical
assistance to the Government for Credit
administration, procurement, and utilization of
the items imported.
Benefits and Risks:      The principal benefit expected from the proposed
operation arises from higher farm incomes and
government revenues through the removal of con-
straints to increased agricultural production and
exports. Improvements In the water-supply
network, in the health sector, in electricity and
IThis document has  estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
in telecommunications with the outside world
should make the country a more efficient and
healthier place. Other provisions of the credits
would strengthen the investment budgeting and
planning process and donor coordination, and would
not only make the allocation of scarce resources
more effective, but also help restore Equatorial
Guinea's credibility with the international
community and thereby establish an environment
more conducive to flows of official aid and
private investment. As most of the country's poor
live in rural areas, the operation would also
benefit them through increased production of food-
stuffs and lower prices.
.,
The main risk is that the Government may not
succeed in implementing the rehabilitation
program. This possibility, however, seems remote:
Equatorial Guinea's recent record of readiness to
Implement reform, rehabilitation, and austerity
measures which, at times, have been painful,
evidences the Government's strong commitment to
the program. The interim review should also
reduce this risk. The risk arising from a
shortage of local skills is offset by the
technical assistance arrangements.
Estimated
Disbursement:            The proceeds of the proposed credits would be
disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche,
Amounting to 60 percent of the proposed credits or
to disbursements made by January 31, 1987,
whichever came earlier, would be available
immediately upon effectiveness and would include
retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 million
equivalent; and the remaining funds subject to the
satisfactory conclusion of a performance review.
Disbursements of the total amount of the two
credits are expected to be completed by July 31,
1988.
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map: IBED 10259R2



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED IDA DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND A PROPOSED SPECIAL AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
FOR A REHABILITATION IMPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Rehabilitation Import Credit (RIC) to the Republic of Equatorial Guinea for
SDR 9.0 million (US$10 million equivalent, of which US$6.0 million under an
IDA Credit and US$4.0 million under a Special African Facility Credit) on
standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Equatorial Guinea-an Introductory Economic
Report" (Report No. 4011-EG) was distributed to the Board on June 15, 1983.
Since then, the Bank Group has monitored the economy in close coordination
with the IMF and through missions, the latest o' which took place in
November 1985. The findings of these missions have been included in this
report.
The Political Context
3.        When Equatorial Guinea became independent from Spain in 1968, it
had one of the highest per capita incomes in Sub-Saharan Africa. The
subsequent eleven years of the Macias Nguema regime were a period of
serious economic mismanagement and destructive misrule. Agricultural
services and institutions ceased to operate, and production of cash and
food crops declined drastically. Basic services in health care and
education deteriorated badly. Water and electricity facilities, roads,
ports, and the telecommunications network were neglected and fell into
disrepair. Gross violations of human rights, including arbitrary
executions, particularly of educated people, caused approximately one third
of the population to flee the country. Foreign investment came to a halt,
and the state-operated trading system broke down. The public
administration virtually ceased to operate, barter trade increased, and the
population at large barely managed to survive. Consequently, Equatorial
Guinea's per capita income dropped from US$260 equivalent in 1968 to an
estimated US$175 in 1981, both in current terms.
4.        In late 1979, Macias Nguema was deposed by the military, which
established a Supreme Military Council beaded by Lieutenant Colonel Nguema
Mbasogo. The new Government took steps to restore a measure of democratic
process and reestablish the legal and administrative framework needed to
support economic rehabilitation.  In August 1982, a referendum approved a
new constitution establishing a National Assembly and a new judicial
system. The country's political isolation was overcome as Spain. France.
other countries, and international organizations resumed their financial
and technical cooperation.



Economic Potential and Recent Developments
5.        Equatorial Guinea's land area is 28,000 km2, with a population of
about 350,000, according to a 1983 census. The national territory consists
of Continental Guinea, named Rio Muni, on the African mainland, and Insular
Guinea, comprising Bioko and four other islands (Corisco, Greater Elobey,
Smaller Elobey, and Pagalu), in the Gulf of Guinea. Malabo, the national
capital on Bioko, is 250 km from Bata, the main city of Rio Muni, and
almost 700 km from the island of Pagalu. Commmnications and administration
are therefore particularly difficult.
6.        Insular and Continental Guinea have different climates, ethnic
compositions, and economic bases. Bioko has rainfall all year, and the
dominant economic activity is cash-crop (cocoa) agriculture, with food
crops playing a secondary role. Rio Muni is covered with forests and has a
more pronounced dry season. There, food cropping is the dominant economic
activity, and cash crops (cocoa and coffee) play a secondary role.
Traditionally, Bioko's cocoa was sold on the world market, and foodstuffs
were imported to feed the local population and the large numbers of foreign
contract workers on the plantations. Bioko is a-ire developed and urbanized
than Rio Muni, yet approximately 80 percent of the population live in Rio
Muni.
7.        The economy is based on agriculture, including fishing and
forestry, which accounts for about 50 percent of GDP and virtually all
exports. Subsistence agriculture predominates, but cocoa, coffee, and
timber provide monetary income for the population, foreign exchange, and
government revenues. Little manufacturing exists, but wood and cocoa
processing have, in the past, accounted for approximately 5 percent of GDP.
Commerce accounts for about one tenth of GDP, and construction, public
works, and services, for roughly one third. Preliminary surveys have found
encouraging indications of titanium, iron ore, silica, manganese, uranium,
and alluvial gold. Oil exploration has been going on since the mid-1960s
and has recently accelerated with assistance from Spain, the United
Nations, and IDA, which has financed technical assistance for the sector
(para. 20).
8.        During 1980-84, the Government introduced a series of policy
measures aimed at revitalizing agricultural production and exports. The
cocoa export tax was reduced by two thirds, and both cocoa and coffee
producer prices were increased considerably. Foreign plantation owners
were invited to return to the country and resume cocoa production, and
seasonal credits were provided at a modest level. A new forestry law,
allowing more liberal repatriation of profits and a more advantageous tax
regime, was promulgated in the hope of spurring foreign investment in the
forestry sector. These measures, though important, only partially
stimulated production, since they did not remove the basic price
distortions or address the shortage of foreign exchange. Consequently.
economic performance over 1980-84 was only modest. Although production of
food crops rose, it remained low by West African standards. Production of
cocoa, which appeared to be recovering in 1982, declined again in 1984 and



- 3 -
averaged only 7,200 tons a year during 1980-84, compared to 37,000 tons a
year during the late 1960s. Timber production has increased fivefold since
1980 but still amounts to less than one third of an estimated marketable
production of 300,000 tons a year. The country has the potential to be
self-sufficient In food, but some foodstuffs (such as fish and fish
products) are currently being imported.
9.        Since the partial measures introduced during 1980-84 failed to
stimulate production, the Government began in late 1984 to address the
country's development constraints with bolder, more comprehensive and
far-reaching policy reforms. A crucial one was the devaluation of the
epkwele by 82 percent on January 1, 1985, and its replacement with the CFA
franc as the national currency, in the context of Equatorial Guinea's
integration into the CFA franc monetary zone as a memer of the Bank of the
Central African States (BEAC). The Government's current economic and
financial rehabilitation program is supported by an Iff stand-by
arrangement of SDR 9.2 million (approved on June 28, 1985). The IMF
ascertained in November 1985 that the Government was generally in
compliance with the stand-by program. However, an unforeseen decline in
cocoa exports (para. 28), and its impact on the balance of payments and
fiscal revenues, necessitates a new Stand-by that is now expected to be
negotiated with the IMF in June 1986.
Budgetary Situation
10.       The devastation of Equatorial Guinea's economy in the 1970s was
accompanied by the complete disarray of its public finances. Under the
Macias regime, public financial transactions were recorded only
sporadically, and the accounts of the Treasury, the Bank of Equatorial
Guinea (the former Central Bank), and the public enterprises were not kept
separate. The new Government reintroduced regular budgetary procedures with
technical assistance from the IMF, France, and Spain, and in April 1980,
the first formal budget since 1974 was enacted. Since 1984, the budgetary
process and fiscal discipline har-e been considerably improved by recording
revenues and expenditures monthly, which made it possible to monitor fiscal
performance throughout the year (Annex 1, table 2).
11.       Overall budgetary deficits averaged about 23 percent of budgetary
expenditures during 1980-84 because of haphazard and intermittent revenue
collection and unplanned expenditures. These deficits were financed mostly
by the Central Bank. The recent substantial devaluation of the national
currency, the country's membership in the CFA franc zone, and technical
assistance to the Ministry of Finance from other BEAC member countries and
France have, however, improved government control over revenues and
expenditures significantly. Although tax revenues have been increasing
slower than originally envisaged under the INF program due to payment lags
in connection with cocoa shipments, a slight budgetary surplus is estimated
for 1985, mainly as a result of the rescheduling obtained at the July 1985
meeting of the Paris Club (para. 14).



-4-
Balance of Paymouts
12.       During most of the 1970., the balance of payments recorded
surpluses mainly due to low import levels. International transactions were
handled by the Government or state enterp-ises, and only the most essential
goods were imported. However,following the reopening of the economy in
1980, the balance of payments deteriorated drastically (Annex 1, table 1).
Merchandise imports rose from an annual average dl US$16 million during
1977-79 to US$33 million during 1980-84. At the same time, merchandise
exports recovered slowly from their record low level of US$15 million in
1980 to only US$19 million in 1984. Three factors caused the disappointlng
export performance: (i) very low quantities of cocoa and timber exports;
(ii) low cocoa quality because of years of neglect, translating into low
unit values; and (iii) declining world-market prices for cocoa and timber.
Substantial underinvoicing of both cocoa and timber exports also
contributed to lower estimated unit export values.
13.       The services balance also deteriorated rapidly during 1980-84,
mainly because of the resumption of interest payments on the external debt.
The current account balance deteriorated from an estimated average annual
surplus of about US$6 million during 1976-79 to an average annual deficit
of US$17 million during 1980-84, or about 26 percent of estimated GDP, on
average. Net capital inflows rose significantly during 1980-82 but declined
sharply in 1983 and 1984, reflecting rapidly increasing amortization
payments and the administration's limited capacity to prepare and implement
investment projects. The overall balance of payments deficit averaged
US$16 million a year during 1980-84 (excluding accumulation of arrears).
The deficit is estimated to have been about US$14 million in 1985.
Although in 1985 the current account improved by US$3 million compared to
1984 and net inflows of short-term capital increased by US$4 million, the
overall balance deteriorated by US$3 million because of slow project
implementation and a lack of confidence in the domestic banking system
which led to net unrecorded capital outflows. The economic recovery
program is expected to result in increasing imports over the next few
years, but a projected increase of exports of some 19.4 percent p.a. (in
current terms) between 1985 and 1987 and large net medium and long-term
capital inflows, mainly due to the RIC. are expected to limit Equatorial
Guinea's overall balance of payments deficit to an average US$2.4 million a
year in 1986 and 1987. or about 9 percent of projected export earnings.
External Debt
14.       Since the resumption of foreign aid in 1980. outstanding and
disbursed public debt, including obligations to the IMF. has more than
tripled, amounting at the end of 1984 to an estimated US$120 million,
including payment arrears of US$42 million. A large part of the debt
contracted in the early 1980s consists of credits used to finance imports
of consumer goods- At a Paris Club meeting held on July 22, 1985,
Equatorial Guinea received favorable terms from its creditors, who agreed
to reschedule 95 percent of the arrears as of December 31, 1984, including
late interest due on them, and 100 percent of principal and interest



falling due between January 1, 1985, and June 30, 1986. Debt service
payments (including the DMF) after rescheduling, amounted to
US$17.8 million in 1985 (vs. US$24.2 million before rescheduling), and are
projected to be US$19.0 million In 1986. This is equivalent to 67 percent
(compared to 99 percent before debt relief) of projected merchandise and
NFS exports in 1985 and 71 percent In 1986. Although debt service will
continue to be a burden In the medium term, the expected increase in
exports (para 28) would reduce the debt service ratio (excluding the IMF
and short-term debt) to about 22 percent by 1990 (Annex 1, table 1).
Development Constraints, Policy, and Prospect.
15.      At an International Donors' Conference (UNDP Round Table) held In
Geneva in April 1982, the Government presented a Reconstruction Program for
1982-84. The program vas intended to form a link between the emergency
measures of 1980-81 and the medium-term development plans the Government
hoped to begin preparTing in 1985. It aimde at revitalizing domestic food
production, stimulating exports of cash crops, and providing basic
Infrastructure. The donors' conference provided, for the first time since
Independence, and after many years of Isolation, a forum to present the
country's economic situatlon and development needs to the international
comunity. It provoked a great deal of interest In Equatorial Guinea's
problems but generated little additional aid because it was overly
ambitious, lacked focus, and proposed projects which were insufficiently
prepared. Moreover, most bilateral and international donors were
unfamiliar with conditions in Equatorial Guinea and hesitated to finance
projects.
16.       Equatorial Guinea's economic recovery over the past five years
has been constrained by three major factors. First, there is a severe
shortage of skilled persons at all levels. Second, the former national
currency was greatly overvalued and inconvertible. Low exports, a shortage
of foreign exchange, excess demand for imported goods, and expansionary
fiscal policies resulted in a parallel exchange rate significantly
different from the official one. The overvalued exchange rate, generally
low wages, and goverament intervention in many economic activities led to
major price distortions and Inadequate producer incentives, a situation
which discouraged economic activities in general and agriculture in
particular. Third, the dilapidation of productive capacity and related
physical infrastructure continued to hamper reconstruction efforts by the
Government and the private sector.
17,      The country is well endowed with natural resources and the
economy can be expected to grow at a comparatively high rate, once the
effects of many years of serious misnagment are overcome and the
Government's rehabilitation program gains momentum. Production of the
country's export commodities can be expected to increase steadily,
providing a base for developing domestic food production and marketing. At
a later stage, small-scale manufacturing industries could be established.
In addition, oil and other mineral resources, if they materialize, could
speed the country's medium-term development substantially. However,



Equatorial Guinea's very limited capacity for identifying, planning, and
implementing investment projects as well as for generally managing the
economy will continue to be the most serious development constraint for
some time. Second, the private sector will expand its investments and
activities only when there is greater evidence of an economic recovery and
of the Government's determination to continue to implement economic reform
programs and rehabilitate key infrastructures. Technical assistance
provided by the international community, including IDA, is expected to
mitigate the first obstacle gradually over the next few years. In
particular, the resident experts provided under the IDA-financed Technical
Assistance Project (para. 21) are expected to assist the Government in
preparing appropriate development strategies for the economy as a whole,
and sound investment projects in key economic and social sectors.
Rehabilitation of urgently needed infrastructure under the RIC and projects
financed by other donors will reduce physical development constraints.
Implementation of the reform package contained in the RIC and continued
good standing with the IMF will confirm the Government's determination to
carry through its reform program.
18.       Because of its poverty and continuing severe financial
difficulties, Equatorial Guinea is not creditworthy for borrowing other
than on highly concessional terms. Even if government revenues increase
steadily and expenditures are controlled rigorously, the fiuancial
situation will remain difficult over the next few years because of the
continuing heavy debt service burden. Public savings net of debt service
are likely to be negative, and the Government's contribution to public
investments will therefore remain modest, at best, for several years.
Donors should be ready to assist in financing a high proportion of costs,
including a substantial part of local costs, for new development projects
and programs. At negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it
would restrict future borrowing to concessionary loans and credits through
the end of January 1988.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EQUATORIAL GUINEA
19.       Before the present Government came to power in 1979, IDA had made
only one US$2 million credit to Equatorial Guinea, for Highway Maintenance.
Only minimal disbursements were made from this credit, which was cancelled
in 1976 at the Government's request. Economic and political conditions
during most of the 1970s prevented the Bank Group from pursuing any
economic dialogue with the Government, much less financing projects.
20.       After 1979, the Bank Group resumed activities, first as executing
agency for a UNDP-financed technical assistance project in the petroleum
sector and, in 1982, with an IDA Credit of SDR 2.3 million for technical
assistance to that sector. The project is assisting the Government in
establishing and staffing a Directorate of Hydrocarbons in the recently
created Ministry of Mines and Hydrocarbons and in setting up an energy



-7 -
sector data base. Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, albeit more
slowly than originally envisaged.
21.       The Technical Assistance Project, approved in May 1984,  provides
expatriate advisors in several key areas: macroeconomic planning,
non-cocoa agriculture, forestry, mining, education, and public debt. It is
designed to help the Government (a) elaborate key elements of its
development strategy and investment program. (b) prepare development
projects, and (c) improve management of the public debt.
22.       The Cocoa Rehabilitation Project, approved in February 1985, and
cofinanced by BADEA, the European Community, and the OPEC Fund, is designed
to help the Government reactivate the institutional, financial, and
incentive systems required for a sustained recovery of cocoa production.
It focuses on increasing (a) cocoa production, through better incentives
(higher wages for agricultural labor, paid in a convertible and easily
repatriated currency, and higher producer prices announced in early 1985)
and greater availability of production inputs and credit, and (b) receipts
from cocoa sales, through improved grading and export marketing of cocoa.
Production increases are expected from more systematic harvesting on
plantations already being worked and from rehabilitation of areas once
cultivated but subsequently abandoned. Adequate producer prices will be
maintained as, starting January 1985, they are set taking into account
international prices, production costs and prices in neighboring countries
and in consultation with IDA (Annex IV, p.1).
23.       Equatorial Guinea's implementation performance under the three
recent operations has been relatively good. The main Implementation
problems are administrative and have been due to the Government's
unfamiliarity with Bank procedures and to the long delays in
communications. There is no telex service, and telephone and telegraph
services are frequently down. Frequent supervision of operations will
continue to be the best way of overcoming both these problems.
24.       The Bank Group's assistance strategy recognizes the urgent need
to: (a) support the Government's rehabilitation program through intensive
policy dialogue and technical advice; (b) revitalize the productive sectors
and increase exports; (c) alleviate critical shortages of skilled people;
and (d) restore badly dilapidated infrastructure. Close coordination with
other donors in mobilizing concessionary financing for high-priority
operations is essential in the implementation of this strategy. The Bank
has encouraged the Government to concentrate scarce domestic and foreign
resources on those areas most likely to help correct internal and external
imbalances. Among the high-priority operations being identified, a
reconstruction project, or individual projects, could be envisaged in
agriculture and for the rehabilitation of essential infrastructure.
Assistance in education/manpower/training would also carry a very high
priority. Additional technical assistance may be necessary in the
petroleum sector. Finally, during the supervision of the proposed RIC, we
intend to intensify our policy dialogue to help the Government adopt the
further adjustments and policy reforms that are required to put the economy



on a path of sustained development. The most important foreseen now are
public administration reform, revising the investment code, alleviating
constraints to the development of small and medium scale industry and the
agricultural fooa sector, and Improving the efficiency of the banking
system.
PART III - THE GOVERNMENT'S REHABILITATION PROGRAM
25.       The failure of the measures introduced in 1980-84 to restore
financial equilibrium and stimulate production led the Government to
formulate a comprehensive and far-reachlng economic rehabilitation program.
The program, which is described more fully in Annex IV, consists of the
following elements:
(a) Monetary Reform. On January 1, 1985, Equatorial Guinea joined
the BEAC and devalued its currency by 82 percent (in foreign
currency terms) and replaced it by the CFA franc.
(b) Agricultural Policy. The Government has introduced, mostly
within the context of the Cocoa Rehabilitation ProJect, a series
of policy reforms affecting the agricultural sector, particularly
the key cocoa subsector.  Starning with the 1985/86 crop, cocoa
producer prices are being set in light of production costs, vorld
market prices, prices in neighboring countries and in
consultation with IDA. The producer price is high (CFAF 500/kg
for 85/86) relative to other West African nations where farmers
are usually overtaxed and is appropriate for Equatorial Guinea to
induce farmers to expand cocoa production more rapidly and
increase their income quickly. Other reforms introduced were
creditworthiness criteria for granting agricultural credit, and
periodic revision of interest rates.
(c) Foreign Trade Policy. Following Equatorial Guinea's entry into
the CFA franc zone, its trade with the other member countries has
become free of all controls on transactions. Trade with
countries outside the zone is governed by the general BEAC rules.
(d) In the area of public finance, the Government has taken a series
of measures aimed at reducing the budgetary deficits that
prevailed in recent years. On the revenue side, tax measures
(Annex 4, p. 2) have been taken aimed at simplifying tax
colilection and administration and raising tax revenue. The
Government has established a committee to review the tax system
and to further rationalize and strengthen it. The committee,
assisted by technical experts from rDEAC, has presented its
recommendations and the Important ones have been incorporated in
the revised budget for 1986 (see Annex IV). On the expenditure
side, the public service payroll has been limited to about CFAF 1
billion both in 1985 and 1986, and an administrative unit has



- 9 -
been created for approving and monitoring budgetary expenditure
and budget execution. All civil servants have been registered
during a cenaus in May 1985, somo 550 civil servants have been
discharged and public sector employment has been frozen. The
Govermnut intends to further reduce the number of civil
servants, but has indicated that it may seek Bank Group advice
before proceeding with future reductions.
(e) Monatary and Credit Policy. Targets for overall credit and
monetary expansion for 1985 and the first half of 1986 have been
established and are being monitored under the IMF stand-by
arrangement. The BEAC interest rate structure has been applied
since January 1, 1985, for loans and deposits with the Central
Bank. Interest rates of commercial banks established by the
National Credit Board are to be revised periodically in
consultation with IMF. Equatorial Guinea's banking system
consists of the Central Bank (BEAC), the Credit and Development
Bank (BCD) which functions as both a commercial and development
bank. and the Guinextebank, a commercial bank, vhich is jointly
owned by the "Banco Exterior de Espana" and the Government. The
farm credit operations of the BCD are currently being
strengthened by the hiring, through the recently approved Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project (para 22), of two Internationally
recruited agricultural credit specialists, and strict
creditworthiness criteria are now being applied in the granting
of agricultural credit. Three additional banking specialists
will be appointed under the Technical Assistance Project (para.
21) to improve the lCD's performance further.
(f) Public Enterprises. The Government has begun to reorganize the
parapublic sector in an effort to reduce the financial burden on
ths state, end monopolies, and allow the private sector to play a
greater role. The parastatal which had the monopoly on
distributing petroleum products, EEPGE (Empresa Estatal de
Petroleos de Guinea Ecuatorial) was liquidated and replaced by a
mixed enterprise with foreign capital participation in August
1984. The state importing firm, EEC (EPresa Estatal de
Comercio) was replaced by two mixe enterprises (with majority
foreign capital participation and foreign management) in July
1985, ending the former monopoly situation. The conversion of
the national airline and the national shipping company into mixed
enterprises is underway, and restructuring and conversion into a
mixed enterprise of the electricity company is being studied.
Prices of petrolem products and electricity tariffs were also
increased in 1985, and further increases are expected for the
latter (para. 35, Annex IV p 1 and Annex V para 4).
(g) The Government has also taken measures aimed at improving
public debt manaxemeDt An autonomous public debt agency, the
CAADP (Caja Autonoma de Amortizacion de la Deuda Publica) , has



- 10 -
been set up, and the country has fully complied with the monthly
debt service payments established under the Paris Club
procedures. A consultant hired under the IDA-financed Technical
Assistance Project (para. 21) is helping the Government Improve
public debt recording, reporting, and management, and traln
Equato-Guineans to carry out these activities. The consultant
has also made a number of recommendations to improve CAADP'a
performance in the short and medium term. The adoption of more
appropriate statutes, secondment of qualified staff to the CAADP,
systematic classification aud centralization of public debt data
and classification of responsibilities in the process of debt
contracting were the most urgent recommendations, which the
Government has already implemented.
(h) Public Investment Program. Equatorial Guinea's public investment
program is financed almost completely by foreign sources   The
appraisal mission considered the preliminary 1986 public
investment program too large given the country's limited
absorptive capacity. A revised program, amounting to about 14
percent of GDP, was discussed and agreed prior to negotiations.
It emphasizes the use of strict economic criteria for
investments, mainly in the productive sectors and the
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. The domestic
contribution to investment projects has been limited to CFAF 600
million (US$1.3 million equivalent) in 1985, and CFAF 1,000
million (US$2.7 million) in 1986. The Gover nent will submit its
1987 public investment program to IDA for review in October 1986
in connection with the UNDP donors conference tentatively
scheduled for late 1986.
Evaluation of the Program
26.       Equatorial Guinea's economic rehabilitation program conveys the
Government's conviction that the earlier piecemeal approach to
rehabilitation was inadequate, and that little or no progress towards
rebuilding the economy could be achieved without profound and comprehensive
reforms. These reforms contain measures to restrain public expenditures,
reduce distortions in the incentive system, and stimulate production and
private investment. The most important one was the entry into the CPA
franc monetary zone and the UDEAC with the concomitant effective
devaluation of 82 percent. A climate of confidence is being created
allowing the private sector to play a much stronger role in the process of
economic recovery. The Government's determination to implement the program
is likely to act as an effective stimulant towards the international
community which has begun to extend substantial financial and technical
assistance towards its success.
27.       The positive response of private domestic producers and foreign
investors is, however, being delayed because agricultural producers and
foresters lack necessary inputs and equipment to raise production and



- 11 -
exports in the short term. Government also lacks funds to undertake the
necessary rehabilitation of crucial infrastructure, for example, the
causeway of the port of Bata, which in its current state of disrepair, not
only creates physical bottlenecks to increased exports but also makes
domestic and foreign Investment less profitable. The RIC would provide
funds which would help finance those inputs and repairs at a crucial
moment. The RIC would finance approximately 8.5 percent on average of
projected Imports in 1986, 1987, and 1988 (disbursements would be from July
1986 to about July 1988). Other donors also finance imports through
investment projects and aid programs. However, better coordination between
donors, and between donors and Government is required (para. 32).
28.      The response of exports in 1986, 1987, and 1988 is expected to be
strong: wood exports are expected to increase by 58 percent annually in
nominal terms from 1985 to 1988 and coffee exports by some 30 percent
annually over this same period. Cocoa production is projected to rise
mainly as a result of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project; however, since the
1985/86 harvest has been adversely affected by serious rain and rodent
damage and prices are expected to decline in 1986, exports are only
expected to exceed 1985 levels in 1988. Wood exports, which declined in
1985 as disagreements on concession and production contracts between
Government and forestry companies interrupted production, are expected to
increase very substantially due to the resolution of the disagreements, the
rehabilitation of infrastructural facilities, the start of a new concession
which should begin operations in 1986, and higher unit export values as
underinvoicing becomes less of a problem with better fiscal procedures and
following the entry of Equatorial Guinea into the CFA zone, which corrected
the previous exchange rate distortion (devaluation of 82 percent - para.
9). The growth of coffee exports will mainly result from the expected 46.4
percent increase in international prices from 1985 to 1986 together with
the availability of more inputs and agricultural equipment and higher
farmgate prices.
29.      Although imports, mainly as a result of the present operation,
are expected to grow at a rate of about 11.6 percent a year between 1985
and 1988, the overall balance of payments is expected to Improve in 1986
and 1987 and be slightly in surplus by 1988. No serious financing gap is
foreseen for the first two years. The net inflows of medium- and long-term
capital because of the RIC and a modest expansion of disbursement of other
project assistance are foreseen to be sufficient to finance the major part
of the current account deficits of these two years. The current IMF
standby program will provide for a major part (US$1.1 million after
repurchases) of the overall deficit in 1986. However, an overdraft of US$6
million in the operations account in 1985 will be difficult to cover fully
in 1986 and continued assistance from the French Treasury would be required
until 1987 unless other sources of financing are found or changes are made
to the program. The likely follow-up Fund program in 1987, or some
marginal increase in concessionary financing, would finance the overall
deficit of 1987. Over the medium term, the overall balance is expected to
be slightly in surplus as a result of the successful growth in exports.



- 12 -
30.       The Government's reform program is also expected to Improve the
budgetary situation. On the expenditure side, the public service payroll
for permanent employees has been limited to about CFAF 1 billion in 1986,
expenditures on goods and services will be reduced in 1986, and a cap of
CFAF 1 billion has been placed on the local counterpart public investment
budget in 1986. On the revenue side, several tax increases have been taken
with the objective of simplifying administration and raising revenues. A
condition of effectiveness would be that Equatorial Guinea had presented to
IDA a program, satisfactory to the Association, regarding the management of
its public finances and external debt. The budget is expected to be in
surplus in 1986 and 1987 before debt amortization, mainly a result of these
stabilization measures, increased revenues from export and import duties,
the RIC counterpart funds, and a decline in CFAF terms of Interest on
external debt. In addition, the fall in oil prices will reduce Government
expenditures on oil products. However, after debt amortization and other
financing items, it is projected that there will be small financing gaps in
1986 and in 1987 of about CFAF 400 million and CFAF 300 million
respectively. A continuation of the budgetary aid from France would be
required to cover these gaps. In the medium-term, the increase in tax
revenues as exports expand rapidly should allow attaining a budgetary
equilibrium.
31.       Successful implementation of the Government's rehabilitation
program would therefore lead to external and internal balance (paras. 29
and 30). The crucial variable upon which this balance depends is the
adequate growth of exports. If export growth is delayed because of
unfavorable weather, slow Implementation of the RIC, or unforeseen
circumstances, the balance of payments would continue to be a major
constraint to economic development unless substantial external resources
were made available to offset these factors. However, the overall
prospects for an expansion of exports appear favorable.
32.       A Round Table meeting sponsored by UNDP is scheduled for January
1987, with a preview meeting to be held in September 1986. These meetings
will be particularly useful in giving Equatorial Guinea an opportunity to
present its development plans to the international community, and in
improving coordination both between the Government and the donor community
and between the donors themselves. The RIC would be an important step in
the direction of aid coordination by financing those imports and repairs
that are crucial to increase production and exports and by complementing
reconstruction efforts of other donors (para. 36). It would act as a
catalyst for aid coordination by requiring close cooperation with other
donors in its implementation and by helping to establish medium-term
development priorities through the review of the PIPs of 1986 and 1987
(para. 37). At present, no local aid coordination mechanism is in place.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE REHABILITATION IMPORT CREDIT (RIC)
33.       The Government requested that IDA support its economic
rehabilitation efforts with quick-disbursing assistance. The proposed
Rehabilitation Import Credit was prepared in March 1985, and appraised in
April/May 1985 by a Bank mission which included consultants financed by
France (FAC), the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ), and the World Food
Program (WFP). The operation is tailored to be complementary to the
actions of other aid agencies and coordination was achieved through (a)
visits to the agencies at their headquarters in February 1985, (b)
discussions with donor agencies represented in Malabo in May 1985, and (c)
an aid coordination meeting held in Paris in July 1985, under Bank
auspices. Negotiations were held in Malabo from February 4 to February 7,
1986. The Equato-Guinean delegation was headed by Mr. Toribio Micha Ela,
Secretary General, Planning Miunistry. There is no separate Staff Appraisal
Report. A Credit Summary is at the front of this report, and supplemental
data are at Annex III.
Credit Objectives and Description
34.       The levels of imports required for economic rehabilitation will
exceed the country's financing capacity until the agricultural sector has
Increased its production and exports. The RIC is therefore designed to (a)
help Equatorial Guinea weather its projected short-term budgetary and
balance of payments difficulties, (b) ensure that the key prerequisites for
reactivation of the major productive sector, agriculture, are in place,
and (c) introduce several policy reforms which complement the IMF program
by focusing on alleviating medium term development constraints (see para.
37 below).
35.       The RIC would be consonant with the IMF supported stabilization
program and would complement other efforts already undertaken by the
international coummity in providing short-term balAnce of payments support
and in financing urgent rehabilitation of infrastructure (France, Spain,
European Community, Federal Republic of Germany, African Development Fund
and others are expected to provide about US$50 million of assistance over
the next two years). The expected increase in imports will be financed by
large net medium- and long-term capital inflows from the RIC and the
projected overall balance of payments deficit of US$1.6 million in 1986 is
expected to be financed mainly by proceeds from the IMF stand-by
arrangement and some debt rescheduling of bilateral debt already foreseen
as a result of the 1985 Paris Club meeting. The projected
balance-of-payments deficit of US$3.1 million In 1987 is expected to be
covered by proceeds from a new IMF stand-by, and some new concessionary
financing.
36.       The RIC, to be Implemented over two years (mid-1986 to end July
1988), would: (i) provide funds to import agricultural inputs of all kinds
complementing the efforts made through the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project to



- 14 -
Increase exports and agricultural production; (ii) finance imported
equipment, materials and services for the rehabilitation needs of selected
infrastructure (transportation, vacer supply, electricity,
telecommunications, and health); and (iii) help the Governmenx introduce
appropriate measures needed to achieve rehabilitation objectiveas .I. the
various sectors. The sectors which would benefit from the proposed
operation were selected by the Government in light of the country's most
urgent rehabilitation needs and with the objective of using scarce
concessional funds in areas where they can have the maximum impact. The
RIC would help support imports for agriculture, transportation, water
supply/sanitation, electricity, telecommunications and health. A detailed
presentation of the proposed support to these sectors is at Annex V.
37.       In addition to helping the Government establish immediate
priorities in the importation of goods and services, the RIC operation
would include a number of specific policy measures: (i) new borrowing only
on highly concessionary terms to reduce the debt burden in the medium-term;
(ii) review and approval by IDA of the public investment programs for 1986
and 1987 (para. 25 h) to focus Government's attention on medium-term
priorities and projects viability, and strengthen the ongoing UNDP Round
Table process; (iii) emphasis on the remobilization, repair and
maintenance of existing capital stock which has been neglected or damaged
or which has fallen idle (rather than purchase of new capital stock),
including government vehicles, which is expected to increase the
productivity of investments already made; (iv) adjusting electricity and
telecommunications tariffs as necessary to meet operating and maintenance
costs and establishing a nominal charge for water to ensure that these
facilities will be maintained in the future; (v) establishing standard
government procurement procedures; and (vi) strengthening import
procedures. At negotiations, the Government agreed to set tariffs for
public utilities at levels sufficient to cover their operating and
maintenance costs, and to install meters for water supply. Given the poor
accounting practices of the utilities, two units will be established by the
Ministry of Public Works in Malabo and Bata to monitor the adequacy of
tariffs. Frequent supervision and an interim review (para. 52), in
particular, would permit IDA to verify that these policy reforms are
introduced as planned and that the RIC is being satisfactorily implemented.
This review at the end of the first tranche of disbursements would also
permit IDA to evaluate the progress of the Government's overall
rehabilitation program.
Technical Assistance
38.       Existing import channels, credit facilities, and implementing
agencies in Equatorial Guinea are constrained by the lack of appropriately
qualified personnel. Implementation of the RIC would require the services
of a number of expatriate technical assistants, some of whom would be made
available to the Government under the project; others would be provided
under other ongoing IDA-financed operations, and some would be provided by
other donor agencies active in Equatorial Guinea.



- 15 -
39.       An economist/Credit Administrator, to be hired for two years and
located in the Ministry of Finance, would be financed under the RIC. He
would have a counterpart appointed by the Government and would advise it on
the use of funds under the Credits and on the sectoral implications of
particular disbursement decisions. He would also help the Government
establish priority import needs, review all import applications submitted
by the importing public agencies, ministries, or the private sector and
would serve as the secretary of the Interministerial Coordinating Committee
established to oversee project implementation (para. 44). On behalf of the
Government, the Administrator would determine if the items to be imported
under the RIC were (i) eligible for financing under the proposed Credits;
and (ii) consonant with the Government's emerging medium-term strategies
for the sectors concerned and for the economy as a whole. He would also,
on behalf of the Government, monitor the disbursement of funds to the
different sectors and make periodic checks that imports were being used for
the purposes declared on import applications. He would prepare quarterly
reports for the Government and IDA on the use of Credit funds and the
implementation of the operation. He would also coordinate the activities
of the various consultants involved in the RIC.
40.       The services of a Procurement specialist/specifications writer
would also be financed under the RIC. He would be hired for two years and
would be located, together with his counterpart, in the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce and would (a) advise it on the procurement of goods
(other than agricultural imports - discussed below) at the lowest cost and
in accordance with Bank Group procurement guidelines; (b) assist in the
preparation of the quantities and technical specifications of goods to be
imported (except for agricultural goods); (c) prepare and supervise
procurement both by competitive tender and by other methods; and (d)
prepare official procurement guidelines to be used by the Government. As
the Credit Administrator and the procurement specialist/specifications
writer are necessary for project implementation, it would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credits that these two experts had been appointed and
had taken up their posts in Malabo. The Government has requested a PPF
advance, which has been approved, to expedite the recruitment of these two
experts. Four technical assistants provided to Equatorial Guinea under
other IDA-financed projects would also help the Government implement the
RIC. A procurement specialist provided under the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project (para. 22) to the Chamber of Commerce for Agriculture and Forestry,
the agency responsible for importing agricultural inputs and exporting
agricultural products, would oversee the procurement of items for the
agricultural sector. Three specialists--a credit expert, a financial
controller, and an accounting expert--to be provided under the Technical
Assistance Project (para. 21) to the Credit and Development Bank (BCD)
would strengthen that institution and assist in making it an efficient
source of credit for the private sector.
41.       Other technical specialists would also be financed from the IDA
Credit to assist the Government in making proper use of the imports
financed under the RIC. A civil engineer, to be hired for two years,
would oversee the emergency repair work of roads on Bioko and the



- 16 -
rehabilitation of the municipal water-supply/sanitation network in Malabo.
Independent engineering consultants would be hired on a short-term basis
(about six months) to oversee repair of the causeway to the port at Bata.
Two mechanics, each for two years, one in Malabo and one in Bata, would
assist in the vehicle-repair and -maintenance activities associated with
the import program for the transportation sector. The hiring of the
technical specialists would be a condition of disbursement for the relevant
components (i.e., the emergency repair work of roads on Bioko and the
rehabilitation of the municipal water-supply/sanitation network of Malabo;
the repair of the causeway to the port at Bata; and the vehicle-repair and
maintenance activities, respectively).
42.       In addition to the technical assistance described above, the
services of technical assistants already in Equatorial Guinea financed by
other agencies would also support implementation. The vehicle-repair
aceivities of the transportation-sector component would be implemented by
the two mechanics (pars. 41) under the supervision of CLUSA personnel for
which financing is being considered by the United States (USAID). German
technical assistance would oversee the utilization of imports for the
fishing subsector. Imports for the health sector would be utilized or
distributed by existing technical assistants provided by religious orders
and bilateral programs. The World Food Program intends to organize
parallel food-for-work programs for the labor hired for the civil-works
activities in the infrastructure sectors to be carried out by the Ministry
of Public Works. Arrangements with these other agencies are now being
finalized. In addition to local coordination by the Credit Administrator,
IDA would continue to liaise closely with bilateral agencies that finance
experts associated with the RIC.
Credit Costs and Financing Plan
43.       The two Credits, totalling US$10 million equivalent, would
finance US$9.0 million of essential imports and US$1.0 million of technical
assistance. All imports from eligible countries, except a few categories
which are specifically excluded, would be eligible for financing under the
credits. The excluded categories include goods financed by other sources,
consumer goods, goods intended for military purposes and precious metals
and gemstones. It is expected that 31 percent of the credits would serve
the needs of the agricultural sector (including fisheries) and 29 percent
would serve the needs of the transport sector. About 10 percent of imports
would go to the water supply/sanitation sector; 6 percent to the
electricity sector and about 3 percent each to the telecommunications and
health sectors. Ten percent would be allocated to technical assistance and
8 percent would initially be unallocated.
Credit Implementation
44.       Overall responsibility for this operation would lie with the
Minister of Finance. He would be assisted by and chair an interministerial
Coordinating Committee including the Ministers of Planning and of Commerce
and Industry. Establishment of the Coordinating Commitee is a condition of



- 17 -
effectiveness. Other ministers would join the Committee on an ad hoc
basis, depending on the subjects and sectors to be discussed. The
Coordinating Committee would determine national development priorities in
connection with the project and decide among inter- and intra-sectoral
demands for imports. The Credit Administrator would assist and advise the
Minister of Finance, serve as Secretary of the Coordinating Committee, and
handle most of the administrative duties connected with the proposed
Credits for imports. The day-to-day implementation of the operation would
be the responsibility of the Mlnister of Finance, acting on the basis of
the decisions reached by the Committee, and in fact delegating most of the
administrative duties connected with the proposed operation to the Credit
Administrator.
45.       It is estimated that about 70 percent of Credit proceeds
(excluding techuical assistance) would be used for items for the public
sector, including most of the items for the transportation and health
sectors and all of the items for the water-supply/sanitation electricity
and telecommunications sectors. The proceeds of the two Credits would be
disbursed to the public sector through a Special Account (para. 46) at the
national branch of the BEAC. About 30 percent of Credit funds (excluding
technical assistance) would be used for items for the private sector,
Including most of the items for the agriculture sector.1/ Most of the
items imported for the private sector would be acquired by the private
sector on the basis of credit obtained locally, either through private
channels or from the government-owned Credit and Development Bank.
Special Account
46.       In order to expedite disbursements for eligible expenditures, a
Special Account of US$2.0 million equivalent (of which US$1.2 million
equivalent from the IDA Development Credit and US$0.8 million equivaler.t
from the Special African Facility Credit) would be opened in the national
office of the BEAC (para. 45) for such expenditures. On receipt of
satisfactory evidence that expenditures financed out of the Special Account
were eligible for financing and that the goods had been purchased in
accordance with agreed procurement procedures, IDA would replenish the
Special Account from the IDA Credit Account and the Special African
Facility Credit Account.  The minimum amount of replenishment applications
would be US$100,000.
Counterpart Fund Account
47.       At the request of the Government, local currency counterpart
funds equivalent to US$500,000 and generated by the sale, to the private
1/ The proposed operation would be implemented concurrently with the
Cocoa Rehabilitation Project (para. 22), which provides additional
financing of imports for the private agriculture sector.



- 18 -
sector, of foreign exchange provided by the proposed Credits would be
deposited into a special Counterpart Fund Account to be established at BEAC
in the name of the Credit and Development Bank (BCD) for this purpose, as a
grant from Government. BCD was established in 1979 as a state-owned
development bank. While it is managed by individuals with good banking
training, lack of resources and political constraints have hampered its
work. Technical assistance provided under the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project
(para. 22) has allowed BCD to function satisfactorily in administering the
credit component of the Project. The Government has requested that three
additional technical assistants (para. 41) be provided to improve its
overall performance. The Counterpart Fund Account of BCD would be used to
establish lines of credit to the private sector. Credit would be made
available in pace with effective demand from the private sector for credit
to purchase imports, on commercial terms and on the basis of strict
creditworthiness criteria. Both the terms of Credit and their criteria
would have to be acceptable to IDA. However, while credit granted to the
private sector for the purchase of agricultural items would be lent on the
same terms (currently 15 percent per annum, and reviewed annually) and on
the basis of the same creditworthiness criteria as those agreed with IDA
under the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project, IDA would not supervise the use of
the Government's grant. Repayments of principal and interest on such loans
would be retained in the Counterpart Fund Account. Local counterpart funds
beyond the US$500,000 equivalent grant to BCD would be available to the
Government for its use in support of the economic recovery program,
including debt service. Establishment of the Counterpart Fund Account in
BCD would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit and the Special
African Facility Credit.
Procurement
48.       All public-sector imports financed under the RIC, except those
for rehabilitation of the causeway of the port of Bata, (para. 51 and
Annex V, para.2) would be handled through the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry. As noted earlier (para. 40), the Ministry would be assisted by a
procurement specialist. The handling of imports through the Ministry would
allow for the standardization of import and bidding procedures and result
in greater efficiency, particularly given the small size of several of the
sector categories involved. The procurement of agricultural inputs for the
private sector financed under the proposed operation would be handled
through existing commercial channels or through the Chamber of Commerce for
Agriculture and Forestry, which is already handling the procurement of
agricultural inputs for the cocoa subsector under the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project. Other private-sector imports would similarly be handled through
existing commercial channels.
49.       Procurement under the proposed operation would be in line with
Bank Group guidelines. To be eligible for financing from the Credits,
individual contracts in excess of US$500,000 equivalent would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding. Contracts of less than
US$500,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of price quotations
from at least three suppliers from eligible countries. Provision has been



- 19 -
made for procurement by direct purchase under contracts of less than
US$100,000 equivalent when urgency had been demonstrated to, and approved
by, IDA. The Credits would also finance imports of equipment, materials
and services (equivalent to about US$0.7 million) required for repair of
the causeway to the port at Bata.
50.       Technical assistance would be employed on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA and in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for the use
of consultants. All posts to be financed from the IDA Development Credit
would be advertised internationally. Expatriate technical assistance
financed by bilateral agencies for activities to be carried out under the
proposed operation would be hired on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the agencies concerned.
Disbursements
51.       Disbursements would be made against 100 percent of (a) the CIF
costs of eligible imports at Malabo or Bata; (b) the cost of technical
assistance; and (c) against 85 percent of the cost of the civil works for
the Bata causeway, representing the cost of imported materials, equipment
and services. Expenditures covered by the IDA credit would be made in
accordance with normal IDA rules, while those covered by the Special
African Facility credit would be made in accordance with the Resolution
establishing the Facility. Since Equatorial Guinea is a relatively new
borrower and the proposed operation would be the first of its kind which
IDA had financed in Equatorial Guinea, all disbursements, including
replenislments of the Special Account (para. 43), would be against full
documentation. The Credit Administrator would be responsible for
assembling the documentation and preparing and submitting withdrawal
applications to IDA. Goods procured by the Government in line with the
agreed procedures after February 1, 1986, but before signature of the IDA
Development Credit Agreement and the Special African Facility Credit
Agreement, and up to an amount not exceeding US1.0 million equivalent, be
eligible for financing out of the proposed Credits.
52.       Disbursements under the proposed credits would be subject to
tranching. The first tranche would cover the period to January 31, 1986,
or whenever disbursements under the proposed credits had attained 60
percent of the total of both credits, whichever came earlier.
Disbursements under the second tranche would be subject to a detailed
review of both the execution of the project and of the Government's
rehabilitation program. The review would permit IDA to satisfy itself that
(a) the funds of the two Credits were being utilized properly, (b) the
related policy measures as well as other provisions of the operation,
including tariff adjustments, were being satisfactorily implemented, (c)
satisfactory progress was being achieved in the areas of fiscal management,
credit and monetary developments, and external debt management which are
essential elpments of the Government's rehabilitation program, and (d) the
public investment program agreed with IDA for 1986 had been implemented as
agreed. The investment program for 1987 would be reviewed in
October/November 1986. Further disbursements from the two Credits would be



- 20 -
contingent upon the review finding that implementation was proceeding
satisfactorily.
Accounts, Audits, Reporting, and Evaluation
53.       The Ministry of Finance would maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to monitor and record the implementation of the proposed
operation. In particular, the Credit Administrator would monitor the use
and economic effects of the proceeds of the two Credits and would report to
the Coordinating Committee and to IDA on a quarterly basis. The Government
would have the accounts, records, and financial statements audited each
fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; funds have been
included in the technical-assistance component to pay for these audits.
The audited accounts covering the previous year would be submitted to IDA
no later than April 30 of each year. In addition, no later than July 31,
1988, the Government would prepare and submit to IDA a completion report on
the costs of, and benefits derived from, the operation.
Benefits and Risks
54.       The principal benefit expected from the proposed RIC is that
Equatorial Guinea would have sufficient funds to buy imported Inputs and
thus be able to increase agricultural output and exports. This would, in
turn, increase farm incomes and government revenues. Assistance to the
transportation sector would alleviate present difficulties in evacuating
foodstuffs and export crops from the interior and facilitate the
distribution of inputs and consumer goods to rural areas. Improvements in
the water-supply network, in the health sector, In electricity and in
telecommunications with the outside world should make the country a more
efficient and healthier place to live and work. Prioritization of the
public Investment program and the efforts undertaken to coordinate this
operation with those of other donors should establish a pattern which will
likely benefit not only the present operation but future ones in virtually
all sectors. The elaboration of government procurement guidelines and
their systematic application should likewise be of benefit both to the
Government and to future operations financed wholly or in part by external
donors. Finally, the links between Equatorial Guinea's import program and
its sector and overall development strategies can be expected not only to
make the allocation of scarce resources more effective, but also to help
restore Equatorial Guinea's credibility with the international community
and thereby establish an environmnt more conducive to flows of official
aid and private investment.
55.       There is a risk that the Government's economic recovery policies
may alter or that its determination in pursuing these policies may weaken.
Equatorial Guinea's record of taking difficult and far-reaching reform
measures in the recent past, however, and its current efforts to mobilize a
maximum of concessional aid to sustain an adequate level of imports suggest
that this Is unlikely. Further risks are that goods imported under the
operation might not reach beneficiaries with the necessary efficiency and
timeliness to apur the productive process, or that the implementation of



- 21 -
the operation might suffer from the dearth of qualified and experienced
local staff. The use of seasoned technical assistants in the key positions
of Credit administration and procurement and of other technical assistants
already In the country to supervise specific activities should mitigate
these risks considerably. The risk that it may not be easy to find
high-quality technical assistants willing to live and work in Equatorial
Guinea appears manageable given the much improved environment and the large
number of proposals received for thae posts financed under the Technical
Assistance Project (para. 21).
PART V - RECOMENDATION
56.         am satisfied that the proposed IDA Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the
proposed Special African Facility Credit would comply with the provisions
of Resolution No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, the resolution of the Executive
Directors approving the Special African Facility, and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the two proposed Credits.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington. D.C.
April 16, 1986



- 22                                                        ANNEX I
- 22-                                                    Page 1 of 8
A 8 L CA                                           PA   I
EQUATORIAL GUINEA      - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET
EQUATORIAL GUINEA                    REPERENGE CROUPS ME[NICM    AVERAGCS) la
MIST                     (ONST REzCEN  hsIuDTIT) lb
,naLk.             RECiNT          LOW INCOl1  AFRICA        MIDDLE INCUNE
9l   l974 E STDliTAS/b   SOUTH Of SAIARA       AFRICA S. oF SAARAA
AmmA (ISUDm SQ. El)
TorAL                               28.3         28.1       28.1
AGRICULTURAL                         3.2         3.3         3.3
cn SR CAIPTA (351)                       .           ..         ..               23.                      1063.8
KII CWESUWtION PR, CAPITA
(CILOURAM OF OIL EQUIVALENT)        3u.0        44.U        es.O               .2.3                     581.5
YUIATIOU AMP VITAL STATISTSIC
POPULATION.NID-TEAA (THOUSANWS)    244.0       288.o       359.4
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)       25.5        39.U        57.2               20.1                      32.U,
POPL^ATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 200  (lLL)                             0.5
STATtONARY POPULATION (MILL)                               I3.
POPULATION ICNTP                                           1.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PeR SQ. IN.                        8.7         10.3       12.8               33.2                      85.1
PmR SQ. IN. AGRI. LAND            77.5        87.5       107.0              L12.8                     124.8
POPULATION ArE STEICTURE (2)
0-4 YRS                          38.8        40.4        37.8               4b.0                      45.6
1544 IRS                          57.0        55.4        58.0               50.8                      51.5
65 AND A0VE                        4.0         4.0         4.1                2.9                       2.7
POPULATION CR00TN RATE (I)
TOTAL                               1.5         1.7        L.7                2.8                       2.9
URAN                               6.4         5.9         4.7                6.4                       5.1
CRUDE 8IRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          *.        40.0        39.3               47.2                      47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER  HwOS)         ..         2b.9        20.9               37.5                      15.U
GROSS REPRODWCTION RATE              2.4         2.4         2.5                3.3                       3.2
FAMILY PLANINGN
ACCUTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (2 or MARRIED  M)            ..          ..          .                  3.3                       8.4
s00D A mmMc
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      103.7       100.0          .                53.3                      82.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLT OF
CALORIES (C o  RMUIRENNTS)         ..          ..          ..                B7.7                      95.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           ..          ..          ..                51.9                      55.4
OF WHICH ANMAL AND PULSE          ..          ..          ..                15.7                      16.5
CHILD (ACeS 1-4) DEATH RATE         43.7        37.5        29.3               23.1                      16.6
^SEH
LIPF EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        ..         37.2        43.5               47.8                      52.0
INFANr rlDRT. RATE (PER TubaS)     387.8       166.6       13b.4              119.5                     108.8
ACCESS TO SATZ WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                               ..          .          ..                27.1                      42.4
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..                63.5                      67.5
RURAL                              *           . *                           19.3                      35.8
ACCESS TO EXCrA DISPOSAL
(l OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .           ..          .                26.5                      28.9
URBAN                              *-          **          *                 65.4                      57.7
RURAL                              ..          ..          .                 zu.8                      20.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5810.0    11720.0          ..             27901.7                   11791.7
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON            b20.0    73250.           .-              3305.4                    2459.8
PGO. PER hOSPITAL 8m
TOTAL                            190.0         9. 90.0                     1273.6                     981.1
URBAN                             50.0         ..         60.0 77           428.2                     368.8
RURAL                           9080.0         ..        210.0 Tc          3292.5                    4371.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..          ..                 ..                       27.2
OI.SNC
AVERASE SIZE OF HOUSEH0LD
TOTAL                               - *'
UR8AN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NO. OP PERSONSIROOM
TOT.JL                             ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
PeRCENTAGE OF DMELLIME  WITH ELEcT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URU.
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 23-                                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
T A  L    3L                                     wPAE 2
OuAORIAL OJINA        - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SNllT
inquAL CWINA                        nFKURcu CADS (SWucwD AVSau  a
MOST                      xomtM   Ricu  ESTIMATE) l
RICNlT         LOW INCME AFRICA         NIDLE IC
1961b      1970b UllMlUIn rz        SMoH or  ANnRA      uCIA S. or SAHARA
ADJUSTED RIIROWINr RATIOS
PRIMAt:  TOTAL                   85.0       75.0         ..               67.                      95.7
MAU                   103.0        6.0        ..               77.6                    100.0
rem"                  67.0        64.0        ..               54.9                     83.2
SECONDAR: TOTAL                   2.0       17.0         ..               13.5                     17.3
KALE                   3.0        24.0        .                17.9                     25.0
FEMALE                  1.0        9.0        ..                9.1                     14.8
VOCAIWIAL (2 OF SECODR )           37.8       10.0         *-               13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TZACIBR RATIO
PRIMARY                          76.0       57.0         ..               44.9                     41.1
SCONDARIY                        36.0       34.0         ..               27.4                     25.5
PASSCE  CATUSD POP                  ..         ..          ..                3.8                     20.8
RADIO RECSIVRS/9ROUSAND POP         ..       26.5       311.6               55.J                    107.8
TV RECEIVlS2JTITUSAND POP           ..         ..         3.4                2.6                     20.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAXLY GSNZRA.
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER TIOSAD POCULATIOt              3.3        ..         2.8                5.0                     18.4
CINEMA AMEJAL ATTIDACE/CAITA        ..         ..          1.5 Ic            0.5                      0.4
rOTAL LABOR PORCE t71101US)        74.0       84.0       106.0
PENILE (PERCZNT)                  3.8        4.2        4.6               34.2                     36.Z
AGCULTUE (PERCENT)               84.0       80.0       76.0 /d            77.5                     54.5
INDUSTRY (nRCurr)                 6.0        7.0        8.0 Td             9.7                     18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PEN)
TOTAL                            30.2       29.1       29.5               39.3                     36.8
MALE                             59.6       57.1       56.0               50.9                    47.1
P8311                             2.3        2.A        2.7               28.1                     27.2
ECONomC DENDENCt RATIO              1.A        1.5         1.4               1.3                      1.3
mOS. DTEr
PERaCT OP PRIVATE INCOM
RECEIVED by
EIGEEST 52 OF HDUSELDS            ..
3BIIHZST 20o OP     DSK..JSU.I...
LGUESr 201 OF HOSELDS             ..
LOWISr 40Z OF   U     S           ..H......
mrrT -QS
ESTIMDUT  ALI,%=E PovERT IN
LEV  CUS PER CAPITA)
uA                                ..         ..          ..              165.5                   590.7
RURAL                             ..         ..         ..                95.0                   275.3
ZSrinnED REUIIV  PMrTl R INWCN
LZVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBA                              ..         ..         ..               113.1                   545.6
RMUAL                             ..         ..          ..               67.6                   201.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVET  INCOMIE LEVL (1)
URBAN                             ..         ..          ..               36.6
RURAL                             ..         ..         ..                61.8
NOT AVAIILAZ
NgT APPLICABLE
NOTS C
/a  The group average for each Indicator ar populatinweighted aritdtic _me. Coverage of countrieu
mong the Indcator. deponde an avaIlabILIty of data and In not unafto.
lb  Unless otherwda noted. "Dtca for 1960" r fer to y yer between 1959 and 191; "Data for 1970 between
1969 and 1971; and data far "Mat becnt Eatimat  betwn  1981 and 1983.
Jc  1977; fd 1980.
JUNE, 1985



-24-                                                      ANNE I
Page 3 of 8
DUIlNM  OSOFsociALINDICAOUS
Nots: Alhough shedst aredradwn rromaoumgneNyjudpd thel moat uthrittive and iNable. It should also banned that they may not be innteorunlly
cotnmpable baum or the lack of standardlzed deffintions and concepts wd by dilint countrie in collectin the data. The data an, nonethe    usful to
decribe orders or magntude. indkte trends, and chaacterze certin ajor differnc betwee  ountri
The reference groups are I I I the - country group of the subject country nd (2) a country group with somewhat higher averg Income than the country
group of td subject country (except for "Hig Income Oil Erporters group whre "Middk Incm North Alries and Middle Eaut b echotn buse orstrongnr
soda-cultural afnities). In the rkrmnce group duta he tvergs af popultion weighted arlithnalc mans for each indkiator and shown only when majority
of thecountrieB in a group hna dnat for that IndIcator. Sinc the coverae of countres amrons the IndIator depends on the availability ordata and is not uniform.
aution must beexerissed in relating average os aonindcator to another. The average ae only usful In comparing the valu orone indikctor ate tinse among
the country and referent groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                           Cru* 51A Rate (per thousandj-Number of live births in the year
Teral-Total surface area comprising land area and inland watenr  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crd Deark Rate (per rh.wdj-Numnber of deaths in the year
Agricshural-Estimate or agricultural area used temporarily or    per thouand of rnid-year population; 1960 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Ghs ReproductIon Rare-Avenge number ordaughiers a woman
le fallow, 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bea in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility mtes; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAtITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same converion method as World      FaUy P'3naLn-Acceptors. Anmal (tusiands-Annual num-
Ba4 Atlas (1981-83 basis). 1983 data.                            ber of acceptors or birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption or commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      FatE Planinr-Users (percen of  wrned ainej-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form orcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Total PopuiBdon. Mid-Year (thousds -As of July 1 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRiON
and 1983 data.
Urban Poplan (percent of orab-Ratio of urban to total           Indexf FeeodPrdwdri. Per Capita (1969I7f-- 100)- Index of per
population; different definidtons of urban area may affect compar-  capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
obility or data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dama.     excludes animal feed and seed for agrieulture. Food commodities
include primary commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugarl
PopuIlation Projections                                          which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 200-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Per Capia Sply of Calries (pecnt of reqmirements)-Comput-
Stationars population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  cd from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remnained at replacement level  tion imports kss exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - I). In such a ropulation. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projecesd characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate orf dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Monenrtu-Is the tendency for population growth to    Peo Capita Supply of Prein (gras per dayJ-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the nt reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year : is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grans of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year a. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protcin as an
Popularion Densiry                                              average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capita Protein Supply From Aximdaad Poise-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961 -65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
PopuatiOn Age Srretsnre (perceamr-Children (0- 14 years). work-  Child (ages 1-4l Death Rate (per thousand)-N umber ordeaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired #65 years and overj as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percentj-rotai-.Annual growth rates of  from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083.      HEALTH
Popuwation Growth Rate (percemne-rban-Annual growth rates        Life Expeetancy at Birth (yearsj-Number of years a newvbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-13 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 25 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 4 of 8
t the tim  of of It birth wi  to stay the sme throughout its lih;  uplMrewher  oatlo prbna7. and seodar-Total students en-
1960 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in prmary and secondary evels divided by numbers of
how NMarhley REe (per rhauadJ)-Numbar of infants who die    teachers In the corresponding eves.
befor rechin one yar of ap per thousand lve births in a given
yesr 1960, 1970 and 193 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
Aam  to Sq  War (panre    qf puwin, ad                        Paaw Care (per rs d papudej-Passengr cars corn-
mi-Number or pwople (total, ran, ad rural) with resonable     prie motor cars sating les than eight perons; excludes ambul-
access to  f water supply (Includts trted  urfac wates or     anc, heases and military vehicles.
munted but uncontamnsted water such u that from protected     aieo Recivrs (per rtioatwd popuam-AI1 types of receiven
boreholb, spring ad snitary wells) a pectagu of ther re5pO.   for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tdve populations. In an urban ara a public fountain or standpost  excudcs unollensd receivers in countries and in years when
locaed not mo than 200 mOtO frm a hous may be considered      reistion of radio  ts was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that houss. In rural areas  ntb  oprbesnems  onre  blse    nig
reasonable accesswould inply that the houswe or members of the
bouihod do not have to send a dispropordonate part of the day  rV Racd   n (wper rthsandpepuaormn-TV rcivers for broadcast
Inof rft the fm    's wur  ride                               to general public per thousnd populadon; excludes unlicensed TV
InAhing the EsanDy. water    tf poXie ereceivenr In countries and in yeas when registration of TV sets was
Access to Etwa Dbwipoa (parent of poplatlou)-4oatu, urbis,    inefet
ad nral-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
escret dispoul as ptrceag  of their repective populadtons.    AWsFF CIrculae (per Ahasvd popudslnJi-Shows the aver
Extcr disposl may Include the coliction and disposaL with or  age ciulation of "daily genl interest newspaper. defined as a
without tatment, of hun excreta and wate-water by water-      periodical publiation devoted primanrly to recording gneral news.
borne systems or the u- of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if It appeas at leat four times a week.
Pepuotimaper Phskeiaa-l,pulation divided by number of prn-    Cinma  An_ul Anedacer per Cpt per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualifed from a medical school at university level  number of dckets sold during the year, including admissions to
tpledo  ar NursIng Panon-lpulation divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
prcticg male and fdema  graduate nurse  assistat nurs,        LABOR FORCEE
prctical nurss ant nursing auxiliaries.                           abor FO
Pepuiwlm  per Nosia Bd-a, wris si rrel-Population            duing armed forcers and unemployed but excluding housewives,
(total urban and rural divided by their rspective number of   studmg   ed covering   ulan  ofed but         Decl itions in
hospital beds available in public and private, gneral and specialize  students etc  covering  population  of al ages. Definitions an
hospitils and rehbilitation centers Hospitals are establishments  vanous counties are not comparable; 1960 1970 and 193 data
permnently staffed by at least one physician. EstablishMents prov-  Fema  (pr -Fernale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospital  force.
however. iclude health and medil csten not pernanenly staffed  Agribculo  (perees4)-Labor force in famiing4 forestry. bunting
by a physician (but by a medical  itant, nurse, midwife etc)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodaion and provide a limited range  data.
of aedial falitides.                                          ndury (pearcen)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
A4dus  pr Hosp*al hi-Total number of admissions to or         facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
dischargs from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960 1970 and 1980 data.
Paricpauln Rate (percenr-earal, mal, mdfemal-Participadon
HOUSING                                                       or activity razes are computed as total male, and female labor force
Aen  Size of Hoseol (pare  per hause"h-l4-tal, urban,         as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
andrural-A household consists of a goup of individuals who share  rpectively, 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.  ese are based on ILOs
lvng quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statsical purposes   long time trend A few estimates are from national sources.
Avea  Number of Peru par Raoma--orul, urban ad rural-         Ecoomi Dependency Red&--Ratio of population under 15. and
Avcege number of persons per room in a0l urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings respetively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent strucmres and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRELBTIOTN
Percentae of DwueWgs wih Eketariia-etal, urba, ad rurat-     Pecentage of Total Disponble laonwc (both n cash and kindJ-
Conventional dwellins with ectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A#oued Enrollmnt Rados                                        The following estimatcs are very approximate measures of poverty
hrhay schoot - total, mak and femae-Gross total, male and     levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enroUment of all ages at the primary level as perentages of  Estied Absole Povey Income Leve (U55 per capita)-ran
respective primary school-age populations While many countes  and rura-Absolute poverty income level is that income ievel
consider primary shool age to be 6-11 yeass others do not The  bdow which a mrinimal nutritionaUlly adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practi  in the age and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are rflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Eimated Rdatm Pverty Income Levd ((S1 per capitra)-rban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percnt since some  ad rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secotnary schot - totl. male and femala-Computed as above,    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimaed Popation Below Absolute Pbroerty Incese Level (per-
mary instruction; provides gnenraL vocational or teacher training  cent)--rbar ad rural- Percent of populatio:i (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.
amce courses are geneaUy excluded.
Vocationcl Enro/llffe  (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-       Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL industrial or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 26 -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
Table 1: Umlante of Paymnts 1I1
(in millions of current US dollars)
1190      1991      1192       1993      1984       1985      198l      1997       1S01      1991      199
E:ports, f.o.b.                                    14.7       15.7      14.4       19.3      19.7      23.2       23.2      33.1       42.4      50.4      59.4
Of nhich: cocoa                               12.6       12.5      10.6       13.2      11.7      16.1       10.8      14.3       17.2      19.9      22.5
tiner                                1.5       2.5        3.4       4.6       6.6        5.6      10.1       15.9      21.9      26.1      32.8
coffee                               0.6       0.7       0.4        0.5       0.4        1.3       2.2        2.5       2.9       3.3        3.7
other                                0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.1       0.2       0.3        0.4       0.4        0.5
Imports, c.i.f.                                    33.4      39.3       37.0      29.1       30.0      31.6      32.6       39.2      43.9      49.3       58.9
Df ntich: projects                            N.A.      N.A.       N.A.      N.A.        5.5       3.4        6.2       9.0       7.3        5.9       6.9
petroleun                            1.6       3.1      N.A.       H.A.       4.0        4.1       3.0        3.7       4.2       4.7        5.3
other                               N.A.      N.A.      N.A.       N.A.      20.5       24.0      23.3       26.5      32.3      38.9      46.9
Trade Balance                                     -18.7    -22.6       -22.6       -9.9     -11.3      -9.4       -9.3      -6.2      -1.5        1.1       0.e
Services (net)                                     -2.5      -3.3       -4.9       -7.1      -6.4      -9.1       -9.3      -8.2       -8.5      -9.3     -11.e
Of which: interest                            -o.5      -2.1       -3.5      -5.?       -4.9      -e.0       -6.1      -5.9      -5.7       -5.4      -5.3
other                               -2.0      -1.2       -1.5      -1.4      -1.5       -2.1      -2.2      -2.3       -2.8      -3.9      -5.7
irensfers [net)                                     3.4        4.0       5.3       &.2        6.5       8.4       9.4        9.9       9.4        9.5      10.6
CErent Account Balance                            -17.8      -21.9     -22.1     -10.7      -11.2      -8.1       -9.2      -5.6      -0.5        1.3       0.2
Short-term Capital                                  0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       3.6        5.6      -0.5      -0.5        0.0       0.v
HL.t Loans (net)                                    11.6      12.2      19.6        1.5       0.9      -1.0        2.0       2.9        1.5       0.3       1.9
Disbursements                                 14.0       18.5      29.0      15.7        9.5       5.9       9.6       12.4      11.0       9.7       11.3
Repayments                                    -2.4      -a.3       -9.4     -14.2       -9.6      -6.9      -7.7       -9.5      -9.5       -9.4      -9.4
Errors and Dmissions                               -7.4      -9.9      -15.0      -9.1       -1.3      -9.9       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.9
Overall Balance                                   -13.6    -19.6    -18.5        -17.3      -11.6     -14.4       -1.6      -3.1       1.5        1.6       2.2
Debt Service Ratio  IlI) :2:                        9.5I      39.31     70.0     89.41       56.71     44.1      48.12      37.6I     2.9.      25.5;    21.5?
Notes:  I Projections assume Government nill Continue to iaplement reform proqram.
:21 After reschedulinq and change in arrears and as a percent of exports of goods and NFS.
the debt service ratio for 1984 is l20. betiuse of a larqe accumulation of arrears.
the IMF debt seruca2 za e:cluded.
Source: IIF and staff Estim.tet and projections.
3 /15/86



Annex I
- 27-                                      Page 6 of 8
Table 2: Central Governmont Budget.
(millions of CfAF
1904      1985       1996      1997
prov.     prov.      proj.     proj.
TOTAL REVENUE                                        6116      8311       9080      10512
TAX REVENUE                                       4849      6271       7027      8296
Cocoa Export Duties                           531       1769       1209      2255
Timber Export Duties                          550        411       1431      1253
Coffee Export Duties                            10        66        162       202
Duties an Non-Oil Imports                    2658       1504       1482      1707
TaxeS on Oil                                            1266       1665      1748
Other Taxes                                   1100      1185       1077      1131
NONTAX REVENUE /I/                                1267      2040       2054      2216
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                                    7055      7753       7967       9498
CURRENT EXPENDITURE                               6534      7153       6967       7199
Wages and Salaries                            62B       1275       1400      1600
lnods and Seryices                           2840       2256       1870      2057
Transfers and Subsidies                       545       1818       1417      1417
Interest                                     2521       1804      2280       2124
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                                521       600       1000       1300
OYERALL BALANCE                                      -939       558       1113       2014
FINANCING                                             939      -559      -1542     -2289
EXTERNAL i2i                                     -2395      -539      -2523     -2820
Of which: Amortization                      -6007      -3082      -2876     -3420
INTERNAL                                          3334       -19        981       531
FINANCING GAP                                           0         0        429        275
Notes: !1/ Includes counterpart funds of the RIC.
12/ Includes debt relief and external assistance.
Source: INF and staff estimates and projections.
3/15/86



Table 3 s )CfKrAMRY SURVEY, 1365-86
(in uilions of C7A1, end of perlod)
1985                                                                        1
Jan.7      March      June         June                SeDtember                        Dhcder                        IbNeb         __
Actual     Actual    Program       Actual    Progrm      Revised      Actual   Program    kevised   Current   Indle -   Current   Indles-  Currnt
ProsrTm                          PropIm    projec-      tite    projec-      tie    pnrlec-
lona *nd            tioa and             tion  amd
ceiliag              cailiog.             coUi
Foreign assets (net)         -3,810     -4,309      -3.291        -624      -3,447     -2,810      -1,904    -4,147    -3,810    -2,341    -,U410    -2,446    -3,020    -2,5U
Domestic credit               7,247       7,170      7,253       7,061       7,658       8,017      9,396      7,915      8,949    11,328      8,750    11,569       ,515    11,100
Governfent (net)      (4,139)    (2,913)    (3,896)    (2,052)    (4,439)    (3,632)    (2,984)   (4,439)   (4,439)   (4,439)             (...)   (4,439)      (... )   (4*36)
Private sector        (3,108)    (4,257)    (3,357)    (5,010)    (3,219)    (4,385)    (6,412)   (3,476)   (4,510)   (6,889)             (.)   (7,130)  t.-)  (7,31n)
Money  nd quasi-money         3,785      4,711       4,287       6,764       4,536       6,083      7,727      4,138      6,015     9,235      6,400      9,541     6,555      9,632
Money                     (2,216)    (3,649)       (...)    (5,813)                  (G..)        (.. )     (6826...)             (...)      (...)      ( ...)    (... )     (...) )
Qasi-money                (1,569)    (1,062)   (      .)       (951)   (     .)        C...)      (901)      (..)       (...) (---)          C..)       (...) t, ,,)         C...) C
hedium- and long-term
forein lilablIties         2,198       2,103       2,198       2,091      2,198       2,091       1,943      2,196     2,091      1,923      1,907     1,758      1,907    173
SDR allocation                2,708      2,716       2,706       2,701       2,706       2,701      2,510      2,705      2,701     2,374      2,701      2,362     2,701      2,362
Other item  (net)            -5,254      -6,670     -5,231      -5,118      -5,231      -5,668     -4,686    -5,276    -5,668    -4,552    -5,6U        -4,540    -S,U8    -4,54
Source: lRF Staff Report
0@



- 29 -                            ANNEX I
Page 8 of 8
Table 4: EXTERNAL DEBT SITUATION
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1984                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1985
(in million of US$)                                 (in percent)
Public Debt, outstanding and                       After debt rescheduling
disbursed, incl. guaranteed      102.6            incl. change in arrears   66.9
Public Debt, incl. undisbursed      146.0          Before debt rescheduling    99.7
IDA Lending, June 30, 1985
(in million of US$)
Outstanding and disbursed             1.3
Undisbursed                          16.4
TOTAL                             17.7
IBRD Lending, June 30, 1985
None.
Source: IMF and staff estimates.
3/11/86



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
REHABILITATION IHPORT PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.  Statement of IDA Credits (as of January 31, 1986)
Credit                                                  Amount (US$million)
Number        Year     Borrower       Purpose           Total   Undisbursed
362-EG       1973     Republic of   Highway             2.0 /a
Equatorial    Maintenance
Guinea
1304-EG       1982     Republic of   Petroleum          2.4 /b      1.75 /c
Equatorial    Sector T.A.
Guinea
1489-EG       1984     Republic of   Technical          6.0 /b      5.59 /c
Equatorial    Assistance
Guinea
1548-EG       1985     Republic of   Cocoa
Equatorial    Rebabilitation    9.3 /b      8.72 /c
Guinea
Of which has been repaid                   0.0
Now outstanding                           16.06
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
Nil.
/a   This Credit was cancelled in April 1976 at the request of the
Government.
/b   The Credit is denominated in SDRs. This figure was computed using the
rate of exchange used at the time of Credit negotiations.
/c   This figure was computed using the rate of exchange on January 31,
1986.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
REHABILITATION IMPORT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY CREDIT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Operation prepared by Government and IDA: March 1985.
(b) Appraisal: April 1985 (followed by a post-appraisal mission in
October/November 1985).
(c)  Negotiations:  February 1986.
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1986.
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Actions
Review of public investment program by IDA in November 1985.
A PPF advance has been approved so that the Credit Administrator
(para. 39) and the procurement specialist (para. 40) can be hired as soon
as possible.
Section III - Special Conditions
Agreement was obtained on:
(a) concessionary terms of future borrowings (para. 18);
(b) a policy in the transportation sector emphazing the maintenance
of the existing fleet (para. 37 and Annex V, para. 2);
(c) the introduction of a tariff system in the electricity
water-supply/sanitation and telecommunications sectors and the
establishment of two maintenance and monitoring units, one in
Malabo and one in Bata, in the Ministry of Public Works (para. 37
and Annex V, paras. 3 and 4);
(d) policy on preventive medicine (Annex V, pars. 5);
(e) the negative list (para. 43);
(f) lending terms to the private sector (para. 47);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) use of the funds of the Counterpart Fund Account (para. 47); and
(h) llmits on the size and content of the annual public investment
program, and arrangements for its periodic review by IDA (para.
25 (h).
The following would be conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a) submission to IDA of a program satisfactory to IDA regarding the
management of Equatorial Guinea's public finances and its
external debt (para. 30);
(b) establishment of the Interministerial Coordinating Committee
(para. 44);
(c) the appointment and arrival in post of the Credit Administrator
and the procurement specialist/specifications writer (paras. 39
and 40);
(d) opening of the Special Account (para. 46); and
(e) the opening of the Counterpart Fund Account (para. 47).
A condition of disbursement for imports for the relevant sectors
would be the appointment in post of the civil engineer and engineering
consultant and the two mechanics (para. 41).
A condition of disbursement of the second half of the proceeds of
the two Credits would be that the mid-term review (para. 52) had been
successfully concluded and action taken by the Government, if necessary, to
implement its findings.



RI  il    1    D |tiIFl  2             { 
2ff~.iiEli    l   i!ii               lb
tilt  I   mS.          [s    .I.                 s
- CE -



AN IV
PF    2 of 4
Mlcy elsit                        ktlm  taken                                  Actim to be taken
- Abolsing of pris cmtmls m                   - To be uwitored by  ?w    reg lar
mintain1E exulets price                       stff visit.
pdwLic  mewises    L- iqidatim of the state .teprlm
WUd had the fm2poiy on Inportig
4 d  iathlzt   peczi. p&ts
an replmit by urbd entrpr
with privae foreip capital pa-
ticipat4ai In Ausat 1984. Addbic
cumurld d1stlbutim  caWy uas
zeplacu by bw udiad eniterprise
with private foreip caita1  p -
ticipatim in July 1985.
- Mjor public etarprie a  baL%                - Cmereim   of natu1   arlin  d
st*aiad by uxatim  iwlw am       .            dipping czu       into mLxa!
enteapries ut way. Stdy for
rest i4   of elctrd#i  cuipWy
cxzzpetee   d ctnverslm  into m1d
copa   Is bein  utwiiad in armnctim
wit pvislim of biLateral t       I
Pub1Jc F~inn=
flmveus                 - Introdutlam of ref ezr   list prim
rpstam for twfd.g cowca and coffee
exports a.  ind rene     of taK rat  In
Jmzazy 1985. Enforcs. of edsting
systan of taxaim of I I i er expot.



Pap 3 of 4
Policy eigmt                      Actim taken                    Oteon tbe talg
- Preliminary taxation strvy has bom
capleted and final report and recom-
dations have bem incorporated in the
revised 1986 hxdget.
- Pestrwuotuig duty on imports of petro-
leum prducts. Strcharge mumed In
Jun 1985.
- PAviu of the tax yatan aimed at
skplifylig the system      raising
slectively varwom taxee.
- Introductim of a system of strict            - C olled by the Off Loa of FIoial
vW&tb        to   throuwi applicatim            Contrdl crated in Jalay 1985 and                        ,
of quarterly esi4zp  aa wrra.t                  monitored by the DM.
euepditwr camdl.ts. exculuing
Interest payumta on external debt.
Limitatim  of wp bi  in public
aihdnistatim  to CFAF 1,000 ml-lon
in 1985 and 1986. Prlor thodz
for purohases of patwole products
introduced In April 1985. Strict
limitation of capital    wibimtur
(CFAF 600 miflmi in 1985 aid CFAF
1,000 mLUInm prjected for 1986).
- Refomn of the civil sezvice, with the        - Diwussm of civil sevice re;Ort
aim of reducing muber frnx 5,500 to             within GoDruit. hlrthe re-
3,000 amer a three-yea period. Cerams           ductim in mber of civll sermvts
of hih-level   ly         and  l  f-            with a          f-m  brld B .
cation of perscml eopleted In July
1985. Rextion In muber of civil
servants by 550 iployees.



Pp 4 of 4
pblc  ,l=tActi   ae                                                      cL  to be tn
- Pductn of dawc  ariw   of pulc             - F*tblJMz  of t         E for
aect +by CPR 40 udgi]m dwhi  first          Jiquldaim of do cu*st
haif of 19B5.                               bal    o CFAF 935 silliu  To be
mitndtrs by the IW.
lmm adl CrLit             - Dawtic credlt edII         ipm.s.m    for   -  zdtorsd by thme 1.
orU  dcuatic cradit   gruinwI to be
56% In 1985, and 122 for private ectar.
Adopt:  of  w it.mt rate strwau
in My 1985.
Public Debt               - Cretkn of public debt   wy Im late         -FtIur                 of debt re -
1984. Syttin   adigw upct1%                 hi& mu sduiag of debt a&inxvf
of pic debt uumV. Flegg= plar jI  onto, and vabAitimo det co-
of umthy cemI debt aevie m _e-              trl,Ih*.   itazd by 9brld Bak
talidwi dwzh  Phmin Club um     .           Ier T.A. Proct.
I   _t of stsutm of Allc Dbt
Agm.
Publfr. _Tumt             - Pedw of P,blI lnveslmit Piogrm  for        - E mi of 19B6 PIP perfmam  mu of
PrOSM                       1986 by Bdc. PIP h1  bm sIjUuted            the 1987 PIP to be unhrt*A in Ocbstde
to re,lstic sie, mu doubtful pwjsc.t        1986 a pt of the RIC iztw&a reviw
a  beI% rvemd     1 by Qemnit.              mi in cocim vdtht  LU  PAiR
Tible YBtfr6 adhduled for late 1986.
W&MC
04/8/86



- 37 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
REHABILITATION IMPORT CREDIT
The content of the proposed operation is as follows:
1.        In agriculture, Credit funds would finance imports such as:
(i) inputs, including tools, hand equipment, simple machinery, implements,
spare parts, supplies, materials and agro-chemicals; (ii) building
materials and fumigation equipment for warehouses to store agricultural
inputs and commodities; (iii) equipment, machinery, spare parts, and
building materials for processing plants; (iv) building materials fow
drying floors; (v) fishing boats, equipment, materials, and spare parts;
(vi) trucks and spare parts for agricultural cooperatives; and
(vii) vehicles and tools for logistical support to agricultural services.
Since the Government bas already introduced a number of policy reforms
affecting the agricultural sector (higher producer prices, strict
creditworthiness criteria for granting agricult--ral credit, payment in a
convertible currency, periodic revision of in ,rest rates), particularly in
the context of the Cocoa Rehabilitation Project, no additional policy
reforms in the agricultural sector are needed at present.
2.        In transportation, Credlt funds would finance imports such as:
(i) machinery, tools, and spare parts for (a) the existing vehicle-repair
service centers in Malabo and Bata presently being operated with technical
assistance from the Cooperative League of the United States of America
(CLUSA) with financing being considered by the United States (USAID) and
(b) three mobile service units which would also carry out vehicle
maintenance and repair; (ii) vehicles (excluding passenger cars).
equipment, and spare parts for government pools, one for the island of
Bioko located at Malabo, the other for Rio Muni (the continental region)
located at Bata; (iii) components, spare parts, tools, and batteries for
farm tractor rehabilitation; (iv) miscellaneous tires and batteries for the
transportation sector; (v) materials and equipment needed for emergency
repair work on the causeway to the port at Bats; (vi) equipment and asphalt
necessary for emergency reFair work (mainly patching) of roads on Bioko and
Rio Muni, to avoid further deterioration of the network; and (vlii) fuel.
The road patching on Bioko and Rio Muni would be done by the Ministry of
Public Works supervised by an independent civil engineer hired under the
project. Repair work on the roads of Rio Muni would be limited to
emergency rehabilitation. 1/ The emergency repair work at the port of Bata
would be done by a private contractor supervised by independent consulting
1/   A road reconstruction project--or project component-is now being
identified. In particular, a preparation study for the transportation
sector in Rio Muni, financed by FAC and IDA (from the proceeds of the
Technical Assistance project, para. 21), began In late November 1985.
Some cofinanciers have indicated preliminary interest in cofinancing a
reconstruction project.



- 38 -
ANNEX v
Page 2 of 3
engineers; the credits would finance the cost of imported materials,
equipment and services under the contract; the balance would be funded by
the Governmeut. The Government would agree to implement policies in the
transportation sector (a) focusing on maintenance of the existing fleet,
rather than purchase of new vehicles, and (b) restricting the use of
government vehicles, spare parts, materials, equipment, and fuel to public
activities.
3.        in the water-supply/sanitation sector, Credit funds would finance
imports such as (i) vehicles and equipment for trash collection in Malabo
and Bata; (ii) piping, joints, other materials, water meters, and
water-capture, -treatment, and -purification equipment for the
rehabilitation of the municipal water-supply/sanitation network in
Malabo 2/ ; and (iii) vehicles, machinery, and equipment for repairs and
periodic maintenance of the water-supply/sanitation networks of Malabo and
Bata. The rehabilitation of the Malabo municipal network would be carried
out by the Hinistry of Public Works supervised by the same civil engineer
who would also supervise the road patching on Bioko. In both Malabo and
Bata, the Government would (a) install water meters for commercial users
and (b) introduce a flat rate for private users beginning with a marginal
rate for water consumption. The Government would also agree to establisb
two small units, one in Malabo and one in Bata, under the jurisdiction of
the Ministry of Public Works, to carry out repairs and periodic
maintenance.
4.        For electricity, the Credits would finance the purchase of spare
parts and additional equipment required to ensure reliable service. At
present, power cuts are frequent, with detrimental effects on all aspects
of life, including telecommunications, come;. 2 and government. The
Federal Republic of Germany is providing three experts to help improve
electricity service. The difficulties Equatorial Guinea has in
communicating with the rest of the world have consistently hampered
assistance efforts and have frequently caused frustration and
misunderstandings on all sides. The Commission of the European Communities
is presently financing the preparation of a master plan for the
telecommunications sector.  France (CCCE) is investigating possible
investment in the sector. Credit funds would finance or cofinance urgent
requirements such aa a telex link with the international network (including
purchase and installation costs of telecommunications equipment as well as
technical assistance for reconnaissance and supervision). Rates would be
set initially, and adjusted periodically, at a level which would cover
operating and maintenance costs.
2/   Spain is presently financing the rehabilitation of the municipal
water-supply/sanitation network in Bata. The other major public
utility, electricity, is to receive assistance from a consortium
comprised of the European Community (EDF and EIB), France (CCCE),
UNDF/ILO, and the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ).



- 39 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
5.        Finally, the two Credits would finance imports for the health
sector. Although health-related Imports would be used for both preventive
and curative purposes, the Government would agree to develop a sector
strategy for the health sector focusing on pteventive medicine and designed
to keep the population at large from contracting diseases, rather than on
curative medicine which, because of its high cost, could reach only a
limited few.



_BRD 10259R2
lo.
EQUATORIAL GUINEA
4MALABO0
-b w  -  Exisling asphalt roads
BrXrr            Al                                                                              Existing loterlte roads
- - -r -Planned roads
*BIOKO                                                                        Rivers
Luba                                                  4,  Ports
Batits                                                                                            * +   Airports
I Riabo                                                                               Bridges
(Qi MustJ                                                                                       - ._._. International boundaries
AP'    3--
Ebolowo
Gulf of Guinea
CAMEROON
Rio Campo 
S.31r                  6 r 1t>s 
yomi Ken          Micmesng               Eey
ANNOBON 1.                                      Z+                                         elon
"It                                           BATAiefang                                   Ani5o
r30*                   13U
5:30'                 6                                A\>
Mbini          Senye            RIO   MAU N                           Mongomo    Z
'0
9-                      .l_f     arkboti                                                    "jco
9. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.
MAII.s-2 NIGER       '                                                           i c       n                                 sk>i
*1A.'*                   CHAD
t ;2 S NIGERIA  . 
'    AttF                   Ak         S    i                                       kuenmNsr
~AFRREP                                                                                                       N or S
 EQUATORIA.L      *                  EW6WQ.  -                                                                                      1*r  t   
.4 &      aROWYMGANDE IS.
,>GUINEA   j,s,^gi       CORISCO I0                                       20      40      60      80
GABON?J/J)    CORISCCI .____________KIme'
Annobonl.                                                GABON              0     10   20   iD    .             5M4
IREik  ' 5"a 6DivbW  __ Dv .SWmkNw                                                           of__ o _ _ s
a        500      1000                                                         0. NW ,W of Me ~I* mRUWBwaw F.W9wFww*0woum w
0    50   1000  1500   A NGOLA             '                             l 0-                                         r
APRIL 1986



