RICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUNBER AF-15 EG
African Facility Credit
Agreement
(Rehabilitation Import Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the
SPECIAL FACILITY FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Dated                              ,1986


﻿AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT NUMBER AF-15 EG
AFRICAN FACILITY CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            cZ 3              , 1986, between
REPULIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEK (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY
FOR SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA (the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Executive Directors of the International
Development Association (IDA) have established by their Resolu-
tion No. IDA 85-1 of May 21, 1985, (the Resolution), a Special
Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African Facility) consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and
other donors and administered by IDA, acting as Administrator of
the African Facility, for the purpose of, and in accordance with,
the provisions of the Resolution;
(B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested assistance from the resources of
the African Facility in the financing of the Project, and the
Administrator has determined that such assistance would be in
accordance with the provisions of the Resolution;
(C) the Borrower has also requested IDA to provide addi-
tional assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA
(the Development Credit Agreement), IDA is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to five million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 5,400,000) (the IDA Credit);
(D) WHEREAS    the  Borrower  and   the  Administrator   have
reviewed the estimated expenditures of the Borrower for 1986 and
the Administrator has received from the Borrower a letter, dated
February 5, 1986, setting them forth; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the African Facility Credit to
the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the International Development Associa-
tion, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth
below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
(a) The term "Association", when used in the General Condi-
tions, means the International Development Association acting as
Administrator of the African Facility, except in the phrase
"member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and
6.02 (e) thereof;
(b)  the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account", when used in the General Conditions, are
amended to read "African Facility Credit Agreement", "African
Facility Credit" and "African Facility Credit Account", respec-
tively;
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 and the second
sentence of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include IDA acting in its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the re-pective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Part II member of IDA" means a member of IDA with
respect to which the terms and conditions of membership are
those prescribed in the Articles of Agreemen" of IDA for
countries whose names are listed in Part II of Schedule A to
those Articles;
(b)  "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and IDA for the Project,
as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term
includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of IDA, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such


﻿-3-
agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(d)  "BCD" means the Borrower's Credit and Development Bank
organized pursuant to a decree, dated September 24, 1970, or any
other bank that the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
for purposes of fulfilling the functions of BCD in respect of the
Project;
(e)  "CAMARA" means the Borrower's Chamber of Commerce for
Agriculture and Forestry;
(f) "Coordination Committee" means the Borrower's committee
established for purposes of the Project with: (a) the Ministros
de Finanzas, Planificacion y Desarollo Economico, e Industrias,
and Comercio y Promocion Empresarial as permanent members, and
(b) the Ministers responsible for the other economic sectors
related to the Project as ad hoc members; all of which may
designate representatives to attend the meetings of the Committee
on their behalf;
(g)  "Counterpart Funds Accounts" -eans the accounts re-
ferred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(h)  "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi--
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.2
(1975);
(i)  "Cocoa   Rehabilitation  Project"  means   the   project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement,
dated February 28, 1985, between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion;
(j) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(k)  "BEAC" means Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale;
and
(1)  "Rehabilitation Program" means the Borrower's program
to rehabilitate its economy including economic stabilization
measures and improvement in selection of investment projects.


﻿ARTICLE II
The African Facility Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the African Facility Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to three million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the African Facility Credit
may be withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Administrator, for expenditures made
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories of: (i) any Part II member of IDA; (ii) any country
designated by the Administrator as meeting the provisions set
forth in paragraphs 4 (f) (ii) and (iii) of the Resolution.
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in the Malabo branch
of BEAC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administra-
tor. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to IDA a commitment
charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the African Facility Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the African Facility
Credit Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the African Facility Credit
Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿-5-
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as IDA shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for purposes of
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to IDA a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the amount withdrawn from the African Facility Credit
Account and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay to IDA the principal
amotint of the African Facility Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15,
1996 and ending April 15, 2036. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 2006 shall be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be one and one-half per cent
(1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the of -ctives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreer, Lt, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative  and  financial  practices, and    shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the ProjecL in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from


﻿-6-
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Admin-
istrator.
(c) Pursuant to paragraph (a) above and without limitation
to its provisions, the Borrower shall:
(i) for purposes of financing on credit the reasonable
cost of goods arGi services required for the
private sector under the Project:
(A) open a Counterpart Funds Account at BEAC in
the name of BCD (the BCD Counterpart Funds
Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Administrator;
(B) deposit in the BCD Counterpart Funds Account
at least $250,000 equivalent out of the local
currency obtained by the Borrower from the
sale of the foreign exchange provided under
the African Facility Credit as a contribution
of the Zorrower to BCD's capital; and
(C) cause BCD to lend the proceeds of the BCD
Counterpart Funds Account to private sector
entities.
(ii) (A) open a Counterpart Funds Account at BEAC (the
BEAC Counterpart Funds Account) on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator;
(B) deposit in the BEAC Counterpart Funds Account
the remainder of the local currency obtained
by the Borrower from the sale of the foreign
exchange provided under the African Facility
Credit; and
(C) use the funds so deposited to finance the
costs   of   the  annual   public  investment
programs of the Borrower approved by the
Administrator, to finance the service of the
Borrower's public debt and, in case the
credit demand of the private sector exceeds
the amount deposited in the BCD Counterpart
Funds Account, to make credit available
through said Account in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph (c) (i) of this
Section.


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out af the proceeds
of the African Facility Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, subject to the
eligibility restrictions set forth in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Amongst the specialists and consultants refer-
red to in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall employ or cause to be employed : (a) an economist/
credit administrator at its Ministry of Finance; (b) a procure-
ment specialist/specifications writer at its Ministry of Industry
and Commerce; (c) a civil engineer at its Ministry of Public
Works, Malabo office; (d) a consultant engineering firm for its
Ministry of Public Works, Bata office; and (e) two mechanics, one
each at the service centers of the Cooperative League of the
United States of America in Malabo and Bata.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Adminis-
trator on a quarterly basis, and in addition to the information
on the progress of the Project and the expenditures financed out
of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit provided for in
Section 9.06 (a) of the General Conditions, information on:
(a) the means used and progress made to establish and
closely monitor clear priorities and guidelines for deciding the
Borrower's import requirements;
(b) the means used and progress made to strengthen the Bor-
rower's credit agencies and import channels;
(c) the progress made to prepare, adopt and apply procure-
ment regulations and procedures adapted to the needs of the Bor-
rower; and
(d) the progress made to prepare a development strategy for
the health sector focusing on preventive medicine.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall,
from time to time, review the adequacy of the creditworthiness
conditions and credit terms being applied by BCD in extending
credit to private sector borrowers for the purposes of the
Project. The Borrower shall, on the basis of the results of such
review, cause BCD to adjust its creditworthiness conditions and
credit terms as required to be satisfactory to the Ad'ninistrator.


﻿-8-
(b) Credit made available under this Project for purposes
for which credit is available under the Cocoa Rehabilitation
Project shall be on the terms and conditions provided for under
such Project.
Section 3.06. Without any limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) not later
than January 31, 1987, or whenever the aggregate amount of the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit and the IDA Credit and
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account and the IDA
Credit Account and of commitments to pay the Borrower or others
under the African Facility Credit and the IDA Credit reaches
SDR 5,400,000 equivalent, whichever shall be the earlier, carry
out a detailed review of the execution of the Project and the
Rehabilitation Program up to that date; and (b) promptly take
such measures as the Administrator shall consider adequate on
the basis of such review to ensure the achievement of the pur-
poses of the Project as set forth in the introductory paragraph
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower, including BCD and CAMARA, responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account and
the Counterpart Funds Accounts, for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing   principles  consistently   applied,   by
independent auditors acceptable to the Adminis-
trator;
(ii) furnish to the Administrator, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of


﻿-9-
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)  furnish to the Administrator such other informa-
tion concerning the said accounts and the audit
thereof and said records as the Administrator
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. Except as che Administrator may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, until January 31, 1988, limit its
borrowings to loans and credits granted on concessionary terms.
Section 5.02. Before October 31, 1986, the Borrower shall
exchange views with the Administrator on the contents of its
public investment program for 1987 and modify it by mutual
agreement as required.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall from time to time take all
such measures, including but not limited to adjustments in its
tariffs for the supply of water and its rates for telecommunica-
tion and electric power supply services, as shall be required to
cover at least the uperating and maintenance costs of providing
such services. For this purpose and in respect of water supply,
the Borrower undertakes to cause water meters to be installed for
all commercial water users.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause its agencies and
departments to maintain existing vehicles, equipment and facili-
ties in accordance with appropriate practices and not authorize
the purchase of vehicles or equipment or the construction of
facilities to the extent that adequate maintenance makes such
purchase or construction unnecessary.
(b)  The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1986,
establish, and thereafter maintain, in its Ministry of Public
Works maintenance and monitoring units in Malabo and Bata; such
units to be responsible for the periodic maintenance and repair
of the water supply and sanitation networks of Malabo and Bata,
respectively.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any instrument under which the Coordination Committee
or BCD has been established or operates shall have been amended,
suspended, waived or repealed so as to materially and adversely
affect the ability of the Coordination Committee or BCD to carry
out their responsibilities under the Project;
(b) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Coordination Committee or BCD;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall, have arisen which
shall make it impossible for the Coordination Committee or BCD to
carry out their respective responsibilities in respect of the
Project; and
(d) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or credit (including the
IDA Credit made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor; or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the  Administrator   that:  (A)  such   suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Sec-
tion 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur;
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Designation of Administrator
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the African Facility
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agree-
ment is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Article V of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
African Facility Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
Section 7.04. In the event that the Executive Directors of
IDA decide to terminate the functions of IDA as administrator of
the African Facility pursuant to paragraph 10 of the Resolution,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, designate
another party which, on the date specified in such notice, shall
assume part or all of the rights and obligations of the Admin-
istrator under this Agreement in accordance with the Resolution
and such decision of the Executive Directors, as specified in
such notice.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
Malabo
Equatorial Guinea
Cable address:
MINISTERIO DE FINANZAS
Malabo
Equatorial Guinea
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the African Facility
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                           Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF EQUATORIAL GUINEA
By            WX/e Lo       L&C%4' 0
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL FACILITY FOR
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of
the African Facility Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the African Facility Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required during the
execution of the Project and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
112         -               Alcoholic beverages
121         -               Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -                Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -                Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7               Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.


﻿- 15 -
Group     Sub-group          Description of Items
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
-        971.0               Gold, non-monetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower for goods
or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower except
for civil works or construction materials; provided, however,
that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country in the territory of which goods are produced or from the
territory of which services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall not be deemed to be in
the currency of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; provided, however, that payments may be made for
expenditures made before that date but after February 1, 1986, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 400,000 equivalent;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $20,000 equivalent other than vehicles, equipment,
supplies and spare parts;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Administrator shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption;
(g) expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equiva-
lent to SDR 280,000 for petroleum products and lubricants;
(h) expenditures for foodstuffs;
(i) expenditures for goods for road patching and for water
supply/sanitation under paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 2 to this


﻿- 16 -
Agreement, unless the civil engineer referred to in Section 3.03
(c) has taken up his post in Malabo;
(j)  expcnditures for civil works under paragraph 2 (b)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless the consultant engineer-
ing firm referred to in Section 3.03 (d) of this Agreement has
been employed, and such expenditures do not exceed 85% of the
total cost of such civil works; and
(k) expenditures for vehicle repair and maintenance under
paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless the two
mechanics referred to in Section 3.03 (e) of this Agreement have
been employed.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit after January 31, 1987 or whenever the aggregate
of the proceeds of the African Facility Credit and the IDA Credit
withdrawn from the African Facility Credit Account- and the IDA
Credit Account and the aggregate amount of such commitments
and commitments to pay the Borrower or the others out of the
proceeds of the IDA Gredit shall have reached the equivalent
of SDR 5,400,000, whichever shall be the earlier, unless the
Administrator shall be satisfied, after the review referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement, with: (a) the progress achieved
by the Borrower in the carrying out of its 1986 public invest-
ment program and the Rehabilitation Program; (b) the use of the
proceeds of the African Facility Credit and the IDA Credit; (c)
the Borrower's public investment program for 1987; and (d) the
adjustments of tariffs made pursuant to Section 5.03 of this
Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.   The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
carrying out its Rehabilitation Program and, in particular, to
increase the capacity of the agricultural sector and agricultural
exports, to rehabilitate selected infrastructure sectors of the
economy and to help establish short-and medium-term rehabilita-
tion and development priorities.
2.   The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: (a) the
provision of foreign exchange for the importation into Equatorial
Guinea of goods critically needed in the agricultural, trans-
portation, water supply/sanitation, electric power, telecommuni-
cations, and health sectors, including goods needed for road
patching on the island of Bioko and for water supply/sanitation
repair and reconstruction in Malabo and Bata; (b) repair of the
Bata port causeway; (c) vehicle repair and maintenance activi-
ties; and (d) the provision of technical assistance required
therefore.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1988.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   (a)  Contracts for the procurement of goods and works to
cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more each shall be awarded
through international competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications set forth in subparagraph
(b), (c) and (d) of this paragraph. For purposes of the African
Facility Credit Agreement, all references in the Guidelines to
the r:. and to loans shall be deemed to be references to the
Administrator and to the African Facility Credit, respectively.
(b) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, or to bid; such advertisements
should be placed in at least one newspaper of general
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in
at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."


﻿- 19 -
(c) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."
(d) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   The eligibility requirements set forth in Section 2.02 (b)
of   this  Agreement   shall   be   stated  in   the   tender   or
prequalification documents for the procurement of such goods and
works.
Part B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for repair of the Bata port causeway may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Administrator.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000
per contract may be procured under concracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accor-
dance with procedures acceptable to the Administrator.
3.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000
per contract may be purchased directly from suppliers when a
demonstrated urgency so requires.
Part C.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to each contract, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Administrator pur-
suant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Administrator


﻿- 20 -
as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4
of Schedule 5 (the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Specialists and Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project
and in the procurement of goods under the Project, the Borrower
shall employ procurement specialists and other specialists and
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Administrator.
Such specialists and consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Administrator
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981. For the purposes of the
African Facility Credit Agreement, references in these Guidelines
to the Bank and to loans shall be deemed to be to the Adminis-
trator and to the African Facility Credit, respectively.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Responsibility
1.   The overall responsibility for the execution and adminis-
tration of the Project will rest with the Minister of Finance,
assisted by the economist/credit administrator referred to
in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, and advised by the
Coordination Committee. The Coordination Committee will, inter
alia, establish national development priorities and decide among
conflicting inter- and intra-sectoral demands for imports. The
economist/credit administrator will act as secretary to the
Coordination Committee and monitor procurement and disbursement
of funds to the different sectors, aiming at strengthening finan-
cial discipline and practices, and review import proposals to
ensure that: (i) goods to be imported are eligible for financing
under the African Facility Credit and conform with the type and
volume of services which the merchant or supplier can provide;
and (ii) specifications of such goods are correct and reflect
respective scarcities. The Coordination Committee will meet at
least once a month.
Import Procedures
2.   Import proposals will be submitted to       the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (MIC) and will include standardized lists
of goods to be imported, indicating detailed specifications,
expected FOB or CIF prices and the total amount of imports
applied for in dollars. The Ministry will seek the advice of: (a)
the procurement specialist in MIC or in CAMARA depending on the
economic sector to which the goods to be imported correspond, and
(b) the economist/credit administrator, who will examine the
import proposals taking into account the criteria set forth in
the preceding paragraph and who will submit his recommendations
to tne Minister. The procurement specialist and the economist/
credit administrator will discharge their respective functions
with due diligence.
3.   Import contract awards will be made by the MIC and will
entitle the beneficiary to apply to MIC for an import license.
MIC will act expeditiously to issue the import license and in
any case within two weeks of the application therefor.


﻿- 22 -
4.   Import licenses issued to a merchant or supplier in the pri-
vate sector may be submitted to BCD which will provide credit in
accordance with Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
Procurement Procedures
5.   The procurement procedures applied will be in accordance
with Schedule 3 to this Agreement. The procurement specialist/
specifications writer in MIC will ensure that, to the extent
possible, orders are bulked across the sectors and importers.
6.   The procurement specialist in CAMARA provided under the
Cocoa Rehabilitation Project will oversee agricultural pro-
curement. Said specialist and the procurement specialist/
specifications writer in MIC will coordinate with the national
administrator in the Ministry of Planning and Economic Develop-
ment provided under the Technical Assistance Project (Credit
No. 1489 EG) in order to avoid duplication of orders when drawing
up lists of equipment and supplies to be imported.
7.   The economist/credit administrator will ensure the expedi-
tious and efficient distribution of goods, their utilization
according to Project objectives, and their sale at prices, which
reflect their international prices. The economist/credit adminis-
trator will cause to be carried out systematic spot-checks to
control the utilization of goods imported for the Project.
8.   Contracts for goods procured in accordance with the pro-
cedures set forth in Parts A and B.2 of Annex 3 hereto will not h
be subject to price review by the Borrower's agencies in charge
of controlling the quality, quantity and price of goods to be
imported in Equatorial Guinea. However, such agencies may
control the quality and quantity of the goods so procured.


﻿- 23 -
SIMHEDUE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the African
Facility Credit; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to CFAF 110,000,000 to be withdraws from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to re-
plenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Administrator shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the African Facility Credit Account
and deposit in the SpeeIal Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Administrator
requests for replenishment of the Special Account at such inter-
vals as the Administrator shall specify. On the basis of such
requests, the Administrator shall withdraw from the African
Facility Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the African Facility
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.


﻿- 24 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Administrator, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Administrator shall reason-
ably request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Administrator when either of the following si-uations
first arises:
(i) the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the African Facility Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the   total  unwithdrawn   amount  of  the   African
Facility Credit minus the amount of any special
commitment entered into by the Administrator
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the African Facility Credit
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the African
Facility Credit shall follow such procedures as the Administrator
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request,
refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of


﻿- 25 -
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied. No further deposit by the Administrator into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or
refund.
(b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator,
refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount for crediting
to the African Facility Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the       i 3  day of         ,
198 _.
FOR SECRETARY


