                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 32218

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                       (TF-25143 TF-25142 TF-28302 TF-28303)

                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.5 MILLION (US$7.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                   BURKINA FASO AND REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE

                   FOR A WEST AFRICA PILOT COMMUNITY-BASED
              NATURAL RESOURCES & WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                    06/30/2005




AFTS4
Country Department 11
Africa Region

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective April 8, 2003)

                                      Currency Unit = XOF
                                           XOF 100 = US$ 0.163
                                           US$ 1.00 = XOF 611.84

                                             FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1     December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFVP                      Association française des volontaires du progrès
AGEREF                    Inter-Village Association for Management of Natural Resources & Wildlife
AGETREN                   Village Land and Natural Resource Management Association
BERD                      Bureau d'études et de recherche pour le développement (Bureau for Study and
Research for Development)
CCTP                      Provincial Technical Coordinating Committee
CITES                     Convention on International Trade of Endangered Species
CIVGT                     Inter-Village Land Management Committee
CVGT                      Village Land Management Committee
DGEF                      Directorate General for Water and Forestry
DREEF                     Regional Directorate of Water and Forestry
EMP                       Equipe Mobile Pluridisciplinaire (Multi-disciplinary Mobile Team)
FAO                       Food and Agricultural Organization
GC                        Consultative Group
GEF                       Global Environment Facility
GEPRENAF                  Community-Based Natural Resource & Wildlife Management Project
GV                        Village Group
ICB                       International Competitive Bidding
IEC                       Information, Education and Communication
INERA                     National Institute for Environmental and Agricultural Research
IUCN/UICN                 World Conservation Union
MPV                       Village Micro-Project
NCB                       National Competitive Bidding
NEAP                      National Environmental Action Plan
NGO                       Non Government Organisation
PAGEN                     Partnership for Natural Ecosystem Management Project
PAGEP                     Participative Wildlife Management Zone Plan
PC                        Project Coordinator
PCAR                      Project Completion Audit Report
PCGAP                     Projet communautaire de gestion et d'appui aux populations (National Protected
Area Management Project)
PCR                       Project Completion Report
PDV                       Village Development Plan
PNGT                      National Community-Based Land Management Project
PRONAGEN                  National Programme for Natural Ecosystem Management
PTCG                      Provincial Technical Consultation Group
PVD                       Village Development Plan
RCI                       République de Côte d'Ivoire (Republic of Cote d'Ivoire)
SOE                       Statement of Expenditures
TOR                       Terms of Reference

TSU     Technical Support Unit
UCF     Wildlife Conservancy Unit
UNDP    United Nations Development Programme
VO      Village Organization


                 Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
             Country Directors:     Mamadou Dia/A. David Craig
                Sector Manager:     Mary A. Barton-Dock
             Task Team Leader:      Yves A. Prevost

                     BURKINA FASO AND REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
                        A WEST AFRICA PILOT COMMUNITY-BASED
             NATURAL RESSOURCES & WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
    6. Sustainability                                                                15
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
    9. Partner Comments                                                              23
    10. Additional Information                                                       24
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34
    Annex 8. Borrowers' Contributions                                                36
Maps: IBRD 26011, 26012, 26013

Project ID: P000001                                                  Project Name: West Africa Pilot Community-based
                                                                     Natural Resources & Wildlife Management Project
Team Leader: Yves Andre Prevost                                      TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: West Africa Pilot Community-based Natural                L/C/TF Number: TF-25143; TF-25142;
                            Resources & Wildlife Management Project                                  TF-28302; TF-28303
   Country/Department: AFRICA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (26%); Other social
                            services (26%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
                            (22%); Roads and highways (22%); General water, sanitation and
                            flood protection sector (4%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (P); Land administration and
                            management (S); Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/15/1992                                     Effective: 12/01/1995                05/01/1996
     Appraisal: 06/29/1994                                         MTR: 11/01/1998                  05/01/1999
      Approval: 09/14/1995                                      Closing: 12/01/2001                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF BUR/IVC/                  DGEF (BF) & DPN (CI)
                      Other Partners:      BELGIUM

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Edward Jaycox
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia & A. David Craig                   Kathleen Marshall & Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Mary A. Barton-Dock                            Cynthia C. Cook
Team Leader at ICR:             Yves Andre Prevost                             Jeffrey Lewis
ICR Primary Author:             Tanya Yudelman (Consultant)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

Introduction

This ICR seeks to provide an overall evaluation for the West Africa Pilot Community Based Natural
Resources and Wildlife Management Project (Gestion Participative des Ressources Naturelles et de la
Faune: GEPRENAF) that was implemented in parallel in two independent, neighboring countries, Burkina
Faso and Côte d'Ivoire. Project intervention involved 17 villages in Burkina Faso, and 65 villages in Côte
d'Ivoire, with approximately 30% and 70% of the total project resources allocated to each country
respectively. The overall project assessments and ratings presented throughout the ICR are thus weighted
accordingly. It is however important to note that the policy, institutional, socio-cultural and political
environments in each country differed significantly and the implementation performance and achievements
also. These differences are highlighted in the discussion accompanying each rating. It should also be noted
that no ICR mission was fielded to Côte d'Ivoire due to resumption of the civil conflict in 2004, making it
difficult to assess project performance in this country.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context

The objectives and the design of the West Africa Pilot Community Based Natural Resources and Wildlife
Management Project (Gestion Participative des Ressources Naturelles et de la Faune: GEPRENAF) must
be understood in the context of efforts by West African countries to explore more decentralized and
participatory approaches to rural development, natural resource management, and biodiversity
conservation, to overcome lack of capacity within central government to effectively deliver services and
development support to rural areas. The originality of GEPRENAF is its integration of two major
approaches: (i) Community-Based Land Management (CBLM), which had been tested successfully in
Burkina Faso and to a lesser extent in Cote d'Ivoire, as well as in other areas in West Africa, and (ii)
community based game ranching, as tested at Nazinga in Burkina Faso. The project sought to extend the
conceptual scope of the CBLM approach by adding wildlife management as an alternative ecologically
sustainable and economically viable land use option.        The underlying premise is that the long-term
conservation of biodiversity will depend on the capacity of local populations to generate revenue from its
sustainable use.

The project targeted the Comoé ecosystem, which straddles Burkina Faso and Cote d'Ivoire and is one of
West Africa's most diverse and threatened ecosystems. The timing of the intervention was highly relevant
because river blindness disease (Onchocerciasis) had recently been eradicated from the Comoé ecosystem,
putting it at risk of in-migration and uncontrolled development leading to land conflicts. The project
intervened in three sites of global importance for their biodiversity: Diéfoula in southern Burkina Faso, and
Warigué and Monts Tingui in northern Cote d'Ivoire. Diéfoula and Warigué are contiguous.

Project Development Objective and Specific Objectives

The Project's development objective (PDO) was:

   "to introduce a new approach to biodiversity conservation in West Africa which aims to find a
   common solution to both development and conservation concerns by involving local communities in
   the sustainable, profitable exploitation of wild resources and assisting them to manage their wild land
   areas for their own economic benefit and for the benefit of biodiversity."

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) also indicates four specific objectives: (i) to strengthen capacity of
the local communities, Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and Government to manage wild plant



                                                     - 2 -

and animal resources in a sustainable manner; (ii) to improve the management and use of habitat and
wildlife populations at each site; (iii) to improve local land management practices and infrastructure; and
(iv) to establish a durable system for monitoring and evaluating project implementation and impact.

Assessment

For both countries, the PDO and its 4 specific objectives were well aligned with the National Environment
Action Plans (NEAP), and with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which at that time
emphasized human resource development, poverty alleviation, and protection of the natural resource base.
They were also relevant and important for the development and the sector specific strategies of both
countries, as well as in terms of globally significant biodiversity.

Project design benefited from the lessons drawn from the CBLM approach and community-based
conservation approaches pursued in Africa, incorporating key features such as flexible timing, adaptive
learning, participation, coordination, land tenure security, decentralization, capacity building, focus on
vulnerable and special interest groups, and the generation of benefits from conservation activities.
Implementation allowed considerable flexibility and an intensive technical, and managerial monitoring and
supervision regime underpinned the application of an adaptive learning approach.

The PDO is a composite of biodiversity conservation, local development, participatory method, and
economic objectives, which raises questions as to its core objective. This ambiguity is compounded by the
use of two different PDO wordings within the PAD. The PDO was rephrased during a logframe workshop
held soon after project effectiveness in 1996, as follows: "to establish the basis for the sustainable and
participatory management of the land and its natural resources in the project area". The new PDO thus
reduced expectations in terms of biodiversity conservation, and placed greater emphasis on the broader
aspects of land and natural resources management.          Although used by the implementing teams, this
reformulated PDO was never formally adopted by the World Bank.

Six key performance indicators (KPI; see Annex 1) were also selected during the logframe workshop from
a list of possible benchmark indicators in the PAD. The PAD did not provide baselines or targets for these
indicators. The selected indicators do not do full justice to the project.      Moreover, they were not
consistently tracked during implementation, making it very difficult to objectively evaluate project
performance and impact. There is also an apparent disconnect between the reformulated PDO and its key
performance indicators (The KPIs were inserted starting with PSR9). Whereas the logframe PDO reduces
expectations in terms of biodiversity conservation, the indicators target a 10% increase in the combined
population of five indicator species, instead of simply maintaining the current populations as indicated in
the PAD.

The disconnect between PDOs, KPIs, and between the KPIs and project targets set in the PAD made it
difficult for the ICR team to evaluate project performance. In the end, the team chose to take it account
both achievement of both the KPIs and the targets when rating the project.

3.2 Revised Objective:

There was no formal revision of the project objective.


3.3 Original Components:

The project had four components:




                                                      - 3 -

        Component 1. Capacity building ($0.6 million in Burkina Faso, and $1.3 million in Cote
        d'Ivoire). The component sought to build human and local institution capacity, through training,
        technical assistance and supervision. Over 250 training sessions were programmed at each site,
        including 119 weeks of training for villagers, 36 weeks of training for members of the village and
        inter-village associations, and technical and management training for 77 government staff.
        Training was to include awareness building, planning, habitat and wildlife management, the use of
        secondary forest products, safari support techniques, and monitoring and evaluation.            The
        component was also to fund 4 man months of supervision support by the World Conservation
        Union (IUCN) during each year of the project, as well as international and local technical
        assistance (15 and 4 man months, respectively in each country).

        Component 2. Wildlife and habitat management ($1.5 million in Burkina Faso, and $3.5 million
        in Cote d'Ivoire). The component focused on identifying, delimiting and managing village land and
        wildlife zones. It included: (i) establishing wildlife zones at each site (195,000 ha jointly in the
        adjacent Diéfoula and Warigué, and 116,000 ha at Monts Tingui); (ii) rehabilitating 150km of all
        weather roads in Cote d'Ivoire, and 100km in Burkina Faso; (iii) building up to 500km of
        temporary tracks in Cote d'Ivoire, and 200km in Burkina Faso; (iv) developing 5 small dams in
        Cote d'Ivoire, and 2 in Burkina Faso; (v) establishing improving salt licks at all sites; (vi)
        establishing fire breaks and an early burning program; and (vii) organizing patrols by village
        anti-poaching groups supported by 4 armed forest personnel at each site. The component also
        aimed to: (i) help communities make better use of wildlife and secondary forest products, through
        feasibility studies and the provision of technical and financial assistance, (ii) promote safari
        hunting and ecotourism, to increase local revenue from wildlife; and (iii) monitor and control
        wildlife, particularly game populations, to establish effective off-take quotas and ensure adherence
        to national hunting regulations.

        Component 3. Land management and social infrastructure ($0.7 million in Burkina Faso, and
        $1.2 million in Cote d'Ivoire). The component focused on facilitating the participatory preparation
        of community-based village land management plans, and providing the technical support and
        matching grant financing for the implementation of the land management and social infrastructure
        investments thus identified. Specific investments were to be identified by the communities as part
        of their plan but were expected to include soil and water conservation, small-scale irrigation,
        animal health, improved agro-pastoral production, bee-keeping, agro forestry, roads, water
        supplies and the construction of dispensaries and primary schools. Labor intensive techniques were
        to be used wherever possible. It was estimated that investments would average US$ 40,000/village
        over the 5 years (only partially financed by GEPRENAF).

        Component 4. Project Management. ($1.7 million in Burkina Faso, and $2.7 million in Cote
        d'Ivoire). The component financed infrastructure and equipment (including the construction and
        maintenance of small office buildings and accommodation at each site, vehicles, and office and
        field equipment) and technical assistance (local technical support unit's salaries and allowances).
        It also supported annual participatory project planning workshops and daily subsistence
        allowances for government staff.

The design of the components was clearly linked to the PDO, and sought to balance local development
(Component 3) with wildlife conservation (Component 2) in a sustainable manner (Component 1).
Monitoring and evaluation activities to track implementation progress and institutional, ecological and
socio-economic impact were to be financed within each component. The key performance indicators to be



                                                    - 4 -

tracked were to be agreed at the project launch workshop. Extensive facilitation, technical support and
training for all stakeholders were programmed into the project to compensate for the lack of capacity in
government implementing agencies, as well as in most NGOs and local community partners.

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Overall, the quality at entry of the project as evaluated by the ICR is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.
On the positive side, project objectives and design were well aligned with both the governments' and World
Bank's strategies. Design was also in compliance with all World Bank safeguard policies as they were
applied at that time, and it is noteworthy that, in the case of the resettlement policy (which today would be
subject to a much broader "loss of access" interpretation), the highly participatory, community-managed
process by which biodiversity zone boundaries were set and agricultural plots relocated incorporated many
of the elements required under a Process framework today. Lastly, the key external and internal risks faced
by the project were largely well identified, with mitigating actions built into project design to the extent
possible. In view of the pilot nature of the project and in line with the CBLM approach, implementation
plans were appropriately designed to allow considerable flexibility and an intensive technical and
managerial monitoring and supervision regime underpinned the application of an adaptive learning
approach.

However, several design and appraisal weaknesses are also apparent. One important weakness was the
lack of clarity in the PDO, which led to its informal reformulation after effectiveness in which the emphasis
on biodiversity conservation was much reduced. This lack of clarity was reinforced by a second, related
weakness at appraisal, namely, the failure to agree upon a set of quantified key performance indicators
(KPIs) for measuring project impact; this despite an extremely detailed analysis of the monitoring and
evaluation needs of the project, including identification of an indicative list of unquantified baseline
indicators.   Although these were subsequently developed during the 1996 logframe workshop, their
definition varies between sites and over time, the results were poorly adapted to measuring biodiversity
conservation impact and the improvements in quality of life, and undermine evaluation of the project's
achievements.

A third design weakness was that although the PAD recognizes that sites are part of the greater Comoé
ecosystem and explicitly indicates that monitoring and evaluation of population dynamics should be
coordinated with that of the adjacent Comoé National Park, its design did not ensure that this coordination
took place. In consequence, the large ungulates observed in the three pilot sites were treated as separate
and distinct populations for ecological monitoring and thus for determining hunting quotas. These sites are
buffer zones to the Comoé National Park. It is highly likely that large ungulates observed in the project
sites: (i) move seasonally over a much larger area, and (ii) disperse from the Comoé National Park
outwards. Any conclusion regarding population dynamics should have been based on an assessment of the
entire Comoé ecosystem, rather than limited to the project areas.

Fourthly, although project risks were well identified, the extent of inherent project risk appears to have been
underestimated. The PAD's bold statement that the project was "designed to be ecologically, economically
and institutionally sustainable" seems inappropriate given its pilot nature and duration.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The assessment of the achievement of project objectives and outputs is based on both the KPIs and the


                                                      - 5 -

component specific targets. The KPIs formed the backbone of the Monitoring and Evaluation system used
by the project teams. Where possible reference is made to the component specific targets established in the
PAD (presented in Section 3.3), but in many instances this information was not available to the ICR team.

There is a disconnect between the ratings in the ICR and the ratings in the last PSR.

Overall achievement of the PDO and its four specific objectives, assessed jointly for Burkina Faso and
Cote d'Ivoire, is rated unsatisfactory.

The project used two KPIs to monitor the achievement of the PDO (Annex 1):

·        Biodiversity trends are reversed as measured by "the % increase in the sum of populations for 5
large ungulate species".
·        Inter-village Association for Management of Natural Resources and Wildlife (AGEREF) have
acquired capacity to manage reserves, as measured by "the % of activities of management plans carried
out by AGEREFs".

The last project PSR suggests that the targeted 10% increase in large ungulates was exceeded. However,
methodological issues put into question the reliability and relevance of the biodiversity data collected, most
particularly the type of survey used, its seasonal timing, the capacity of the persons involved in the surveys,
the high standard deviation of the data, and the possibility of seasonal movements of wildlife. Anecdotal
data does suggest that habitat loss and poaching were reasonably under control in Burkina Faso, and in
Cote d'Ivoire until the outbreak of conflict in 2002. Nonetheless, project reports also indicate that by 1999
poaching had resumed in both countries, and encroachment by livestock had restarted in Burkina Faso.

The last PSR indicates that AGEREFs carried out 100% of all activities in the three project sites.
AGEREFs were formally established for each of the three sites, each AGEREF holding a 10 year
management concession for a legally recognized biodiversity reserve, and were contractually responsible
for the preparation of the annual work program, habitat management, infrastructure maintenance,
managing safari operations, and some surveillance. However, the AGEREFs could not operate efficiently
at project completion without the daily advice from the project's Technical Support Units (TSUs), and lack
of management experience led to poor quality investments and services.

More broadly, the project succeeded in its objective "to introduce a new approach to biodiversity
conservation in West Africa"as stated in the original PDO. Furthermore, project impact will extend far
beyond the project's boundaries and timeframe. Thus in Burkina Faso, the project led to the extension of
CBLM to wildlife and biodiversity management, as reflected in the Letter of Policy for Decentralized
Rural Development, as well as the GEPRENAF follow ups, the Partnership for Natural Ecosystem
Management Project (PAGEN) and in the National Community-Based Land Management Project (PNGT).
Similarly, the GEPRENAF helped fuel a national dialogue in Cote d'Ivoire; that fed into the Declaration of
Forest Policy (1999) and the Park and Reserve Financing Law (2002), and directly influenced the design
of the planned National Protected Area Management Program (PCGAP).

Efforts to find a common solution to development and conservation concerns through "the sustainable and
profitable exploitation of wild resources for the economic benefit of the communities and the benefit of
biodiversity" were less successful. The project succeeded in establishing local inter-village institutional
mechanisms that involve communities in the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. However,
the expectation that management and sustainable use of wild resources would generate substantial income,
which in turn would provide a strong incentive for communities to commit to conservation, was clearly not
met. Project implementation focused principally on exploring the income generating potential of safari
hunting and ecotourism, although other opportunities were also identified. Yet only limited, and ad hoc


                                                     - 6 -

pilots were conducted (for reasons within and beyond the project's control), none of which convincingly
demonstrated sufficient income-generating potential to provide an adequate incentive.

As three of the four specific objectives correspond closely to the project components these are discussed in
more detail in Section 4.2 below. Overall, the first objective is found to have been partially achieved. Both
the human and institutional technical "capacity to manage wild plant and animal resources in a
sustainable manner" has been considerably strengthened.           However, the project did not succeed in
establishing the financial revenue streams necessary to sustain these management activities, or in
demonstrating that such a potential exists.

The degree to which the second objective has been achieved is unclear. "Improved management of the
habitat and wildlife populations at each site" is likely if judged by the project's creation of and
implementation of management activities in three biodiversity and sustainable use zones. Unfortunately,
the true impact of these activities cannot be judged due to the poor selection and execution of the ecological
impact indicators. Moreover, anecdotal evidence suggests that threats from poaching in and livestock
encroachment on the wildlife zones may have been increasing prior to Project closure.

Achievement of the third specific objective, "improved local land management practices and
infrastructure" is difficult to assess. Alternative production technologies were piloted and their
dissemination was initiated; new social infrastructure was constructed. However, the rate of uptake of the
new technologies, and the impact of the social infrastructure were not documented by the Project.

The Project only partly achieved the fourth cross-cutting, specific objective: "establish a durable
monitoring and evaluation system for implementation and impact."Overall project reporting                was
effective.   Financial management and procurement tracking systems functioned well, and project
implementation and institutional impact monitoring, albeit not in line with the target formats defined in the
PAD, was clear. In contrast, monitoring and evaluation of socioeconomic and ecological impacts was
weak. Faunal inventories and habitat encroachment data were the principal proxies for tracking ecological
impact. While monitoring of habitat encroachment was successful. The faunal inventories relied only on
pedestrian wildlife surveys, not on a combination of these and aerial survey data as had been planned.
This, the methodological issues (discussed above), and the failure to analyze the data in an ecosystem
context renders it hard to draw conclusions from the data gathered. Although local capacity for monitoring
wildlife has improved, the project did not provide a sound basis for tracking ecological change over time,
nor for setting hunting quotas as had been intended. Similarly, socioeconomic output and impact
monitoring was beset with problems. The PAD stated that the Project was to track trends in family income
in project and non-project areas. This target was reduced during implementation due to cost concerns, and
limited to tracking the revenues from sustainable use activities promoted under the project. Even so, failure
to agree on a methodology and poor supervision of consultants by IUCN meant that three years into project
the baseline socioeconomic data had not yet been collected. There was still an expectation at the mid-term
review that the baseline data would be available shortly. The ICR team could not determine whether these
studies had been completed.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 Component 1. Support for local level capacity building (unsatisfactory).

The KPI for Component 1 is the "% of planned local development activities implemented and coordinated
by village based associations" is greater or equal to 50% in each of the three project sites (Annex 1). The
percentage of activities implemented by village land management committees Association de Gestion des
Terroirs et des Ressources Naturelles (AGETREN) in Diéfoula; Associations Villageoises (AV) in



                                                     - 7 -

Warigué and Monts Tingui. was greater than 50% at Diéfoula and Warigué, but less than 50% at Monts
Tingui.

All 17 villages involved at Diéfoula prepared and implemented participatory Village Development Plans.
However, only a quarter of the 65 villages involved at Warigué and Monts Tingui completed a Village
Development Plan, and none of these plans was formally adopted although some-micro-projects were
implemented.

Overall, although the project did not fully implement Phase III of capacity building programs in either
country, it nonetheless significantly strengthened the capacity of communities to plan and manage local
development and biodiversity in both countries, including administrative and managerial capacity of local
populations. It provided extensive technical, managerial and administrative training for both the local
populations and government staff, built capacity through the implementation of participatory planning and
decision making processes, and improved dialogue between the communities and local government. Neither
the number of training sessions or of trainees was tracked consistently during implementation. Hence the
ICR team could not determine the degree to which the specific targets set out in the PAD and Section 3.3
above were achieved.

4.2.2 Component 2. Implementation of habitat and wildlife management measures (unsatisfactory).

The main KPI used for Component 2 is that "an area of 1,000 km² would be set aside in each project site,
with agricultural encroachment less than 5% for Diéfoula and Warigué, and 0% for Monts Tingui".

The project exceeded both this KPI (Annex 1)and the related PAD target. It helped legally establish via
participatory processes three biodiversity conservation and sustainable use zones (Diéfoula, 1,250 km²;
Warigué, 1,060 km², and; Monts Tingui, 1,080 km²). Agricultural encroachment in all three zones was
less than 5% at the end of the project.

The project funded the preparation of participatory management plans for the biodiversity zones (PAGEP),
to be implemented through 10 year management concession contracts signed between the government and
the AGEREFs. It also supported the implementation of these plans, including: boundary delimitation,
internal roads, signage, identification of view points, annual controlled bushfire management and pedestrian
wildlife inventories, and anti-poaching surveillance. It promoted safari hunting and ecotourism to increase
local revenue from wildlife, and funded studies on pharmacopoeia, timber exploitation, fishing, safari
hunting and tourism. Pilots for honey production and safari hunting in Burkina Faso, and for shea nut
collection and processing and honey production in Cote d'Ivoire were successful, providing local incentives
for the population to improve biodiversity management.

The AGEREFs also negotiated agreements with traditional hunters and with pastoralists to stop hunting
and grazing in conservation zones. Although effective initially, anecdotal evidence suggests that these
agreements did not stop poaching from resuming in both countries approximately 3 years into the project.

Nevertheless, despite all the gains, the extent and quality of management activities in all three sites is
disappointing.    Seven specific targets were identified in the PAD.       The first, establishment of three
biodiversity conservation and sustainable use zones of areas in the order of that stated in the PAD, was
fully achieved in both countries. Activities contributing to the second and third targets, which refer to the
rehabilitation and construction of all weather roads and temporary tracks, respectively, cannot be
separately distinguished. The project initially exceeded the 300km target in Burkina Faso, successfully
establishing 400km of boundary and driving trails, but was not able to keep these open. In Cote d'Ivoire,



                                                     - 8 -

the joint target of 600km was not met. The project funded only 140km of roads in Warigué and 280km in
Monts Tingui. The fourth target was met in Diéfoula, where two small dams were completed as planned;
however, these were not constructed to technical standards. None of the planned 5 water holes in Cote
d'Ivoire was constructed, due to the outbreak of civil conflict in 2002. The fifth target, establishment or
improvement of salt licks, was not completed at any site. The sixth target, the establishment of fire breaks
and implementation of an early burning program, was largely achieved at all three sites. The seventh target,
patrols by village anti-poaching groups supported by 4 armed forest service personnel at each site, was
only partially achieved. Village anti-poaching groups were active; however, coordination with the forest
service personnel was uneven. In both countries, village anti-poaching groups often patrolled without
forest service personnel present. Problems were particularly severe in Burkina Faso where delays as long
as 10 days could lapse between reporting of poaching activity by the village anti-poaching groups and
response by the forest service personnel.

Expected revenue streams from safari and ecotourism exploitation were not realized. Pilot activities in
Burkina Faso were not large enough and did not show a sufficiently clear income generating potential to
cover the costs of implementing Diéfoula's biodiversity and sustainable use management plan, let alone
provide an additional incentive. Safari hunting was also studied in Cote d'Ivoire, but never piloted because
of the Government never took measures to implement the repeal of the ban on hunting. Ecotourism pilots
were brought to a halt by the September 2002 events.

Finally, informal reports from Burkina Faso and the findings of the Cote d'Ivoire beneficiary assessment
indicate that the status and sustainability of the biodiversity zones remains fragile.        While, many
community members indicate an understanding of their value and a desire to preserve them for future
generations, the failure to generate significant income streams from these zones means that their benefits
have not yet been fully demonstrated nor internalized by all community members.

A second KPI was related to Component 2: the establishment of a bio-monitoring system, as measured by "
the capability of communities to collect data on wildlife populations, production of base maps, a
functional GIS and its appropriation by a national institution, and production of an updated map of
encroachment".

Wildlife surveys were conducted and a GIS system was developed for each site. However, the wildlife
surveys appear not to have been sufficiently rigorous to provide a statistically significant tool for setting
hunting quotas. Contrary to the PAD, the project did not use aerial surveys, but only relied on foot
surveys. The surveys were conducted at different times of the dry season, involved inexperienced staff, and
survey results were not appropriately analyzed.

Although the establishment of local GIS systems was a building block for the establishment of the durable
monitoring system foreseen under the project, its use by the project teams was limited. System
sustainability appears likely in Cote d'Ivoire, where the GIS database was protected and hidden by the
communities during the conflict, later to be transferred to the Centre National de Télédétection et
d'Information Géographique (CNTIG). Continued development of the database is included under the
PCGAP. However in Burkina Faso, the GIS database was transferred to the provincial forestry service
where it is unlikely to be adequately maintained.

4.2.3 Component 3. Land Management and Infrastructure Development (unsatisfactory).

The KPI for Component 3 (Annex 1) is that "25 micro-projects are completed in Diéfoula, 50 in Warigué




                                                    - 9 -

and 100 in Monts Tingui, with the village's share of cofunding greater than 15%".

The project exceeded the KPI target in Diéfoula, with 45 micro-projects and an average cofinancing of
22.3% (about half labor and half in cash). The project funded social infrastructures (2 dispensaries and
nurses' houses, 8 schools and teachers' houses, 2 adult literacy centers, and 4 wells with pumps), and
supported pilots for alternative production techniques, especially for honey, yam and livestock.

The target was not met in Cote d'Ivoire, although 56 micro-projects were realized in Warigué and 45 in
Monts Tingui. The average cofinancing contributions are unknown, but assumed to be well below 15%.

Implementation of this component in Cote d'Ivoire was beset with difficulties. While the piloting of
alternative production techniques and technologies, especially honey, yam and improved stoves, was
appreciated by the populations, implementation of the social infrastructure and socio-economic activities
was more problematic. The introduction of SIGFIP in 1998 hindered the flow of funds to the project sites,
and systematic delays in the approval of counterpart funds made it difficult for the project to deliver on its
financing promises in a timely fashion [SIGFIP is the national accounting system that was introduced following
agreement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in 1998. It centralized control over project funds under the
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan]. The delays caused widespread dissatisfaction and distrust of the
project. A decision to try win back communities by financing the full costs of many of the social
infrastructure projects upfront backfired, as the eventual community contributions to these activities were
extremely limited. Similarly, an attempt to support economic micro-projects by providing guarantees to
loans secured through COOPEC (a credit organization) was halted after a 2 year trial due to its poor design
and the resultant poor repayment rates.

More broadly, the project did not monitor in either country the impact of these investments on school
enrolment, health, food security or income. Nevertheless, the Beneficiary Assessment conducted in Cote
d'Ivoire found that 80% of communities and individuals who benefited from project interventions perceived
project activities as having improved their well being and their prospects for a better quality of life. This
was reinforced in informal discussions with villagers in Burkina Faso. In contrast, the communities that
did not benefit from the project appear to be significantly dissatisfied. In Northern Monts Tingui, where
only 5% of micro-project funds were disbursed, communities reportedly threatened to hold wildlife
conservation activities hostage to the implementation of the promised socioeconomic activities.

A final sustainability concern, relates to the maintenance of infrastructure investments. Since management
of the wildlife zones is not currently generating significant revenue and given that no agreement was
reached prior to project completion to ensure maintenance of infrastructure by the relevant government
institutions, communities now bear the burden of maintaining project built infrastructure without a clear
means to meet these costs.

Available documentation does not allow a determination of whether the expenditures per village under this
component were in line with the US$40,000 anticipated at Appraisal.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Two major reasons make it unrealistic to estimate the Net Present Value, or the Financial and Economic
Rates of Return. Foremost, the project was funded through Global Environment Facility (GEF) and the
Government of Belgium grants were intended to finance a pilot project to explore and test new approaches,
rather than to provide rapid economic or financial benefits. Realizing such benefits are a key long-term
goal of the overall strategy, but it is not realistic to expect these to be fully commercialized during the pilot
phase. Second, monitoring data are insufficiently robust to support any detailed analysis of possible



                                                        - 10 -

benefits.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development impact was modest.

The project had an impact on the development of local and national institutions, even if institutional
sustainability was not achieved by project completion. Local level capacity building, through training and
participatory planning, has made communities increasingly aware of their rights and responsibilities to
manage local resources in a different way, and has helped them understand the modern legal and economic
values of natural resources. Whenever possible, the project built on and strengthened existing community
institutions. AGEREFs and inter-village development committees complement village level capacity by
providing a framework for neighboring villages to work together, and a nascent capacity to manage
protected areas and local development activities.

The local level village land management committees and the AGEREFs have been adopted by local
populations, and recognized by Government. The capacity of local institutions to tender for, ward and
supervise contracts for the provision of basic goods and services is a fundamental shift that is crucial to the
long-term success of natural resource management in the project area.

Nonetheless, challenges remain. Operational capacity is variable, and in all cases needs continued support.
Given that AGEREF members might live up to 70 km from each other, the absence of telephone or radio
networks acutely restricts the work of the AGEREFs.

Another question mark is the future of the inter-village development committees and the AGEREFs within
the broader national decentralization processes. Decentralization is still debated in both Burkina Faso and
Cote d'Ivoire, and the outcome will likely be subjected to political priorities.

The project has also significantly influenced trends in institutional management of protected areas at the
national level. In both countries, emerging national policies and legislation now clearly recognize and
support the development of community institutions for the management of wildlife areas.

A transboundary agreement between Burkina Faso and Cote d'Ivoire on GEPRENAF was drafted and
agreed in principle in 1994. It would have covered cooperation on anti-poaching activities, bushfire
management, and ecological monitoring. In spite of regular technical meetings between the Cote d'Ivoire
and the Burkina GEPRENAF teams during project implementation, the agreement was not signed. It now
has been postponed indefinitely because of the civil conflict in Cote d'Ivoire.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Extremely low initial community capacity seriously impeded the achievement of project outcomes. In
addition, local village political issues weighed heavily at all project sites.     These issues were most
particularly magnified in northern Warigué by a deep seated political mistrust between local authorities and
central Government, since it was the homeland of the Government's main political opponent.




                                                     - 11 -

The eruption of civil conflict in September 2002 in Cote d'Ivoire, and rebel occupation of the project areas
severely disrupted implementation. Most TSU staff moved to Abidjan. Nevertheless, local communities
continued project activities with limited TSU support.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

In Burkina Faso, the central government ­ led by the Ministry of Environment and Water - supported the
implementation of a number of innovative institutional and legal measures, which enabled the status of
protected areas to be changed so that a local communities' institution, in this case the AGEREF, can
become the concessionaire of the area. They also supported a range of parallel measures that empower
communities to assume the responsibility for a range of development activities in the area. This willingness
to be proactive significantly contributed to the project's progress.

Similarly, in Cote d'Ivoire, central government undertook a number of policy, institutional and legal actions
creating an enabling environment for the project, as well as its future extension as part of PCGAP. These
included: approval of the NEAP and its related Nature Protection Strategy (1996); adoption of the
Declaration of Forest Policy (1999); and most critically the adoption of the Park and Reserve Management
and Financing Law (2002). New laws on decentralization (1995) and land tenure (1998) were also voted.

In contrast, frequent ministerial reorganizations, and the concomitant changes in staffing were detrimental
to the project. During its 7.5 years, the project was headed by no less than 5 different ministries.
Similarly, the National Steering Committee representatives kept changing, and did not provide the expected
project leadership role. Forest and protected area management functions were also eventually split between
two ministries, with a negative impact on the collaborative surveillance arrangements between the Comoé
National Park and the Forest Rangers from the Cantonnement de Ferkessedougou. The government's lack
of commitment to implement the 1994 repeal of the ban on hunting prevented exploring of one of the main
hoped for sources of wildlife revenue flows.

Additional factors within the control of the Government of Cote d'Ivoire also undermined project
implementation.     First and foremost was the introduction of a centralized financial management and
procurement system for project funds (SIGFIP) in 1998 (following an agreement with the IMF). SIGFIP,
compounded by the systematic late approval of the annual state budget, created serious cash flow problems
for the project.    Funds were rarely available in the first trimester of the year, the period when the
populations were most available to participate in project activities. These delays were worsened by the fact
that the national code did not allow for a posteriori approval of community managed procurement and a
general unwillingness to replenish the 90-day accounts based on micro-project summaries as opposed to
detailed justifications. Both of which were key elements of community empowerment and decentralization
designed into the project.       The resultant flow of fund issues seriously undermined both project
implementation and its credibility with the local communities.

Finally, the reason for the failure of the two governments to form a joint commission and to sign the
two-yearly poaching surveillance and ecological monitoring accords is unclear. However, this probably did
not have an immediately significant impact upon the project.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

In Burkina Faso overall implementation was vested to DGEF (the General Directorate of Water and Forest)
in Ouagadougou. On site, the project was entrusted to a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) that contracted a
private consulting firm, the Technical Support Unit (TSU), to help organize communities and build their



                                                     - 12 -

capacity. The PCU also signed protocols with the Regional or Provincial Departments for Environment,
Water and Forest (DREEF and DPEEF) for anti-poaching and conservation support services.

For much of the project there was friction between the Government's National Coordinator and the
Technical Support Unit (TSU), which were both based in Banfora. There were a number of institutional
and personal reasons for this friction. The DGEF, , as the main implementing agency, should have
addressed this problem but did not.

The Regional and Provincial Offices for Environment and Water, although subsidiaries of DGEF, operated
under annual protocols with the PCU. Under these protocols, guard posts were constructed and equipment,
training and operating funds were provided to staff of DPEEF and DREEF. Although four forest guard
posts were constructed, the ICR mission found them either empty or inadequately staffed. Most important,
there was a fundamental divergence between the overall, highly positive support given to GEPRENAF by
the DGEF in terms of policy and strategy, and the unhelpful, at times obstructive, behavior of its regional
and provincial directorates. Their negative reaction was due, in part, to the nature of the project, which
aimed to delegate part of their responsibilities to communities and to private sector operators. The DGEF
should have corrected the situation, since DREEF and DPEEF are under its direct control.

In Cote d'Ivoire, strong commitment and a proactive attitude by the Project Coordination team based in the
Department for Nature Protection, in Abidjan, as well as by project staff in the field, and often by the
communities themselves, enabled the project to confront, mitigate and overcome several of the problems
that arose during implementation, including those beyond their direct control such as the civil conflict. The
financial and administrative manual and the accounting software in place at start-up were inappropriate
and caused audit difficulties; these issues were relatively quickly resolved. The lack of clear guidelines for
financial management and for procurement at the local level caused delays in the replenishment of local
accounts and created problems with audits, which were never fully resolved despite agreements with the
World Bank supervision teams. 90-day advance Local Development Accounts were proactively sought as
a way around the disbursement delays caused by the introduction of SIGFIP, although, this achievement
would have had a greater impact had a resolution to replenishment delays for the accounts funding the TSU
operating costs also been found.

Technical assistance was relatively well managed. The project coordinating unit terminated prematurely
the contract for the under performing TSU team at Warigué, and instead contracted and managed the staff
directly. Efficiency problems were encountered due to poor coordination by the TSU consortium providing
support to Monts Tingui. These were only resolved by the withdrawal of one consortium member upon
completion of the first contract.

Monitoring and evaluation of implementation was relatively well performed, however, the original selection
of indicators was weak and did not do justice to the project. A decision taken to dispense with aerial
surveys as part of the ecological monitoring greatly weakened the evaluation of project impact vis-à-vis
biodiversity.

Overall partnerships with local government service providers, NGOs and research institutions performed
well, although again were undermined by the flow of funds problems. Experiments in micro credit and
micro enterprises however, would have greatly benefited from the recruitment of experts in these fields.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At project appraisal, project financing sources and percentage contribution estimates were: (i) government
(Burkina Faso 8%, Cote d'Ivoire 12%), -ii) GEF and Belgium trust funds (Burkina Faso 89%, Cote



                                                     - 13 -

d'Ivoire 85% - managed jointly and disbursed in a 60:40 ratio), and (iii) local populations (Burkina Faso:
2%, Cote d'Ivoire: 2%). These original financing arrangements were not modified during implementation.
However, funds were reallocated between expenditure categories in 1998 in response to exchange rate
changes between SDR and Belgian Francs, and to reflect changes in project activities.

Burkina Faso.There were no major concerns about costs and financing during project implementation.
US$4.38 million were disbursed, an under run of 3% relative to the appraisal estimates of US$4.49 million.
Disbursements for the GEF and Belgium trust fund were virtually 100% of appraisal estimates.
Government and population contributions were 87% and 76% of appraisal estimates. A one year project
extension was granted, to accommodate slightly slower than anticipated implementation. Expenditures on
Components 3, Land Management and Infrastructure Development, and Component 4, Project
Management, were significantly greater than expected, by respectively 50% and 54%.                Conversely,
expenditures on Component 1, Capacity Building, and Component 2, Wildlife and Habitat Management,
were less than expected, by 60% and 71% respectively.

Cote d'Ivoire.Only 63% of the original US$8.7 million available was disbursed. Disbursements for the
GEF and Belgium trust funds were approximately 69% of appraisal estimates, while the government
contribution was only 36%. Data for population contributions are not available. The 2002 civil conflict
explains part of the disbursement gap, but disbursement was significantly slower than anticipated
throughout implementation. Other reasons include: (i) lack of local capacity or prior experience with
participatory planning processes, (ii) lack of community-level procurement and financial management
guidelines, (iii) systematically late approval of the state budget and hence delays in counterpart funding,
and (iv) centralization of project financial management under SIGFIP in 1998. The project closing date was
extended twice, once for 2 years, then for an additional 6 months.

The rate of expenditures on Component 4, Project Management, was 250% greater than expected, while the
rate of expenditures Component 2, Wildlife and Habitat Management, was only 20% of the amount
expected. Part of the overrun on Project Management can be attributed to charging to Component 1: (i)
studies that pertained to other components, and (ii) capacity building activities being performed by NGOs,
government technical departments and project staff. Interruption of the planned construction of water dams
because of the 2002 conflict and dispensation of the aerial surveys also played a role in the divergence from
appraisal expectations. Nonetheless, the following table indicates that the Project Coordination Unit used
up an inordinate amount of resources, to the detriment of field activities.


                    Component                           Appraisal estimate              Actual
                                                          (US$ million)             (US$ million)
Capacity building                                              1.33                      0.27
                                                             (15.3%)                    (5.3%)
Wildlife and habitat management                                3.48                       0.40
                                                             (40.1%)                    (7.8%)
Land management and social infrastructure                      1.16                       0.49
                                                             (13.3%)                    (9.6%)
Project management                                             2.73                      3.94
                                                             (31.4%)                   (77.4%)
Total                                                          8.70                      5.10




                                                    - 14 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Overall project sustainability is rated as unlikely, because project specific achievements in the field are
unlikely to be sustained; most particularly: (i) the presumed increases in the numbers of large ungulates,
and (ii) the portfolio of micro-projects.

It is important to bear in mind that the GEPRENAF was designed and implemented as a pilot project, to
test and experiment new approaches to biodiversity management that could lead to new investments. In this
regard, the project has already had and will most likely continue to have a strong positive and long-lasting
effect on how biodiversity is managed in both countries. It seems clear that the project has put in place a
framework at the local and national level that greatly increases the likelihood of biodiversity conservation in
the future. Nevertheless, two underlying factors reduce the sustainability rating:

1.       Capacity building is insufficient to ensure sustainability. The institutions created under the project
are not yet strong enough to be self-sustaining without substantial further support. Many community
members participating in economic micro-projects and exploring new production technologies require
ongoing technical and administrative support.

2.       The game ranching model might not work.Even during implementation, local communities in both
countries reportedly have expressed skepticism regarding expected the project benefits. Income generation
expected at appraisal did not materialize from the limited pilots conducted. Full feasibility studies and
business planning exercises to assess the true income generating potential of ecotourism and safari hunting
as well as for other potential activities such as shea nut exploitation, were not conducted during project
implementation. Overall, the economic returns from wildlife management at Project completion did not
provide an ongoing incentive structure to support future conservation efforts, nor to independently sustain
the socio-economic infrastructures established by the Project.

External support will be required if Burkina Faso, Cote d'Ivoire and the international community wish to
see the continued existence of project conservation areas and their biodiversity.

There are good indications that this commitment exists. In parallel with GEPRENAF, both countries have
pursued policy, legislative and institutional measures to improve biodiversity conservation efforts. There
has also been specific support for community involvement in conservation with national level programs
being developed that build on the lessons learned from GEPRENAF (rather than simply replicating it) and
extending the community-based wildlife management approach more broadly.                In Burkina Faso, the
PAGEN and CBRDP are already under implementation, providing a mechanism for the consolidation of
GEPRENAF achievements. In Cote d'Ivoire, adoption of the NEAP in 1996, preparation of a National
Park and Reserve Management Strategy in 1995, the Declaration of Forest Policy Year, and the adoption
of the Park and Reserve Financing Law in 2002, all served as the foundation for a national program, the
PCGAP, which would put in place the institutional, legal and policy framework needed to support
community-based biodiversity management efforts in the country. Unfortunately advances in these areas
were interrupted by the resumption of the conflict in November 2004.

Therefore on balance the ICR team finds that PDO sustainability is in jeopardy.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Burkina Faso.Core project activities have been actively taken over by two new national projects; the
Partnership for Natural Ecosystem Management Project (PAGEN) and the follow-on project for the
community-based land management project (PNGT). These two substantial GEF and IDA-supported



                                                    - 15 -

national operations provide the financial and institutional basis for the continuation of the work in the
Comoé-Léraba reserve and surrounding villages. The design of PAGEN draws heavily on the experience of
GEPRENAF.

While the transition process is through PAGEN and PNGT, there is also increasing internalization of the
principles and the practices that have been developed and tested by GEPRENAF into mainstream wildlife
management activities in Burkina.

Cote d'Ivoire. GEPRENAF activities were to transition into two national programs. Local development
activities (Component 3) were to transfer to the National Community-Based Land Management Project
(PNGTER) in 2001. For reasons that are unclear to the ICR team, this did not occur. Biodiversity
management activities were to be supported under the umbrella of the multi-donor financed PCGAP
(including a joint IDA and GEF APL operation), through the attribution of Partial Voluntary Reserve
status to each site and the management concession granted to the Warigué and Monts Tingui's AGEREFs.
PCGAP included inter alia further national and local level institutional capacity building support
(including development of a consolidated GIS system) and establishment of a Foundation to provide
ongoing financing for conservation activities, which once operational could go someway toward
ameliorating the difficulties encountered in GEPRENAF with providing incentives for conservation. The
main justification for extending the project in Cote d'Ivoire was the need to bridge the period until PCGAP
became effective. However, successful transition of project support to the PCGAP is at risk following the
active resumption of civil conflict in November 2004, since Warigué and Monts Tingui lie firmly in the
rebel held areas.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

On balance Bank performance in project Identification, Preparation, and Appraisal was unsatisfactory.

Preparation was lengthy and expensive, requiring 28 months and involving highly experienced
professionals. Such extensive and elaborate preparation was at the time considered necessary by Bank
management to ensure that a potentially contentious project which involved consumptive wildlife utilization
had a sound analytical background. Time was also needed to ensure the acceptance of key policy and
strategy issues related to the `new way' of undertaking biodiversity conservation. It is worth noting,
however, that during this time an enormous quantity of information and analysis was produced. While this
provided the background to the approval of the GEF and Belgium government finance, there was an
over-abundance of technical information and little was subsequently used.

A number of possible intervention strategies were considered. The community-based management strategy
was adopted as it responded best to the substantial level of human activity already in the project area, and
the progress that had already been made in Burkina with the community-based rural development strategy.
The decision to contract-out of services for the TSU was justified during preparation by the lack of
technical capacity within the governments.       This was the correct decision, even though there were
subsequent problems in the execution of the project by the contractors.             The project goals and
implementation time-frame were possibly over-optimistic, and could only have been implemented under
ideal conditions. Also, the expectations of revenue to communities generated by wildlife utilization were
highly optimistic, and not realized.




                                                    - 16 -

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision performance over the lifetime of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. The Bank's
financial and technical support was generally appropriate and effective. There was a high level of personal
and professional commitment to the principles of the project by key members of the World Bank
supervision team and a strong problem solving orientation. That said, supervision quality would have
benefited significantly from the inclusion of wildlife and community finance/micro-enterprise experts on the
team.

There was considerable flexibility in project design, which was intended to allow those responsible for
implementing the project to develop annual plans according to the needs and potential of the current
situation. This, of course, also required careful supervision ­ especially during the early years when the
TSU and other actors were learning the best ways of tackling the project. As shown in Annex 4, there were
substantial World Bank supervision inputs to the project, especially during these years.            This was
anticipated at appraisal, and was appropriate for a complex, innovative and relatively high-risk pilot
project of this sort, and the limited national experience with this type of work. The Technical Support Unit
in Burkina Faso, however, expressed concern that they were being micro-managed by supervision missions,
which possessed and used their power and influence to override this consulting firm decisions. In addition,
the Borrower complained about initial delays in processing non-objection procedures, but these are unlikely
to have affected the outcome of the project. The introduction of the use of email to communicate the
`non-objection' decisions between the Bank and the Borrower significantly accelerated the procurement
process.

There were, however, some shortfalls in supervision. These were failures to push harder for inter alia:
aerial surveys and the use of radios for ecological monitoring; effective government support for
anti-poaching activities; application of best practice to micro-project and micro-finance trials; clarification
of the institutional overlap and conflict in Banfora; and completion of the Comoé bridge in Burkina Faso.
Additionally, the Bank's supervision ratings may have been overly optimistic for a long time, particularly
with respect to Cote d'Ivoire, where project implementation and achievements clearly suffered due to
funding problems (particularly acute from 1998 onwards), and occupation of the project area by the rebels
since the 2002 civil conflict. It should be noted that project supervision in the final years was based upon
reports by TSU and community members coming from the field as no site visits were possible after the start
of the war.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall World Bank performance was unsatisfactory. A less intensive preparation process would have
been appropriate, and the Bank notably failed to ensure the effective use of information collected during
this phase. Significant supervision support was provided and there was flexibility in reallocation of
resources, however, the supervision team may have been overly optimistic and its skill mix would have
benefited from inclusion of wildlife and community finance expertise. There were some members of
supervision missions who were there more to learn about what was going on than to contribute technical
input: but that undoubtedly added support to the project at high levels in the World Bank which, given its
high risk status, was important.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Performance of both governments during preparation is rated as satisfactory.




                                                     - 17 -

Due to limited in-country capacity, most of the technical preparation work of GEPRENAF was undertaken
by the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO) Investment Center on behalf of the two governments.
Nevertheless, in supporting the preparation process, the borrowers took a series of crucial steps in the
process of transforming the way in which wildlife management could be undertaken. While all the legal
and statutory steps were not completed during this time, this was the period when the government decided
that a community-based strategy for wildlife management should be developed and tested.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Overall Government implementation performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

Burkina Faso.      Government implementation performance in Burkina Faso was satisfactory.                   The
Government undertook to implement a new approach to wildlife management and to concede power and
authority to local communities for wildlife management, the control of safari hunting and the procurement
of goods and services needed to achieve this. This represents a significant willingness to start to do things
in a different way.

With one relatively minor exception, the government maintained its counterpart contribution to project
funding, and conditions of effectiveness were met without any major constraint. No major barriers to
implementation existed (such as a ban on hunting) and there were no major flow of fund issues.

Cote d'Ivoire. Government implementation performance in Cote d'Ivoire was unsatisfactory. On the
positive side, on policy, legislative and institutional levels, the government took steps in support of this new
approach to wildlife management, including providing for the concession of power and authority to
communities to this end. This represents a significant willingness to start to do things in a different way.

However, regular delays in the approval of the annual national budget, and the introduction of SIGFIP
(1998) severely impeded the timely flow of project funds, and implementation of the repeal of the ban on
hunting did not take place as expected. In addition, the frequent organizational and staffing changes within
the government as well as the separation of responsibilities for forests and protected areas between two
different ministries, all affected continuity of oversight and hampered inter-institutional collaboration at the
national level. All the above had a significant impact upon its performance.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Overall implementing agency performance was unsatisfactory.

Burkina Faso. The implementing agency, DGEF, was very supportive of national-level decisions
originating from the field or supervision mission recommendations throughout the project. In that respect
the reserves were created; the AGEREF was incorporated and granted concession of the reserve; and
wildlife trophy fees were refunded to the AGEREF using counterpart funding. All of these were extremely
significant steps that constitute a major achievement and demonstrate strong commitment by DGEF for the
project approach and strategy.

Unfortunately, as illustrated by the discussion below, although DGEF commitment was clear at the policy
level, `buy-in' and pro-active implementation support at the operational level was more limited.

First, the use of contractors for the TSU, the Bureau d'Études et Recherche pour le Développement, was
an important innovation that had specific advantages and disadvantages. On the positive side, it allowed
for a flexible, responsive management. It also mobilized technical and managerial skills which were in


                                                       - 18 -

short supply within government. On the negative side, it was resented by the civil servants in the field (who
otherwise would have been managing the project) and led to unproductive tension between the two groups.
This certainly had a negative influence on implementation, most notably on DGEF support for
anti-poaching activities.

Second, for much of the project there was conflict and lack of collaboration between the National
Coordinator and the head of the TSU, both stationed in Banfora. Although noted regularly by Bank
supervision missions, DGEF took little action to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the two posts. In
1997 an Institutional Audit was proposed to help resolve this problem, but it was not undertaken. That
said, there was for the first five years of the project a very strong commitment by the staff of the PCU and
TSU in favor of the project approach and for its targeted output and outcome.

Third, the buildings constructed at Folonzo are out of place and appear more suitable for Ouagadougou
than small villages. This is a missed opportunity to move public structures in Burkina towards buildings
that are more sensitive to their surroundings. This point was stressed during preparation and appraisal.
During the ICR mission's visit to Folonzo in February 2003, there was virtually no furniture available and
little of the extensive amount of camping equipment that had been purchased.

Fourth, there is the issue of the bridge over the Comoé River. Part of the bridge was constructed, then
washed away after the construction company abandoned its work. This could have been avoided by a more
serious follow up on the part of the PCU which allowed the situation to degrade for many months before
taking action. This lack of proactivity on this particular investment is profoundly disappointing as it was
the first and foremost priority of the entire population which great potential in term of economic
development and inter/intra community relations.

Fifth, support to village anti-poaching teams from DREEF and DPEEF, which should have posted guards
to the project area, was largely ineffective. This greatly reduced the impact of the villager's efforts and
resulted in a derisory small number of actual arrests, prosecutions and sentences for poachers.

Sixth, the performance of some of GEPRENAF's other public sector partners was not satisfactory. The
project signed a number of protocols with public technical services, which were very partially respected.
These include support in agricultural research (National Institute for Environmental and Agricultural
Research - INERA) for the development of a program to stabilize yam cultivation and the Meteorological
Department (DRA) for the establishment of a meteorological network.             It is clear that the written
agreements had inadequate incentives or penalties to ensure that the "partner" agencies used the
GEPRENAF funds for the agreed project activities, rather than as a supplementary source of operational
income. Still, it was the responsibility of the implementing agency, through its PCU, to ensure that such
protocol delivered agreed results.

The GEPRENAF targeted outcome and output were at the site level and were significantly affected by the
above factors. Therefore in spite of its national commitment to the approach, the implementing agency
receives an overall unsatisfactory rating which is a reflection of the performance of its PCU, DREEF and
DPEEF.

Cote d'Ivoire.Performance of the implementing agency is rated as satisfactory. The agency was responsive
and flexible, exhibiting proactive problem solving on a number of occasions during implementation, such as
resolving flow of funds issues for community activities and following up with the Ministry of Finance with
regard to freeing up project funds caught in the SIGFIP bureaucracy. Progress reporting was regular.
Financial and procurement management was adequate although there were initial problems with audits as a



                                                      - 19 -

result of both financial manual and software problems, as well as with changing accountants at Monts
Tingui and with community level procurement. The agency exhibited suitable management of site level
technical assistance (contracted out due to limited government capacity), as demonstrated by their
termination of a poorly performing Technical Support Unit consultancy at Warigué and in taking on the
direct supervision of the staff at this site during for the remainder of the project.          Participation of
beneficiaries was secured, and effective partnerships were created at the local level with relevant
government agencies, research institutions and NGOs. Oversight of the highly participatory monitoring
and evaluation of the project was adequate, although weakened by some poor decisions taken early in
project implementation, namely the choice of initial key monitoring indicators and the decision to reduce
ecological monitoring activities to community implemented foot surveys.

The World Conservation Union (IUCN) was contracted by the implementing agencies of both countries to
provide technical back-up services. It was effective in facilitating regular contacts between the three
GEPRENAF site teams, and thus ensured a high level of cohesion and cross-fertilization. On the other
hand, there were technical areas, such as development of the Monitoring and Evaluation System and the
Geographical Information Systems, and the recruitment of local consultants for specific studies, where the
implementing agencies were not satisfied with IUCN's performance and where there is little to show for
substantial investment.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower Performance was satisfactory.          As shown in this report, there were a number of
shortfalls in the implementation of the project, and in the case of Cote d'Ivoire several important barriers to
implementation that were slow to be resolved (project-linked safari hunting trials were authorized just prior
to the outbreak of conflict in 2002) or not resolved (SIGFIP and annual state budget approval), but also
there was commitment to and support of innovative policy and institutional arrangements which have
sowed seed for possible significant progress.


8. Lessons Learned

Seven main lessons are proposed: (i) the use of pilots, (ii) realism, (iii) conservation and development, (iv)
partnerships, (v) wildlife management, (vi) preparatory studies, and (vii) effectiveness of partner
Government services.

These lessons have already enriched and guided the development of the next generation of
community-based wildlife management operations, most notably the PAGEN in Burkina Faso and the
PCGAP in Cote d'Ivoire.


8.1 Value of Pilots

GEPRENAF's success in bringing about policy changes in the management of natural resources
demonstrates that a few carefully calculated risks can produce valuable results. Because it was considered
an experiment, there was a willingness to innovate and to commit time and resources to make it work.
Thus, GEPRENAF helped develop a longer term vision through enabling the establishment of key policy,
legislative and institutional instruments in both countries, and thus laid the foundation for a new generation
of investment in community-based wildlife management.

The lesson for the Bank is that pilots remain important tools to foster changes and stimulate new
approaches both at the local and national levels. Biodiversity conservation is a very difficult endeavor that



                                                    - 20 -

requires the risk-taking, creativity and adaptability usually only provided by pilot projects.


8.2 Realism for Economic and Financial Potential

In approaches such as GEPRENAF's that rely on sustaining community commitment to conservation and
sustainable use of wild resources through the materialization of future economic benefits, the design should
err on the side of caution. There are high risks with the population failing to see tangible benefits from
improved natural resource management over the short term. While this can be offset to some extent by
socioeconomic investments, this is not a sustainable solution and has other pitfalls (see below).

The lesson is that much more attention is required to accurately determine the size and timing of the benefit
stream and that, given the generally low potential for revenue generation as well as community capacity
and entrenched behavior, the following factors are important:           controlling expectations, long term
involvement, low maintenance investments and securing perennial, conservation specific complementary
financing.

These lessons are built in the PAGEN and PCGAP, which are APLs that will accompany the building of
community capacity and recovery of wildlife over 15 years. Both the PAGEN and PCGAP also seek to
establish and stimulate the capitalization of an endowment which will supplement revenues generated by a
more efficient use of wildlands.


8.3 Community-based Conservation and Local Development

In both countries, the AGEREFs and the inter-village development committees favored local development
activities over conservation work. The project assumes that the more developed the communities become,
the more they become interested in wildlife management activities. However, modest projects like the
GEPRENAF cannot bring a community to the level of development where community interests will shift to
conservation. The project initially triggered substantial enthusiasm with remarkable behavior change
among hunters in the community, but this enthusiasm was not sufficiently reinforced by the benefits derived
from project activities. Furthermore, the provision of social infrastructure by the Project did not, by itself,
create a lasting commitment to conservation. In fact, in certain instances community members threatened to
resume poaching or agriculture encroachment if micro-projects were further delayed, making conservation
hostage to local development financing.

The project thus teaches the lesson that caution must be exercised when linking "classic" rural development
projects with conservation operations because they rural development does not necessarily provide a
healthy or sustainable incentive to conservation.         Conservation incentives should originate from a
framework whereby funds either originate from improved management of the natural ecosystem or from a
source unambiguously created to offset the community opportunity costs of conservation.

PAGEN and PCGAP recognize this. Economic development activities in the rural domain are left to CDD
type operations, such as the PNGT and PNGTER. In addition, both countries are working on setting up
endowment funds with objectives that offset the long term opportunity costs of conservation to the
communities involved


8.4 Partnership versus exclusively community-based

The GEPRENAF approach tested a model that fully empowers communities. Other actors were deemed
important but only as secondary (e.g., forestry agents) or peripheral players (e.g., private guides). Given



                                                      - 21 -

the extremely low capacity of individual community members, they cannot be expected to master every
dimension of protected area management in a 5 year period, which neither the Government ,conservation
NGOs or the private sector were able to control before them. The lack of cooperation by Government
conservation services in Burkina Faso is perhaps an expression of discontent at the lack of attention they
received; clearly they have an important role to play in supporting wildlife management by communities
and with implementing critical tasks such as anti-poaching. In the same vein, neither Government agencies
nor community associations can provide the efficiency and professionalism of the private sector when it
comes to revenue generating activities such as safari- and ecotourism.

The lesson is that investing in only one side of the institutional equation is bound to fail. Community-based
wildlife management has intrinsic limitations that can only be overcome by positioning communities in a
role that they can efficiently play. Complementary roles should be player by the Government and the
private sector.

This lesson was captured by the PAGEN (which includes "partnership" in its title) and the PCGAP. Both
programs aim to appropriately position each of the three above partners.


8.5 Wildlife Management

Modern wildlife management is a complex and highly technical operation that should be conducted by
trained, experienced professionals, and not by amateurs. In this context there were basic failings in the
GEPRENAF process.

Radio Communications

Radio communication is at the heart of almost every well-run large-scale wildlife management operation in
Sub Saharan Africa. The establishment of an operational radio communications system was specified in
the PAD and raised during supervision, but never achieved by the project.                     The absence of
radio-communication capacity hindered many areas of operations, most notably anti-poaching.

Airplanes

The wooded habitat of the Comoé limits visibility from airplanes for much of the year. Yet, the project
failed to exploit two opportunities to use light aircraft.

The first is anti-poaching work. The impact and effectiveness of light aircraft, particularly when working
in communication with ground patrols, has long been demonstrated in East and Southern Africa. It could
also be used in West Africa with some effect. But it needs to be done with a high level of professionalism
and with well-trained and well-equipped personnel.

The second is the use of light aircraft in aerial surveys. The Comoé is a difficult ecosystem in which to
monitor changes in wildlife populations. Stratified aerial surveys using well-established flight, observation
and statistical analysis methodologies should be used at times when tree canopy cover was minimal.

Ground surveys will, inevitably, continue to be important. However, scientific rigor must be used when
collecting and analyzing the data, to ensure its statistical significance. GEPRENAF does not appear to
have controlled these two factors. On the contrary, GEPRENAF appears to have used inexperienced
inventory staff, conducted surveys at variable times of the year, and applied inappropriate software




                                                      - 22 -

analysis. These factors have significantly reduced the reliability and usefulness of the data collected.

Anti-poaching

Of all wildlife management activities, anti-poaching is the most dangerous and requires a high level of
professional skill and personal commitment. The experience of GEPRENAF suggests that, despite good
intentions, considerable training and community enthusiasm, the anti-poaching program was neither
successful nor sustainable for a number of reasons: (i) insufficient and inadequate support from forest
guards to village anti-poaching teams, (ii) no legal basis for village anti-poaching teams to apprehend
poachers, (iii) lack of protection for potential informers, (iv) a significant imbalance between the
effectiveness of weapons carried by village teams and professional poachers, placing the villagers in
considerable jeopardy, (v) the reluctance of burkinabe village teams to go beyond 15 km from the village;
(vi) delays in communication between village teams and government authorities, which resulted in response
times of up to 10 days before they intervened, and (viii) the lack of communication equipment and or
airplanes to support anti-poaching work.


8.6 Studies

GEPRENAF commissioned many interesting and pertinent studies. Unfortunately, few of these were
followed-up by action, and, as with the work undertaken for project preparation, most reports lie unused.
The lesson is not to commission a study unless there is a clear strategy for its follow-up and exploitation.
PAGEN and PCGAP will follow-on from GEPRENAF in the project areas. One of their priorities must be
to determine which existing studies can be moved towards the practical application of the
recommendations.


8.7 Partnerships with Government Organizations

The project signed several protocols with government agencies and NGOs for the provision of technical
services. Such agreements are based on institutional trust and goodwill. The implementation experience of
these protocols in Cote d'Ivoire was relatively positive with good relationships being established and active
participation from the relevant agency or NGO, despite funding difficulties. The experience in Burkina
Faso was less positive.      Despite being paid, government departments often did not deliver expected
services.   A similar situation was noted during the review of the National Community-Based Land
Management Project (PNGT). Overall, the experience in Burkina Faso parallels that of many other
projects and it is increasingly recognized that it is best to define clear links between payments and results,
even between two government agencies. Hence, an alternative, contractual, system will be used in PAGEN
and the possibility of identifying alternative non-government service providers, for technical services will be
actively pursued. The realignment of government's role in the development process diminishes its mandate
and capacity in the field of technical support. Increasingly, this needs to be provided by private sector
operators.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:
Belgium / See above

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                                      - 23 -

BERD, AFVP, UICN / See above

10. Additional Information

An independent evaluation of GEPRENAF's activities in Burkina Faso carried out in 2000 confirms the
trends detected in this ICR. The evaluation recognized the important achievement of GEPRENAF in term
of stimulating local development, empowering local communities, and building the foundations for adequate
community-based conservation. The evaluation already considered ecological achievement as limited in
term of wildlife recovery but stressed that such recovery can only be the result of long-term commitment. It
recommends to: (i) pursue and expand the scope of GEPRENAF to include the nearby Koflandé reserve,
but maintain a similar level of technical assistance; (ii) to focus future financing on management of the
"protected area"; (iii) to limit the institutional responsibility of the AGEREF to "concessionaire" of the
gazetted forest but clarify the role of the local forestry department; (iv) to diversify sources of revenues by
tackling the full range of wildland potential benefits. The recommendations of the independent evaluation
are worked in the design of PAGEN.




                                                      - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Biodiversity trends are reversed at all three 10, 10, 10 percentage increase set.    Burkina: Roan/hartebeest (no significant
project sites: The population of indicator                                           increase); Buffaloes (> 5 but population too
species (sum of buffaloe, roan, hartebeest,                                          low for robust statistical analysis); Buffon kob
buffon kob & warthogs) has increased.                                                & warthog (both > 20),

                                                                                     No information available for Cote d'Ivoire
                                                                                     sites since 2001 due to civil unrest. At that
                                                                                     time figures were: 2470, 2520, 7593.
Intervillage community institutions (AGEREF) 50, 50, 50                              100% achieved for all three sites
have acquired the capacity to manage
biodiversity areas: % of activities of the
biodiversity area management plans fully
entrusted to AGEREFs.




Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
O1.1. Local capacity to coordinate local      50, 50, 50                             > 50, <50, 70
development has improved: % of planned
local development activities implemented and
coordinated by communities.
O2.1. Conservation prospect have improved: 1000, 5%; 1000, 5%; 1000, 0%              1200, <5 (to be verified); 1060, 3%; 1080,
Area in km2 set aside for biodiversity & % of                                        0%
agriculture encroachment.
O2.2. A bio-monitoring system is set up:      5 pt, 5 pt, 5 pt                       2.5 pt; 3 pt; 3 pt
Community able to collect wildlife census
data (1pt); Base map produced (1 pt); GIS
functional (1pt); Updated maps (1pt); GIS
transferred to perennial manager (1pt).
O3.1. Improve the prospect for local          25, 15; 50, 15%; 100, 15%              45, 22.3; 56, unknown; 45, unknown
development in villages concerned by the
project: Number of micro-project; village's
share of co-financing
O4.1. Project management enables              100, 100; 100, 100; 100, 100           100, 97; unknown, unknown
implementation of activities: %
implementation of annual work programs
activities; % of disbursement

1End of project




                                                                - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component for Burkina Faso (in US$ million equivalent)
             Burkina Faso                     Appraisal       Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                              Estimate           Estimate      Appraisal
              Component                      US$ million        US$ million
Capacity Building                                       0.66              0.32            49
Wildlife & Habitat Management                           1.49              0.43            29
Land management & social infrastructure                 0.59              0.94           159
Project management                                      1.75              2.69           154
Total Baseline Cost                                     4.49              4.38
Total Project Costs                                     4.49              4.38
Total Financing Required                                4.49              4.38



Project Cost by Component for Cote d'Ivoire (in US$ million equivalent)
             Cote d'Ivoire                   Appraisal        Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                              Estimate          Estimate       Appraisal
              Component                     US$ million        US$ million
Capacity Building                                      1.33              0.268            20
Wildlife & Habitat Management                          3.49              0.397            11
Land management & social infrastructure                1.16              0.488            42
Project management                                     2.73               3.94           144
Total Baseline Cost                                    8.71              5.093
Total Project Costs                                    8.71              5.093
Total Financing Required                               8.71              5.093




                                                 - 26 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$'000 equivalent)
                 COTE D'IVOIRE                              BURKINA FASO
                      NCB       Other    Total     NCB         Other      Total
1. Civil Works        1527.6    246.7    1774.3    1156.7      153.3      1310
GEF                   (755.9)   (114.1)  (870)     (653.7)     (79.5)     (733.2)
Belgium               (520.9)   (78.7)   (599.6)   (344.5)     (41.9)     (386.4)
2. Goods & Vehicles   954.4     318.2    1272.6    551         183.6      734.6
GEF                   (397.7)   (132.6)  (530.3)   (328.2)     (109.4)    (437.6)
Belgium               (274)     (91.4)   (365.4)   (172.9)     (57.7)     (230.6)
3. Consultant                   2245.7   2245.7                1143.7     1143.7
Services & Training
GEF                             (1179.2) (1179.2)              (681.3)    (681.3)
Belgium                         (812.6)  (812.6)               (359)      (359)
4. Incremental                  3414.3   3414.3                1300.4     1300.4
Operating Costs
GEF                             (1792.9) (1792.9)              (774.6)    (774.6)
Belgium                         (1237.0) (1237.0)              (408.6)    (408.6)
TOTAL                 2482.0    6225.0   8706.9    1707.7      2781.0     4488.7
GEF                   (1153.6)  (3218.9) (4372.4)  (982.0)     (1644.8)   (2626.7)
Belgium               (794.9)   (2219.7) (3014.6)  (517.4)     (867.2)    (1384.6)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$'000 equivalent)
                  COTE D'IVOIRE                               BURKINA FASO
                      NCB       Other      Total     NCB         Other       Total
1. Civil Works        190.68    283.79     474.47    585.80      97.20       683.00
GEF                   (102.97)  (164.66)   (267.63)  (354.50)    (55.30)     (409.80)
Belgium               (68.64)   (109.78)   (178.42)  (231.30)    (41.90)     (273.20)
2. Goods & Vehicles   39.00     467.06     506.06    232.50      141.00      373.60
GEF                   (17.55)   (242.82)   (260.37)  (141.10)    (67.40)     (207.50)
Belgium               (11.70)   (161.88)   (173.58)  (92.40)     (73.60)     (166.00)
3. Consultant                   3268.51    3268.51               1920.60     1920.60
Services & Training
GEF                             (1922.87)  (1922.87)             (1379.70)   (1379.70)
Belgium                         (1281.91)  (1281.91)             (541.20)    (541.20)
4. Incremental                  1258.11    1258.11               1009.50     1009.50
Operating Costs
GEF                             (606.19)   (606.19)              (605.30)    (605.30)
Belgium                         (404.12)   (404.12)              (404.20)    (404.20)
TOTAL                 229.68    5277.47    5507.15   818.30      3140.40     3986.90
GEF                   (120.52)  (2936.54)  (3057.06) (494.60)    (2107.70)   (2602.30)
Belgium               (80.35)   (1957.69)  (2038.03) (323.70)    (1060.90)   (1384.60)




                                          - 27 -

Burkina Faso - Project Financing by Component (in US$'000 equivalent)

                                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate               Percentage of Appraisal
Component                Gov.     GEF.    Belgium Population Gov.      GEF       Belgium Population Gov     GEF      Belgium, Population


1. Capacity Building         56.8    374.1      197.1 -                   403.5       248.3               0    107.86     125.98
2. Wildlife and Habitat              894.7      471.5
Management                  135.8                     -          118.1    608.2       456.2            86.97    67.98     96.76
                             18.3    341.2      180.2    112.1
3. Land Management
and Social Infrastructure                                          31.2   170.2       113.6    85.2   170.49    49.88     63.04      76.00
                             154.3  1016.8      535.8
4. Project Management                                 -          170.6    1420.4      566.5           110.56   139.69     105.73
Total                       365.2   2626.8    1384.6     112.1   319.9    2602.3     1384.6    85.2    87.60    99.07     100.00     76.00



Cote d'Ivoire - Project Financing by Component (in US$'000 equivalent)

                                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate               Percentage of Appraisal
Component                Gov.     GEF.    Belgium Population Gov.      GEF       Belgium Population Gov     GEF      Belgium, Population


1. Capacity Building         160.4    691       476.1 -            3.5      161       107.3               2     23.30     22.50
2. Wildlife and Habitat             1777.2    1224.6
Management                  486.9                     -             24    238.4        159             4.90     13.40     13.00
                              110    507.3      351.3    188.4
3. Land Management
and Social Infrastructure                                           12      293       195.4            10.90    57.80     55.60
                             374.2    1397      962.6
4. Project Management                                 -          372.5    2364.5     1576.3            99.50   169.30     163.80
Total                      1131.5   4372.5    3014.6     188.4     412    3056.9      2038             36.41    69.91     67.60




                                                             - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Not available                  Not available



 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/1994                   7    Ecologist TTL (1); Sp.
                                             conservation (2); Economist;
                                             Lawyer; Sociologist;
                                             Operation officer.
              06/1995                   2    TTL Biodiversity; lawyer

 Supervision
              10/20/1996                4    TTL Biodiversity,                       S               S
                                             Sociologist/sector director,
                                             Natural resources mgt,
                                             Information systems.
              03/17/1997                6    TTL Biodiversity; Agriculture           S               S
                                             economist; Natural resources
                                             mgt; disbursment (2), financial
                                             analyst
              06/30/1997                3    TTL Biodiversity, Natural               S               S
                                             ressources mgt, Disbursment
              12/08/1997                6    TTL Biodiversity, Natural               S               S
                                             ressources mgt, Disbursment (2),
                                             Financial analyst, Procurement
              07/06/1998               11    TTL Biodiversity, Natural               S               S
                                             ressources mgt, Sociologist,
                                             Environment education,
                                             Agriculture services (2),
                                             agro-economist, Disbursment (2),
                                             Financial analyst, Procurement
              05/02/1999                7    TTL Biodiversity, Natural               S               S
                                             ressources mgt, Information
                                             systems, Environment education,
                                             Agriculture services, Statistician,
                                             Disbursment, Procurement
              01/04/2000                7    TTL Biodiversity, Natural               U               S
                                             ressources mgt, Information
                                             systems, Agriculture services,
                                             Livestock, Disbursment (2)
              06/15/2000                1    TTL Biodiversity                        U               S
              01/15/2001               12    TTL Biodiversity, Natural               S               S
                                             ressources mgt (2), Rural roads,
                                             Information systems, Livestock,
                                             Agriculture services,
                                             Disbursment (2), Procurement
                                             (2), Financial analyst



                                              - 30 -

               03/11/2002              3    TTL Biodiversity, Natural         S    S
                                            resources mgt (2)
               04/16/2002              2    Financial management,             S    S
                                            Disbursement
               04/16/2003              1    TTL Biodiversity                  S    S
               10/27/2003              2    TTL Biodiversity, Rural           S    S
                                            development and Env. Spec.
               04/16/2004              1    TTL Biodiversity                  U    S

 ICR
               02/01/2003             3     TTL Biodiversity, Ecologist,      S    S
                                            Sociologist
                                            (Burkina Faso only)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             120                            236
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    45                          252.4
  Supervision                            218                         487.85
  ICR                                                                     45
  Total                                  383                         1021.25




                                            - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Community development capacity




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

BERD, 2002: Bilan de la mise en oeuvre technique du Project GEPRENAF. Cellule Technique d'appui,
      BERD, Ouagadougou, 158 pages

Bureau d'Études Multisectorielles et de Recherches (BEMSEC/R), Avril 2002: Analyse socioéconomique
      de l'impact du projet GEPRENAF sur les population du site des Monts Tingui (République de Cote
      d'Ivoire). (Final Report)

Bureau de Formation et de Conseil au Développement (BFCD), Avril 2002: Analyse socioéconomique de
      l'impact du projet GEPRENAF sur les population du site des Monts Tingui (Cote d'Ivoire).
      (Rapport Definitif)

EUROAUDIT INTERNATIONAL: Audit Reports (Burkina Faso) for 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000.

Hickey, V. and Victurine, R., 2002: GEF Financial Arrangements Study Trip Report, Cote d'Ivoire, May
      16-27, 2002.

GEPRENAF: Annual Reports, 1996 to 2002.

Lauginie F. & Pare E. 2000 : Rapport d'une mission d'évaluation externe de GEPRENAF : Volet
      Burkina Faso. Afrique Nature International, Abidjan

Ministère de l'Environnement et du Cadre de Vie, Burkina Faso, 2003 : Rapport Final d'Exécution du
      Projet (première version)

Ministère d'État, Ministère de l'Environnement, Cote d'Ivoire, 2003 : Rapport d'Achèvement. Project
      Pilote de Gestion Participative des Ressources Naturelles et de la Faune.

Ministère d'État, Ministère de l'Environnement, Cote d'Ivoire / Association Française des Volontaires du
      Progrès, 2003 : Rapport d'achèvement GEPRENAF ­ Site des Monts Tingui 1996-2003.

Ministère d'État, Ministère de l'Environnement, Cote d'Ivoire / Cellule Technique d'Appui du Site de
      Warigué, 2003 : Rapport d'achèvement du projet GEPRENAF ­ Période du 1 octobre 1996 au 30
      juin 2003.

WORLD BANK, June 1994: Memorandum of the International Development Association to the Executive
      Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank for the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire.
      Report No: 13115-CI

WORLD BANK, 1995: West Africa Community-Based Natural Resource and Wildlife Management
      Project: Burkina Faso and Cote d'Ivoire. Project Document. Report No 13660-AFR.

WORLD BANK, 2002a: Community-based Rural Development Project, Project Document, Burkina Faso,
      Report No: 20722-BUR

WORLD BANK, 2002b: Performance Assessment Report: National Environmental Management (sic)
      (Credit-C2229-BUR) Operations Evaluation Department, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group.



                                                  - 34 -

   Report No 23913. 26 pages; but pages 14, 16, and 20 are not published.

WORLD BANK, 2002c: Partnership for Natural Ecosystem Management Project: Burkina Faso.
   Project Document . Report No: 23634-BUR. 121 pages

WORLD BANK: Aides Memoire for Supervision Missions from 1996 to 2003.

WORLD BANK: Project Supervision Reports from 1996 to 2004.

WORLD BANK: Diverse Project Documents, including Credit Agreements, key e-mails, and personal
   communications. EUROAUDIT INTERNATIONAL: Audit Reports for 1996, 1998, 1999,
   2000.




                                            - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrowers' Contributions


BURKINA FASO

MINISTERE DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT
ET DU CADRE DE VIE

OPINION DU GOUVERNEMENT BURKINABE

INTRODUCTION

Le Burkina Faso, à l'instar de certains pays africains, possède toujours une diversité biologique abondante
et variée principalement dans son aspect faune sauvage. Tous les statuts et toutes les formes de gestion
intensives et extensives de la faune y existent.

C'est ainsi qu'ont été menées la gestion extensive par l'Etat à travers réserves totales, parcs nationaux,
réserves partielles et autres forêts classées à vocation faunique, la gestion par le Privé à travers les
concessions et tout récemment, la concession communautaire de la forêt classée et réserve partielle de la
faune de la Comoé-Léraba à l'Association inter villageoise de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles et de la
Faune (AGEREF).

Le caractère intensif de la gestion de la faune s'est manifesté à travers aussi bien la mise en place du ranch
de gibier de Nazinga que la conduite de quelques essais de développement de l'élevage non conventionnel.

Tous ces programmes et projets ont permis au Burkina Faso de construire une politique de développement
en matière de gestion de la faune communément appelé Reforme de gestion de la faune.

Le secteur forestier au Burkina intervenait depuis les années d'indépendance dans trois (3) sous secteurs :
forêt, faune et pêche. L'évolution de ces sous secteurs en matière de gestion participative n'a pas connu le
même essor. Ainsi, la foresterie villageoise et l'aménagement forestier ayant bénéficié d'appui financier et
technique avec les projets dits Bois de villages, a connu une évolution très rapide. Si cette notion de gestion
communautaire des forêts était en application dès 1983 dans le sous secteur forêt, celui de la faune est resté
pourtant en marge de cette évolution. Le domaine de la gestion de la faune, géré essentiellement par l'Etat
n'a connu l'implication des privés qu'à partir des années 1985. Cette nouvelle approche de gestion
communautaire demeurait jusque-là un leurre dans le domaine de la gestion de la faune et son habitat.

Le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso avec l'appui de l'Association de Développement de l'Elevage de la
Faune Africaine (ADEFA) a conduit depuis 1975 des travaux préliminaires ayant abouti à la mise en oeuvre
d'un "Projet Pilote pour l'Utilisation Rationnelle de la Faune à Nazinga".

L'objectif initial du ranching visait la gestion durable des ressources, afin d'optimiser la production et
partant des bénéfices socio-économiques au profit des populations locales.

Des recherches effectuées et des tests de production conduits en 1988 et 1989, ont permis d'obtenir des
estimations sur la capacité de charge écologique du milieu, les potentialités de production et la faisabilité
financière du ranching de gibier en tant que méthode pratique pour la gestion de l'écosystème et le
développement économique des divers secteurs touchés par l'activité. Il s'avère que, organisé dans le cadre



                                                      - 36 -

de l'optimisation de la production de bénéfices, l'impact économique du ranching de gibier professionnel
peut atteindre des proportions importantes aux niveaux local et national ; ce qui renforcerait la conservation
des écosystèmes naturels au Burkina Faso.

Après l'identification du projet de « Gestion Participative des Ressources Naturelles et de la Faune
(GEPRENAF) par le Gouvernement Burkinabé et la Banque Mondiale, cette dernière confia l'étude de
faisabilité à la FAO. C'est ainsi que Madame ALTERALLI et son équipe d'investigation furent chargés
principalement de l'étude de faisabilité et de la formulation du projet.

L'Union Mondiale pour la Nature (UICN) quant à elle, fut chargé du montage institutionnel du projet de
concert avec un expert indépendant de la FAO.

Sur la base des résultats recueillis sur le terrain, le document de projet final a été adopté en 1995. Cela a
permis la signature d'un accord de don sur la base des contributions du Gouvernement du Burkina Faso, du
Fonds Mondial pour l'Environnement (FEM) et du Gouvernement du Royaume de Belgique.

Le projet a démarré ses activités sur le terrain en mai 1996, pour une durée prévue de cinq (5) ans.

Du point de vue montage institutionnel, le projet était sous la tutelle du Ministère de l'Environnement et de
l'Eau et placé sous la responsabilité d'une Coordination Nationale (CN). La mise en oeuvre technique
dudit projet a été confiée à un bureau d'étude. Le Bureau d'Etudes et de Recherches pour le Développement
(BERD) a été retenu et sa présence sur le terrain s'est manifestée par la mise en place d'une Cellule
Technique d'Appui (CTA) établie à Banfora. Ladite cellule est opérationnelle depuis mai 1996.

Cette approche devrait conférer au projet une indépendance vis-à-vis de l'Administration forestière mais
aussi permettre de réduire les coûts liées aux études.

Sur un budget global de 2 446 356 000 FCFA, le montant total décaissé à l'issue de l'exécution du projet se
chiffre à 2 404 534 207 de FCFA ; soit un taux d'exécution financière de 98,29%.

Le présent document qui fait l'économie de l'exécution du projet GEPRENAF de 1996 à 2002 reflète
l'opinion du Bénéficiaire du Don. Il met en évidence les points suivants :

1.       Objectifs du projet
2.       Réalisations du projet
3.       Principaux facteurs ayant affecté le projet
4.       Durabilité du projet
5.       Performances de la Banque Mondiale
6.       Performance du Gouvernement et de l'agence d'exécution
7.       Evaluation des résultats


I.       OBJECTIFS DU PROJET

L'objectif global du projet était la conservation de la biodiversité tout en assurant l'amélioration du niveau
de vie des populations des zones périphériques des forêts classées concernées par la mise en oeuvre du
projet.

Les objectifs spécifiques du projet consistaient à :




                                                      - 37 -

-        renforcer la capacité des communautés locales, des ONG et des gouvernements à gérer de façon
durable les ressources en faune et en flore sauvages ;

-        améliorer la gestion et l'utilisation de l'habitat et des populations de faune sur chaque site ;

-        améliorer les pratiques locales en matière de gestion des terroirs et les infrastructures ;

-        créer un mécanisme durable de suivi et d'évaluation de la mise en oeuvre et de l'impact du projet.

II.      REALISATIONS DU PROJET

Composante A : Renforcement des Capacités Locales

Objectif de la composante

Cette composante vise le renforcement par la formation et l'assistance technique des capacités des
associations villageoises, des responsables des services étatiques locaux, et d'autres partenaires associés
dans l'exécution du projet.

Stratégie de mise en oeuvre

La stratégie de mise en oeuvre de la composante découle de l'approche participative adoptée par le projet. Il
s'agit de mettre en oeuvre un programme d'Information/Education/
Communication (IEC) qui est un processus d'apprentissage qui accompagne la mise en oeuvre de toutes les
étapes du projet. Cette démarche permet aux différents acteurs de se connaître, de comprendre le contexte,
la démarche et les objectifs du projet. Elle permet également d'opérer une prise de conscience collective sur
la problématique du développement durable. A cet effet, les actions d'IEC conduites par l'équipe du projet
ont concerné deux (2) groupes d'acteurs :


q        les populations de la zone d'intervention du projet aussi bien à travers leurs leaders, les
organisations communautaires spécifiques que l'ensembles des communautés ;
q        les partenaires techniques et de l'Administration.

Résultats atteints

Une importante campagne de sensibilisation, information, éducation et communication a été faite dès le
démarrage du projet. Ces campagnes ont été renforcées par des formations des organisations paysannes des
membres du projet et des principaux partenaires sur des thématiques liés à la gestion des terroirs et des
ressources naturelles.

Les organisations paysannes ont reçu entre autres les formations suivantes :

-        alphabétisation initiale de 253 producteurs dont 58 femmes soit au total 13 114 HJ formés ;
-        alphabétisation complémentaire de base dispensée à 161 producteurs dont 12 femmes soit au 5 635
HJ ;
-        formation et voyages d'études orientés vers la gestion des ressources naturelles au profit des
organisations paysannes de 17 associations de gestion des ressources naturelles. Pendant la vie du projet, 6
voyages d'étude ont été organisés avec la participation de 80 producteurs dont 34 femmes.



                                                      - 38 -

En outre, plusieurs formations thématiques ont été dispensées à 742 producteurs dont 96 femmes.

Deux cent vingt neuf (229) personnes membres du projet et partenaires ont reçu des formations thématiques
parmi lesquelles :

-        introduction à la gestion des terroirs,
-        diagnostic conjoint en gestion des terroirs,
-        photo-interprétation et cartographie en gestion des terroirs,
-        cadre de concertation technique provincial,
-        technique de surveillance et de lutte contre le braconnage,
-        méthodes actives de recherche et de planification participative,
-        audits des projets,
-        informatique,
-        approche genre et développement,
-        le diagnostic conjoint initial a été réalisé. Il a surtout permis de faire une analyse des situations de
départ, de connaître les potentialités et les contraintes ainsi que les approches de solutions,
-        des diagnostics thématiques ont été également menés.

Analyse

En dépit des formations dispensées, il est à noter des insuffisances liées à la tenue de la gestion
administrative et financière des organisations, de la représentativité et de la notoriété des leaders formés, le
processus de décentralisation ainsi que l'inexistence de compétences en relation avec la gestion technique et
opérationnelle de la concession.

Si un plan de renforcement des capacités existe, il reste entendu que la promotion du partenariat de même
qu'une stratégie de valorisation des acquis en matière de consolidation et capitalisation de cette composante
doivent être davantage promues.

Le transfert ou le renforcement des compétences des structures de l'Etat chargées de travailler pour la
pérennité des acquis du projet a été entièrement occulté. Les structures déconcentrées du Ministère de
l'Environnement et de l'Eau ayant été classées sur le même pallier que les autres partenaires techniques,
devaient intervenir par à coût selon un protocole établi avec le projet.

Un vide institutionnel était prévisible dans l'après projet qui induisait la disparition aussi bien de la CTA
que de la coordination nationale du projet sans structure de relève ; l'AGEREF nouvellement structurée ne
pouvait en aucun cas en assurer la relève.

Au delà de l'aspect temporaire de l'existence de la CTA, les études et formations ont été surtout conduites
par d'autres bureaux. Cette approche a non seulement relevé le coût du projet en son volet services de
consultants et formation mais aussi a rendu précaire, le processus évolutif de la formation de même que
l'existence d'un référentiel en la matière. Ce qui rend du coup péremptoire la poursuite du programme de
formation, étant entendu que les niveaux de formation et des acteurs ne sont par rendus dans les divers
rapports qu'il conviendrait d'ailleurs d'en compiler et d'en synthétiser. De plus, le taux d'alphabétisation
étant l'un des plus bas du Burkina, la démarche pédagogique en matière de formation devait être décrite
dans les différents rapports.




                                                        - 39 -

Perspectives

Le renforcement des compétences des organisations paysannes est encore nécessaire dans plusieurs
domaines notamment :

-        la maîtrise des mécanismes du partenariat ;
-        l'amélioration des capacités législatives et juridiques des associations ;
-        la maîtrise des mécanismes de gestion administratives et financières transparentes ;
-        la maîtrise des techniques de base d'aménagement et de gestion de la concession ;
-        la maîtrise des techniques de planification et de suivi-évaluation.

En ce qui concerne les partenaires et les équipes du projet, il y a nécessité d'approfondir les formations et
d'affiner les approches et outils en relation avec la gestion décentralisée des ressources naturelles en général
et celle de la faune en particulier.

La consolidation des acquis en matière de renforcement des capacités demeure une priorité dans le cadre de
la relève du GEPRENAF par le PAGEN.

Composante B : Gestion de l'habitat et de la Faune

Objectifs de la composante

Les objectifs de la composante sont :
-        mettre en oeuvre un programme d'identification et de détermination des zones de gestion de la faune
et de la flore ainsi que des zones agropastorales ;
-        élaborer des plans de gestion desdites zones et de la vie sauvage ;
-        mettre en oeuvre dans ces zones, des mesures pour la gestion de l'habitat.

Stratégie de mise en oeuvre

La stratégie mise en oeuvre a suivi la démarche suivante :
-        sensibilisation, information sur l'occupation des forêts ;
-        échanges intra et inter villageois sur l'occupation de la zone ;
-        négociation avec les propriétaires fonciers ;
-        matérialisation des limites ;
-        libération de la zone de biodiversité ;
-        élaboration d'un plan d'aménagement ;
-        transformation du statut de la zone de biodiversité
-        concession de la zone à l'autorité inter villageoise.

Résultats atteints

Suite aux diagnostics menés (initial et thématique), les progrès enregistrés sur cette composante sont :

-        négociation et matérialisation des limites de la zone de biodiversité d'une superficie d'environ 125
000 ha ;
-        ouverture d'environ 400 km de pistes temporaires (périmétrales et intérieures)
-        conduite d'opérations pilotes de surveillance et de lutte contre le braconnage ;



                                                      - 40 -

-        libération progressive de la zone de biodiversité,
-        élaboration d'un plan d'aménagement et de gestion participative de la zone de biodiversité ;
-        inventaires pédestres de la faune. De 1997 à 2002, 6 inventaires (soit 1/an) ont été réalisés dans la
zone de biodiversité. Selon les résultats des inventaires, il ressort que les principaux mammifères de la zone
de biodiversité étaient de 4 998 en 1997, 13 270 en 1998, 10 397 en 1999, 8 052 en l'an 2000.
-        180 recenseurs villageois ont participé à ces différentes opérations de recensement.
    Le coût moyen des opérations d'inventaire est de 16,94 FCFA/Ha.
-        inventaires floristiques : 9 unités de végétation identifiées, 301 espèces ligneuses recensées dont 37
des forêts denses humides. La présence du Copalier de Guinée, espèce endémique de la région a été
confirmée dans la zone du projet.
-        valorisation cynégétique de la zone. La zone a été subdivisée en trois (3) unités de gestion : une
zone de grande chasse sportive de 50 000 ha, une zone de petite chasse sportive de 40 000 ha, une zone
protégée servant de tourisme de vision, 35 000 ha. Les types de safari offerts sont : safari Buffle, safari
grande antilope, safari spécial céphalophe. Au total, 3 safari-tests ont été exécutés pour un montant de 11
491 000 FCFA répartit comme suit : Trésor public (1 491 000 FCFA soit 12,98%), l'autorité villageoise (7
160 000 FCFA représentant 62,31%), part des villageois individuellement (566 000 FCFA, 4,93%), secteur
privé (2 265 000 FCFA, 19,17%).

La lutte anti-braconnage a fait l'objet de protocoles entre le Projet et la Direction Régionale de
l'Environnement et des Eaux et Forêts des Hauts-Bassins. Aussi, des postes forestiers ont-elles été mises en
place tout autour des sites d'intervention. Les agents forestiers chargés des opérations de lutte
anti-braconnage ont bénéficié d'un appui logistique et financier pour mener à bien leur mission. Leurs
interventions régulières associées à la surveillance villageoise a permis d'annuler la présence des
braconniers saisonniers dans la zone de biodiversité. Toutefois, les résultats auraient été plus probants si les
moyens (infrastructures, logistique, finances) mis à la disposition du service forestier par le projet avaient
été rationnellement utilisés surtout dans le cadre de la délocalisation de la lutte anti-braconnage. Les postes
forestiers relevant institutionnellement de la DPEEF et les activités des agents de patrouille programmées et
menées de concert avec la CTA ; ce disfonctionnement a entamé l'exécution efficiente de ce volet LAB.

La gestion transfrontalière des ressources partagées avec la Côte d'Ivoire devrait faire l'objet d'un
protocole. Le protocole a été rédigé et accepté par les techniciens des deux (2) parties. Cependant, les
contextes socio-politiques n'ont pas permis de parapher un tel protocole.

Analyse

Les résultats de l'inventaire faunique sont mitigés. Ainsi, les fluctuations constatées au niveau des données
chiffrées permettre d'émettre des doutes sur la qualité de :
-        taux de sondage ;
-        collecte des données traitées ;
-        traitement desdites données ;
-        la qualité des agents recenseurs impliqués.

L'inventaire floristique devrait permettre de diversifier les filières de production. Cependant, seule la
composante faune a bénéficié d'un test en la matière.

Les safari pilotes ont été menés de manière hâtive avant la reconstitution effective et avérée des populations
animales. Le constat est que les différents clients n'ont pas trouvé satisfaction. Ce qui peut constituer dans
un proche avenir un handicap pour la zone.




                                                      - 41 -

En dépit des insuffisances constatées, la participation des populations aux inventaire pédestres de la faune
ainsi que leur implication dans l'organisation du safari constituent un pas décisif et qualitatif dans le
domaine de la gestion participative de la faune.

Les braconniers saisonniers venaient des provinces avoisinantes. Cependant, le braconnage à petite échelle,
évoluent au sein même des villages concernés de nos jours ne saurait être éradiqué par les simples effets de
la surveillance conjointe. De plus, le braconnage de type industriel, vu son caractère furtif et l'importance
des moyens utilisés, requiert des interventions de grande envergure.

En outre, l'Administration forestière n'a pu se déployer dans toutes les infrastructures mises à sa
disposition par le projet ; ceci a été aggravé par l'inexistence de moyens de communication rendant ainsi
difficile, le déploiement ou l'organisation de la lutte anti-braconnage.

En ce qui concerne la gestion de l'habitat, pour une toute première fois au Burkina Faso, des populations
organisées ont trouvé la nécessité de libérer une zone au profit de la gestion durable de la biodiversité.
Lesdites populations ont participé à l'aménagement de l'habitat de la faune en l'occurrence la gestion des
feux précoces, l'ouverture et l'entretien des pistes, la création et l'entretien des retenues d'eau,
l'identification et l'aménagement des salines, la réalisation des écoroutes, etc. Ces efforts des communautés
riveraines ont été couronnés par la concession de la zone à l'autorité inter villageoise avec même des
avantages et intérêts fiscaux. Cependant, il convient de souligner que l'utilisation des travaux en système de
Haute Intensité à Main d'oeuvre (HIMO) a connu des résultats mitigés. La zone étant sous influence de la
culture d'igname, la valeur ajoutée de cette culture de rente a plus d'attrait que celle des actions de
conservation proposées en HIMO.

A l'avenir, il sera souhaitable pour plus de chance de succès que les protocoles de gestion des ressources
partagées ou transfrontalières soient à l'échelle et parrainés par des organisations sous régionales fortes et
représentatives tel l'UEMOA et facilités par des partenaires tel l'UICN qui peut apporter sa caution
technique et son expérience relationnelle à travers Etats et Privés.

Perspectives

Des axes de réflexion sont à promouvoir à travers :
-         la nécessité de susciter des métiers émergents (surveillants villageois, pisteurs, taxidermistes,
porteurs, etc.) ;
-         une réelle mobilisation pour la lutte anti-braconnage de même que la professionnalisation de la
LAB. Pour ce faire, une contribution à la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie de lutte anti-braconnage de la
DGEF s'avère nécessaire.
-         la gestion transfrontalière des ressources partagées. Il s'agit de relire le protocole à l'échelle et sous
le parrainage d'une organisation sous régionale.
-         la valorisation des autres composantes de la diversité biologique (bois, pharmacopée, poisson, miel,
etc.) : mettre en oeuvre les conclusions et recommandations des diverses études visant la gestion ou
l'évaluation des débouchés potentiels de l'exploitation des ressources naturelles, de transformation et de
commercialisation des produits de la forêt
-         la professionnalisation liée à la conduite de la chasse safari. Compte tenu du faible potentiel
faunique actuel de la zone, des efforts sont à entreprendre pour la reconstitution du capital faune de même
que pour l'organisation de la chasse dite « libre ».
-         la consolidation des aménagements de l'habitat en renforçant le réseau de points d'eau. Ces aspects
doivent être pris en compte dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du plan d'aménagement et de gestion de la
forêt classée et réserve partielle de faune de la Comoé-Léraba


                                                       - 42 -

-         Les inventaires fauniques et le suivi écologique de la zone. Des résumés des protocoles et méthodes
d'inventaires testés dans les différentes UCF du pays sont envisagés pour des décisions collectives
consensuelles de conduite des inventaires de grande faune. Dans cette même perspective, les projets
oeuvrant dans le cadre du Programme National de Gestion des Ecosystèmes Naturels (PRONAGEN)
devraient avoir un point d'ancrage pour la réalisation de suivi écologique associé au SIG.

Composante C : gestion des terroirs et développement des infrastructures

Objectifs de la composante

Les objectifs de la composante sont :
-         l'identification et l'élaboration des plans de gestion terroirs ;
-         la mise en oeuvre d'actions communautaires pour la gestion des terroirs et le développement des
infrastructures dans différents domaines.

Stratégie de mise en oeuvre

La démarche stratégique de mise en oeuvre de la composante est agencée comme suit :
-         la conduite des diagnostics conjoints initiaux qui a connu les étapes suivantes : (i)-la tenue d'un
atelier préparatoire avec les partenaires techniques, (ii)-la tenue d'une assemblée générale villageoise,
(iii)-les entretiens en groupes cibles, (iv)-des entretiens individuels avec les autorités coutumières,
religieuses et notabilités villageoises, (v)-une assemblée générale villageoise de restitution et de validation
des résultats du diagnostic ;
-         la réalisation des diagnostics organisationnels ;
-         l'élaboration et la mise en oeuvre d'un plan d'action incitatrice ;
-         la mise en place des organisations villageoises et inter-villageoises ;
-         l'élaboration des plans de développement villageois
-         l'intégration des systèmes de productions végétales et animales.

Résultats atteints

Le diagnostic conjoint initial a favorisé l'implication des communautés villageoises dans le processus de
l'analyse, de la conception, de la planification des micro-projets villageois et inter-villageois. On retient de
ce diagnostic : (i)-une insuffisance en infrastructures socio-économique, (ii)-une multitudes d'organisations
paysannes faiblement structurées, (iii)-une zone sous scolarisée, de multiples conflits entre agriculteurs et
éleveurs dans la gestion de l'espace, (iv)-une non maîtrise des aires de conservation, (v)-la persistance du
braconnage, (vi)-une zone très enclavée, (vi)-une non maîtrise du front agricole.

Le diagnostic organisationnel a permis de conclure à l'existence de quatre vingt deux (82) organisations
paysannes dont dix sept (17) féminines.

En matière d'action incitatrices, les résultats atteints sont :
-         la construction de huit (8) écoles à trois (3 ) classes et de 9 logements ;
-         la construction de deux (2) dispensaires ainsi que de deux (2) logements ;
-         la construction de 2 centres d'alphabétisation ;
-         l'acquisition de 3 presses à karité, de 3 ateliers de teintures et de 144 ruchers modernes
d'apiculture.




                                                        - 43 -

Les communautés villageoises ont mis en place 17 associations de gestion des terroirs et des ressources
naturelles (AGETREN) et une association inter-villageoise de gestion des ressources naturelles et de la
faune (AGEREF).

Dix sept (17) plans de développement villageois ont en outre été élaborés et adoptés.

Au titre du soutien au développement local, un plan d'action igname et un plan d'action élevage ont été
formulés et mis en oeuvre de concert avec les partenaires de l'INERA, la DRA, l'Environnement ainsi
qu'avec les populations locales.

Analyse

Cette composante a facilité l'appropriation du projet par les bénéficiaires. L`identification des terroirs et
l'élaboration de dix sept (17) plans de développement villageois constituent des outils de négociation mis à
la disposition des différents villages. Les actions et investissements non éligibles par le projet pourront
éventuellement être soumis à d'autres bailleurs de fonds.

Les actions incitatrices communautaires ont été certes un catalyseur pour l'acceptation ou l'appropriation
du projet. Cependant, il convient de souligner que ce volet a failli être une priorité pour les villageois au
détriment de la conservation des ressources naturelles et de la faune. Dans certains cas, l'activité a même
fait l'objet de préalables à l'engagement des populations concernées et à d'autres formes de chantage.

En dépit des acquis qui montrent une réelle volonté de l'engagement des organisations paysannes, des
insuffisances méritent d'être soulignées parmi lesquelles :
-         la faiblesse organisationnelle et de gestion financière des structures paysannes ;
-         la non représentativité et la non appropriation des structures (AGETREN et AGEREF) par
l'ensemble des membres et de la communauté villageoise limitant la portée des décisions prises ;
-         les responsables élus chargés de l'administration des structures ont une position sociale et
économique dominante au sein des villages ; ce qui pourrait nuire au mécanismes de démocratie interne ;
-         la faible capacité technique de mise en oeuvre des plans d'action igname et élevage ainsi que les
plans de développement villageois.

Perspectives

Il convient de :

-         définir et mettre en oeuvre une politique de financement des investissements communautaires et du
fonctionnement des AGETREN et de l'AGEREF ;
-         tenir compte de l'existence des AGETREN et de l'AGEREF ainsi que les plans de développement
villageois déjà établis selon la démarche GT et ce, dans le cadre de la mise en place future des Comités
Villageois et Inter villageois de Gestion des Terroirs (CVGT/CIVGT)
-         veiller à poursuivre la mise en oeuvre des plans d'action igname et élevage.


Composante D : gestion du projet

Objectifs de la composante

Les objectifs de la composante sont :



                                                       - 44 -

-        veiller à une bonne administration du projet ;
-        mettre en oeuvre des infrastructures et des équipements pour une gestion efficiente du projet ;
-        créer un mécanisme durable de suivi et d'évaluation de la mise en oeuvre et de l'impact du projet.

Stratégie de mise en oeuvre

Du point de vue institutionnel, la maîtrise d'ouvrage du projet était assurée par le Ministère de
l'Environnement et de l'Eau à travers la Direction Générale des Eaux et Forêts. La maîtrise d'ouvrage
déléguée revenait à la Coordination nationale du projet.
Quant à la maîtrise d'oeuvre, elle était concédée à une agence d'exécution privée, le «Bureau d'Etudes et de
Recherches pour le Développement (BERD)».

Au plan financier, le contrôle de la gestion du projet est assurée par un auditeur privé.

Au plan technique, le projet a bénéficié d'une caution technique et d'un accord de coopération de l'Union
Mondiale pour la Nature (UICN) en matière de gestion durable des espèces et des écosystèmes naturels
ainsi qu'en matière de suivi-évaluation.

Résultats atteints

Les résultats atteints dans le cadre de cette composante sont les suivants :

-        la mise en place de l'équipe du projet ;
-        la construction des différentes infrastructures de gestion du projet notamment son siège, quatre (4)
postes forestiers et huit (8) logements) ;
-        l'acquisition des moyens logistiques et les équipements du projet ;
-        la mise en place d'un système de gestion administrative et financière. Le montage initial a prévu un
administrateur financier recruté par le bureau d'étude BERD et mis à la disposition du projet pour
l'accomplissement de toutes les tâches comptables, administratifs et financiers du projet. Au niveau du
projet, les comptes suivants ont été créés en conformité avec l'accord de Don : le compte spécial FEM pour
les apports du Don Belge et du Don FEM, un compte projet qui recevait la contribution du Gouvernement.
Il avait été également envisagé dans l'accord de Don, l'ouverture d'un compte régional dans l'exécution du
projet par la CTA ou le cas échéant par l'AGEREF.

    Pour ce faire, les différents comptes ci-dessus énumérés ont été ouverts dès le démarrage du projet .
    Cependant, suite à des missions de supervision de la Banque Mondiale et des auditeurs, il a été
    recommandé de fermer le compte régional ouvert par la CTA.

-        Le développement du partenariat. Le projet a tissé un réseau de partenariat avec les services
techniques du CCTP de la province (gendarmerie, police, agriculture, environnement, élevage, santé,
enseignement, administration générale, l'hydraulique, la mairie, les infrastructures, etc.), de la recherche et
d'autres prestataires privés et ONGs parmi lesquelles : le CESAO, l'INERA, le CIRDES, l'INADES
Formation, NATURAMA, le CNSF.

    Ce partenariat a facilité la mise en oeuvre du projet à travers l'examen et l'approbation de ses différents
    rapports et programmes d'activités ainsi que l'approbation de la transformation du statut de la zone de
    biodiversité, la conduite des tests de stabilisation des systèmes de production animale et végétale.

-        la mise en place d'un système de suivi-évaluation du projet. Le dispositif du suivi-évaluation a



                                                       - 45 -

concerné trois (3) types de suivi : le suivi d'exécution, le suivi participatif et le suivi d'impact. Par la suite
la mise en place d'un SIG a permis la représentation spatiale des résultats atteints. Ce système a permis la
planification des activités du projet. Pour ce faire les documents suivants ont été élaborés :
Ø         2 Cadres logiques (ZOPP)
Ø         3 plans stratégiques ;
Ø         6 plans de travail ;
Ø         les différents rapports d'exécution trimestriel et annuelle.

    Le suivi participatif a permis de :
Ø         clarifier les rôles et responsabilités entre les différents acteurs (organisations paysannes,
promoteurs de micro-projets et CTA) ;
Ø         l'harmonisation des rôles entre les différents sites ;
Ø         la mise en place de 7 comités villageois de surveillance ;
Ø         d'organiser des rencontres inter-CTA.

Le système de suivi évaluation était animé :
-         au niveau provincial par le Cadre de Concertation Technique Provincial (CCTP) de la Commission
Provinciale d'Aménagement du Territoire (CPAT). Cette structure était chargée d'approuver les bilans et
plans d'opération ;
-         au niveau national par l'Union Mondiale pour la Nature et du Groupe Consultatif qui étaient des
conseillers permanents du projet ;
-         sur le terrain, le projet travaillait en étroite collaboration avec huit (8) agents forestiers du Service
Provincial de l'Environnement et de l'Eau de la Comoé. Ces agents étaient chargés de la collecte des
données servant à l'alimentation du système de suivi-évaluation.

Analyse


L'Administration du projet était rendue difficile pour diverses raisons :

-         la Coordination nationale du projet relevait directement de la DGEF. Les structures déconcentrées
du Ministère ont été totalement écartées alors qu'elles sont chargées de la conduite de la politique et des
stratégies du Département sur le terrain, rendant difficile la pérennisation des acquis du projet. La CTA
étant chargée de la mise en oeuvre du projet, coordonnait de fait sur le terrain, les interventions des
différents partenaires. Les activités du Coordonnateur national se résumaient à la signature des protocoles,
des notes administratives et des chèques sans suivi ni contrôle à fortiori.
-         La CTA rendait compte directement au BERD et même au Bailleurs de fonds. Elle n'avait aucun
lien fonctionnel ou de subordination au Coordonnateur qui pourtant, représente l'Etat.
-         Les rapports personnels entre chef CTA et Coordonnateur étaient conflictuellement récurrents. Les
conflits de compétence ainsi que le bicéphalisme constaté tirent leur substance du montage institutionnel
embarrassant préconisé par le Bailleur de fonds.
-         La CTA au départ devrait être basée à Folonzo. Son positionnement à Banfora n'a fait
qu'exacerbée les conflits. De plus, dans l'exécution du projet, la CTA s'était forgée comme objectif, la
destruction de l'appareil administratif de l'Etat en vue de pérenniser sa présence. Elle travaillait de ce fait à
isoler la Coordination nationale et les services forestiers. Cela se traduisait d'une part par la caporalisation
de l'AGEREF et des AGETREN et d'autre part, par l'altération du degré de confiance qui existait entre le
bailleurs de fonds et l'Administration.


Pour démontrer la lourdeur de l'Administration et la facilité de compréhension de la CTA, cette dernière



                                                          - 46 -

recevait les fonds de l'AGEREF sans document administratif et financier et les utilisait au nom de ladite
association à tel enseignement que cette fluidité apparente de la gestion des fonds a contribué à inhiber les
effets des formations relatives à la responsabilisation effective des associations villageoises et à la culture
démocratique au sein desdites associations. Il a été noté de ce fait un disfonctionnement de l'AGEREF sur
le plan de la gestion des fonds reçus du projet. Pour ce faire, une fois le retrait des chèques de règlement
avec le projet opéré, le Président de l'AGEREF confie la somme perçue du compte de la banque du Projet, à
un membre de la CTA (ceci est aussi couramment requis pour l'ouverture et l'entretien des pistes) pour
l'exécution de l'activité.


Ainsi donc, sur l'ensemble des protocoles financés par le Projet au titre des pistes d'un montant total de 22
722 050 FCFA, l'AGEREF n'a exécuté elle-même que des travaux correspondant à 1 150 000 FCFA. Les
21 572 050 FCFA ont été confiés à certains membres de la CTA pour la réalisation des pistes.

En terme de mécanismes de financement des protocoles, le scénario mis en place est le suivant : le Président
touche les chèques puis confie l'argent à un membre de la CTA contrairement aux dispositions qui
commandent que cet argent transite d'abord dans le compte CNCA de l'AGEREF ouvert à cet effet.

Les fonds ainsi remis aux membres de l'équipe CTA, restent souvent chez les intéressés près de trois (3) à
cinq (5) mois, c'est-à-dire tout le temps nécessaire à l'exécution des travaux. Les pièces justificatives sont
par la suite transmises au Président et non au Trésorier pour classement.

La réalisation des infrastructures et des équipements ont connu des difficultés liées à la lourdeur des
procédures ainsi qu'à la gestion des marchés.

En ce qui concerne le cas spécifique du marché relatif à la réalisation de 100 km de pistes rurales dans la
zone GEPRENAF, on peut retenir :

Ø        démarrage très lent des travaux ;
Ø        problème d'encadrement de personnel, de coordination des travaux et d'organisation générale du
chantier ;
Ø        paiement tardif de l'avance de démarrage ;
Ø        multiples pannes de bull ayant retardé les opérations de débroussaillage et de gerbage,
Ø        multiples pannes et l'immobilisation quasi permanente des véhicules de liaison ;
Ø        la non prise en compte dans le Contrat de l'Entreprise l'exonération des matériaux et matériels à
importer ;
Ø        les ruptures de stock de ciment quasi continu qui ont constitué un élément assez déterminant dans
le non avancement des travaux ;
Ø        l'achèvement tardif de la procédure administrative relative à la signature de l'avenant n° 1
concernent l'exonération de matériaux et matériels entrant dans le cadre des travaux.
Ø        l'installation progressive de l'hivernage qui a rendu les sites des travaux de plus en plus
difficilement accessibles ayant provoqué la dégradation du site d'édification du pont sur la Comoé.
Ø        le manque de professionnalisme d'une bonne partie des éléments composant les équipes affectées à
la réalisation des ouvrages d'assainissement.

Sur le plan de la gestion financière, la conséquence des variations au niveau des catégories de dépenses est
que celle relative aux services de consultation et de formation a consommé environ la moitié des sommes
alloués au projet. Ceci s'expliquerait à travers le coût élevé des prestataires privés (BERD et UICN) et
l'engagement de consultants pour de nombreuses tâches. L'autre conséquence à tirer résulte de l'absence de
disponibilité pour le renouvellement des équipements du projet qui a entraîné une vétusté du matériel en fin



                                                     - 47 -

de projet et qui a inhibé certaines activités.

Des insuffisances dans le cadre du partenariat se résument comme suit :

Ø        difficulté de compréhension de l'approche du projet (approche participative, objectifs de résultats à
atteindre, etc.) ;
Ø        difficulté d'intégration des activités du projet dans les programmes de certains partenaires ;
Ø        faible disponibilité financière du projet au regard des sollicitations en matière de stabilisation des
systèmes de production végétale et animale.

Parmi les insuffisances en matière de suivi-évaluation, figurent :

Ø        la non fonctionnalité de la station de Ferké qui devait servir à la production de certaines données de
base à référence spatiale des deux pays ; ce qui a entraîné un dysfonctionnement de la station SIG de
Banfora du fait des difficultés d'acquisition du matériel ;
Ø        la non prise en compte dans les PTA, de tous les opérateurs du projet et de ses partenaires ;
Ø        les populations locales ont été mises à l'écart dans le cadre de la mise en place et de l'exploitation
de cet outil de planification surtout SIG.

Le CCTP était toujours présidé par le Haut-Commissaire ; cela dénote de l'intérêt qu'accorde les autorités
provinciales à la réussite d'un tel projet.

La contribution de l'UICN dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre du projet, a permis d'harmoniser les
approches des deux (2) pays en matière de gestion participative des ressources naturelles. Cependant,
l'essentiel des interventions se traduisait par la supervision des études ; chose que l'administration pouvait
réaliser à moindre coût. L'implication de l'UICN autant que celle du BERD devrait permettre au projet de
faire des économies dans son volet services de consultation et formation. La réalité s'est traduite par la
supervision des études commanditées.

Le Groupe consultatif du projet regroupait des personnes ressources à même d'émettre des avis techniques
par rapport aux études et à l'exécution du projet. Contrairement aux coûts d'opération élevées des
organismes et des structures privées, ce groupe ne bénéficiait pas de mesures incitatives qui ont fini par
démotiver certains de ses membres des institutions scientifiques et du privé.

Perspectives

Du point de vue institutionnelle, l'expérience du GEPRENAF montrent qu'il y a toujours nécessité à
responsabiliser les services étatiques dans la mise en oeuvre des projets afin de garantir leur durabilité. Cette
option permet aussi d'opérer un renforcement des capacités et une mutation des approches et stratégies des
agents et structures de l'Etat. Cette forme de responsabilisation des services étatiques face à l'ampleur des
travaux à réaliser les amènent à développer l'esprit de partenariat avec les ONG et le Privé. Aussi, chaque
partenaire devrait-il jouer sa partition.

La mise en place des infrastructures et des équipements requiert une définition claire de référentiels
techniques ainsi qu'un suivi diligent de l'exécution des marchés. Pour le cas spécifique du marché résilié
des 100 Km de pistes rurales dans la zone GEPRENAF, la procédure de réparation est envisagée
conformément aux textes en vigueur.

Dans le domaine de la gestion financière, le manuel de procédures devrait intégrer un plan de passation de


                                                      - 48 -

marché dont le suivi évitera les ruptures et autres blocages financiers.

Pour le développement du partenariat, les résultats seront financés au détriment du volume des activités
programmées.

En termes d'acquis et de perspectives relatif au système de suivi-évaluation, divers appuis sous forme de
missions, d'ateliers, de formations et revues internes ont été apportés au projet. Le projet a en outre acquis
d'importants équipements, de logiciels de données et produits finis dans le domaine du suivi-évaluation et
écologique. Ces acquisitions assorties du renforcement des capacités des techniciens constituent un capital
inestimable pour le transfert de ces connaissances aux autres techniciens et aux communautés villageoises.
La base transfrontalière de ce dispositif de suivi évaluation doit être opérationnelle en vue de
l'harmonisation ou de l'intégration des systèmes de suivi-évaluation et écologique pour une gestion
rationnelle des écosystèmes partagés de la Côte d'Ivoire et du Burkina Faso.

L'UICN pourrait recentrer son intervention sur les aspects purement transfrontaliers en s'attachant
l'expertise requise tout en minimisant les services de consultation.

III.     Principaux facteurs ayant affectés le projet

Facteurs échappant au contrôle du Gouvernement Burkinabé

Le caractère transfrontalier du projet recommandait aux Etats burkinabé et ivoirien de matérialiser d'ici la
fin dudit projet, un protocole de coopération transfrontalière en matière de gestion des ressources naturelles
partagées en l'occurrence la lutte contre le braconnage. Une volonté manifeste a été enregistrée au niveau
des deux (2) Etats à cet effet. Cependant, la situation polico-administrative de la Côte d'Ivoire ces dernières
années n'a pas permis la finalisation de ce protocole


Facteurs dépendant du Gouvernement Burkinabé

Nous réitérons la volonté politique du Gouvernement Burkinabè quant à l'exécution de tels projets. Le taux
de décaissement de la contre partie nationale de l'ordre de 87% dépasse les prévisions initiales et constitue
un signe d'intérêt et d'engagement du Gouvernement à soutenir ce projet innovateur. Aussi, en dépit des
difficultés de trésorerie, le Gouvernement a-t-il consenti la cession de plusieurs formes de taxes et d'impôts
liées à l'exploitation de la concession attribuée à l'AGEREF. La concession d'une entité classée à une
association est toute nouvelle au Burkina et témoigne de la volonté politique des autorités à responsabiliser
les acteurs de la filière faune.

Autres facteurs

Respect des clauses de l'accord de crédit. Les clauses de ce document juridique ont dans l'ensemble été
suivies.

Passation de marchés. Le projet n'a pas connu de difficultés majeures en matière de procédures de
passation de marché. Cependant, l'absence d'un plan de passation de marché a constitué un handicap
majeur dans l'exécution du projet.

Gestion financière et administrative. Elle a été satisfaisante dans l'ensemble et les rapports d'audits ont été



                                                     - 49 -

soumis dans les délais préconisés dans l'accord de crédit. Les auditeurs ont toujours émis des opinions
favorables et leurs recommandations ont toujours été suivies d'effet. La comptabilité du projet a été
informatisée sous le logiciel THOMPRO. Quelques difficultés ont du être surmontées dont la fréquence des
départs des Administrateurs financiers et la ré-allocation par les co-financeurs, des catégories de dépenses
suite à leur épuisement.

Coût du projet et source de financement. L'exécution financière du projet GEPRENAF s'élève à 2 404 534
207 F CFA à la date du 31/12/2002 soit un taux d'exécution financière de 98,29 % et se détaille comme
suit dans le tableau N°2, 3, 4 et 5.


               Tableau N°2 :Prévision budgétaire par composante et par bailleurs

   Désignation             Part FEM         Part Belge        Part Etat           Part            Totaux
                                                                             Populations

Travaux                 354 000 000      129 799 676       40 000 000       -                523 799 676

Equipements             132 750 000       60 694 006       20 000 000       -                213 444 006

Consultation et        708 000 000        351 498 032      -                -                1 059 498 032
Formation

Coûts et exploitation 292 050 000         152 747 166      139 034 000      71 327 000       655 158 166
additionnels

Non alloué              17 700 000        8 747 248        -                                 26 447 248

Totaux                  1 504 500 000     703 486 128      199 034 000      71 327 000       2 478 347 128



              Tableau N° 3 : Exécution budgétaire par composante et par bailleurs

Désignation          Part FEM        Part Belge         Part Etat         Part           Totaux          %
                                                                      Populations                       Réal.

Travaux           245 767 279       129 799 676     37 572 802        -             413 139 757       78,87

Equipements       128 894 309       60 694 006       18 958 832       -             208 547 147       97,70

Consultation et 774 148 415         351 498 032      -                -             1 125 646 447     106,24
Formation

Coûts et         331 465 968        161 494 414      117 798 157      46 442 317    657 200 856       100,37
exploitation
additionnels

Non alloué        -                 -                -                -             -                 -

Totaux            1 480 275 971     703 486 128      174 329 791      46 442 317    2 404 534 207     97,02




                                                    - 50 -

              Tableau N° 4 : Reliquat budgétaire par composante et par bailleurs

 Désignation              Part FEM                 Part Belge            Part Etat          Part Populations

Travaux            108 232 721                 -                    2 427 198

Equipements        3 855 691                   -                    1 041 168

Consultation et    - 66 148 415                -                    -
Formation

Coûts et           - 39 415 968                - 8 747 248          21 235 843           24 884 683
exploitation
additionnels

Non alloué         -                           8 747 248            -

Totaux             6 524 029                   -                    24 704 209           24 884 683


     Tableau No. 5 : Situation de l'exécution financière par composante du GEPRENAF (F CFA)
COMPOSANTES                 PREVISIONS                   REALISATIONS                 % réalisation/
                                                                                      Composante
1.Renforcement des                         182 177 200                 177 076 238                     07,36%
compétences
2. Conservation de la                     249 772 000                  234 656 716                     09,76%
biodiversité
3.Gestion des terroirs                    653 261 300                  516 076 427                     21,46%
4.Gestion du projet                     1 393 136 628                1 476 724 826                     61,42%
Totaux                                   2 478 347 128               2 404 534 207                        100

L'exécution financière présentée dans le tableau N°5 révèle que 61,42% du budget du projet a servi comme
frais de gestion du projet, laissant peu de place à la gestion des terroirs (21,46%), la conservation de la
biodiversité (09,76%) et le renforcement des compétences (07,36%). Cette situation corrobore l'analyse
selon laquelle les frais de prestation des services (BERD et UICN) de même que ceux du doublon
(Coordination nationale/CTA) ont exacerbé et rendu péremptoires les objectifs initiaux du projet relatifs à
la conservation de la diversité biologique à travers le renforcement des capacités opérationnelles des
communautés périphériques de la zone Diéfoula/Logoniégué.

IV.     Durabilité du projet

Plusieurs axes s'inscrivent dans la durabilité des acquis du projet parmi lesquels :

-       les objectifs du projet sont conformes à ceux de la stratégie nationale et du plan d'action en
matière de diversité biologique et peut donc servir de modèle ;
-       le changement de statut de la zone ainsi que sa rétrocession à l'autorité villageoise constitue en
partie un gage pour sa durabilité ;
-       les reformes institutions et juridiques entreprises au niveau national permettront de sécuriser ou
d'améliorer la performance du sous secteur faune ;



                                                     - 51 -

-        la consolidation de l'approche et l'opérationnalisation des Unités de Conservation de la Faune
(UCF) visant à terme leur autonomisation ;
-        le Gouvernement a proposé le PRONAGEN et le PNGT2, comme des programmes
complémentaires à la LPDRD ;
-        le PRONAGEN est un programme de soutien à la stratégie gouvernementale de lutte contre la
pauvreté ;
-        le projet s'inscrit en outre dans le cadre des stratégies des différents partenaires du Burkina ;
-        le projet a en outre promu une mobilisation et une structuration des communautés de base aussi
bien pour des objectifs de conservation que pour la dynamisation du développement local ;
-        la durabilité du projet s'inscrit en outre dans la reconnaissance juridique des associations
villageoises (AGETREN et AGEREF) car le Gouvernement burkinabé et ses partenaires se sont
         résolument engagés dans un processus irréversible de décentralisation et de renforcement des
communautés locales ;
-        la Banque Internationale pour la Reconstruction et le Développement (BIRD) a mobilisé un « Prêt
Programmable Evolutif (PPE) de 15 ans avec des phases séquentielles de 5 ans pour
         contribuer au financement du PAGEN et, dans l'optique de la mise en oeuvre du PRONAGEN ;
-        l'engouement des bailleurs de fonds à contribuer à la sauvegarde des sites d'importance mondiale
tout en impulsant le développement ;
-        des réflexions seront menées en vue de bâtir un mécanisme de financement novateur pour la
couverture à long terme des coûts additionnels de la conservation au Burkina Faso.

V.       Performance de la Banque mondiale

A l'identification du GEPRENAF, la Banque Mondiale intervenait en donneur de leçons ; ceci a engendré
pour le projet GEPRENAF, l'adoption d'un cadre institutionnel inapproprié. Cette situation a connu une
évolution qualitative du Bailleurs de fonds qui est passé du statut de MAITRE à celui de PARTENAIRE.

Les missions d'appui technique organisées par la Banque Mondiale ont permis au fil du temps, d'enrichir
nos approches et d'affiner nos stratégies en matière de gestion participative des ressources naturelles.

Cet apport de la Banque Mondiale a même été un levier dans le changement des comportements du forestier
qui au départ, était purement protectionniste.

VI.      Performance du Gouvernement et de l'agence d'exécution

Performance du Gouvernement

Le Gouvernement a convenu d'accepter et de soutenir toutes les reformes proposées par la Banque
Mondiale dans le cadre de cette expérience pilote quand bien même ces propositions de reforme étaient non
conformes aux dispositions des textes en vigueur.

Cette flexibilité a permis de changer les statuts des deux (2) entités classées en réserve de faune et de la
concéder sans procédures ni préalables à l'autorité villageoise.

Le test safari a été également menée avec toutes les facilités fiscales et administratives.

Performance de l'agence d'exécution (CTA)




                                                      - 52 -

Il faut saluer les efforts consentis par la CTA dans la conduite des opérations de terrain. Toutefois, les
attentes comme précédemment soulignées non pas été atteintes vu que les spécialistes de cette agence
n'avaient pas toute l'expertise requise. Les fréquents recours à des consultations dans le cadre de la mise en
oeuvre des activités ont sérieusement entamé le budget et a posé le problème de consolidation et
d'appropriation des résultats aussi bien par la CTA et que par les bénéficiaires.

Contrairement au principe de transfert progressif des techniques, des connaissances et la responsabilisation
effective des communautés que la CTA se devait d'assurer, celle-ci travaillait à demeurer indispensable
pour la poursuite du projet.

VII.     Evaluation des résultats

D'une manière générale, le cadre logique n'a pas été intégré dans le document juridique du projet. Ainsi, la
structuration du projet dans ses composantes et résultats diffèrent du cadre logique à l'accord de Don. Les
éléments énoncés comme parties dans l'accord de Don correspondent aux résultats présentés dans le cadre
logique du projet.

Globalement, le projet a atteint ses objectifs. Ledit projet a permis de tester l'émergence d'organisations
villageoises dans la gestion de la faune sauvage. Il ressort des acquis fort intéressants dans les domaines
suivants :

-        réalisation de plans de développement par les communautés qui exercent une véritable maîtrise
d'ouvrage sur les micro-projets ;
-        négociation des limites de deux (2) forêts classées ;
-        reconquête de 25.000 ha de zones protégées (au total le projet a concerné 17 villages et 125.000
ha).
Le bilan final a mis en évidence une stabilisation des ressources en faune, mais l'objectif d'accroissement
n'a pas été atteint.

En outre, la faible capacité institutionnelle de l'AGEREF ; l'inefficacité de la surveillance et la
recrudescence du braconnage en fin de projet ainsi que la forte pression des troupeaux transhumants
conviendraient d'être relevés. Ces quelques insuffisances ont été déjà perçues par le Gouvernement et des
solutions idoines sont envisagées à cet effet.

VIII.    Principaux enseignements

Utilisation durable des ressources naturelles

L'adhésion des populations aux stratégies mises en oeuvre semble confirmer la pertinence de l'approche
participative adoptée par le projet. Cependant, la réflexion doit être poursuivie pour la recherche de
solutions pertinentes et durables en ce qui concernent les modalités pratiques de responsabilisation des
populations locales pour les raisons suivantes :

-        le projet n'a pas eu le temps d'expérimenter une phase de responsabilisation totale de l'AGEREF ;
-        certains indices (persistance des pratiques de braconnage) montrent qu'un travail mérite d'être
poursuivi en ce qui concerne le changement de comportements des populations en matière d'exploitation des
ressources fauniques.

L'expérience du GEPRENAF dans le domaine de la gestion des ressources naturelles pourrait servir de


                                                     - 53 -

référence pour des projets à vocation faunique devant permettre d'enrichir les futures reformes en vue de
l'élaboration de la stratégie nationale de gestion des écosystèmes naturels au Burkina Faso.

Impact global du projet

L'analyse de l'impact du projet a montré que la conservation des ressources naturelles doit être intimement
liée à la lutte contre la pauvreté. En effet, le programme de développement des terroirs (mise en place des
infrastructures villageoises, intensification des productions agricoles, construction d'ouvrages routiers, et.)
que le projet a mis en oeuvre et les différentes autres actions incitatrices (travaux de haute intensité de main
d'oeuvre), ont été une motivation de taille pour :
-        mobiliser et responsabiliser des villageois autour des thèmes de conservation des ressources
naturelles ;
-        constituer une sorte de contrat-plan entre les populations et le projet.

Les écosystèmes préservés doivent non seulement générés des revenus (écotourisme, utilisation durable des
espèces sauvages) permettant de lutter contre la pauvreté mais aussi les programmes initiés pour leur
conservation doivent être accompagnés d'appuis conséquents aux populations pour la résolution des
questions de sécurité alimentaire, de santé, d'éducation, etc.

C'est pourquoi, il s'agira désormais de poursuivre les impératifs de conservation, de protection et de gestion
des ressources naturelles et de la faune non pas en partant de l'objectif qui était d'assurer «la conservation
de la biodiversité sur le site par l'adoption d'une stratégie à base communautaire pour la gestion des terroirs
et des ressources naturelles» mais à partir des acteurs que sont les populations ainsi que de leur conception
du développement de leurs zones dans laquelle s'inscrirait le projet. Outre les options des populations, cette
perception doit prendre également comme repère, les indicateurs nationaux de développement humain
durable.

Gestion du projet

Les acquis du projet en matière de suivi-évaluation, de SIG et de participation des populations méritent
d'être capitalisés et diffusés au profit d'autres interventions ou initiatives similaires.

Des frustrations ont par moment rendue difficile la progression rapide vers les objectifs dus à une mauvaise
compréhension du rôle par les différents grands acteurs du projet (la Coordination, la CTA, l'UICN). Il
sera alors souhaitable dans le cadre de nouvelles interventions d'expérimenter des dispositifs plus
conséquents.

Appui à l'AGEREF

Des appuis complémentaires (ressources financières, matériel, humaines) sont nécessaires à l'AGEREF
actuellement concessionnaire de la forêt classée et réserve partielle de faune de la Comoé-Léraba. Ces
appuis devront lui permettre d'accroître ses capacités opérationnelles et de jouer pleinement son rôle de
concessionnaire.

Pour ce faire, il sera opportun de mener des réflexions appropriées dans le but de renforcer effectivement
cette association afin qu'elle se mettent à l'abri d'éventuels abus d'agents ou d'opérateurs privés peu
scrupuleux.




                                                       - 54 -

Exploitation des zones de biodiversité

Bien que les résultats relatifs à la stabilisation des effectifs de faune soient encore mitigés pour certaines
espèces animales, il est impérieux d'envisager à moyen terme, une exploitation effective de la zone avec
toutes les règles de l'art afin que les populations commencent à voir de manière plus concrètes, les bénéfices
financiers directs de la stratégie du projet. Les actions de protection de la base productive de la zone ainsi
que l'affinement des statistiques sur les effectifs et la dynamique des espèces devront être renforcés et
poursuivis.

Cadre institutionnel, juridique et politique

L'existence d'un cadre juridique et politique approprié facilitant l'implication communautaire dans la
gestion des ressources naturelles mérite d'être approfondi.
Il est également nécessaire de poursuivre la réflexion sur :

-        les structures les mieux impliquées au sein de la société civile auxquelles la gestion des ressources
naturelles peut être confiée ;
-        les régimes et systèmes de jouissance liés aux droits d'usage.

Etudes et recherches d'accompagnement

A l'issue de l'exécution du projet, des sujets préoccupants d'étude peuvent être formulés dans les domaines
suivants :
-        L'évolution des comportements et des stratégies paysannes ;
-        L'évolution des techniques agricoles ;
-        Le suivi de l'évolution de la fertilité des sols et de la productivité agricole par rapport aux systèmes
de production végétale et animale ;
-        Les structures et systèmes de savoir traditionnel qui régissent le droit coutumier ;
-        Le droit de propriété et d'organisation sociale ;
-        La capacité d'autogestion de l'ageref.

Capitalisation des acquis

Après 5 ans d'exécution du projet, beaucoup d'expériences sont disponibles et mériteraient d'être exploitées
en matière d'approche méthodologique, de gestion des zone de biodiversité, suivi écologique, collaboration
inter-états pour la gestion des écosystèmes transfrontaliers ou partagés, renforcement des capacités et
pouvoir des populations, développement institutionnel dans la gestion des ressources naturelles. Toutes ces
expériences pourraient être synthétisées dans un cadre didactique approprié.

CONCLUSION

Le GEPRENAF a entrepris une oeuvre dont les indicateurs de succès ne peuvent s'inscrire que dans la
durée.

Des acquis existent certes, mais le projet a un goût d'inachevé. Les insuffisances sont tout aussi réelles. A
ce stade de réalisation, le projet peut difficilement être pris en charge immédiatement dans tous ses aspects
par la population. C'est pourquoi, parmi les axes de consolidation figurent le renforcement des capacités et
des compétences aussi bien des populations que des agents chargés de leur encadrement.




                                                       - 55 -

Le projet a en outre permis d'expérimenter diverses facettes de la gestion rationnelle des ressources
fauniques. Aussi, les populations ont-elles pu s'organiser en associations fonctionnelles à l'intérieur de leurs
terroirs qu'entre les terroirs voisins et réfléchir de manière concertée sur l'évolution de leur milieu de
développement. Une implication effective des chasseurs traditionnels dans les activités du projet tels
l'inventaire faunique et la lutte anti-braconnage a été fort remarquée.

Sur le plan technique, le potentiel faunique de la zone a connu une évolution positive ; toutefois, il convient
de reconsidérer le réalisme de certains objectifs de reconstitution des espèces fauniques.

La gestion transfrontalière des ressources naturelles partagées a été également testée au cours de la mise en
oeuvre du projet.

Le projet aura enfin permis d'amorcer un tournant décisif vers une véritable dévolution de la gestion des
ressources fauniques. C'est en cela que les capacités nationales sortent renforcées de l'expérience du projet
GEPRENAF ; ce qui aura favorisé l'émergence d'initiatives plus audacieuses et de grande envergure dans le
domaine de la conservation des espèces et des écosystèmes naturels.




                                                      - 56 -

REPUBLIQUE DE COTE D'IVOIRE

MINISTERE D'ETAT, MINISTERE DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT

CELLULE AUTONOME DE COORDINATION


1. Objectifs du projet

L'objectif spécifique du projet est : « l'établissement des bases de la conservation durable et participative
de la biodiversité ». Pour atteindre cet objectif spécifique, quatre résultats ont été identifiés, ce sont :
         R1 : Réaliser le diagnostic initial
         R2 : Améliorer la situation de la biodiversité
         R3 : Améliorer la gestion des terroirs par les populations
         R4 : assurer une bonne gestion du projet

Après trente mois de mise en oeuvre du projet, les équipes du projet GEPRENAF Côte d'Ivoire et Burkina
Faso ont fait une relecture du cadre logique au cours d'un atelier qui s'est tenu du 06 au 07 juillet 1999 à
Ferkessédougou. Le cadre logique harmonisé du projet est le suivant :

Objectif Global : Les conditions de vie des populations des terroirs concernés sont améliorées

Objectif Spécifique : Les bases d'une gestion durable et participative des ressources naturelles et des
terroirs sont établies

·        Résultat 1 : Les capacités des acteurs sont renforcées
·        Résultat 2 : La situation de la biodiversité est améliorée
·        Résultat 3 : Les bases d'un développement durable de la zone agro-sylvo-pastorale sont
établies
·        Résultat 4 : Le projet est bien géré

2. Dispositif de mise en oeuvre

La principale approche stratégique du projet est celle de la gestion des terroirs. L'approche adoptée au
niveau du GEPRENAF privilégie deux entités foncières qui sont :

·        une zone agro ­ sylvo - pastorale, domaine des activités de production déjà existantes et futures
(agriculture, élevage, cueillette,...) ;

·        une zone de biodiversité dans laquelle seront développées les activités de cueillette ainsi que de
nouvelles activités alternatives d'exploitation de la faune et de la flore (chasse safari, tourisme de vision,...).

3. Relations avec les partenaires

         3.1.    Protocole de collaboration avec les partenaires

Vu le caractère multisectoriel et pluridisciplinaire du projet, différents services partenaires ont été sollicités



                                                      - 57 -

pour l'exécution de certaines activités.

Les relations avec ces services partenaires sont formalisées à travers des protocoles de collaboration. Dans
l'ensemble les protocoles ont connu une bonne application.


         3.2.     Relations avec l'UICN

         De l'appui de l'UICN

Le mandat de l'UICN, a connu des modifications lors de sa mise en oeuvre. Une souplesse était nécessaire
pour prendre en compte les besoins exprimés par les équipes du projet. Ainsi, il a été demandé à l'UICN
d'élaborer un plan de travail annuel qui sera adopté à l'occasion des rencontres de planification entre
l'UICN et les coordinations nationales.

L'appui de l'UICN a consisté à mettre à la disposition du projet, des experts internationaux, et nationaux
pour des tâches d'importance variable.

Nous avons pu noter quelques faiblesses dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre de l'appui de l'UICN.

4. Evaluation des résultats

         4.1 Renforcement des capacités des capacités des acteurs du projet

     Objectifs initiaux                    Résultats obtenus                               Perspectives
1- Renforcement des
capacités des populations
locales, des responsables
locaux et du personnel
chargé d'exécuter le projet
Organisation des villages      Les villages des sites du projet sont      Appui conseil aux différentes associations
                               organisés en associations villageoises et  consolidation des acquis
                               inter-villageoises avec une faîtière.
                               Toutes ces associations sont en voie
                               d'officialisation
Gestion et planification de    Les associations villageoises établissent  Consolider les acquis
projet                         leur programme d'activités et
                               coordonnent la mise en oeuvre
Gestion de la faune et de son - les populations participent à la          Consolider les acquis
habitat                       réalisation du suivi écologique (inventaire Renforcer les capacités des acteurs
                              pédestre)                                   villageois
                              - gestion de l'habitat de la faune (feux
                              précoces)
Utilisation des produits de la Organisation des femmes pour la            Poursuivre le programme d'alphabétisation
forêt                          collecte et la commercialisation des noix fonctionnelle (gestion)
                               de karité
Lutte contre le braconnage    - élaboration d'une stratégie de            Renforcer les capacités des acteurs
                              surveillance                                villageois
                              - organisation des populations en comités
                              de surveillance




                                                         - 58 -

                             - organisation de patrouilles dans la zone
                             de biodiversité
Suivi/évaluation             - élaboration et mise en oeuvre du suivi     - évaluer le programme de suivi participatif
                             participatif                                 mettre en oeuvre le programme d'éducation
                             - initiation du programme d'éducation        environnemental
                             environnementale en collaboration avec le
                             projet « biodiv Comoé »


2- Renforcement de la
capacité du donataire à
assurer la supervision et le
suivi des activités
                              - élaboration du guide de                   - poursuivre le suivi écologique
                              suivi/évaluation du projet
                              - élaboration et mise en oeuvre d'un
                              programme de suivi écologique
                              - mise en place d'un système
                              d'informations géographiques


         4.2 Gestion de la faune et son habitat

     Objectifs initiaux                    Résultats obtenus                                  Perspectives
1- Identification et          - Chaque site du projet dispose d'une zone - signer le décret de classement des zones de
délimitation des terroirs y   de biodiversité de près de 100.000            biodiversité
compris les zones de la       hectares et d'une zone                        signer le contrat de concession de la gestion
faune et les zones            agro-sylvo-pastorale                          des zones de biodiversité
agro-sylvo-pastorales
2- Elaboration de plan de     - Elaboration du plan de gestion              - achever l'élaboration des plans de
gestion des terroirs avec     participatif de la zone de biodiversité       développement villageois (PDV)
indications détaillées sur le (PAGEP)                                       initier des réalisations à travers des
développement des zones       - Elaboration du plan de développement        financements des fonds du PNGTER
de gestion de la faune et     villageois de 18 villages sur un total de 66 (AIMR)
des zones
agro-sylvo-pastorales
3- Mise en oeuvre dans la
zone de biodiversité, des
mesures pour la gestion de
l'habitat :
                              i) amélioration qualitative et quantitative   - mise en défends de la zone de biodiversité
                              du couvert végétal                            - pratique des feux précoces
                                                                            réaliser les aménagements de la ZBD tels
                                                                            que prévus dans le PAGEP
                              ii) amélioration de l'accessibilité aux       - dossier d'appel d'offres pour la réalisation
                              ressources en eau et aux salines              de retenues d'eau dans la ZBD
                                                                            - inventaire des salines
                                                                            - réaliser les retenues d'eau dans la ZBD
                                                                            aménager les salines dégradées
                              iii) soutien à la lutte contre le braconnage - élaboration d'une stratégie de
                                                                            surveillance de la ZBD
                                                                            - création des comités villageois de
                                                                            surveillance
                                                                            - formation des comités villageois de



                                                         - 59 -

                                                                             surveillance
                                                                             - organisation de patrouilles mixtes
                                                                             (surveillants villageois et forestiers)-
                                                                             poursuivre la formation des membres des
                                                                             comités villageois de surveillance
                               iv) contrôle de l'utilisation des ressources  élaboration du plan de gestion participatif
                               naturelles                                    de la zone de biodiversité

                                                                             Poursuivre la mise en oeuvre du PAGEP
 4- Réhabilitation et         - réalisation des pistes                       - réaliser les retenues d'eau dans la ZBD
 construction des pistes et   - dossier d'appel d'offres pour la             - réaliser des radiers
 de petits barrages           réalisation des retenues d'eau
 5- Etude visant à évaluer les- étude sur l'organisation de la chasse        - réaliser le safari test
 débouchés potentiels de      safari dans les ZBD (en cours)                 - poursuivre l'encadrement des femmes dans
 l'exploitation des ressources- organisation des voyages d'étude sur la      la collecte et la commercialisation des noix
 naturelles et de la          gestion des ressources naturelles et les       de karité
 transformation, puis de la   débouchés potentiels                           - renforcer les capacités des organisations
 commercialisation des        - organisation de voyage d'étude sur           paysannes (alphabétisation)
 produits de la forêt         l'organisation des coopératives en milieu
                              rural
6- Exécution d'opérations     - vente de noix de karité                      - renforcer les capacités des acteurs villageois
commerciales pilotes au       - production et vente de miel                  (alphabétisation)
niveau des populations        - production et vente des ignames « kokoro
locales                       »
7- Action de suivi écologique- inventaire pédestre annuel de la faune        - traitement et analyse des images satellites
sur les sites du projet       sauvage                                        (avant et après le projet)
                              - élaboration d'une stratégie de suivi         - mise en oeuvre de la stratégie de suivi
                              écologique                                     écologique
                                                                             former les acteurs villageois



 4.3 Gestion des terroirs et développement des infrastructures
      Objectifs initiaux                   Résultats obtenus                                  Perspectives
 1- Gestion participative des
 terroirs et du
 développement des
 infrastructures
 i) Infrastructures sociales   - construction d'école                      - réaliser les barrages hydro agricoles
                               - réalisation de forages
                               - réalisation de pistes
                               - construction de cases de santé
                               - construction de logements de maîtres
                               - dossier d'appel d'offres pour la
                               réalisation de barrages hydro agricoles
 ii) La conservation des sols - stabilisation des cultures à base          - contribuer à la vulgarisation le
                              d'igname à travers le programme de «         programme de gestion durable des sols (en
                              gestion durable des sols »                   collaboration avec l'ANADER)
                              - créations d'unités de démonstration        renforcer les capacités des acteurs
 iii) L'irrigation à petite    - un dossier d'appel d'offres relatif à la  Lancer l'appel d'offres et réaliser les barrages
 échelle                       réalisation de 11 barrages hydro
                               agricoles est rédigé
 iv) Améliorer les techniques - introduction de nouvelles variétés de      - contribuer à la vulgarisation des nouvelles



                                                          - 60 -

agropastorales               plante : (igname kokoro, ziziphus,           méthodes culturales (en collaboration avec
                             pueraria, faidherbia, acacia mangium)        l'ANADER)
                             - introduction de nouvelles méthodes
                             culturales
                             - adoption d'un système de culture plus
                             adapté (assolement rotation)
v) Gestion des terres de      - le zonage est inclus dans les plans de    - finaliser les plans de développement
parcours                      développement villageois (en cours          villageois
                              d'élaboration)
vi) L'agroforesterie          Des unités de démonstration                 Contribuer à la vulgarisation de la pratique de
                              d'agroforesterie existent sur les sites     l'agroforesterie
vii) pistes rurales           Des pistes ont été réalisées                Former les populations à l'entretien des pistes
                                                                          en collaboration avec la Direction des routes
                                                                          et voiries
viii) L'approvisionnement en Des forages ont été réalisés dans le         Renforcer les capacités des comités de gestion
eau                           cadre du programme « eau potable »          des forages


2- Action de suivi           Une analyse socio économique de
socio-économique             l'impact du projet a été réalisée


4.4 Gestion du projet

      Objectifs initiaux                 Résultats obtenus                                Résultats obtenus
1- Construction et entretien - location des bureaux des CTA               - équiper les bases vie
de                            - équipement des cellules techniques        valoriser les bases vie dans le cadre de la
bureaux, équipement des       d'appui, de la cellule de coordination et   gestion de la zone de biodiversité
cellules techniques d'appui des organisations villageoises
(CTA) et des organisations    - construction de base vie sur les sites du
villageoises                  projet
2- Appui au suivi et         - rédaction du guide du suivi évaluation     - réactualiser le système d'informations
l'évaluation du projet       du projet                                    géographiques
                             - mise place d'un système d'informations - faire une évaluation finale de l'impact du
                             géographiques fonctionnel                    projet


5. Analyse de l'impact du projet

         5.1 Les indicateurs d'impact

Tableau résumant les indicateurs d'impact initialement identifiés.

Intitulé de l'indicateur                          CTA Monts-Tingui                       CTA Warigué
IOS 1 :A la fin du projet moins de 5% des 0% des surfaces sont cultivées Les images satellitaires en
surfaces de la ZBD sont cultivées                 dans la ZBD. Aucune menace n'a cours de traitement au CNTIG
                                                  encore été enregistrée                 permettront d'apprécier
IOS2 : 50% des activités de valorisation de laLes activités de valorisation ne sont Les activités de valorisation ne
ZBD sont coordonnées par l'AGEREF ou lespas encore effectives, toutefois un              sont pas encore menées
AIV                                              document provisoire d'exploitation
                                                 et de valorisation est disponible
IR11                                             A la fin du projet, l'AGEREF ou lesEnviron 20% des activités
                                                 AIV coordonnent 50% des activitéssont coordonnées par
                                                 du PAGEP/ZBD                           l'AGEREF : la surveillance



                                                        - 61 -

                                                                                  de la ZBD, la sensibilisation,
                                                                                  l'organisation des inventaires
                                                                                  de la faune, le suivi
                                                                                  climatique, la gestion du
                                                                                  compte de l'AGEREFLes
                                                                                  AIV coordonnent 50% des
                                                                                  activités du PAGEP/ZBD
IR12                                           A la fin du projet la densité des- Hippotrague : >100%
                                               espèces indicatrices augmente de:  - Bubale : + 96%
                                               - 10% pour l'Hippotrague           - Cobe de Buffon : > 100%
                                               - 10% pour le Bubale               - Phacochère : > 100%-
                                               - 12% pour le Cobe de buffon       Hippotrague : + 38%
                                               - 10 % pour le phacochère          - Bubale : - 42%
                                                                                  - Buffle : 0%
                                                                                  - Cobe de buffon : + 21%
                                                                                  - Phacochère : >100%
IR21                                           A la fin du projet 50% des AV ou   Les AVD n'ont pas encore
                                               AVD coordonnent 50% des activités adopté de PDV. Toutefois
                                               des PDV                            chaque AVD est responsable
                                                                                  des micro projets dans son
                                                                                  village.A ce jour, 13 PDV sont
                                                                                  élaborés sur 28. Les AV ont
                                                                                  contribué à leur élaboration.
                                                                                  Les PDV ne sont pas encore
                                                                                  mis en oeuvre
IR22                                           A la fin du projet au moins 50 MPV 45 micro projets ont été
                                               économiques sont réalisés          réalisés dont 23 économiques
                                                                                  et 22 socio-économiques56
                                                                                  micro-projets ont été réalisés
IR31                                           A la fin du projet, les bases deMalgré les troubles survenus
                                               données     sont    disponibles  etsur le site, plus de 60% des
                                               utilisables                        outils didactiques ont été
                                                                                  conçus et sont disponibles
                                                                                  Malgré les troubles sur le site
                                                                                  une grande partie des données
                                                                                  a pu être sauvée. Le disuqe
                                                                                  dur de l'ordinateur SIG a été
                                                                                  récupéré. Il est en cours
                                                                                  d'exploitation au CNTIG
IR41                                           Le taux de satisfaction des        55% des populations pensent
                                               populations est au moins égal à    que le projet contribue à
                                               80% à la fin du projet.            l'amélioration de leur
                                                                                  condition de vie90% des
                                                                                  populations pensent que le
                                                                                  projet contribue à
                                                                                  l'amélioration de leur
                                                                                  condition de vie


        5.2 Changement des pratiques culturales

Dans le cadre de la stabilisation des cultures à base d'igname, un programme de gestion durable des sols a
été mis en oeuvre sur les sites à travers des unités de démonstration. Les dispositifs initiaux ont porté sur :



                                                      - 62 -

o       l'introduction d'une nouvelle variété d'igname noble appartenant au groupe des « Kokoro », moins
exigent en nutriments,
o       la réalisation de haies vives pour protéger les cultures : le ziziphus
o       l'introduction de plantes de couverture telles que : le Glyricidia Sépum, la Pueraria Phaseloides,

De 1999 à 2001, le nombre de paysans démonstrateurs a été multiplié par 5. La première étape de
l'acceptabilité de la nouvelle variété d'igname a été franchie. Il s'agit maintenant d'introduire cette igname
dans un itinéraire technique d'assolement rotation, ainsi, les résultats pourront démontré l'intérêt du
programme.

        5.3 Amélioration du capital humain

Aussi bien sur le plan individuel que sur le plan collectif, les enquêtes ont montré que les différentes
formations réalisées ont eu un impact significatif sur les capacités des populations. Cet accroissement de la
connaissance a permis aux populations d'avoir unes nouvelle vision de la gestion de ressources naturelles,
notamment, la préservation de la biodiversité.

On note également une émergence de la coopération inter village, élément indispensable à la mise en oeuvre
d'un plan de développement local.

        5.4 Amélioration de la situation de la biodiversité

D'une manière générale, la situation de la faune s'est améliorée. Les inventaires de la faune montrent un
accroissement de la densité des mammifères qui est passée de 0,08% animaux/km² à 0,12 animaux /km²,
soit une évolution de 50%. Ces accroissements peuvent être attribués à différents facteurs :
o       quiétude de la zone à cause de la surveillance accrue des comités villageois,
o       nouvelles naissances,
o       le phénomène de recrutement,
o       la bonne réalisation de l'inventaire

6. Durabilité des actions

La durabilité des acquis du projet peut se mesurer à travers les facteurs suivants :

        La formation des membres des associations villageoises :
Un des éléments tangibles de l'impact du renforcement des capacités des membres des associations
villageoises est la capacité d'organisation des populations qui a été engendrée. Grâce aux conseils des
équipes du projet, les organisations socioprofessionnelles se sont redynamisées autour des micro-projets.

        La structuration des associations inter villages
Pour assurer la relève du projet, les organisations villageoises ont été restructurées selon un schéma
organisationnel consensuel.

        Le transfert des responsabilités aux organisations villageoises :
Une série de formations ont été initiées à partir d'une grille de développement des capacités. Le contenu des
formations n'a pas été bien assimilé à cause du taux élevé d'analphabétisme. Ainsi, après les premières
phases d'alphabétisation, les acteurs villageois se sentent aptes à recevoir les formations complémentaires.




                                                     - 63 -

         Le transfert des compétences :
Le plan de transfert des compétences s'est fait de manière progressive. Malheureusement ce plan n'a pu
aller jusqu'à son terme à cause des troubles survenus en Côte d'Ivoire. Pour assurer une appropriation
totale des activités du projet, le plan de transfert mérité d'être poursuivi jusqu'à son terme.

         L'officialisation des associations villageoises :
Les associations villageoises ont été officialisées pour donner une légitimité à leurs activités.

         Le transfert des responsabilités :
Les zones de biodiversité délimitées par les populations sont en cours de classement en réserves partielles.
La gestion de ces réserves sera totalement concédée aux populations à travers le contrat de concession.

         Ancrage institutionnel :
En érigeant ces zones de biodiversité en réserves partielles, selon les dispositions prévues par la loi portant
création gestion et financement des parcs nationaux et des réserves naturelles, ces zones peuvent bénéficier
des financements de la Fondation pour le financement des parcs nationaux et réserves de Côte d'Ivoire.
La pérennisation des sources de financement est un facteur de durabilité des aires protégées.

7. Facteurs ayant affecté le projet

         7.1 Facteurs échappant au contrôle du Gouvernement Ivoirien

q        L'exécution de la phase d'extension du projet a été perturbée par les troubles politico-militaires
survenus en septembre 2002.

q        Le processus de rédaction de l'accord de coopération entre le Burkina Faso et la Côte d'Ivoire
relatif à la gestion des ressources naturelles transfrontières communes, a été achevé en 1999, après
l'intervention des experts des deux pays. Cet accord, qui devait être signé dans le cadre des commissions
mixtes Ivoiro-Burkinabé organisée tous les deux ans, n'a pu l'être car depuis 1999 en Côte d'Ivoire, la
commission mixte Ivoiro-Burkinabé n'a pu se tenir (problème politique ?).

q        Les pressions exercées sur les agents du projet par les hommes politiques locaux pour assurer la
paternité des réalisations du projet.

         7.2 Facteurs dépendant du Gouvernement Ivoirien

q        La mise à la disposition du projet des forêts classées de Warigué et de la Kinkéné par le
Gouvernement a permis de tester ce projet pilote.

q        La création d'une cellule de coordination ayant une autonomie de gestion. Mais malheureusement,
en 1998, sur instigation du Fonds Monétaire International, le Gouvernement a adopté un système de
centralisation de ses dépenses, ce qui a ôté aux différents projets, leur autonomie.

q        La mise en place du système de gestion informatisée des finances publiques a fortement entravé la
bonne marche du projet. Les difficultés de décaissement liées à la lourdeur administrative du système ont
influé négativement sur le taux de décaissement du projet.

q        L'adoption tardive des budgets de l'Etat. Les budgets de l'Etat sont approuvés par l'Assemblée
Nationale, au plutôt à la fin du premier trimestre de chaque année. Aucun investissement n'est autorisé


                                                      - 64 -

avant l'adoption du budget.

         Le projet se retrouve sans ressources financières au premier trimestre de chaque année, période
         pourtant propice aux activités de terrain et à la disponibilité des populations. Cette situation a
         parfois mis les agents du projet mal à l'aise vis-à-vis des partenaires villageois.

q        Dans le cadre de la responsabilisation des populations, certains investissements réalisés sur les
sites, ont fait l'objet de passation des marchés par les associations villageoises. Malgré l'approbation de la
Banque Mondiale, la régulation des dossiers à posteriori, n'a pu se faire car le code des marchés publics de
Côte d'Ivoire ne prévoit aucune disposition pour ce type de marchés. Les situations de ce genre n'ont pu
être débloquées que plusieurs mois plus tard après autorisation exceptionnelle du Ministre des Finances.

         Toutes ces inerties entravent la bonne marche du projet et réduisent le taux de décaissement.

8. Enseignements et recommandations

q        Préparation du projet

Le projet a été entièrement préparé par la FAO. Une quantité importante d'informations a été recueillie,
malheureusement, ces informations n'ont pas pu être exploitées. Ce constat mérite qu'on se pose les
questions suivantes :
o        ces informations étaient elles toutes utiles?
o        Pertinences de certaines études ?
o        Les agents du projet avaient-ils la capacité d'exploiter ces informations?

La phase de préparation a duré trois ans et demi.

Toujours est-il qu'au démarrage du projet, la connaissance du projet par les populations était variable. Si
certaines personnes avaient entendu parler du projet, d'autres par contre le découvraient pour la première
fois, à tel point que les équipes ont du consacré beaucoup de temps à la phase de sensibilisation.

Pour ce type de projet participatif, une attention particulière doit être portée sur les éléments suivants :
o        Nécessité d'informer amplement les populations bénéficiaires de l'idée de projet,
o        associer les populations à la phase de préparation,
o        réaliser un diagnostic en phase de préparation,
o        raccourcir la phase de préparation,
o        prévoir une phase intermédiaire entre la préparation et l'exécution du projet, pour permettre le
recrutement de l'équipe de projet, la sensibilisation des populations et la finalisation du cadre logique du
projet

La phase intermédiaire permet aux équipes du projet d'être à cheval sur la préparation et l'exécution. Cette
phase permet également de faire les derniers réglages avant l'exécution proprement dite.

q        Stratégie d'intervention du projet

Avec la mise en oeuvre du projet GEPRENAF, la Côte d'Ivoire vient d'expérimenter une nouvelle
génération de projet participatif. Les approches utilisées sont innovantes :
o        approche gestion des terroirs



                                                      - 65 -

o        approche développement local

Les approches adoptées par le projet sont basées sur la responsabilisation des populations locales. Cela
répond à plusieurs objectifs :
-        Impliquer totalement les populations dans toutes les activités du projet
-        Désengager la responsabilité des équipes du projet par rapport aux actions de mise en oeuvre

q        L'organisation des équipes de projet

La composition de l'équipe de projet est une étape importante. En effet, le choix des « leaders » doit tenir
compte non seulement des compétences techniques, mais aussi des capacités à diriger un groupe
d'individus.
Compte tenu de la spécificité du projet GEPRENAF, les membres de l'équipe de projet ont recrutés
individuellement, puis ont été regroupés en cellule technique d'appui sous la supervision d'un organisme
privé. Il a fallu un temps pour faire la cohésion du groupe.

Il est important que l'étape de constitution des équipes de projet se déroule au cours de la phase
intermédiaire entre la préparation et la mise en oeuvre du projet.

q        Gestion durable des ressources naturelles

Les bases d'une gestion durable des ressources naturelles ont été posées à travers la création des zones de
conservation, la mise en place des associations pour la gestion, l'adoption d'un plan d'aménagement, un
début de renforcement des capacités des acteurs, la prise de textes réglementaires pour concéder la gestion
des zones aux associations villageoises.

Toutefois, il y a nécessité d'expérimenter une phase de responsabilisation totale des associations
villageoises dans un cadre de sécurité foncière.

q        Renforcement des capacités

Les différentes formations dispensées aussi bien aux services partenaires qu'aux populations, ont eu un
impact positif sur le plan de l'amélioration du capital humain.

Le schéma organisationnel mis en place sur les sites du projet ainsi que la dynamique créée, ont valu au
GEPRENAF d'être pris comme exemple pour la mise en oeuvre du vaste Programme National de Gestion
des Terroirs (PNGTER), qui comporte une composante sur la décentralisation.

q        L'exploitation des zones de biodiversité

Certains aspects de la gestion de la zone de biodiversité ont été abordés : suivi écologique, inventaire
pédestre, surveillance.

La maîtrise de tous ces aspects nécessite un haut degré de technicité. Le projet avait-il la capacité de
transférer toutes les compétences nécessaires aux populations durant les cinq années d'exécution ?

L'option qui pourrait donner de bons résultats est la suivante : transférer un minimum de connaissance aux
populations pour leur permettre d'exécuter et de suivre certaines activités de gestion. Les associations



                                                     - 66 -

villageoises se donnent de recruter des compétences extérieures, de manière à assurer une exploitation dans
les règles de l'art.

q        Le dispositif de suivi évaluation

Suite aux recommandations de la première mission de supervision (du 20 octobre au 08 novembre 1996) il
a été demandé à l'UICN de s'occuper de la composante suivi évaluation du projet.
Malheureusement cette composante n'a pas été traitée avec toute la célérité requise, à tel point que la
finalisation du dispositif n'est intervenue qu'en 1999, soit plus de deux ans avant le démarrage du projet.
Cette situation a quelque peu gêné le fonctionnement du dispositif. En effet, c'est le dispositif qui précise
les valeurs de référence à récolter, et leurs méthodes de collecte.

Le dispositif de suivi évaluation du projet comporte : le suivi d'exécution, le suivi d'impact, le suivi
participatif.

Il est souhaitable que les indicateurs d'impacts soient déterminés le plus tôt possible dans le processus de
mise en oeuvre du projet de manière à prendre des dispositions pour d'une part recueillir les données de
référence, mais aussi de prévoir un budget pour le suivi et l'évaluation.

9. Conclusions

Le projet GEPRENAF a joué un rôle déterminant dans l'adoption de l'approche participative au sein des
projets de développement en Côte d'Ivoire.

La mise en oeuvre du projet GEPRENAF nous a permis d'apprécier le caractère multisectoriel et
pluridisciplinaire de la gestion des ressources naturelles.

Des résultats significatifs ont été atteints parmi lesquels, un aspect qu'on n'a pas l'habitude de mentionner
comme indicateur d'impact dans les projets de développement : le renforcement des liens entre les
villages.

Après six années de mise en oeuvre du projet GEPRENAF, nous pouvons affirmer qu'une expertise existe.

Nous avons bon espoir que le processus de ce projet pilote pourra arriver à son terme pour le bien être des
populations.




                                                      - 67 -

                      15°            10°                 5°                    0°                   5°
                             MAURITANIA                                                                                             5°                           4°                     3°

             15°                                                                                                                                       Bobo-Dioulasso
                 SENEGAL                                    MALI
            THE                                                                                NIGER  15°   XX°                                                                                  11°
            GAMBIA                            Area
               GUINEA-                                            Ouagadougou

               BISSAU                       of Map
                           GUINEA                          BURKINA FASO                                     MALI
             10°

                                                                                                      10°
                         SIERRA                                                           BENIN  NIGERIA
                         LEONE                                                                                                             Banfora
                                                 Yamoussoukro     GHANA             TOGO
                              LIBERIA             CÔTE
             5°                                 D'IVOIRE
                                                                                                      5°
                                                                                                                             Niaugoloko                                                            GHANA
                         ATLANTIC               OCEAN

                  15°            10°                  5°                    0°                    5°                                        KOFLANDÉ
                                                                                                                               Léraba     GAME RANCH

             10°          7°                                                                    6°                                                                   BURKINA FASO                10°


                                                                                                                                          DIÉFOULA
                                                                                                                                           PROJECT SITE              CÔTE D'IVOIRE

                                                                                                               Ferkessedougou           OUARIGUÉ
                                                                                                                                        PROJECT SITE
                                                             Boundiali


                                                                                                                                                              Com oe                   Bouna

                          7°                                                                    6°                                                                     COMOE
                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL
                              BURKINA FASO AND CÔTE D'IVOIRE                                                                                                            PARK
                            WEST AFRICA COMMUNITY                                                                  9°                                                                            9°


                                 CONSERVATION AND
                        WILDLIFE UTILIZATION PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                    MONT TINGUI
                           GESTION PARTICIPATIVE DES                                                                                                PROJECT SITE
              RESSOURCES NATURELLES ET DE LA FAUNE
                                             PROJECT SITES

                                                     KILOMETERS
                                 0              25              50



OCTOBER                          0                       25                             50                                                                                                               IBRD
                                                        MILES                                                                                                                         Bondoukou
                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                  Seguela                                                          8°                                                                            8°          26011
       1994                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                        5°                          4°                     3°
                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                          15°          10°           5°            0°               5°
                                                                                                                                                                 MAURITANIA
                                                                                              BURKINA FASO AND CÔTE D'IVOIRE                     15°
                                                                                                                                                     SENEGAL
                                                                                 WEST AFRICA COMMUNITY CONSERVATION                                                                     MALI
                                                                                                                                                THE                                                            NIGER  15°

                                                                                      AND WILDLIFE UTILIZATION PROJECT                          GAMBIA
                                                                                                                                                   GUINEA-                                Ouagadougou

                                                                                                                                                   BISSAU
                                                                                            GESTION PARTICIPATIVE DES                                          GUINEA                   BURKINA FASO
                                                                                                                                                 10°
                                                                                   RESSOURCES NATURELLES ET DE LA FAUNE                                                                      Area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      10°
                                                                                                                                                             SIERRA                        of Map         BENIN  NIGERIA
                                                                                                                                                             LEONE          Yamoussoukro
                                         Ouangolodougou                               DIÉFOULA AND OUARIGUÉ PROJECT AREAS                                                                  GHANA     TOGO
                                                                                                                                                                  LIBERIA     CÔTE
                                                                                                                                                 5°                          D'IVOIRE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5°


                 Tierkoura                                                                                                                                   ATLANTIC        OCEAN

                                                                                                                                                      15°           10°           5°            0°                5°




                                                                                                                                                                         WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT AREAS

                                                                                                                                                                         LIMIT OF TERROIRS

                                                                                                                                                                         AGRO-PASTORAL AREAS

                                                                                                             Folonzo                                                     EXISTING MAJOR ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
                       TIMBERLA                                        OUANGOLO-
                         185 km2                                              DOUGOU                                                     Logoniégué


                     Léraba                                                      195 km2
                                                                                                                                                           Bondokoro
                                                                               DIÉFOULA WILDLIFE
                                                                           MANAGEMENT AREA

                                                                                                                                             LOGONIEGUE
                                                                                                  FOLONZO                                        VILLAGES
                             GUIEROULE                                                              415 km2                                         98 km2
                                   200 km2                                                                                       Co                                             Sirakoro

                                                                                                                                   moe
                                                                                                  Léraba                                                            Massadeirikoro



                                                                                    TINDALA                                                                                                  BURKINA
                                                                                    270 km2        OUARIGUÉ WILDLIFE                                      Comoe                                 FASO

                                                                                                  MANAGEMENT AREA
                Guiéroulé
                                                                                                                 YRINDEKORO                                                                                    Kafolo

                                                                                                                      235 km2                                                    CÔTE
                                                                                                                                          BOTON
                                                                                                                                                                                           D'IVOIRE
                                                                                                                                         160 km2
                                                                                                                                                            SARANDARA
                                                                                               Tindala                                                           115 km2                 MAPINA
                                                                                                                                                                                          75 km2


                                          KILOMETERS                                            Sikolo                    Yrindekoro
               0                5                          10                                                                                    Sarandara


               0                                 5                                      10
                                                                                        MILES
OCTOBER                                                                                                                                                                                          Mapina                   IBRD
                     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                         26012
                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
       1994

                               CÔTE D'IVOIRE                                                                     15°          10°                  5°                  0°                     5°
                                                                                                                        MAURITANIA
               WEST AFRICA COMMUNITY CONSERVATION                                                       15°
                   AND WILDLIFE UTILIZATION PROJECT                                                         SENEGAL                                   MALI
                                                                                                       THE                                                                              NIGER   15°

                       GESTION PARTICIPATIVE DES                                                       GAMBIA
                                                                                                          GUINEA-                                         Ouagadougou

               RESSOURCES NATURELLES ET DE LA FAUNE                                                       BISSAU
                                                                                                                      GUINEA                          BURKINA FASO
                                                                                                        10°
                  MONT TINGUI WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT AREA                 Bilimono                                                        Area                                                     10°
                                                                                                                    SIERRA                of                                       BENIN  NIGERIA
                                                                                                                    LEONE               Map
                                                                                                                                                          GHANA             TOGO
                                                                                                                         LIBERIA     Yamoussoukro
                                                                                                                                            CÔTE
                                                         Yondolo                                        5°                              D'IVOIRE
                                                                     Fia                                                                                                                        5°

                                                                       Komou
                                                                                                                    ATLANTIC            OCEAN
                                       Koron

                                                                                                             15°           10°                5°                   0°                      5°


                                                                                              Gorowi




                                                             KONG
                                                           490 km2                                                                  WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT AREAS

                                                                                                                                    AGRO-PASTORAL AREAS

                                                                               GOROWI                                               LIMIT OF TERROIRS

                                                                               200 km2                                              EXISTING MAJOR ROADS

                                                                       Kinkén é
                                                                                              Amaradougou

               Ouandérama                        DJIMINI
                                                410 km2


                            Kenguérasso                                            Wendene

                                                            Bangolo
                                            Tétindougou
                                Kafiné
                                                                                                              0            5                  10 Kilometers
                                      Tédiala

NOVEMBER                                                                                                      0                       5                                10 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD
                                                                                                                              The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                              shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                              Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any          26013
        1994                                                                                                                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                        Nakala

