Page  1
CONFORMED COPY     
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF 25142 BUR     
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
GRANT AGREEMENT
(West African Pilot Community-Based Natural Resource And
Wildlife Management Project/GEPRENAF)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund
Dated October 13,  1995
GEF GRANT NUMBER TF 25142 BUR
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND 
GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 13,
1995, between BURKINA FASO (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of grant funds 
provided by Participants of the Global Environment Facility to the Global Environment 
Facility Trust Fund (GEF) (the Trustee).
WHEREAS: (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the 
Bank), pursuant to Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of 
the Bank (the Resolution), adopted the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
(B)
certain members of the Bank (the Participants) have provided resources by 
way of a grant to the GEF, and the Participants have requested and the Bank has agreed 
to administer such grant funds as Trustee for the purposes of, and in accordance with, 
the provisions of the Resolution;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF in the financing of the Project, and the Trustee has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resolution;
(D)
the Recipient intends to obtain from the Kingdom of Belgium (Belgium) a 
grant (the Belgian Grant) in an amount of forty-three million two hundred and sixty 
Page  2
thousand Belgian Francs (BF 43,260,000) to assist in the financing of the Project 
pursuant to the conditions set forth in an agreement between Belgium and the Recipient 
(the Arrangement Particulier); and
(E)
Belgium has appointed the Bank to administer the Belgian Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of a Cofinancing Agreement dated October 5, 1993, 
between Belgium and the Bank, and the Bank has accepted such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Trustee has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (i) and (k), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Section 12.01,12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term 'Special Drawing Rights' and the symbol 
'SDR' mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that, 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
Page  3
means the GEF Grant Account; 
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."; and
(viii)a new sub-paragraph is added after sub-paragraph (j) in Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, to read as follows: "an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Grant would exceed the resources 
available for disbursement from the GEF."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"AGEREF" means Association pour la Gestion des Ressources Naturelles et 
de la Faune, an inter-village association for Management of Natural Resources and 
Wildlife, to be established pursuant to the Recipient's Law Zatu An VII 0035/FP/PRES 
of May 18, 1990;
(b)
"AV" means Association Villageoise, a village association to be 
established pursuant to the Recipient's Laws: ZATU An VII 0035/FP/PRES of May 18th, 
1990; and ZATU AN VIII 0039/FP/PRES of June 4, 1991; and "AVs" means all such 
associations;
(c)
"Belgian Grant Account" means the account opened by the Trustee on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Belgian Grant is 
credited;
(d)
"CCTP" means the Comité Consultatif Technique Provincial, the Provincial 
Technical Consultative Committee  established pursuant to Article 3.2 of ZATU An VIII 
0039/FP/PRES of June 4, 1991; and Arrêté No. 94-025/PCMO/HC/1D of March 29,1994;
(e)
"CFAF" and "CFA Francs" mean the currency of the Recipient;
(f)
"CNP" means Coordinateur National du Projet, the National Project 
Coordinator to be appointed by the Recipient under the Project in accordance with 
Section 1.4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
"the CTA" means  Cellule Technique d’Appui", the technical support unit 
to be established by the Recipient in accordance with Section 1.3 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
(h)
"fiscal year" means the fiscal year of the Recipient running from January 
1st to December 31st;
(i)
"GC" means the Groupe Consultatif, a Consultative Group to be established 
by the Recipient under the Project in accordance with Section 1.5 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement;
(j)
"IUCN" means  International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural 
Resources, the World Conservation Union, an international non-governmental 
organization; 
(k)
"MEE" means Ministère de l'Environnement et de l’Eau, the Recipient's 
Ministry in charge of the Environment ;
(l)
"ONG" means an Organisation non Gouvernementale, a non-governmental 
organization;
(m)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
Page  4
(n)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual of procedures, prepared 
by the Recipient and acceptable to the Trustee, for the implementation of the Project, 
including the Implementation Plan and the procurement, disbursement, accounting and 
financial management methods pertaining to the Special Account, the Project Account 
and the Regional Account, and other implementation procedures, sample bidding 
documents and Project monitoring indicators, to be adopted by the Recipient as 
provided for in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement as the same may be amended from 
time to time by the Recipient with the consent of the Administrator; and such term 
includes all schedules supplemental to the Project Implementation Manual; 
(o)
"Project Site" means the Diefoula and Logoniégué areas in the territory 
of the Recipient;
(p)
"Regional Account" means the account to be opened by the CTA or AGEREF, 
as the case may be, under the Project as referred to in the Project Implementation 
Manual;
(q)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(r)
"terroir" means an area, within the Project Site, which is managed by a 
community, based on use and occupation rights that have been defined according to 
socio-economic and cultural factors;
Section 1.03. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "Trustee", whenever 
used in relation to the administration of the Belgian Grant, shall be construed to 
mean the Bank as administrator of the Belgian Grant.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the GEF Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to one million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Grant and the Belgian Grant may be 
withdrawn from the GEF Grant Account and the Belgian Grant Account in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods 
and services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Grant and the Belgian Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
a commercial bank, acceptable to the Trustee, in CFA Francs, a special deposit account 
(the Special Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including 
appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MEE, the CTA and AGEREF, as the case may be, with due diligence 
and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
engineering practices and with due regard to ecological, biodiversity and 
environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out, and cause the CTA and AGEREF, as the case may be, to carry out the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 
Page  5
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Recipient shall:
(a)
until completion of the Project, establish and maintain the Project 
Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Trustee on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee, to be used exclusively for the purposes of meeting 
expenditures incurred under the Project; and
(b)
deposit into the Project Account, promptly before the second quarter of 
each fiscal year of project implementation, sufficient funds to finance the 
Recipient's contribution to the cost of the Project for such fiscal year, as estimated 
by the Recipient in consultation with the Trustee.
Section 3.03. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Grant and the Belgian Grant shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain adequate policies and procedures to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on a continual basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Trustee, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of its objectives;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee for its review and comments, not later than February 28, May 
31, August 31 and November 30 of each year, until completion of the Project, quarterly 
reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project during the period preceding the date of each such 
report, including, inter alia: (i) the status of monitoring indicators for Project 
performance; (ii) the summary of implementation of progress of each Project component; 
(iii) the financial statements of Project expenditures; (iv) the updated procurement 
plan and implementation schedules; (v) the status of contract advertising, bidding 
awards and completion dates; (vi) the investment program and recurrent expenditures 
for the next six months of the Project; and (vii) the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following the date of each said report; 
(c)
prepare and furnish to the Trustee for approval prior to August 31 of 
each year, until completion of the Project, the work program and budget for the next 
year; 
(d)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee, no later than February 28 of each year until completion of the 
Project, an in-depth review of Project implementation (the annual review or, in the 
case of the review to be held no later than February 28, 1998, the midterm review), 
summarizing the quarterly reports referred to under paragraph (b) of this Section, 
containing, in addition to the topics covered under the quarterly reports, inter alia: 
(i) a review of the strategy and methodology used in the implementation of the Project 
to achieve its objectives; (ii) an assessment of habitat management and the state of 
biodiversity conservation; (iii) an evaluation of effectiveness and profitability of 
natural resource utilization; (iv) an analysis of the Project's impact on the 
socio-economic development at the Project site; (v) an assessment of Project 
management, institutional development and local capacity building; (vi) an evaluation 
of the monitoring, evaluation process and feedback mechanism to the Project 
management; and (vii) expenditure statements of the current year indicating changes 
relative to the investment program and budget for the preceding year; and 
(e)
promptly thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of said review and the Trustee's views on the matter.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon the applicable provisions of Article IX of 
the General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
furnish to the Trustee, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Trustee, a 
Page  6
plan for future operations for the continuing realization of the Project objectives;
(b)
afford the Trustee a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Trustee's comments 
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures of the departments or agencies of the Recipient 
responsible for carrying out the Project;
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
semester of Project implementation audited, unless otherwise 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Trustee, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such fiscal 
semester, the report of such audit by said auditors, unless 
otherwise agreed upon between the Recipient and the Trustee, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Grant 
Account and the Belgian Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Grant Account and the Belgian Grant Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audits contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) The Recipient shall cause the CTA or AGEREF, as the case may 
be, to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures with respect to the 
Parts of the Project under their responsibility.
(b)
 The Recipient shall cause the CTA or AGEREF, as the case may be, to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each period of six calendar months audited, unless 
otherwise agreed upon between the Recipient and the Trustee, in 
Page  7
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than one (1) month after the end of each such audit period 
unless otherwise agreed upon between the Recipient and the 
Trustee, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Recipient or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AVs or AGEREF or for the 
suspension of their operations.
(b)
The Recipient's Laws: ZATU An VII 0035/FP/PRES of May 18, 1990 and ZATU 
An VIII 0039/FP/PRES of June 4, 1991, or AVs' or AGEREF's by-laws, shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of AVs or AGEREF to perform any of their respective obligations 
under this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to the provision of sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, 
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Belgian 
Grant made to the Recipient for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the Arrangement Particulier.
(ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under 
the Arrangement Particulier; and (B) adequate funds for the 
Project are available to the Recipient from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement for the purpose of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
The Recipient shall have opened the Project Account referred to in 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement and has deposited therein an initial deposit in an 
amount of  CFAF 25,000,000.
(b)
The Recipient shall have recruited the CTA staff specified in paragraph 3 
(a) (i) through (vi) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, whose qualifications and 
experience shall be satisfactory to the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions set 
forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Recipient shall have established an accounting system for the 
Project, satisfactory to the Trustee and consistent with the Project Implementation 
Manual.
(d)
The Recipient shall have adopted the Project Implementation Manual, 
acceptable to the Trustee.
(e)
The Recipient shall have appointed the independent auditors referred to 
in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, whose qualifications and experience and terms 
Page  8
of reference shall be satisfactory to the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(f)
The Recipient shall have furnished to the Trustee a copy of the signed 
technical assistance contract, satisfactory to the Trustee, between the Recipient and 
IUCN, referred to in paragraph (7) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(g)
The Recipient shall have signed  the Arrangement Particulier .
Section 6.02. The date hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Grant and 
the Belgian Grant have been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have 
fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Recipient responsible for financing and 
planning is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministère de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan
BP 7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Cable address: 
Telex:
SEGEGOUV
5555
Ouagadougou
SEGEGOU
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BURKINA FASO 
By /s/ Zéphirin Diabré
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
Page  9
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Trustee of the
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Grant
and the Belgian Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Grant and the Belgian Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the 
GEF Grant and the Belgian Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures 
for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Amount of the
  GEF Grant
Belgian Grant
  Allocated
  Allocated
(Expressed in (Expressed in    % of
SDR Belgian 
Francs
Expenditures
Category
  Equivalent) 
  Equivalent)  
to be Financed
(1)
Works:
    430,000
  10,900,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
and 90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods and 
    260,000
   6,540,000
100% of foreign
vehicles
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost),
and 90% of local
expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants'
    400,000
   10,270,000 100%
services and
training
(4)
Incremental
    450,000
   11,520,000 90%
Operating Costs
(5)
Unallocated
    160,000
    4,030,000
TOTAL
  1,700,000
   43,260,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term " foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower, 
provided, however, that, if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures";
(c)
the term "consultants’ services and training" includes the audit of all 
Page  10
Project accounts; and
(d)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental Project 
related expenditures incurred by the Recipient for vehicle and equipment operation, 
maintenance of office and field supplies, mission costs, and non-consultancy salaries.
3.
With reference to Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, each application by the 
Recipient for withdrawal shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds jointly 
from the GEF Grant Account and the Belgian Grant Account, and the funds so withdrawn, 
pursuant to such application, shall be apportioned by the Trustee, as nearly as 
practicable under the circumstances, between the GEF Grant and the Belgian Grant in 
the ratio of 60:40, or such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Trustee and 
Belgium.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
5.
If, at any time, the amount of the GEF Grant allocated to any category under 
paragraph 1 above shall, in the reasonable opinion of the Trustee, be insufficient to 
finance necessary expenditures under such category, the Trustee may, with the approval 
of the Recipient, transfer amounts as needed from the Belgian Grant allocated under 
that category, as available, and vice versa.
6.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Grant Account or the Belgian Grant Account was used for any expenditure not 
consistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee for deposit into the GEF Grant Account, 
or into the Belgian Grant Account, as the case may be, an amount equal to the amount 
so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
7.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account or the Belgian 
Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
made for: (a) works, goods, training, operating costs and services rendered by 
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (b) services 
rendered by individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, 
under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in conserving 
biodiversity within the Project Site through the adoption of a community-based land 
and natural resource management strategy, including:  (i) strengthening the capacity 
of local communities, the Recipient and ONGs to manage wild plant and animal resources 
in a sustainable and profitable manner; (ii) improving the management and use of 
habitat and wildlife populations at the Project Site; (iii) improving local land 
management practices and infrastructure; and (iv) establishing a durable system for 
monitoring and evaluating Project implementation and Project impact on the 
environment.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Local Capacity Building
1.
Enhancement of the capacity, through the provision of training and technical 
assistance, of AVs, local government officials and other personnel associated with the 
Project in the areas of, inter alia, village organization, project management and 
planning, habitat and wildlife management, use and valorization of forest products, 
anti-poaching, and monitoring and evaluation.
2.
Strengthening of the Recipient's supervision, control and monitoring capacity of 
environmentally sensitive activities through the provision of technical assistance.
Part B:
Habitat and Wildlife Management
1.
Implementation of a program for the identification and zoning of wildlife- 
Page  11
management and agro-sylvo-pastoral zones.
2.
Preparation of management plans for wildlife.
3.
Implementation of habitat management activities in the wildlife management zones 
designed to: (i) improve the quality and quantity of vegetative cover, (ii) improve 
the availability of water and mineral salts, (iii) support anti-poaching activities, 
and (iv) control the use of natural resources.
4.
Implementation of ecological monitoring activities in the wildlife management 
zones and socio-economic monitoring activities in the Project Site.
5.
Implementation of studies to assess the commercial potential for natural 
resources exploitation and for forest product processing and marketing.
6.
On the basis of the studies referred to in paragraph 5 above, carrying out trial 
commercial operations by the AVs.
Part C:
Land Management and Infrastructure Development
1.
Identification of terroirs, and preparation of their management plans.
2.
Implementation of community-based land management and infrastructure development 
activities in various areas including social infrastructure, soil conservation, 
small-scale irrigation, improved agro-sylvo-pastoral techniques, rangeland management, 
agroforestry, rehabilitation of all-weather earth roads, construction of temporary 
tracks and small dams.
Part D:
Project Management
Construction and maintenance of small office buildings and housing, and the 
provision of, inter alia, vehicles and equipment for the use of Project management 
staff; and the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities intended to assess 
the impact of Project implementation on the environment.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
to the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost more than $250,000 equivalent each; and
(b)
preference shall be given to domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient and works 
Page  12
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract, and 
$501,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and
(b)
Works estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract and 
$1,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract and $149,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Satellite images costing $19,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may, with 
the Trustee's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Civil works, costing $10,000 equivalent or less per contract and $122,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be  
procured in accordance with the provision of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and 
procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Trustee for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Trustee, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Trustee. 
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Trustee shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
Page  13
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Section I.
General
1.
The Recipient shall implement the Project in three (3) Phases, as follows:
(a)
in Phase One, the Recipient shall cause the CTA to be responsible for the 
technical implementation of the Project and the management of the funds allocated to 
the CTA;
(b)
in Phase Two, the Recipient shall take all necessary actions to: (i) 
ensure the development of AVs' capacity to manage the wildlife management zones; and 
(ii) cause the AVs to formally establish AGEREF on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Trustee and in accordance with the provisions of the Project Implementation 
Manual; such AGEREF to be organized as follows: two representatives from each AV, 
being members of AGEREF, will be members of AGEREF's General Assembly. The General 
Assembly will elect a bureau, consisting of, inter alia: (i) a President, (ii) a 
Treasurer, and (iii) a General Secretary;
The decision to advance from Phase One to Phase Two shall be taken by the CNP in 
consultation with CCTP, GC and the Trustee. This decision will be based, inter alia, 
on an assessment of: (i) AVs' understanding of, and identification with, the 
objectives and implementation procedures of the Project; (ii) AVs' management and 
technical capacity; and (iii) AVs' willingness to cooperate, on an informal basis, 
with other AVs and to coordinate their actions in the execution of the Project.
(c)
in Phase Three, the Recipient shall cause the gradual transfer of 
financial management and all other responsibilities of the CTA to AGEREF. The decision 
to advance from Phase Two to Phase Three shall be taken by the CNP in consultation 
with CCTP, GC and the Trustee. This decision will be based, inter alia, on AGEREF 
having demonstrated, to the satisfaction of the Recipient and the Trustee: (i) 
understanding of, and commitment to, Project objectives; (ii) ability to carry out 
accounting and revenue management in a transparent and equitable manner; (iii) 
capacity for consensual decision making; (iv) representation of AVs and local 
community interests; (v) technical ability for wildlife and habitat management and 
monitoring, supervision of infrastructure works and antipoaching activities, and 
negotiations capacity with private sector parties and the public administration; and 
(vi) generally satisfactory management of the wildlife management zones.
2.
The Recipient shall take all necessary action to cause the establishment of AVs 
and their maintenance until Project completion, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Trustee, including the following:
(a)
such AVs shall promote local management capacity, ensure coordination of 
activities in the terroir at local level and decide on all matters of social and 
economic impact for the local population, including, but not limited to: (i) 
identification of the terroir; (ii) land-use, infrastructure and social investments; 
and (iii) concession rights for hunting and ecotourism-tourism; and
(b)
such AVs shall organize their administration through a team including a 
President, a Treasurer/Secretary, an assistant for each, and three members with 
specific responsibilities in the areas of: (i) rural development, (ii) wildlife and 
habitat management, and (iii) coordination with other AVs  and representatives of 
specific groups and organizations active in each village.
3.
The Recipient shall appoint and maintain the CTA at the Project Site to provide 
assistance to the AVs and AGEREF; and phase out the CTA's assistance during Phase 
Three, in accordance with the following provisions:
(a)
the CTA will be composed, inter alia, of: (i) a community-based land 
management specialist; (ii) a biodiversity conservation and wildlife management 
Page  14
specialist; (iii) an accountant/administrator; (iv) an anti-poaching assistant; (v) an 
impact and implementation monitoring assistant; (vi) a mobile extension team 
consisting of three (3) staff; and (vii) support staff in adequate numbers. The CTA 
chief shall act as temporary General Secretary for AGEREF unless and until otherwise 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Trustee; and
(b)
the CTA shall enter into an agreement with the Recipient to include, 
inter alia, provisions satisfactory to the Trustee relating to the allocation of part 
of the proceeds of the GEF Grant and the Belgian Grant by the Recipient to the CTA at 
periodic intervals as needed for the implementation of the Project, and to be 
deposited into the Regional Account.
4.
The Recipient shall appoint a CNP whose experience and qualifications shall be 
satisfactory to the Trustee. The CNP shall operate according to terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Trustee comprising, inter alia: (i) cooperation with CCTP in 
reviewing and approving the annual work plan and budget of the Project; (ii) 
management of the Special Account and transfer of funds into the Regional Account as 
needed for the implementation of the CTA’s and AGEREF’s responsibilities, as the case 
may be; (iii) supervision of Project implementation and financial administration by 
the CTA or AGEREF, as the case may be; (iv) preparation of  service and equipment 
contracts in coordination with the CTA or AGEREF administrator, as the case may be; 
(v) negotiation of the concession of classified areas in the Project Site to AGEREF ; 
(vi) organization of anti-poaching activities in coordination with the responsible 
authorities and support in the arrest and prosecution of poachers; (vii) control of 
professional hunting standards within the Project Site;  (viii)  organization of 
information exchange and preparation of agreements with the Côte d'Ivoire government 
in all matters related to Project objectives; (ix) promotion of Project design and 
objectives; and (x) report on the progress of Project implementation to the 
Recipient’s Minister in charge of wildlife and other interested services.  
5.
The Recipient shall establish the GC, to be chaired by the Minister in charge of 
the Environment, with the CNP as secretary, and including: (a) all Ministries involved 
in Project implementation; (b) ONGs active in ecosystem management and wildlife 
conservation on, or in the vicinity of, the Project Site; (c) donors interested in the 
objectives of the Project; and (d) representatives of private sector operators 
concerned with the implementation of the Project. The GC shall function as a forum for 
information exchange on all topics relating to the Project.
6.
The Recipient shall organize every three (3) months after Effective Date until 
completion of the Project meetings of CCTP under the chairmanship of the local Haut 
Commissaire assisted by a secretariat; 
7.
The Recipient  shall cause the CTA and AGEREF, as the case may be, to prepare 
annually, for the first time within twelve months after Effective Date, a Project 
implementation plan and corresponding budget for the following year. Such plan and 
budget, endorsed by the CNP, to be furnished to CG for comment and, subsequently, to 
the Trustee for approval, whereupon it is to be executed, taking into account the 
Trustee’s comments, if any.
8.
The Recipient shall cause IUCN to provide, in accordance with the terms of an 
agreement satisfactory to the Trustee, regular, periodic, technical supervision and 
advice on Project implementation to the CTA, AVs, or AGEREF, as the case may be, in 
the areas of, inter alia: capacity building and human resource development, 
conservation of biodiversity and wildlife management, animal and habitat survey, 
species and habitat management, and sustainable natural resource utilization and 
exploitation techniques.
9.
The Recipient shall cause representatives of the CTA or AGEREF, as the case may 
be, to meet at regular intervals, acceptable to the Trustee, with counterparts in the 
Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, to exchange views on the progress of the Project and the 
related project in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire. 
10.
The Recipient shall ensure that all construction under the Project is designed 
and implemented according to guidelines established by CCTP, satisfactory to the 
Trustee, and uses culturally, aesthetically and ecologically appropriate building 
materials reflecting the culture and traditions of the site of construction.
Section II.
Phase One
11.
Under Phase One of Project implementation, the Recipient shall cause the AVs to 
enter into management contracts with the CTA under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Trustee. These management contracts shall include provisions relating to, inter 
Page  15
alia:  (i) development of an information and public awareness program; (ii) 
organization of community training and capacity building; (iii) provision of 
logistical services to AVs for identification of agreed limits to village-terroirs; 
(iv) provision of advisory services for improved terroir management and production 
practices, including agro-sylvo-pastoral development; (v) implementation of habitat 
and wildlife management operations, including management of the classified forests; 
(vi) establishment of community-based habitat and wildlife survey systems; (vii) 
proposition, design and supervision of the rehabilitation or construction, as the case 
may be, of the Project's buildings, rural roads and tracks; (viii) coordination of 
Project implementation activities with local administration and governmental services; 
(ix) monitoring of the environmental impact of Project activities and Project 
implementation; (x) establishment of financial mechanisms for distributing 
Project-generated income to local communities, village groups and individual 
villagers; and (xi) preparation of AVs' annual work programs and budgets and 
submission of same to CCTP for approval; and (xii) management of AVs' accounts.
Section III.Phase Two
12.
Under Phase Two of the Project implementation, the Recipient shall take all 
necessary actions to ensure the establishment and maintenance of AGEREF at the Project 
Site until completion of the Project, and satisfactory execution of AGEREF's functions 
which comprise, inter alia: (i) organization of community training and capacity 
building; (ii) implementation of information and public awareness programs; (iii) 
supervision of the implementation of habitat and wildlife management operations; (iv) 
development of community-based habitat and wildlife survey systems; and (v) 
coordination of the Project implementation with local, regional and central 
administration and technical services.
Section IV.
Phase Three
13.
Under Phase Three of Project implementation the Recipient shall:
(a)
have the Secretary General of AGEREF elected by the General Assembly; and
(b)
cause AGEREF to: (i) enter into technical assistance contracts with the 
CTA covering the subjects referred to under paragraph (11) of this Schedule, 
satisfactory to the Trustee; (ii) gradually, take on the CTA's functions and, notably, 
prepare the AVs' annual work programs and budgets and submit them to CCTP for 
approval; and (iii) manage AVs' accounts during and after completion of Phase Three of 
the Project. 
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Grant or the Belgian Grant allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$250,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Grant Account and the Belgian Grant Account, 
according to the ratio specified in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of said Schedule, 
provided, however, that, unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $125,000 for the Special 
Account until the aggregate amount of withdrawals and commitments for expenditures to 
be financed by the GEF Grant and the Belgian Grant, respectively, shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 770,000 and 19,600,000 Belgian Francs, respectively.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations and subsequent 
Page  16
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of 
an amount which does not exceed the aggregate amount of the respective Authorized 
Allocations. On the basis of such request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Grant Account and the Belgian Grant Account, and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Grant Account and the Belgian 
Grant Account, and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Trustee from the GEF Grant Account and the 
Belgian Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Grant Account or the 
Belgian Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Trustee within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account or the Belgian Grant Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant and the Belgian Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories of the Project shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the respective Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Grant Account or the Belgian Grant Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant or the Belgian Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories of the Project shall follow such procedures as the Trustee shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request, or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
Page  17
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Grant Account or the Belgian Grant Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions, and the Cofinancing 
Agreement referred to in the Recital to this Agreement.
