                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00001751



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                     (TF-56115, TF-56267, TF-56594)



                                           ON A

                   GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

                         (US$1.80 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF KIRIBATI

                                          FOR AN

         ADAPTATION PROJECT – IMPLEMENTATION PHASE (KAP II)



                                DECEMBER 30, 2011




Pacific Islands Sustainable Development
East Asia and Pacific Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2011)

                Currency unit = Australian dollars
                      $A 1.00 = US$1.02
                      US$1.00 = $A 0.98

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 – December 31


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB      Asian Development Bank
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CC       Climate Change
CCA      Climate Change Adaptation
CCST     Climate Change Study Team
COP      Conference of the Parties
ECD      Environmental Conservation Division
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
EPF      Environmental Policy Framework
FM       Financial Management
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GEO      Global Environment Objectives
GNI      Gross National Income
GoK      Government of Kiribati
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      Implementation Completion and Results Report
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
KAP      Kiribati Adaptation Program
KMS      Kiribati Meteorological Services
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MELAD    Ministry of Environment, Lands and Agricultural Development
MFED     Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MFMRD    Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Development
MHMS     Ministry of Health and Medical Services
MISA     Ministry of Internal and Social Affairs
MOP      Ministry Operational Plan
MPWU     Ministry of Public Works and Utilities
MTR      Mid Term Review
NAPA     National Adaptation Programme of Action
NASC     National Adaptation Steering Committee
NDS      National Development Strategies
NGO      Non-governmental Organizations
NWS      National Water Strategy
NZAP     New Zealand Aid Program
OB       Office of Te Beretitenti (Office of the President)
OP       Operational Policy
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PIAC     Pacific Infrastructure Advisory Centre
PICs     Pacific Island Countries
PMU      Project Management Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PUB      Public Utilities Board
RMF      Results Monitoring Framework
RPF      Resettlement Policy Framework
SDP      Sustainable Development Plan
SNPRA    Strategic National Policy and Risk Assessment
TA       Technical Assistance
TMP      Tarawa Master Plan
TOR      Terms of Reference
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UNFCCC   United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change




                 Vice President: James Adams
              Country Director: Ferid Belhaj
                Sector Manager: Charles Feinstein
           Project Team Leader: Emilia Battaglini
              ICR Team Leader Emilia Battaglini
                                           REPUBLIC OF KIRIBATI
                       Adaptation Project – Implementation Phase (KAP II)

                                                      CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


1. Project Context, Project Development Objective and Design ........................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance ......................................................... 16
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 37
Annex 7. Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 41
Map IBRD-38722 ............................................................................................................. 42
Map IBRD-38723 ............................................................................................................. 43
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Adaptation Program
                                                                          Phase II - Pilot
Country:                Kiribati                Project Name:
                                                                          Implementation Phase
                                                                          (KAP II)
                                                                          TF-56115,TF-
Project ID:             P089326                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          56267,TF-56594
ICR Date:               01/05/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          KIRIBATI
Original Total
                        USD 1.80M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 1.79M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 1.79M
Environmental Category: B                       Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Office Te Beretitenti
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
 New Zealand Aid Programme

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/29/2004     Effectiveness:          07/07/2006          07/06/2006
Appraisal:            12/06/2005     Restructuring(s):                           08/27/2009
Approval:             06/01/2006     Mid-term Review:        11/15/2008          11/11/2008
                                     Closing:                06/30/2009          06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome              Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory




                                                i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                              Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                          Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     24                  24
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                      26                  26
General public administration sector                                  45                  45
Sub-national government administration                                 5                     5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                        25                  25
Natural disaster management                                           24                  24
Other environment and natural resources management                    13                  13
Participation and civic engagement                                    13                  13
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                               25                  25

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:           James W. Adams                        Jeffrey S. Gutman
Country Director:         Ferid Belhaj                          Xian Zhu
Sector Manager:           Charles M. Feinstein                  Hoonae Kim
Project Team Leader:      Emilia Battaglini                     Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough
ICR Team Leader:          Emilia Battaglini



                                                   ii
ICR Primary Author:   Olivia Warrick




                                       iii
F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) develop and demonstrate the systematic diagnosis
of climate-related problems and the design of cost-effective adaptation measures in
Kiribati; and (ii) continue the integration of climate risk awareness and responsiveness
into economic and operation planning by the Recipient.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications



(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target     Formally        Actual Value
                                                  Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value
                                                     approval         Target       Completion or
                                                   documents)         Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Establishment of lead agency coordinating CCA and related strategies
                                                                 OB
                                               SNRPA Unit                       OB established as
Value                                                            established as
                                               established in OB                lead agency in
(quantitative or   None                                          lead agency in
                                               in first year of                 August 2009 (year
Qualitative)                                                     first year of
                                               implmentation                    3)
                                                                 implmentation
Date achieved      06/01/2006                  06/30/2007        08/27/2009     06/30/2011
                   Target achieved in 2009 with Project director appointed. At Project closing the
Comments
                   OB was staffed with a senior policy mentor, climate change policy adviser and
(incl. %
                   disaster risk management adviser with a mandate to coordinate climate risk
achievement)
                   management activities
                   Percentage of climate-affected programs in Ministry Operational Plans (MOPS)
Indicator 2 :
                   that reflect systematic climate risk management
                                                                                KAP II activities
                                                                                incorporated into
Value                                          60% of MOPs
                   MOPS did not reflect                                         all relevant MOPs
(quantitative or                               integrate climate
                   climate risk management                                      for GoK Financial
Qualitative)                                   risk management
                                                                                Years 2007, 2008,
                                                                                2009, 2010
Date achieved      11/30/2007                  06/30/2011                       06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %         Achievement substantially exceeded target
achievement)
                 Consistent use of best practice in the application of risk management,
Indicator 3 : environmental assessment and options analysis to public infrastructure and CCA
                 vulnerability reduction measures.
                                            All large pilot                     All large pilot
Value
                                            infrastructure                      infrastructure
(quantitative or None
                                            constructed under                   constructed under
Qualitative)
                                            the Project apply                   the Project apply



                                                  iv
                                         best practices                    best practices
Date achieved 06/01/2006                 06/30/2009                        06/30/2011
Comments      100% achieved. Best practice was applied in the design and construction of 4
(incl. %      coastal protection works (component 2) and 1 water infiltration gallery
achievement) (component 3)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                 Number of National Adaptation Steering Committee (NASC) meetings with
Indicator 1 :    participation of Director/Senior Assistant Secretary or higher level officials of at
                 least 4 key ministries
Value
(quantitative or None                        5                                   7
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %         Achievement
achievement)
                 : Number of CCST meetings attended by technical officers of at least 6 key
Indicator 2 :
                 departments
Value
(quantitative or None                        8                                   5
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments
                 63% achieved. In practice, there was little need for this team to meet more
(incl. %
                 frequently than that
achievement)
                 Consultation and awareness raising activities reflect clear role for NGOs and
Indicator 3 :
                 women
                                                                                 All key KAP II
                                                                                 consultation and
Value
                                                                                 awareness activities
(quantitative or None                        3
                                                                                 include a role for
Qualitative)
                                                                                 Women and NGO
                                                                                 groups
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments         It is unclear from the PAD which consultation and awareness raising activities
(incl. %         this indicator was targeting. A National Consultation, participatory events and
achievement) all consultation activities for C2 and C3 involved NGOs and Women
                 Climate risk profile produced and used in at least three major infrastructure
Indicator 4 :
                 investments
Value
                 None                        3                                   4
(quantitative or



                                                  v
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
                 100% achieved. Climate risk profiles were applied to 4 major coastal protection
(incl. %
                 works on South Tarawa
achievement)
                 Pilot investments are based on rigorous analysis of risk treatment options,
Indicator 5 :
                 including economic analysis, environmental and social assessment
Value
(quantitative or None                        All                                All
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments         100% achieved. Rigorous analysis was applied in the design and construction of
(incl. %         4 coastal protection works (component 2) and 1 water infiltration gallery
achievement) (component 3)
Indicator 6 : Number of reports of coastal and marine ecosystem monitoring
Value
(quantitative or None                        8                                  1
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments         12.5% achieved. An initial baseline marine ecosystem report was produced.
(incl. %         However, no further marine monitoring reports have been produced. Coastal
achievement) monitoring was dropped following restructure and no monitoring was initiated
                 National Water Strategy [NWS] adopted and reflected in MPWU MOP and PUB
Indicator 7 :
                 Business Plan
Value
(quantitative or None                        NWS adopted                        NWS adopted
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
                 100% achieved. The National Water Policy and its related Strategy have been
Comments
                 used by MWPU and PUB in their effort to comply with Kiribati Development
(incl. %
                 Plan goals. Fulfillment of the NWS objectives by MWPU is often hindered by
achievement)
                 capacity of MWPU.
                 Master Plan for water on Tarawa-[TMP] produced and reflected in MPWU MOP
Indicator 8 :
                 and PUB Business Plan
Value
(quantitative or None                        TMP prepared                       TMP prepared
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments         100% achieved. Master Plan for Water on Tarawa is fairly new document and
(incl. %         therefore only some activities namely leakage detection have been reflected in
achievement) the MOP 2010 for MWPU.
                 Number of new rainwater collection/storage facilities at government/community
Indicator 9 :
                 buildings
Value
(quantitative or None                        20                                 4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments         20% achieved. The unit costing undertaken at appraisal significantly


                                               vi
(incl. %           underestimated the costs of water and coastal works
achievement)
Indicator 10 :     Building code includes freshwater collection and storage as an objective
Value
                                              BC amendments                      BC amendments
(quantitative or   None
                                              drafted                            drafted
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2006                 06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %           100% achieved. Draft building code complete but still to be adopted by cabinet
achievement)
Indicator 11 :     Percentage reduction in water leakage in target area on Betio islet
Value
(quantitative or   None                       20%                                0
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/30/2006                06/30/2011                        06/30/2011
Comments           Leakage reduction was not achieved to any measurable degree. A methodology
(incl. %           for leakage detection was developed and capacity built to undertake leakage
achievement)       detection work in PUB. Leakage reduction will be undertaken under KAP III
Indicator 12 :     Number of water locations assessed and supply improvements implemented
Value
(quantitative or   None                       5                                  1
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/01/2006                06/30/2011                          06/30/2011
Comments           20% achieved. An infiltration gallery was installed in one site. However, water
(incl. %           resources assessment at 14 sites throughout South and North Tarawa and Outer
achievement)       Islands were undertaken.
Indicator 13 :     Number of Outer Island Profiles that contain climate risk information
Value
(quantitative or   None                       12                                 9
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/01/2006                 06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
Comments
                   75% achieved. This achievement had limited applicability because the majority
(incl. %
                   of outer island activities were dropped after MTR.
achievement)
Indicator 14 :     KAP II Project management integrated into SNRP unit in OB
Value
                                              Integration                        Integration
(quantitative or   None
                                              complete                           complete
Qualitative)
Date achieved      06/01/2006                 06/30/2007                         06/30/2011
Comments
                   Although a SNRP Unit was never formally established, the PMU was established
(incl. %
                   in the first year of implementation within the OB.
achievement)
                 Percentage of Project progress reports that are timely and reflect a good
Indicator 15 : understanding of progress, critical issues, corrective actions, accountability for
                 actions and timing.
Value
(quantitative or None                      100%                                 50%
Qualitative)


                                                    vii
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
                 While the Project produced implementation progress reports on time, these
Comments
                 reports were not forward-looking and did not reflect critical issues. The
(incl. %
                 exception is the progress report prepared prior to the MTR and the annual
achievement)
                 progress report produced in 2010.
Indicator 16 : Lessons learned compiled (continuously) for future adaptation program design
Value
                                             Lessons fully                      Lessons partially
(quantitative or None
                                             compiled                           compiled
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2006                     06/30/2011                         06/30/2011
                 The PMU or OB did not regularly compile lessons learned as was indicated in
Comments
                 the PAD. Lessons were compiled by Bank supervision missions and by
(incl. %
                 consultants. An independent evaluation report commissioned by the GoK
achievement)
                 identifies several lessons.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              GEO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/29/2007      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 0.29
  2     06/06/2008      Moderately Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                       0.75
  3     01/29/2009      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 1.02
  4     06/22/2009      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 1.15
  5     01/07/2010      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 1.34
  6     06/04/2011      Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory                 1.79


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                   Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      To streamline and simplify
                                                      Project design by reducing the
                                                      number and scope of activities
                                                      so as to better match human
                                                      resources and logistical
                                                      constraints of implementation in
 08/27/2009       N        MS    MS            1.19
                                                      the small and remote country.
                                                      Key changes were:
                                                      (i)Strengthen institutional
                                                      arrangements;
                                                      (ii)Reduce the scope of the
                                                      Project and focus on two


                                                  viii
                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                 Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                   Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      priority areas;
                                                      (iii)Strengthen Project
                                                      management capacity;
                                                      (iv)Change in resource amounts
                                                      between components to better
                                                      match the above changes .




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         ix
1. Project Context, Project Development Objective and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and sector issues
1.      Kiribati is one of the most isolated of the Least Developed Countries, consisting
of 32 atolls and one reef island spread over a vast area of 3.5 million km2 of ocean. At
appraisal, the population was 98,400 (2004 est.) of whom nearly half lived in South
Tarawa, a densely settled area growing at around 2% per annum. Kiribati is categorized
as a lower middle income country; GNI per capita was US$970 per annum (2004 est.)
Only 18% of the population is employed in the cash economy and the incidence of
poverty is high in comparison to other Pacific Island countries.

2.       Kiribati is considered to be one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to
climate change and sea level rise. Most of the land is less than 3 meters above sea level
and on average only a few hundred meters wide. The islands are exposed to periodic
storm surges and to droughts, and some are becoming increasingly vulnerable due to
poorly managed high population concentration, accelerated coastal development, and
environmental degradation. Extreme weather events associated with climate change and
sea level rise could severely affect the main Tarawa groundwater lens, increase the
epidemic potential for dengue fever, decrease agricultural productivity, and affect
important marine ecosystems and fisheries. In addition to the effects of climate change,
coastal degradation and poor mangrove and coral reef management are endangering
habitats for important biodiversity. It has been estimated that Kiribati could face
economic damages due to climate change and sea level rise of US$8-$16 million a year
by 2050, or 17-34 % of its 1998 GDP. Successful atoll development requires that the
integrated aspects of the environment and social conditions, as well as external conditions
- in relation to stability of global economic systems - are taken into account.

Rationale for Bank involvement
3.      There was a clear rationale for the Bank to continue its involvement in climate
change adaptation in Kiribati at appraisal. The Bank had been involved in climate
change adaptation (CCA) in Kiribati since 1999, when it funded a major study on
vulnerability and adaptation for the Regional Economic Report (2000). Following the
review, adaptation and natural risk management became one of the pillars of the Bank‟s
program in the Pacific. The first, preparatory, phase of the three-phased Kiribati
Adaptation Program (KAP I) (2003-2006) had the objectives to mainstream adaptation in
national economic planning and to prepare a pilot National Adaptation Program of Action
(NAPA) to reduce the country‟s vulnerability to climate change, climate variability and
sea level rise. KAP I successfully carried out national climate change consultations,
raised public awareness, built capacity in risk management, incorporated adaptation into
government planning processes and regulations, and undertook a social assessment of
potential issues that could affect implementation during KAP II. KAP I was merged with
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)-Global Environment Facility
(GEF) NAPA preparation process.



                                            1
4.      KAP II was the logical follow-on from KAP I, aimed at piloting adaptation
measures and consolidating the mainstreaming of adaptation into economic planning.
KAP II was a GEF pilot project under the Special Program on Adaptation, demonstrating
how adaptation planning and assessment could be translated into national policy and
sustainable development planning and action.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

5.     The objectives of the project are to: (i) develop and demonstrate the systematic
diagnosis of climate-related problems and the design of cost-effective adaptation
measures in Kiribati; and (ii) continue the integration of climate risk awareness and
responsiveness into economic and operation planning by the Recipient.

6.      For reference: For a GEF funded project, there is a requirement for a Global
Environment Objective (GEO). As described in the PAD, the GEO was: “to assist the
GoK in enhancing its capacity to plan and implement adaptation measures to the climate-
related issues facing the country, which will also reduce the detrimental impacts of
climate change on the fragile atoll ecosystems of Kiribati?.

7.      At appraisal, key indicators and targets at the outcome level (for the PDO) were:

     (a) Establishment within first year of implementation of the Strategic National Policy
         and Risk Assessment (SNRPA) Unit as the lead agency coordinating climate
         change adaptation and related strategic issues;
     (b) Percentage of climate-affected programs in Ministry Operational Plans (MOPs)
         that reflect systematic climate risk management; and
     (c) Consistent use of best practice in the application of risk management,
         environmental assessment and options analysis to public infrastructure and
         vulnerability reduction measures.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

8.     The PDO was not revised. Two of the three outcome indicators were adjusted
when the project was restructured, namely:

     (a) Establishment within first year of implementation of the Office of Te Beretitenti
         (OB) as the lead agency coordinating climate change adaptation and related
         strategic issues; and
     (c) Best practice in the application of risk management, environmental assessment
         and options analysis to public infrastructure and CCA vulnerability reduction
         measures is applied on a pilot basis.

9.      The changes to the indicators were formalized with project team agreement based
on: (a) Government of Kiribati (GoK)‟s decision to mandate existing senior staff (rather
than a new dedicated unit) in the OB to be responsible for the project and to coordinate




                                              2
CCA activities; and (b) the reduced scope of activities to be implemented (on a pilot
basis) tailored to the capabilities of local implementing agencies in the small country.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The primary target groups were stakeholders at both the island and national level.
At the island level, beneficiaries were expected to be high-risk village populations and
subgroups living on or near coastal areas and actually experiencing the impacts of climate
risks and climate change. It included households and extended households (kainga),
traditional village institutions (such as unimanwe or traditional decision making body),
church groups, and women and youth groups. Other key beneficiaries at an island level
include Island Councils and their subcommittees, island level church organizations, and
locally seconded representatives of local government who were to receive training and
awareness-raising in developing detailed coastal ecosystem adaptation plans for their
villages as well as on the impacts of various climate hazards.

11.       At a national level, key beneficiaries were expected to be:

         Office of Te Beretitenti/The Office of the President who were strengthened in
          capacity to coordinate and manage climate change adaptation and disaster risk
          reduction;
         National Ministries, particularly: Ministry of Public Works and Utilities
          (MPWU); Ministry of Environment, Lands and Agricultural Development
          (MELAD); Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MFED); Ministry
          of Internal and Social Affairs (MISA); Ministry of Fisheries and Marine
          Resources Development (MFMRD); Ministry of Health and Medical Services
          (MHMS) ) who received on-the-job training and technical assistance (TA) in
          design solutions and adaptation measures;
         Civil society notably local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and the
          National Council of Churches who benefitted through training in community
          engagement aspects of climate change adaptation;
         The private sector, particularly local consultants and contractors who benefitted
          through business opportunities for consultants services and small works funded
          under the project.

1.5 Original Components

12.    The project was broken into five broad components. In line with the PDO, the
components were designed to produce immediate investment results while demonstrating
and promoting a climate-risk aware approach to planning and design of such activities.

13.     Component 1: Policy, planning and information (US$1.17m, 18% of total
costs). The expected outcome of this component was improved consultation, planning
and coordination mechanisms to support climate change adaptation. This component
supported three core elements of adaptation efforts in Kiribati: awareness raising and
consultation; policy coordination and planning including technical assistance for


                                               3
mainstreaming and climate risk management, and; generating scientific climate risk
information.

14.    Component 2: Land use, physical structures and ecosystems (US$2.17m,
33% of total costs). The expected outcome of this component was improved
management of climate related hazards to coasts, public assets and ecosystems. This
component intended to contribute to reducing the vulnerability of the coastline, including
key public assets and ecosystems, shift management practice to a more preventative,
technically varied and sustainable approach.

15.    Component 3: Freshwater resources (US$2.16m, 33% of total costs). The
expected outcome of this component was improved sustainability of freshwater resources.
This component supported the development and management of freshwater resources to
reduce their vulnerability to climate variability and climate change.

16.     Component 4: Capacity at island and community level (US$0.55m, 6% of
total costs). The expected outcome of this component was improved capacity for climate
change adaptation at island, government and community level. This component intended
to provide technical assistance to MISA to include adaptation in the Outer Island socio-
economic development profiles and climate-risk management training for local
governments, and to finance a pilot program of small scale adaptation investments in
select Outer Islands.

17.     Component 5: Project Management (US$0.39m, 8.4% of total costs). The
expected outcome of this component was support provided for the implementation of
project activities. This component intended to provide project management, accounting,
procurement, and running costs of the Project Management Unit (PMU).

1.6 Revised Components

18.     The components were not revised. However, there were changes in the activities
and distribution of resources between the components as described in Section 1.7.

1.7 Other significant changes

19.      The project was restructured following mid-term review and the number of
activities under each component was reduced in order to focus on demonstrating visible
results on the ground. Resources were shifted in particular towards activities that
supported targeted capacity building under components 2 and 3 (investments) and project
management support. This also acted to reduce the geographical scope of the project as
many Outer Island activities were cancelled (see Annex 2). The changes in project design,
scope, management and implementation arrangements are outlined in section 2.2. In
addition, the project timeframe was extended from three to five years because
geographical isolation, shipping delays and weak procurement capacity impeded
implementation. The Australian Agency for International Development (AusAid)
provided additional funds of $A550,000 to make up budget shortfalls due to foreign



                                            4
exchange loss and a higher cost of labour and materials than envisaged at the time of
project preparation.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.     Soundness of the background analysis: KAP II was designed as a follow-on to
KAP I which had established adaptation priorities across diverse groups in Kiribati and
identified options for pilot investment designs. Analysis from KAP I is clearly reflected
in the thematic design of the project components, most significantly: housing the project
in a high level coordinating ministry; a balance of „hard‟ physical investments and „soft‟
behavior change activities; focus on integrating adaptation investments into national
economic planning and preparation of sectoral plans and budgets for mainstreaming
implementation, and; basing adaptation investments within a long term planning process
that linked bottom up consultation with top down planning and policy.

21.     Assessment of Project Design: The project design was overly ambitious with
regards to both the range and technical complexity of activities and taking into account
the implementation and management capacity of agencies in a small country such as
Kiribati.

22.     The major shortcomings were: a large number of diverse activities across multiple
sectors; lack of cohesion between awareness and investment activities; some overly
technical activities requiring extensive feasibility analysis, and; too many activities
focused in remote and dispersed outer islands. Although eclectic, the collection of
intended activities might have been appropriate in a different setting but would have
required high management capacity, high organizational and planning capacity, and high
in-country experience with Bank systems and procedures which were lacking in Kiribati.
Overall, the complex design led to implementation delays and slowed the project
progress towards achieving objectives and intended outcomes. As a demonstration
project, the intention had been to trial as many tools and techniques for climate change
adaptation as possible and also to trial institutional arrangements for adaptation
coordination. The project was a flagship for the World Bank, being the first to focus
entirely on climate change adaptation in the Pacific region. These two factors explain, in
part, the somewhat overly ambitious design of the project.

23.      Adequacy of Participatory Processes and Government Commitment.
Stakeholder participation in the design of KAP II was noteworthy. KAP I had mobilized
stakeholders early on in consultations and the KAP II design process involved a series of
National Consultations for the prioritization of adaptation investments. The National
Consultations involved communities, NGOs, church groups, women‟s groups, youth, and
Outer Island local governments as well as implementing ministries. Decision making
about the types of investments to be funded by KAP II was integrally influenced by the
priorities identified by stakeholders during these consultations.




                                             5
24.     The success of the complex, multi-sectoral and human resource-intensive project
design would hinge ultimately upon strong commitment to climate change adaptation at
all levels of government. The GoK (OB, MFED and Public Services Office) initially
displayed strong high level commitment, demonstrated by support for the establishment
of the SNPRA unit. However, national elections and government changes impacted
political commitment to the project in the early stages of implementation and the
establishment of the SNPRA unit was delayed.

25.     Project Risks and Mitigations. The project did not adequately identify risks that
became apparent in the early years of implementation. Delay in establishing the SNPRA
unit was identified as a risk by the design team but was not given enough weight (the risk
rating was „Low‟). Further, the mitigation measures identified in the PAD did not clearly
address the risk of shifting government support.

26.     Insufficient capacity in line ministries to manage the implementation demands of
project activities was not identified as a project risk at appraisal. Lack of sufficient
experience and capacity in the PMU itself to manage the significant fiduciary demands of
the project was not identified as a risk. Given that approximately 85 percent of technical
assistance for the project was intended to be sourced nationally, it would appear that the
level of technical capacity in Kiribati‟s private sector also was overestimated and had not
been identified as a risk in the PAD.

2.2 Implementation

27.     Implementation performance slipped to unsatisfactory prior to the mid-term
review. After the mid-term review, several leadership, design and management changes
were identified, and the project was formally restructured1 to respond to shortcomings
affecting implementation.

Problem: Lack of GoK leadership on KAP II activities.
28.     Staffing of the SNRPA unit did not occur as planned and the project lacked a
Project Director for many months. The lack of supervision and direction provided to the
PMU and general lack of leadership of multi-sector climate change adaptation activities
impeded implementation progress. This constraint was identified as the most critical to
the project achieving its objectives, as it limited the commitment of line ministries to
their respective project activities and prevented progress towards addressing the further
implementation obstacles outlined below.

Actions taken: Strengthening institutional arrangements
29.     A restructure of the institutional arrangements for Project oversight enabled
implementation to progress. Rather than establishing the SNRPA Unit, the capacity of
existing senior staff within the OB was increased to lead and coordinate climate change
adaptation. The result was strengthened leadership as the Deputy Secretary (and later,

1
    The Board approved Project restructure on August 27, 2009.



                                                 6
the Secretary) to the OB position was appointed as Project Director. This greatly
enhanced GoK ownership of KAP II, demonstrated by the later appointment of a disaster
risk reduction officer, climate change policy adviser and senior policy mentor in the OB.

Problem: Project scope was too broad for available human resources
30.     A key factor affecting implementation was the lack of skilled and available
personnel in core implementation Ministries (especially MPWU, MELAD, MISA) to
handle the large number of proposed multi-sector activities, particularly on difficult-to-
reach outer islands. For example, although progress with preparing the National Water
Policy was good, the installation of rainwater collection and storage facilities on public
buildings, freshwater lens assessments, water supply improvements in outer islands and
revision of the national building code were all delayed.

Actions taken: Reducing the scope of the Project
31.    The number of activities under each component was reduced, some activities
deferred for a possible KAP III, some re-focused to better complement other activities,
and some dropped entirely (see Annex 2 for details). Overall, activities were adjusted to
focus on water and coastal sectors (components 2 and 3) and on activities that would
demonstrate tangible results. The geographical scope of the project was reduced. These
changes, coupled with new procurement arrangements, brought the project back to a span
that was more manageable given implementation capacity in line ministries.

Problem: Project management arrangements were too complex for capacity in the
PMU and line ministries
32.     The procurement arrangements agreed upon at appraisal - involving a number of
relatively small contract values to deliver individual activities - did not account for the
GoK‟s limited experience with procurement at an international standard. Although the
PAD claims that the PMU had sufficient experience with World Bank procurement
procedures under KAP I, this experience was limited to individual consultants and goods
and therefore not sufficient to handle the required pace and scale of procurement under
KAP II. The resulting workload was such that procurement activities created a
bottleneck preventing implementation of most physical investments.

Actions taken: Strengthen management and implementation capacity
33.      Specific actions were taken to increase management and technical capacity within
the PMU and MPWU (the line ministry receiving the bulk of implementation following
restructure), and to reduce demands on the PMU. Most significantly: an international
Management Adviser and Procurement Adviser were recruited for the PMU; Senior
Technical Advisers were recruited to build capacity in water and civil engineering units
of MPWU; the procurement plan was revised to bring procurement for the bulk of
activities into two large firm contracts with multi-member consultancy teams to handle
documentation and assist with the procurement and supervision of construction works,
including Force Account works. Combined, these actions resolved the bottleneck caused
mainly by procurement arrangements and physical works were progressed.




                                             7
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design
34.    The Results and Monitoring Framework (RMF) established in the PAD was the
major formal mechanism for Project-specific results monitoring throughout the project.

35.      Outcome level indicators were designed specifically to address the PDO, namely
to measure project impact on risk diagnosis and adaptation design and on mainstreaming.
Because the PDO was the basis of the RMF, outcome-level indicators did not specifically
measure capacity building as this was instead captured by the GEO. The second outcome
level indicator (Section F) had limited value in measuring the real impact of the project
on mainstreaming climate risk management. Although KAP II activities were reflected
in MOPs from 2007 to 2010, this does not necessarily mean that climate risk
management was sustainably integrated as a priority in regular ministry work; success in
this regard would have been better measured by how many additional climate risk-related
initiatives were reflected in ministry planning, particularly those that utilized government
funding sources. Further, although MOPs are intended to link Ministry work to the
Kiribati Development Plan and national budgeting process, in reality they are not
generally closely followed. This indicator became less relevant following Project
restructuring (to only MPWU and MELAD as implementing Ministries) and should have
been revised.

36.     The overall design of the RMF was expansive with many indicators and thus
proved onerous to implement. In retrospect, the design of the RMF – and target values -
should have been formally revised at project restructure to reflect: the significant
reduction in project scope and geographic focus; the reduced timeframe for
implementation of physical works; and the realized capacity of the PMU. As it was not
substantially revised, the final values often suggest unsuccessful outcomes since
significantly fewer activities were completed than originally intended in the (somewhat
over ambitious) initial project design. The Project Management Adviser, hired following
restructure, assisted the PMU to streamline the component-level indicators to better fit
revised activities (although this was not formalized). The purpose was to ensure relevant
KAP II component outputs could be evaluated as an input to baseline conditions of KAP
III. The streamlined Results and Monitoring Framework is reflected in the output level
indicators included in Section F.

M&E Implementation
37.     Data was not regularly collected by the PMU, as required by RMF
implementation arrangements outlined in the PAD. Missions consistently identified that
data collection and M&E reporting was unsatisfactory, due to low capacity in the PMU to
handle multiple project management demands and implement the expansive RMF. To
address this, resources were made available for the appointment of an M&E specialist to
revise the monitoring template and data collection procedures and to train the PMU on
data collection and utilization in results-orientated progress reporting. However, the
consultant hired did not deliver a satisfactory output with regard to either of these
deliverables. As a result, the PMU was unable to progress with monitoring. Following



                                             8
restructure, the PMU allocated M&E responsibility to one staff member which assisted
implementation; some headway was made with data collected for some component-level
indicators up to year 3 (2009). The presence of the Project Management Adviser greatly
assisted the quality of data collection and progress reporting. Data was collected to
further update the streamlined Results and Monitoring Framework for the purpose of ICR
completion, following project closure.

M&E Utilization
38.     Because of limited data collection, the RMF was not utilized in most project
progress reports which, although generally submitted, were not forward looking and
results-orientated. One progress report utilized outputs of results analysis (Combined
Annual Report 2009 and Progress Report to March 2010). From the Bank side, the
continuous supervision and mission reports, including detailed Action Plans for PMU
follow-up, provided input to the M&E efforts.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social Safeguards
39.     Project design triggered World Bank Operational Policy (OP) 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement as project subcomponents had the potential to require land acquisition for
infrastructure such as seawalls and freshwater abstraction galleries. A detailed Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared and disclosed
which complied with Kiribati‟s legislation and procedures and the Bank‟s policy on
involuntary resettlement procedures.

40.     In the one instance where the Involuntary Resettlement Policy was triggered,
compliance with the procedures outlined in the RFP was slow but ultimately satisfactory.
The installation of freshwater galleries was suggested at a site where asset acquisition
(coconut trees) and land was needed. However, negotiations to acquire land from the
community began before the required socioeconomic assessments and other procedures
detailed in the RPF had been adhered to. Close supervision by the project team ensured
that this subcomponent was put on hold until the appropriate procedures had been
complied with.

41.     The quality of Bank supervision with regards to social safeguards policy was
varied during the project. The departure of the initial Social Safeguards Specialist from
the team and the lack of a replacement until mid-2010 meant that there was a gap in
supervision for a couple of years. This situation improved from mid-2010 until the
project closed.

Environmental Safeguards
42.    An Environmental Policy Framework (EPF) was adopted. In compliance with
GoK‟s legislation, larger subprojects, with potentially higher environmental impacts,
were subject to Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) being drawn up and approved
by the Government‟s Environmental and Conservation Division (ECD) in accordance
with the approved EPF. No environmental safeguards were triggered throughout the life



                                             9
of the project. Both Bank and counterpart safeguard experts monitored and ensured that
all safeguard conditions were being observed.

Financial Management
43.     The recipient complied with Financial Management (FM) conditions outlined in
the GEF grant agreement, specifically: to have the project approved and incorporated
into the fiscal year 2006 budget, and; to have adopted the Project Implementation Plan,
Operations Manual, and the Pilot Outer Islands Investments Scheme Procedures Manual.
The assessment of KAP II rated the FM risk as “moderate? based on the perceived lack of
capacity in Public Financial Management and the failure to publish the government
accounts. The implementation aspects of the project were mainly rated low risk due to
prior experience gained from KAP I.

44.     Throughout the life of the project there were only two supervisions conducted by
Financial Management Specialist staff . Both supervisions rated the FM performance as
satisfactory and no material issues were identified and no follow up recommendations
were included in either report.

Procurement
45.     Compliance with procurement procedures was generally weak due to lack of
experience and capacity in the PMU. Attempts were made to implement agreed
mitigation actions – through the appointment of dedicated national and international
procurement staff – but staff turnover and poor understanding of procedures continued
throughout the life of the project. A procurement post review carried out in June 2008
included recommendations to step up the advisory support and improve the
recordkeeping system. Notable improvements in processing were evidenced only in the
second half of the project period, with the appointment of a capable procurement officer
supported by international technical support, and a gradual understanding of procedures
by implementing staff.

46.     In view of the assessed low capacity, procurement prior review thresholds were
set at very low levels, and required a high level of input from Bank staff based in the
Sydney office.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

47.    At the request of GoK, a follow-on KAP III was approved by the Board on
September 15, 2011. Phase III will build on several key results achieved under KAP II
and carries forward a number of activities unable to be implemented under KAP II,
including:

      The Government of Kiribati 2010 Water Resources Policy for Kiribati,
      The National Water Resources Implementation Plan, endorsed by the government
       in 2010;
      Implementing the results of pilot programs on leakage reduction carried out with
       the Public Utilities Board (PUB) by KAP II in2010.


                                           10
      The Tarawa Water Master Plan, developed under KAP II and published in
       February 2011
      Community and hydrological surveys and community consultation for improved
       water supply in villages in North Tarawa
      Pilot programs on Rainwater Harvesting Systems in South Tarawa, completed in
       June 2011
      Analysis of the protection of groundwater reserves in Bonriki carried out in
       February 2010.
      Coastal conditions assessment and identification of highly vulnerable sites.

48.   The OB remains as the high level implementation agency. A number of KAP II
PMU staff have been re-hired under competitive bidding for the KAP III PMU.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

49.     Objectives. The 2004-2007 National Development Strategies (NDS) and
subsequent Sustainable Development Plan 2008-2011 (SDP) highlighted climate change
as a key risk to economic development, and provide for consultation-based measures for
climate change adaptation. The documents also emphasize the need to care for the islands‟
fragile environment and for sustainable use of natural resources.

50.      The Bank‟s Four-Year Strategy for the Pacific Islands (June 2005) identified
improved hazard risk management as one of the five pillars contributing to the economic
growth and job creation. The Kiribati Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) FY2011-2014,
is the first climate change-focused CAS in the Pacific region. Thus, the objectives of the
project remain relevant to and are consistent with both the national and World Bank
strategic priorities.

51.      Design. Individually, the components and activities included in project design
were relevant to the needs of the Government and people of Kiribati which has described
itself as being at the forefront of the impacts of global climate change. Activities spanned
sectors identified as high risk in the NDS and SDP and targeted priority actions identified
by a wide range of stakeholders through an in-depth participatory consultation process.
However put together, the number, geographic range and technical complexity of
activities were not as relevant to the situation of Kiribati since high management capacity
would have been required for successful implementation.

52.     Implementation. During implementation, restructuring was successful in
correcting the relevance of design by re-aligning project components and activities with
implementation capacity. Bank implementation support became highly relevant to the
needs of key implementing agencies following restructure when in-country visits and
dialogue with the OB and its PMU increased. Housing implementation in the OB was
appropriate as, following capacity enhancement at restructure, it ensured that project



                                            11
activities could be coordinated and undertaken by all relevant agencies and communities
in the country.

3.2 Achievement of Project Objectives

53.     The following is an evaluation of project outputs, as they relate to project
objectives. Detailed discussion of component outputs can be found in Annex 2.

54.      As captured in the PDO, a key objective of the project was integrating climate
risk awareness and responsiveness into economic and operational planning. This
objective was achieved, although further targeted capacity building is required.
Despite initial setbacks, the OB has been established as a central, high level entity with a
mandate to coordinate and lead CCA and disaster risk management, thus achieving
Outcome Indicator 1. Through the establishment of this institution, leadership capacity
for CCA planning has therefore increased within the GoK. MOPs were established as the
principal institutional planning vehicle for mainstreaming, linking CCA to national
development priorities. KAP II activities appeared in MOPs consistently throughout the
life of the project, exceeding the 60% target of Outcome Indicator 2.

55.     Although KAP II built capacity and set up the institutional structures to enable the
GoK to lead a whole-of-government climate risk management approach, more time and
capacity is needed before CCA implementation becomes a truly government-owned, led
and coordinated process. Due to limited staffing and multiple commitments, the OB was
not able to consistently work towards ensuring line ministries fully understand and are
committed to integrating climate risk management in regular ministry operations. Climate
change adaptation remains (generally) viewed at all levels of government as a problem
separate and additional to other development priorities, that requires external experts and
donor funding to solve. The OB is the institution established under KAP to lead the way
in changing this perception and therefore leading Kiribati towards climate resilient
development. However, further targeted capacity building within the OB is required to
increase its understanding and drive to do this.

56.     Another key objective captured by the PDO and reflected in project design was to
develop skills for systematic diagnosis of climate-related problems and the analysis of
adaptation options, through both formal training and technical assistance. Two integrated
training activities were particularly successful in achieving this objective: 1) capacity
building workshops to train cross-ministry staff in coastal climate risk assessments and
adaptation planning, and; 2) training in the use of calculators for downsizing global
climate change science to Kiribati levels in the coastal and water resource management
sectors. These risk assessment methodologies are being utilized independently of KAP II;
by ECD-MELAD in the development of their Second National Communications to the
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and by the
Kiribati Meteorological Services (KMS) in drought analysis. International TA
placements in ministries and counterpart arrangements with consulting firms significantly
increased „hands-on‟ technical skills within key implementing and beneficiary ministries.
Some examples of skills gained include: data collection techniques for water resource



                                             12
assessment (Water Unit, MPWU); leakage detection and repair methodology (PUB);
good practice in rainwater harvesting installation and construction quality and assurance
(MPWU, King Holdings (private contractor)); climate resilient construction techniques
for coastal protection measures (MPWU).

57.     Although this objective has been achieved, understanding of how and when to
apply skills remains limited to a few key individuals within government, which may
compromise the sustainability of this success as ministry staff move on to other jobs. As
the implementation of components 2 and 3 started only in the last quarter of project life,
the efforts of both consultants and Government counterparts were focused on finalizing
works which limited their ability to participate in long term capacity building efforts. As
a result, skills such as data analysis and application of data in risk assessment and
infrastructure design could not be adequately transferred. The value of many earlier
capacity-orientated KAP II outputs were diminished since continuation of these was
stopped at restructure. Details can be found in Annex 2.

58.    The final key objective reflected in the PDO and project design was to develop
and demonstrate the design of cost-effective adaptation measures, including tools and
techniques for adaptation and risk management. The implementation of both physical
investments and policy-orientated climate risk management strategies successfully
demonstrated to the government and the public that solutions are available to offset
climate change risks. The importance of this should not be underestimated in Kiribati
where the prevailing perception prior to KAP II was that relocation of the national
population was the only option.

59.     Tools and techniques for coastal protection and water resource management that
were specifically appropriate for the Kiribati context were developed and successfully
applied on a pilot basis in all physical investments, thus achieving Outcome Indicator 3.
For example, the design of „hard‟ engineering works for coastal protection was built from
a basic design already being applied by MPWU in order to make it simple enough to be
replicated outside KAP II. MPWU staff was involved at all stages of the diagnosis and
design process. Ecosystem-based measures were also applied on a number of sites on
South and North Tarawa and Outer Islands with over 37,000 mangrove seedlings planted.
The uptake of this output, led by MELAD, has been sustainable, with communities
actively involved in mangrove planting and maintenance. Best practice was applied in
the design and construction of seawalls at four sites along the main road in South Tarawa,
three on the lagoon side and one on the ocean side, for a total of 0.5 km of coastline
(Component 2); 9 freshwater monitoring boreholes in locations in North and South
Tarawa, and 1 water infiltration gallery in North Tarawa (Component 3).

60.    The process of designing and installing rainwater harvesting and storage facilities
on public buildings at four sites demonstrated a simple yet rigorous construction design,
building on existing designs being applied by MPWU. Rainwater harvesting guidelines
developed under KAP II in collaboration with MPWU are now being applied in a New
Zealand Aid Program (NZAP) funded rainwater harvesting project. Piloting of
freshwater infiltration galleries for sustainable community water resource management



                                            13
generated important lessons for future investments in Kiribati and other Pacific Islands.
The water resource assessment included more than 1200 measurements of the water lens
as well as surveying the conditions of more than 550 household wells and the rainwater
harvesting potential of more than 100 communal building. The assessment and
community consultation process demonstrated to MPWU, donors, the OB and NGOs the
extent of time and resources needed for effective options analysis for infiltration galleries
and other waster resource management works.

61.      Documentation of lessons (technical and implementation-related) was undertaken
by individual consulting firms. However, a compilation of lessons learned from each
type of investment (e.g coastal protection measures, infiltration galleries, rainwater
harvesting) would facilitate better consolidation of experience gained through pilot
activities and therefore enable greater achievement of objectives.

3.3 Efficiency

62.     A conventional economic analysis was not applied to the project due to the
difficulties of quantifying the damage associated with future climate events and the
project benefits associated with climate risk reduction (see Annex 3).

63.      The selection of capacity enhancement investments was based on climate related
sectors that would experience the worst incremental development costs incurred because
of climate change. Economic benefits resulting from investments in the water sector
include improved supply of clean water for human consumption and related reduction of
public health costs, and reduction of water shortages for agriculture and economic
activities and related loss of productivity. Economic benefits associated with more
effective coastal hazard protection include reduced damage to coastal structures and
ecosystems and associated livelihoods. Although it is difficult to quantify there is
consensus in government and among donors and communities that KAP II investments
are economically worthwhile, given the risks related to climate change that could amount
to US$8–US$16 million in the absence of adaptation (World Bank, 2000).

64.     Many important lessons were learned with regard to economic efficiency of
investments – particularly regarding the real costs of construction and accessing goods
and services in a remote location like Kiribati. The cost of labour and materials was
higher than envisaged at the time of project preparation and had to be partly offset by
reducing the unit number of coastal and water utility components. Investments within the
coastal sector were selected using a cost-benefit analysis to ensure that the selected
protection solution was the most cost-effective; for example, by choosing construction
methods that would require less or simpler maintenance.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                             14
65.     The overall rating is based on the relevance of the objectives, the extent to which
they were achieved, and the efficiency in doing so (see Section 3.3). Project objectives
remain highly relevant to the current strategic priorities of Kiribati and the World Bank.
Project design had some shortcomings that a restructure and increased implementation
support were able to successfully address. The restructure delivered a number of largely
satisfactory outputs that enabled all project objectives to be achieved to some extent. The
integration of climate risk awareness and responsiveness into economic and operational
planning was moderately satisfactory. Shortcomings stemmed from the shortened
timeframe of the project; more time was needed to truly build ownership of climate
change adaptation at the highest level of government. The development of skills for
systematic diagnosis of climate-related problems and the analysis of adaptation options
was also moderately satisfactory. A shortened timeframe meant that increasing capacity
and skills building outputs became secondary to completing physical investments. The
demonstration of tools and techniques for adaptation and risk management was
satisfactory since the project produced and documented a number of valuable lessons for
future adaptation investment. Overall, the short timeframe of actual implementation of
most activities – especially physical investments – meant that the value of some outputs
was often not as high as envisaged at appraisal2. The necessary discontinuation of some
subcomponents resulted in a number of earlier „orphan‟ outputs that did not therefore
significantly contribute to achieving Project Objectives.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
66.      Women and NGOs had a clear role in project activities (Intermediate Indicator 3).
Low income households and women headed households explicitly were consulted in the
initial project design consultations and in subsequent implementation of works such as
the water infiltration gallery and seawalls. NGOs played an integral role in design
consultation for physical works and their skills were developed as a result.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
67.      Strengthening the capacity of key institutions to lead, coordinate and manage
CCA efforts is a fundamental aspect of the project objectives. As discussed in Section 3.2
the OB has been successfully established as the lead agency coordinating CCA and
related strategies. The institutional capacity of key climate affected sectoral ministries to
implement climate risk management strategies has been increased through training and
skills transfer.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
68.    There were no unintended outcomes or impacts, positive or negative.




2
 For example, the Original Target Value for the number of water supply improvements
implemented (Intermediate Indicator 13) was 5 while the number achieved was 1.



                                             15
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

69.      There was no beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate.

70.    The follow-on phase – KAP III – builds upon the successes and lessons learned
during KAP II and therefore minimizes the risk that development outcomes will not be
achieved.

71.       However, some risk remains:
      (a) Political and institutional risks. With a change of government, the political will to
          enforce various outputs produced from KAP II (such as the building code, water
          resource management plans, guidelines and manuals) could lessen. This risk has
          a moderate likelihood but would have a high impact since fostering government
          ownership of climate risk management is fundamental to the PDO.
      (b) Technical risks: some of the tools produced for risk assessment (particularly
          calculators and risk assessment methodologies and guidelines) are based on
          climate change projections that are constantly being updated as climate science
          progresses. The design of investments based on these assessments may not be
          sufficient to withstand the latest projections of changes in sea level and extreme
          events. The likelihood of this is moderate since climate science is progressing
          quickly, however the potential impact is low since most investments are designed
          to reduce risk to current climate stress as a way to reduce risk to future climate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Recipient Performance

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

72.     In retrospect KAP II exhibited weakness at entry in four areas: i) the number and
geographical/sectoral scope of activities was too ambitious for implementation capacity
specific to Kiribati; ii) procurement arrangements were too complex for available
management capacity, nor did they reflect the lack of locally available consultants and
contractors; iii) institutional arrangements for project leadership did not account for the
risk of shifting political commitment, and; iv) many project risks were not recognized or
adequately addressed. These weaknesses at appraisal accounted for poor progress
towards meeting development objective and inevitably contributed to unsatisfactory
implementation progress in the early life of the project.




                                               16
73.      It is likely that these weaknesses at entry reflected the lack of global knowledge
and experience with climate change adaption project design and implementation and the
limited country knowledge and experience rather than poor Bank performance in the
identification and preparation phase. It is important to stress that KAP II was the first
Bank investment in Kiribati and the first adaptation project of this scale in the region (and
among the first globally), with no possibility to compare or gain any insights from
previous or similar effort. At the time of design, most climate change adaptation-related
initiatives in the region were at the stage of vulnerability assessment rather than
adaptation implementation. There were therefore few implementation and management
lessons to draw upon in designing KAP II.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

74.      Quality of Bank supervision increased over the life of the project. During the first
two years of the project, the Bank did not provide the level of implementation support
that is needed in a capacity-constrained environment such as Kiribati. By the time
implementation started, the project had moved to a third task team leader who already
had a very large program under development. A significant lag between project launch
and the first supervision mission contributed towards the waning commitment of GoK
central and line ministries, as stakeholders experienced few outputs and other priorities
took over. As a result of infrequent initial supervision, the full extent of capacity and
implementation constraints that were limiting the acceptable implementation of the
project – and the actions required to address these constraints - were only realized two
years into the (initially) three year project.

75.     Following the second review mission in April 2008 during which many
implementation constraints were formally recognized, supervision increased to two
official visits per year with interim visits by social and environmental safeguards staff
who also worked on other projects in Kiribati. Both procurement and FM stepped up
their support in the Pacific (with more staff in Sydney) which in turn meant more regular
supervision missions. This enabled problems and solutions to be more swiftly identified
and dealt with and especially assisted compliance with Bank policies and systems.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

76.     The overall rating for Bank performance is based on moderately satisfactory
ratings for both quality at entry and supervision. The Bank adapted appropriately as
project design weaknesses became evident and implementation issues emerged.
Shortcomings at entry were in part a reflection of unrealistic expectations due to lack of
CCA implementation experience in the region. Aspects of preparation were exemplary,
particularly the in-depth participatory design process. Initially significant shortcomings in
the Bank‟s proactive identification and resolution of threats to development outcome



                                             17
were rectified by the restructure which facilitated moderately satisfactory achievement of
objectives in the timeframe remaining.

5.2 Recipient

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

77.     Government performance improved over the life of the project. Although project
leadership was the responsibility of the OB, initial commitment to this function apparent
at appraisal did not materialize and the SNRPA Unit – crucial to progressing
implementation - was not staffed for the first 18 months of the project. However,
commitment to achieving project objectives increased as implementation issues became
apparent and the government, led by the OB, proactively worked with the Bank to resolve
these and restructure project activities. The OB was eventually appropriately staffed –
including the addition of a Climate Change Policy Adviser - following agreement from
the government. This development is to be commended, as strengthening the government
climate change policy and coordination capacity is one of the main goals of the
government strategy for climate adaptation and is a key objective of the KAP program.

78.      The functioning of the National Adaptation Steering Committee (NASC)3, the
entity responsible for promoting and monitoring coordination among implementing
agencies, was inconsistent with frequently low attendance at Secretary or Deputy
Secretary level. The NASC rarely had enough leverage to effectively steer KAP II. As a
result, reporting of KAP II decisions, critical issues, updates and progress to Ministerial
Secretaries and to Cabinet has not been consistent.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

79.     Implementing agencies were the PMU (housed within the OB) and line ministries
involved in activities funded by KAP II. Moderate shortcomings in performance were
due to initial lack of capacity rather than lack of commitment to achieving development
objectives. The PMU showed high commitment to carrying out post-mission Action
Plans and this was fundamental to the completion of physical investments. Capacity
constraints were markedly addressed by the appointment of a Project Management
Adviser and Procurement Adviser, including greater engagement with line agencies,
enhanced supervision of TA inputs, better office processes and more streamlined
management of procurement processes. M&E responsibilities were performed
inadequately however, impacting the quality of project reporting.



3
    Chaired by the Secretary of the OB (also the Project Director)



                                                  18
80.      Initially low commitment to KAP II activities within line ministries was linked to
inconsistent leadership and coordination at a higher level and irregular Bank supervision
missions. Low commitment shown by MISA, in part due to other competing priorities
within the Ministry, contributed to the reduction in geographic scope of KAP II.
Following the procurement arrangement restructure, MPWU committed considerable
staff resources to the implementation of demonstration projects in water and (especially)
coastal sectors. Technical supervision and most of the construction works under the
protection of coastal public assets component was successfully carried out by MPWU
under force account. MPWU also committed staff resources to assessments carried out
under the Improvement of the Sustainability and Supply of Freshwater component.
Compliance with GoK environmental consent process (processed by MELAD) was sound
for both contracts. The performance of MPWU in implementation and management of
these components was greatly enhanced by international TAs placed in the ministry, who
provided capacity building and supplementation. However, the commitment of MPWU
to community consultation engagement under the freshwater component was low.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

81.     The overall rating for Recipient performance is based on ratings of moderately
satisfactory for both government and implementing agency performance. Despite
insufficient leadership during the first 18 months of the project, alternative options were
proactively implemented by the government to increase leadership capacity in the OB.
Government oversight of KAP II management became sufficient following restructure –
albeit with moderate shortcomings because of inconsistent functioning of the NASC. The
capacity of the PMU and line ministries to perform the required functions was
successfully enhanced although reporting remained inadequate.

6. Lessons Learned

82.     Experience from KAP II has informed the design of KAP III and will be carried
forward in project implementation. Lessons are of direct relevance to further adaptation
projects in the Pacific region and globally. The lessons presented below relate to three
aspects of climate change adaptation project design and implementation: policy
mainstreaming and political commitment; management, and; implementation of
investments and capacity building.

Policy mainstreaming and political commitment:
83.     Consistent high-level leadership is crucial to integrating climate change
adaptation into development processes. Strong political commitment to climate change
adaptation alongside other priorities takes a long process of engagement. Project (and
climate change adaptation) leadership and oversight needs to be housed in a high level
ministry. Donors need to provide regular implementation support to ensure commitment
to project oversight is regular and to ensure understanding of and commitment to climate
change adaptation is thorough. The value of regular face-to-face contact should not be



                                            19
underestimated in Kiribati where trusting personal relationships are important to accurate
communication of facts and opinions, the negotiation of durable agreements, and mutual
commitment to project objectives.

Management:
84.     Effective and timely project implementation depends on appropriately
skilled individuals and, in particular, a strong Project Manager. Expertise and
cohesion built within the KAP II PMU was instrumental to the accelerated success of the
project post-restructure. A thorough analysis of institutional capacity for project
management should be undertaken prior to final project design. Experienced technical
advisers that mentor individuals in procurement, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation and day to day management are likely to be necessary to build necessary
expertise locally. PMUs should be headed by a Project Manager with considerable
project management experience. The following are important to effective project
management: pro-activity and initiative in stakeholder coordination; facilitation of
collaboration between ministries; regular communication between ministries, and;
ongoing necessary reporting.

85.     Complex procurement arrangements may prevent effective implementation
progress. In the absence of considerable experience with World Bank procurement
processes, a complex procurement plan prevented KAP II implementation in the first two
years. A thorough procurement capacity analysis should be undertaken before the
procurement plan is developed and should guide project design. Technical advisors
should be provided where necessary to build procurement capacity to international
standards. A key lesson learned, which is systemic across the region, is that Bank staff
need to provide a high level of support upfront, with procedures being explained in
simple, diagrammatic form and through interactive sessions. Further, given the
remoteness of the country, attracting competent international experts is difficult and
therefore necessitates a concerted effort to promote more knowledge transfer programs
among nationals.

86.     Research and information generated by a project needs to be consolidated
and shared. The large archive of research and advice generated by KAP I and KAP II,
mostly of high quality and on subjects not previously studied in depth in Kiribati, is
unique. A common problem in the Pacific is that research outputs from projects are not
collated or made publically available. This can result in research duplication in future
projects, thereby wasting funding and time. Wide public access to CCA-related data and
research should be promoted at no or nominal cost. Information could be electronically
linked to similar facilities in regional organisations and universities. The website
www.climate.gov.ki should be used to facilitate public access to information.

Implementation of investments and capacity building activities:
87.    A simple project design with focussed scope is required to maximise project
performance and in-country capacity building. The pre-restructure design of KAP II
was overly ambitious, assuming a project implementation capacity and expertise not
available in Kiribati at the time. Project design for CCA should be strongly aligned with



                                            20
select government development priorities. Project components and activities should be
cohesive and clearly work towards a simple project development objective. A balance
should be sought between scaling up and building upon past successful initiatives and
introducing new activities for CCA.

88.     Skills gained may be quickly lost if they are not regularly applied in regular
ministry work. There is a risk that skills will be lost if they are not applied in regular
development activities within ministries. Technical capacity enhancement needs to be
directly linked to project implementation activities rather than be limited to training
workshops. Training initiatives need to have regular follow-up throughout the lifespan of
a project rather than being one-off.

89.      Community ownership of „hard‟ investments is fundamental to sustainable
climate change adaptation. Although envisaged in the project design, thorough analysis
of community cultural, livelihood, land use and socio-economic situations was not
undertaken prior to community consultation for the potential installation of water
infiltration galleries during KAP II. A focused campaign on coastal resilience and water
resource management was problematic under KAP II as it was difficult for stakeholders
(MELAD, KAP PMU, and World Bank advisers) to reach agreement on the terms of
reference (TOR) for this task. The result was a lack of adequate integration of village
community perspectives into water resource management and issues arose over land
ownership, access and use rights. Sustained community engagement programs following
the installation of water tanks was not possible due to time restrictions following
restructure. As a result, there are gaps in community maintenance and management
capacity.

90.    Feedback from stakeholders in ministries, NGOs, civil society groups, and
consulting firms included the following:

      Consultations need to begin well in advance of scientific assessments so
       communities are fully engaged in the identification of risks faced and in decision
       making about options for addressing these. Consultations need to be equal two-
       way information sharing rather than one-way information dissemination
      Consultations need to be regular and lengthy and involve the same core
       facilitators. Personal trust and relationships need to be built between the
       consultation team and the community. The time that this takes should be factored
       into the project implementation plan
      Follow-up support needs to be given equal weight to pre-works consultation.
       Community engagement needs to continue regularly following the completion of
       works to engender community ownership; address problems; sort out
       management and maintenance arrangements; facilitate adaptive behavior
      Teams need to include experienced and skilled local facilitators to coordinate and
       facilitate consultation programs. Community engagement strategies need
       significant design inputs from local specialists experienced in participatory
       community development. Local experts should play a more significant role than
       language and cultural translation. Overall responsibility for facilitating


                                           21
       community consultation should not rest solely with external consultants because
       this largely precludes sufficiently regular follow-up and support. Specific
       responsibilities of external consultants should be outlined in Terms of Reference
       developed in consultation with local community engagement experts
      Ministry staff should be engaged in consultation program design and provided
       with considerable capacity building to ensure they are equipped with the skills to
       undertake effective consultations.
      Staff from government agencies – especially MPWU and MELAD - need to work
       together to ensure messages delivered to communities are consistent.
       Consultations need to be well organized and internal issues and options finalized
       prior to visiting the communities so that community members‟ questions receive
       complete and consistent messages over the course of engagement.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Recipient/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Recipient/implementing agencies

91.      The GoK raised two issues related to project implementation: 1) significant
erosion of the shoreline experienced at either end of some seawalls; and 2) large amount
of funds spent on international consultants relative to on-the-ground investments. The
World Bank acknowledges the erosion problems that are occurring at some sites of the
KAP II seawalls. As these seawalls were pilot investments intended to develop and
demonstrate a design and construction technique rather than protecting the full coastline,
they were limited in length and located in only a few of the most vulnerable sites. The
way the waves interact with the seawall and how the sand and coastline react to it is
critical information that will inform and be incorporated in the improved design of future
coastal protection investments, including seawalls built during KAP III.

92.     The World Bank also acknowledges that KAP II financed significant international
TA relative to physical investments. The implementation of pilot investments was
grounded on extensive and detailed technical and scientific assessments and feasibility
studies which – given the limited country capacity - were mostly supported by external
TA. In addition, to overcome the limited progress in project implementation during the
first two years, additional external advisory support was required to avoid overburdening
the PMU and line ministries with project management and implementation duties, thus
detracting from their already demanding work programs. The expectation however is that
some of the scientific and technical work carried out under KAP II will be used as
foundation for up-scaling and improving investments under KAP III with on-the-ground
investments taking place from very early on in project implementation.

93.     The GoK carried out an independent evaluation of KAP II that is generally in line
with the main conclusions of the Bank‟s ICR and provides a good list of lessons learned
and recommendations. It provides a comprehensive account of design, implementation
and management challenges and how these were addressed, particularly through the
restructure. In assessing project outputs and outcomes against objectives, the GoK‟s ICR
could have better considered the pilot nature of KAP II and its focus on capacity building.


                                            22
The Recipient‟s ICR suggests that project outputs primarily improved infrastructure and
policy frameworks for water resource management and coastal protection rather than
achieving CCA. This does not recognise that reducing vulnerability to current climate
and social stresses is a significant component of reducing vulnerability to future climate
change; this was the entry point for KAP II investments. Through capacity building, KAP
II increased the ability of the GoK to maintain and improve infrastructure in a climate
change sensitive way.

(b) Cofinanciers

94.    No comments were received from Co-financiers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

95.     Comments by the Pacific Infrastructure Advisory Centre (PIAC) recognize KAP
II contribution to the Kiribati water sector (see Annex 8).




                                           23
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                   Appraisal            Actual/Latest
                                                                              Percentage of
Components                         Estimate (USD        Estimate (USD
                                                                              Appraisal
                                   millions)            millions) (a)
Policy, Planning and
                                            1.17               1.28                109.4
Information
Land Use, Physical Structures
                                            2.17               1.79                  82.5
and Ecosystems
Freshwater Resources                        2.16               2.95                136.5
Capacity at island and
                                            0.55               0.10                  18.2
community level
Project management                          0.39               1.58                405.1
Total Baseline Cost                         6.46               7.70
Physical Contingencies                      0.12               0.00
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs                         6.58               7.70
Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)
Front-end fee IBRD
Total Financing Required                    6.58               7.70                117%

(a) There is a large margin of error due to fluctuations in exchange rate since the appraisal
estimate is in USD but accounts were kept in AUD. These figures use the exchange rate of
November 1, 2011.

(b) Financing

                                                   Appraisal          Actual/Late
                                       Type of     Estimate           st Estimate Percentage
Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing (USD               (USD        of Appraisal
                                                   millions)          millions)
 AUSTRALIA: Australian Agency
                                       Joint               1.49           3.43           230.2
for International Development
 Recipient                             Parallel            2.32           1.42              62.0
 Global Environment Facility
                                       Joint               1.80           1.80           100.0
(GEF)
 NEW ZEALAND, Govt. of
(Except for Min. of Foreign            Joint               0.97           1.05           102.9
Affairs)
    TOTAL                                                  6.58           7.70           117.0



                                                  24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Outputs and dropped/discontinued activities by component
Component/Subcomponent          Major outputs and dropped or                                       Comments
                                    discontinued activities
Component 1: Policy, planning and information
1.1 Frameworks and          One review of quality and                   This activity was discontinued with the decision not to undertake
processes for participation effectiveness of existing public            further national consultations (see below). The review was
and awareness               consultation methods in Kiribati            undertaken in the first year and identified gaps in existing
                            (completed in 2008)                         consultation methods. Recommendations and the manual were
                            Operational manual for public               not thoroughly incorporated into community consultations for
                            consultation prepared                       investments that occurred later in the project since consulting
                                                                        firms were not aware of the reports.
1.2 National consultation,   One National Consultation regarding        Discontinued. National consultations to inform the ongoing
participation and            building awareness of climate              design of KAP II activities were intended to be twice yearly.
awareness                    change adaptation across                   However, no further consultations were conducted after 2007.
                             stakeholders                               The outcomes of this output were therefore limited.
                             CCA-based participatory events on          Discontinued. Participatory events and media material (below)
                             South Tarawa and 6 Outer Islands to        were discontinued at MTR as these were not directly linked to
                             raise awareness in the public up to        physical investments under components 2 and 3. Good-practice
                             mid-term review (MTR).                     in participatory learning about CCA using radio, drama and print
                             Radio, newsletters and educational         media was developed and is recorded in a report. This resource
                             material produced up to MTR                has potential to be used during community engagement
                                                                        components of KAP III
                             Baseline survey of public attitudes        Discontinued. Surveys were intended to be completed annually
                             towards climate change (completed          in order to measure the impact of Component 1.2 on increasing
                             in 2007)                                   awareness. These were discontinued and the baseline study has
                                                                        not been used in monitoring



                                                                   25
                            Bilingual glossary of CCA related           The use of this output in actual community consultation under
                            terms produced                              components 2 and 3 was limited because contractors were not
                                                                        aware of them. Both of these outputs can be used in the
                                                                        implementation of KAP III
                            Focused behavior change campaign            Dropped since it was not linked to specific physical investments.
                            on coastal resilience and water             Funds were refocused to community consultations for water
                            resource management                         infiltration galleries (see below)
                            Initial consultation completed with         This output was added following MTR. This has laid the
                            three villages in North Tarawa in           groundwork required for installation of galleries in two of the
                            relation to proposed installation of        three villages in KAP III. Although galleries were intended to
                            infiltration galleries for village water    be installed under KAP II, valuable lessons about community
                            supply                                      perspectives on water resource management, livelihood impacts
                                                                        and the features and structure of successful community
                                                                        consultation were learned.
1.3 Policy coordination and OB established as lead agency               Fundamental to achieving CCA mainstreaming objectives. The
planning                    coordinating CCA and related                institution was set up by April 2009. At appraisal, the target was
                            strategies                                  the first year of project implementation, which was not achieved.
                            Climate-affected programs in MOPs           Direct contribution to achieving CCA mainstreaming objectives.
                            for GoK FY 2007, 2008, 2009 and             This provided the institutional planning basis for mainstreaming
                            2010 include KAP II activities              CCA, linking KAP II to national development planning.
                            Coastal hazard risk diagnosis and           Direct contribution to CCA mainstreaming and capacity building
                            planning process reviewed,                  objectives. Protocols in coastal hazard management were
                            recommendations for improvements            strengthened. Skills in climate risk assessment and adaptation
                            produced, capacity building                 planning in the coastal sector were significantly increased.
                            workshops to train cross-ministry           Foreshore Management Committee, an inter-ministerial
                            staff in coordinated assessment and         technical group was trained with the skills to complete coastal
                            planning completed (MPWU,                   risk assessments and develop climate change strategies. Risk
                            MELAD, MFMR KMS).                           assessments completed under this component (integrating the
                                                                        outputs of Component 1.4 below) were used in the design of




                                                                   26
                                                                        physical works in components 2 and 3. Visual outputs
                                                                        showcased the work of KAP at the Conference of The Parties
                                                                        (COP) at the UNFCCC in 2009.
1.4 Information for climate   Development of and training in the        Direct contribution to capacity building objectives. Members of
risk management               use of calculators for rainfall and       the Foreshore Management Committee (from MELAD, MFMR,
                              drought, and coastal storm surge and      MPWU, KMS) were successfully trained in the use of
                              sea-level rise projections.               calculators. Calculators were used in risk assessments under
                                                                        components 2 and 3 by MPWU and contractors as part of
                                                                        physical works. Calculators are being used outside KAP II by
                                                                        ECD-MELAD in the development of their Second National
                                                                        Communications to the UNFCCC, and by KMS in drought
                                                                        analysis indicating a sustainable outcome
1.5 Climate monitoring        Rain gauges installed in Outer            Direct contribution to capacity building objectives . Climate data
systems                       Islands (installation costs covered by    is essential for climate risk diagnosis into the future. Staff
                              KAP II only) and staff trained            trained in data collection on Outer Islands are fulfilling their
                                                                        tasks and collect data on an ongoing basis.
Component 2:Land use, physical structures and ecosystems
2.1 Integrating CCA into  Raise awareness, strengthen                   Dropped. At the time of restructure, the activity had not begun
land use policies         regulations, permitting and                   so was dropped to simplify project design.
                          enforcement processes, particularly
                          for monitoring and measurement of
                          beach mining activities
                          Monitoring of economic impacts of             Dropped at restructure because the implementation of the lagoon
                          EU-GoK lagoon aggregate mining                aggregate mining project was delayed.
                          project
2.2 Improve protection of FS6: multi-member consultancy                 Direct contribution to investment demonstration and capacity
public assets             team produced the following                   building objectives. FS6 enabled techniques in coastal protection
                          outputs:                                      to be demonstrated and piloted. Engineering design and
                               Preparation of a detailed               methodology is suitable for local capacity in MPWU and could




                                                                   27
                                 coastal engineering condition     be replicated by ministry staff. Mentoring provided by the
                                 assessment for most of South      consulting firm transferred skills in MPWU. A longer timeframe
                                 Tarawa.                           would have enabled more skills transfer.
                              Preparation of shoreline
                                 protection design guidelines
                                 & training workshops.
                              Preparation of adaptation
                                 strategies for six selected
                                 assets on South Tarawa.
                              Preparation of detailed
                                 engineering designs of
                                 selected shoreline protection
                                 works (4)
                              Procurement and
                                 construction supervision
                                 support for the demonstration
                                 shoreline protection works at
                                 four sites for a total of 0.5km
                                 of coastline.
                         Civil engineering capacity in MPWU        Direct contribution to capacity building objectives. The TA
                         strengthened through an international     assisted in supervising and executing works contracts in FS6
                         TA secondment                             since capacity in MPWU to do this was low. This enabled the
                                                                   pilot works to be completed. The TA was also tasked with skills
                                                                   transfer to local counterparts. This was successful although
                                                                   limited by the short timeframe and multiple roles required by the
                                                                   TOR.
2.3 Monitoring coastal   Coral benthic monitoring on South         Discontinued. MFMRD staff were successfully trained in coral
ecosystems to support    Tarawa and shoreline change               and coastal monitoring. Initial monitoring to establish a baseline
biodiversity             monitoring on South Tarawa and            was completed. The extent to which coral monitoring is being




                                                              28
                             outer islands.                     continued is unclear. Shoreline change monitoring is not being
                                                                continued by MFMRD. Although these activities produced
                                                                useful outputs, they were not coherently linked with other
                                                                components and as such have limited value in the context of
                                                                KAP II
                         Mangrove restoration on South          Direct contribution to investment demonstration objectives.
                         Tarawa and 4 outer islands for a total MELAD successfully developed a community engagement
                         of 37,000 seedlings planted.           process for local skills enhancement and ownership of mangrove
                                                                planting and maintenance. Mangrove planting has been
                                                                sustainable and is increasing habitat for coastal and marine
                                                                species important to local livelihoods
Component 3: Freshwater resources
                         FS7: multi-member consultancy          Direct contribution to all objectives. FS7 was a single firm
                         team produced the following outputs, contract established following the restructure to simplify
                         contributing to subcomponents 3.1,     procurement procedures. FS7enabled techniques in water
                         3.2 and 3.3 below :                    resource management to be demonstrated and piloted. MPWU
                         Strengthened capacity in water         staff were successfully trained, through partnership
                         resources assessment                   arrangements, in freshwater lens assessment. NGO staff were
                                                                trained in participatory techniques for community consultation.
                                                                A longer timeframe would have enabled more thorough training
                         Revision of national building codes    in (technically complex) water resource assessment.
                         to include rainwater harvesting and
                                                                An infiltration gallery was successfully installed in one location
                         storage provisions
                                                                at a school in North Tarawa. The gallery, and the processes of
                         Water resource assessments on          engagement and installation, is viewed positively by the
                         South and North Tarawa, and            community. The school now has a sustainable supply of water
                         Tabiteuea North and Tamana (Outer during the dry period. Water is not currently being used for
                         Islands) including:                    drinking however, because of discoloration and smell (although
                                                                quality is fine).
                              Well condition surveys (563      Infiltration galleries were not able to be installed in three further
                                                                locations as intended, because the extent of community



                                                                 29
                                    household wells)                     consultation regarding land and livelihood compensation
                                   Rainwater harvesting                 required was underestimated. However, community consultation
                                    potential assessment of              laid the groundwork for potential installation of galleries in two
                                    communal building roofs              further locations under KAP III. The most important outcome of
                                    (104 buildings)                      this component was experience gained in community
                                                                         engagement processes for water resource management. Lessons
                                   Geophysical freshwater lens
                                                                         will be carried forward into KAP III.
                                    assessments in South and
                                    North Tarawa and two outer           Skills in rainwater harvesting and storage design and
                                    islands (1247 measurements           construction were successfully built in MPWU and local private
                                    taken)                               sector contractors. An important outcome is lessons learned
                                                                         about community engagement required for appropriate operation
                                                                         and self-sustained maintenance. These lessons will be carried
                            Monitoring boreholes installed in 9          forward to KAP III. Guidelines produced were suitable for local
                            locations in North and South                 capacity and are currently being used by NZAP in a rainwater
                            Tarawa.                                      harvesting project.
                            Infiltration galleries for improved
                            water supply installed in one site
                            Community consultations
                            undertaken for potential installation
                            of infiltration galleries in three
                            further sites
                            Rainwater harvesting and storage
                            guidelines produced
                            Rainwater harvesting and storage
                            facilities installed at 4 sites on public
                            buildings
3.1 Update national water   National Water Policy developed              Direct contribution to outcome 1. The National Water Policy is
policy, standards, and      and adopted                                  the first policy framework for a coordinated national response to
capabilities                                                             water resource management issues. It sets out a number of
                                                                         principles currently being used to shape donor investments in



                                                                    30
                                                                   Kiribati, including KAP III
3.2 South Tarawa planning, Water Master Plan for South Tarawa Direct contribution to outcome 1. The Master Plan puts into
remedial action, pilot      completed                              action the principals set out in the National Water Policy. The
projects                                                           intention is for it to guide long term planning in MPWU and
                                                                   PUB. The Asian Development Bank‟s (ADB‟s) Water and
                                                                   Sanitation Project, KAP and NZAP‟s Temaiku subdivision
                                                                   project now all generally align with the Master Plan.
                            Study feasibility of freshwater lens   Dropped due to its potentially technically and politically
                            creation by land reclamation           contentious nature.
                            Pilot rainwater collection for         Dropped in efforts to simplify project design because not
                            groundwater recharge                   considered a priority
3.3 Outer Islands           Re-assess feasibility of non-polluting Dropped to simplify project design since the history of sanitation
assessments and public and sanitation systems                      improvements in Kiribati is not positive and requires a more
private systems upgrades                                           concerted focus than would have been possible
3.4 Strengthen capacity in  Water engineering capacity in          Direct contribution to capacity building objectives. . The TA
water resource              MPWU strengthened through an           assisted in supervising and executing works contracts in FS7
management                  international TA secondment            since capacity in MPWU to do this was low. This enabled the
                                                                   pilot works to be completed. The TA was also tasked with skills
                                                                   transfer to local counterparts. This was successful although
                                                                   limited by the short timeframe and multiple roles required by the
                                                                   TOR.
Component 4: Capacity at island and community level
4.1 Local consultations and Consultations undertaken on five       Consultations were discontinued after mid term review.
participatory risk          outer islands                          Outcomes of this component were few since the majority of
assessments                                                        Outer Island activities were dropped.
4.2 Training in local                                              Dropped to simplify project scope and design as not a priority
government CCA roles and                                           and most outer island investment activities were dropped
responses




                                                                 31
4.3 Include climate change 9 Outer Island socio-economic               Profiles did not contribute to KAP II outcomes because the
vulnerability in outer island profiles, incorporating climate          majority of outer island activities were dropped after MTR.
profiles                      change vulnerability information,        Profiles provide useful baseline information that can be used in
                              completed                                KAP III
4.4 Pilot small scale Outer Outer Islands loan scheme for roof         Dropped to reduce scope of project since the feasibility was yet
Island adaptation             catchment                                to be researched and would require considerable technical and
investments scheme                                                     administrative inputs from project management
Component 5: Project management
5.1 Operation of Project      PMU established as agency to             The PMU was staffed by 2008 with an I-Kiribati team: Project
Management Unit within        manage KAP II                            Manager, Project Coordinator, Procurement Officer, Finance and
OB                                                                     admin Officer, Procurement Assistant, Project Monitor, Project
                                                                       Office Assistant, Assistant Accountant.
                             International TA Project                  This greatly increased capacity in the PMU to undertake day to
                             Management Adviser seconded to            day and longer term project management to international
                             PMU                                       standards. Project reporting and office functions (such as filing)
                                                                       improved significantly following appointment.
                             International TA Procurement              This greatly increased procurement capacity in the PMU. Lack
                             Adviser seconded to PMU                   of procurement skills to international standards had previously
                                                                       hindered project progress. This enabled the evaluation of bids
                                                                       and subsequent contract negotiations with preferred bidders for
                                                                       FS6 and FS7. In conjunction with the Project Management
                                                                       Adviser, the Procurement Adviser built skills through on-the-job
                                                                       involvement of the PMU in every aspect of procurement and
                                                                       contract management.




                                                                  32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.     Traditional measures of efficiency such as cost-benefit analysis were not
undertaken during project preparation and implementation although a qualitative
incremental cost of climate change impacts was undertaken at appraisal. A conventional
economic analysis could not be applied to KAP II as a stand-alone project because of two
fundamental uncertainties related to delivery of intended benefits:
    a. the pace and severity of climate change impacts in the next 20-50 years is
       uncertain meaning the value of damage avoided from KAP II investment cannot
       be quantified precisely enough, and;
    b. the benefits of the Project will depend on the sustained effort of government,
       communities and the private sector in utilizing the capacity created.

2.      Further, the largest portion of funds were directed towards institutional
strengthening, technical assistance and capacity building (approximately 80% TA to 20%
investment), making it difficult to measure the project benefits in economic terms.

3.      The expected economic benefits identified at appraisal included: maintenance of
livelihoods otherwise threatened by climate change; avoidance of damage to coastal
assets and ecosystems; avoidance of climate change and disaster-induced limits to
economic growth; avoidance of public health costs due to insufficient and contaminated
water supply; avoidance of productivity losses due to water supply-related public health
impacts; enhancing public sector investment that requires reliable and safe water supply.

4.      Although it is difficult to quantify there is consensus in government and among
donors and communities that KAP II investments are economically worthwhile, given the
risks related to climate change that could amount to US$8 to 16 million in the absence of
adaptation (World Bank, 2000). Project implementation provided useful information
regarding the actual costs of construction and accessing goods and services in a remote
location like Kiribati that can be used in the design and evaluation of future investments.
The cost of labour and materials for example was consistently higher than what was
estimated at appraisal. Investments within the coastal sector were selected using a cost-
benefit analysis to ensure that the selected protection solution was the most cost-
effective; for example, by choosing construction methods that would require less or
simpler maintenance. Investments in the water sector were driven largely by the
immediate urgency of improving supply of freshwater to reduce current risks to
population associated with availability and quality of drinking water. This was highly
valuable as „no regrets‟ adaptation measure (which provides benefit regardless of climate
change) but most adaptation solutions were piloted on such a small scale that it would not
be possible to carry out any meaningful cost-benefit analysis.




                                            33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                                Title                   Unit
Lending
Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough             Task Team Leader               EASER
Sofia U. Bettencourt                    Task Team Leader               AFTEN
David Michael Chandler          Sr Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO
Bruce M. Harris                               Consultant             EASTE - HIS
Hoonae Kim                               Sector Manager                EASSD
Maarten K van Aalst                           Consultant               GFDRR
Nurul Alam                        Senior Procurement Specialist        ECSO2
Supervision/ICR
Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough             Task Team Leader               AFTEN
Marianne Grosclaude                     Task Team Leader               LCSAR
Emilia Battaglini                       Task Team Leader               EASNS
Melinda Good                                  Sr Counsel               LEGES
Johanna Van Tilburg                           Sr Counsel               LEGES
David Michael Chandler          Sr Financial Management Specialist     EAPCO
Stephen Paul Hartung             Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM
Cristiano Costa e Silva Nunes         Procurement Specialist           EAPPR
Miriam Witana                         Procurement Specialist           EASPR
Olivia Warrick                           CCA Specialist                EASNS
Tiresa Slade                             Team Assistant                EACNF
Gitanjali Ponnambalam                    Team Assistant                EACNF
Michelle Lisa Chen                      Program Assistant              SASDO
R. Cynthia Dharmajaya                   Program Assistant              EASER
Nathan Hale                             Program Assistant              EACNF




                                         34
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget GEF Only)
    Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands
                                    No. of staff weeks    (including travel and
                                                             consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                     14.26                 126.05
  FY06                                     14.65                 168.83
  FY07                                        0.75                  3.62
  FY08                                                             0.00
                          Total:                                 289.03
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                        8.22                70.09
  FY08                                        9.21                46.51
  FY09                                     11.76                  73.43
  FY10                                        9.58                65.06
 FY11                                      11.77                  89.24
 FY12                                         0.83                11.72




                                         35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not applicable




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not applicable




                                     37
Annex 7. Summary of Recipient's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

GoK comments on draft Bank ICR

Comments to the World Bank Draft ICR, provided by Mr. Tangitang Karueata, Secretary,
Office of the President, Government of Kiribati




GoK: “Unfinished Business?, KAPII Implementation Completion Report for
Government of Kiribati, May 2011




                                        38
39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments from Pacific Infrastructure Advisory Centre (PIAC)




                                      40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

See http://www.climate.gov.ki/library.html for most KAP II reports, guidelines and
assessments

World Bank. 2006. KAP II Project Appraisal Document

Office of Te Beretitenti, GoK. June, 2010. Combined Annual Report 2009 and Progress
   Report to March 2010:

Hughes, T. (2011) Unfinished Business: KAPII Implementation Completion Report.
   Government of Kiribati

Beca International Consultants Ltd, 2008. KAP II Mid Term Review Evaluation Report,
   prepared for the Office Te Beretitenti, Republic of Kiribati

World Bank, 2001. Kiribati Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) FY2011-2014

World Bank. KAP II Implementation Status and Results Reports: June 2007; June 2008;
November 2008; January 2009; June 2009; January 2010; May 2011

World Bank, KAP Aide Memoires: July 2005; October, 2006; July to August, 2007;
April 2008; November 2009; May 2010;

World Bank, 2009. KAP II Project Restructure Paper

World Bank, 2000. Cities, Seas and Storms: Managing Climate Change in Pacific Island
Economies

Government of Kiribati, 2008. Kiribati Development Plan: 2008-2011

Government of Kiribati, 2004. Kiribati National Development Strategies: 2004-2008

Ministry of Environment, Lands and Agricultural Development, Government of Kiribati,
2007. National Adaptation Program of Action (NAPA)

Global Environment Facility, June 13, 2006. Trust Fund Grant Agreement




                                           41
                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 38722


                                                                                                                                       KIRIB ATI
                                Naa
                                                                                                                       TA R AWA AT OLL
                                                                                                                                      COASTAL CONDITIONS
                                                                                                                          13          ASSESSMENT SITES

                                   Buariki                                                                                            WATER RESOURCES
                                                            0             2.5          5                                Taratai       ASSESSMENT SITES
                                                                     KILOMETERS                                          Betio        URBAN CENTERS

                                                                                                                                      ADMINISTRATIVE CENTER*

                                                                                                                                      MAIN PAVED ROADS
                                         Tearinibai                                                                                   OTHER ROADS

                                         Nuatabu                                                                         * Bairiki Island serves as administrative center although
                                                                                                                           the capital is the entire atoll of Tarawa

                                          Tebangaroi

                                                                                PACIFIC

                                                                                 OCEAN
                                                          Taratai

                                                                                                                                                KIRIBATI
                                                                                                                            Area of Map
                                                                Taborio

                                                                    Notoue


                                                                       Abaokoro

                                                                           Marenanuka

   13   Main Road in Bikenibeu − Nawerewere                                       Tabonibara
   12   Main Road in Bikenibeu − Nawerewere
   11   Main Road in Bikenibeu − Nawerewere
                                                                                            Kairiki
   10   Main Road in Nawerewere − Temaiku
   9    Main Road in Tangintebu                                                                    Kainaba
   8    Main Road in Taborio                                                                                Nabeina
   7    Main Road in Taborio
   6    Main Road in Antenon (Taborio)                                                                                Tabiang
   3    Main Road in Teaoraereke
                                                                                                                          Tabiteuea
   2    Teaoraereke − Nanikaai Causeway
                                                                                                                                    Tabuki

                                                                                                                                             Abatao
                                                                                                                                                                     Tanaea
                                                           L a g o o n                                                                             Buota

                                                                                                                                                                           Bonriki
                                                                                                                            Bonriki Intl. Airport

                                                                                                                                            Nawerewer
                                                                                                          Eita Bangantebure                                             Temaiku
                                                                                                      9
Betio                                                                           Ambo       6 7 8                                                                                          10
                                                                                                                               Bikenibeu13
                                                                                                      Tangintebu                                           12                        11
                                                                                            Taborio
                                                                Banraeaba

                                                      2     3
                                     Bairiki
                                                                 Teaoraereke
                                               Nanikaai
                               BAIRIKI
                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                     JULY 2011
                                                                                                                        173° E     Makin      174° E                         175° E                             176° E                                177° E
                                                                                                    3° N                                                                                                                                                                    3° N
                                       K IRIB AT I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tamana                                          Tabiteuea North
                      GIL B E RT I S L AN D S                                                                                              Butaritari                                                       Island       Tekabwibwi                                Island
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Tekaman
                                       WATER RESOURCES                                                                                                                                         Airstrip                       Tanaeang
                       Tamana                                                                                                                                                                                                        Buota
                                       ASSESSMENT SITES
                                                                                                                                                                                         Barebuka                                    Terikiai
                                       VILLAGES                                                                                                                                                                                            Eita
                                                                                                                                                                                      Bakaka                                                 Utiroa
                                       ADMINISTRATIVE CENTER*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tauma
                                                                                                                                                                                        Bakarawa
                        * Bairiki Island serves as administrative center although
                          the capital is the entire atoll of Tarawa                                 2° N                                                                                                                                                                    2° N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Kabuna
                                                                                                                                                        Marakei
                                                                                                                                 Abaiang                                       0       1 Kilometer
                                           171° E                                          172° E


                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0        5        10

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                 Tarawa



                                                                        KIRIBATI
              1° N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1° N
                                                  Area of Map
                                                                                                                                                 Maiana




                                                                                                                                                                       Abemama

                                                                                                                                                  Kuria
                                                                                                                                                                  Aranuka
                                                                                                                                                                                                          P A C I F I C                  O C E A N
              0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0



                                                                                                                    Gilbert
                                                                                                                    Islands                                                              Nonouti


                                     Banaba



              -1° S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -1° S
                                                                                                                                                                            Tabiteuea North
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tabiteuea              Beru                      Nikunau
                                                                                                                                                                                                            South



                                                                      0                                       100                   200
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Onotoa
                                                                                                           KILOMETERS


              -2° S     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                     -2° S
                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
AUGUST 2011




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 38723
                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                    Tamana
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Arorae
                                         171° E                                        172° E                           173° E                 174° E                         175° E                            176° E                                177° E
