                                                                                                         94058
                                                                                                       April 16, 2012
Kiribati Adaptation Program Phase II




 Preparation, Adaptation and Awareness: Kiribati’s Climate Challenge


Overview
From 2006, the Kiribati Adaptation Program, Phase II (KAP II) has helped identify and pilot
adaptation measures to improve coastal protection, freshwater supply, and sustainability for the
Pacific island nation of Kiribati, one of the most isolated countries in the world, and one of the
most vulnerable to climate change and sea level rise. Climate risk considerations have been
integrated in key Ministry plans, and the project has helped develop and apply best practices
in water resource management and coastal protection. Approximately 0.5 km of sea walls have
been built along the main road, over 37,000 mangrove seedlings have been planted and
several water management improvements have been carried out, all helping to increase
resilience to the effects of climate change for Kiribati’s 98,000 residents.




Challenge                                                 MULTIMEDIA
Kiribati is one of the most isolated countries in
the world and has one of the highest rates of
poverty in the Pacific. Consisting of 33 low-lying
islands spread over a vast area of ocean,
Kiribati is extremely vulnerable to climate change
and sea level rise. Most of the land is less than
three meters above sea level, and tides have
already flooded homes and devastated people’s
livelihoods. Sea level rise is also contaminating
groundwater in Tarawa, making it unfit for
people to drink; increasing the potential for
epidemics; making it difficult to grow crops, and      MORE
threatening critical marine ecosystems. Infant           Kiribati: pushing against the tide
mortality from diarrheal diseases in Kiribati is the
highest in the Pacific. Environmental pressure is
compounded by population growth. At current rates, the
population will increase by 55 percent by 2025. Nearly half of          More Results
Kiribati’s 98,000 inhabitants live in South Tarawa, an area
that is more densely populated than Tokyo. In 2000, the


                                                                        1,200
World Bank regional economic report estimated that, by
2050, many of the island state’s largest settlements could
become inundated.
                                                                        people now have better fresh
                                                                        water supply
Approach
KAP II aimed to change the way Kiribati is able to manage
risks from climate change and sea level rise. This approach
required the integration of adaptation programs within
relevant government policies and plans. Communities, island        37,000
councils, civil society groups, nongovernmental organizations      mangrove seedlings planted,
(NGOs), and churches were central in consultation and              helping protect against coastal
                                                                   erosion
implementation. The main adaptation investments supported
by KAP II not only provided immediate results in terms of
reduced vulnerability, but also helped to demonstrate and
promote climate risk awareness in planning and design.             MORE INFORMATION
Following KAP II, these activities are being expanded as part       Kiribati Adaptation Program
of a continued adaptation program.                                  Phase II

                                                                    Country Website
Results
                                                                    Country Assistance Strategy
By 2011, the KAP II project had achieved visible on-the-
                                                                    Data and Statistics
ground impacts on coastal protection and freshwater supply
and sustainability.                                                 Feature story: Kiribati: Pushing
                                                                    Against the Tide

      Shoreline protection works were completed in the first
      quarter of 2011. These works included construction of
      approximately 500 meters of sea walls and the
      planting of over 37,000 mangroves, helping protect against coastal erosion and acting as
      a first line of defense against water contamination.

      Water works have been completed across Tarawa and the Outer Islands, including a
      freshwater infiltration galleryto improve water supply for over 500 people. Rainwater
      harvesting and storage facilities at four sites are benefitting over 700 people, 50 percent
      of which are women.

      Groundwater monitoring boreholes were installed in nine locationsand rain gauges in the
      Outer Islands have increased capacity to gather crucial climate data.

      Public involvement and awareness grew significantly with the implementation of key
      activities, such as mangrove planting undertaken by local communities and youth
      groups, and community training in groundwaterwell and rainwater tank maintenance.

      The National Water Strategy was adopted in 2010 along with a National Water Strategy
      Master Plan. A Coastal Protection Guideline was developed to ensure key infrastructure
      investments could withstand extreme weather and sea level rise, as well as provide
      guidelines for rainwater harvesting and storage.

      Best practice regarding risk management and environmental assessment isnow applied
      systematically in the design ofmajor infrastructure projects.

      Important capacity building initiatives were undertaken with government departments,
      including trainings in climate risk diagnosis, assessment and planning. Among others,
      these programs have helped staff and partners monitor rainfall and drought, storm
      surges and sea-level rise projections on a regular basis.

      Oversight of adaptation measures were coordinated and integrated across government.
      A lead office (Office of Te Beretitenti/Office of the President) was established in the
      program’s first year with responsibility to oversee adaptation. The National Adaptation
      Steering Committee meets every month, attended by key ministries.

      KAP II activities were included in all Ministry Operational Plans of the Government of
      Kiribati for all financial years between 2007 and 2010.

Voices
      Planting mangroves contributes to the building of coastlines
   and protects our shores against coastal erosion. Mangroves
   provide a range of benefits, including increasing habitats for
   coastal and marine species which are important to local
   livelihoods.
              — Turang Favae, Acting Biodiversity and Conservation
               Officer at the Environment and Conservation Division


Bank Contribution
The Bank supported the project with a grant from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) of
US$1.8 million within a total project cost of US$7.7 million.

Partners
The project was co-financed by the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
and the New Zealand Aid Programme (NZAP). AusAID provided US$3.43 million, the New
Zealand government US$1.05. The Government of Kiribati provided US$1.42 million.


The National Adaptation Steering Committee in Kiribati helped coordinate KAP II. Overall
direction was provided from the Office of Te Beretitenti through the Strategic National Policy
and Risk Assessment Unit (SNPRA).

Toward the Future
Adaptation work started by KAP II, which closed in June 2011, is being continued by the KAP
III Project. KAP III will build on its predecessor’s successes to improve climate resilience by
both strengthening the government’s and communities’ capacities to manage climate change
effects. KAP III will also focus on increasing fresh water quality and storage capacity at the
local level. The US$10.8 million KAP III project is being financed by the Global Environment
Facility Least Developed Countries Fund, the Japan Policy and Human Resources
Development Fund, the Global Facility for Disaster Reduction and Recovery, and the
Government of Kiribati.
