                            PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                              CONCEPT STAGE

                                                                                   Report No.: 34332
 Project Name                      Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Reduction Development
                                   Policy Loan II
 Region                            Latin America and the Caribbean Region
 Sector                            Other Urban Development
 Project ID                        MX P089852
 Borrower(s)                       United Mexican States
 Implementing Agency               Secretaria de Desarrollo Social, Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal,
                                   Comisión Nacional de Fomento a la Vivienda
 Date PID Prepared                 October 10, 2005
 Estimated Date of                 October 11,2005
 Appraisal Authorization
 Estimated Date of Board           November 22, 2005
 Approval

1. Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Mexico is at a critical point in its demographic history where affordable housing and related urban development
represent crucial challenges for the country's socio-economic development. Although population growth rates
have slowed dramatically, the formation of new families by the "baby boom" of the 1970s and 1980s will double
the number of total households and the resulting demand for housing and basic services between the years 2000
and 2030 as this group comes of age. The institutions and financial architecture necessary to serve about 60
percent of families are largely in place. Low and moderate-income families, however generally lack formal sector
support. If this problem goes unaddressed, the resulting informal settlement, lack of housing, and attendant social,
economic, environmental, and health problems will generate enormous private and public costs. The Government
has committed to address this critical challenge by doubling formal-sector housing production to 750,000 housing
solutions per year by 2006.

The overall program of World Bank support includes three sector adjustment and development policy loans and a
US$7.7 million Housing and Urban Technical Assistance Loan (HUTAL). The program supports the
government's efforts to improve national policies and institutions for housing and urban development; make the
federal housing system more efficient by designing and implementing a unified system of subsidies to facilitate
access to housing by low- and moderate-income families; bolster systems for housing loans and savings and move
them down-market; strengthen urban real property registries and rights; coordinate and support physical and
social investments in poor neighborhoods; increase the supply of and access to urban land for poor people and
improve this market's functioning; and increase capacity to prevent and manage the damage caused by natural
disasters.

The first loan in the series (HUSAL I) was approved by the World Bank's Board of Directors on 27 April
2004.and closed in December 2004. That loan supported the design and implementation of a new national housing
policy and accompanying institutional arrangements, establishment of programs to facilitate home loans for low-
and moderate-income groups, and initial steps toward harmonization of disparate housing subsidy systems and
modernization of urban title systems. In parallel, for the first time, a coordinated national urban development
policy was developed and implemented at the federal and local levels, with a focus on strengthening institutions,
improving approaches to developing land for low-income housing, and introducing programs to mainstream
natural disaster risk management in development plans.

2. Proposed objective(s)

The proposed operation is the second in a three-loan program to support housing and urban development reforms
under the Government of Mexico's National Housing Sector Program 2001-2006 and National Urban
Development and Territorial Planning Program 2001­2006. The proposed loan (HUDPL II) would provide
continued support for the government's agenda, with emphasis on five main areas:
·   Reforming the operation and structure of federal housing subsidies.
·   Developing new financing mechanisms for home purchases, improvements, and additions for low- and
    moderate-income populations.
·   Expanding the program for modernizing property registries.
·   Strengthening the urban upgrading program.
·   Expand low- and moderate-income land development.

The loan's expected benefits include increased access to adequate housing and basic services for low-income
households, higher sector efficiency and competitiveness, greater income opportunities and promotion of access
to physical capital, and better environmental conditions.

3. Preliminary description

HUDPL II would consolidate and deepen the reforms made under the first loan. The proposed HUDPL II aims to
continue support to the main strategic areas of action under this program, specifically: develop national policies
and institutions for housing and urban development; continue progress towards the design and implement a
unified system for federal housing subsidies; bolster systems for housing loans and savings, and move them
down-market; strengthen urban real property registries and rights; coordinate physical and social investments in
poor neighborhoods; increase the supply of and access to urban land for poor people and improve this market's
functioning; and prevent and manage the damage caused by natural disasters.

The proposed HUDPL will include the following key prior actions in the policy areas included below:

Macroeconomic Framework.- Maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework consistent with policy
objectives and programs described in the Letter of Development Policy.
Housing Subsidies - The government has completed an evaluation of federal housing subsidy programs, taking
into account land and infrastructure subsidies delivered at the local level to federally assisted housing projects,
and the results are reflected in the subsidy programs designed for 2006.
Housing Finance ­ Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal has designed and implemented pilot projects for financing
home improvements, additions, and purchases, in accordance with standards agreed between the government and
the Bank.
Property Registries and Rights - Five additional state governments have implemented property registry
modernization programs, in the manner agreed between the government and the Bank.
National Urban Policy, Slum Upgrading, and Institutional Strengthening ­ The Government has
strengthened its urban upgrading program through participatory planning, coordination, and sequencing of
investments.
Low- and Moderate-Income Land Development - The government has completed a quantitative analysis of the
costs and benefits of different modes of low- and moderate-income land development, and developed an action
plan that facilitates such development.

4. Environment Aspects

The proposed loan will follow the guidelines and new requirements in Operational Policy/Bank Policy 8.60 for
assessing possible effects on the environment, forests, and natural resources, as well as social and poverty effects.
Policy reforms supported by the program will have widespread environmental benefits. Informal settlements
suffer from numerous environmental and social problems due to lack of basic services. Policies supported by the
proposed loan--such as promoting slum upgrading and formal housing development in suitable, well-designed
areas--will improve infrastructure provision, access to green spaces, public transportation, and social services,
while reducing vulnerability to natural disasters. According to the analytical work completed to date, none of the
reforms are expected to have significant negative environmental or social impacts. Some localized negative

environmental impacts are possible from eventual implementation of programs supported by the loan, such as
inconveniences due to construction activities or resettlement from risk-prone areas.



5. Tentative financing
Source:                                                                             ($m.)
IBRD                                                                        Total   200.51

6. Contact point
Task Manager
Abhas Jha
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington DC 2044

