                                                DOCUMENT       OF
                                              THEWORLDBANK

                                       FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                                    REPORT 33412-MX
                                                                                              No.



         INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                         PROGRAMDOCUMENT


                                             FORA PROPOSED


                                SECONDAFFORDABLE HOUSINGAND



            '  URBANPOVERTY REDUCTIONDEVELOPMENT POLICYLOAN


                              INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$200.51MILLION

                                                       TO


                                     THE UNITED MEXICANSTATES




                                             OCTOBER 25,2005




FINANCE,PRIVATESECTOR, ANDINFRASTRUCTUREDEPARTMENT
MEXICO COLOMBIACOUNTRYMANAGEMENTUNIT
        AND
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEANREGION


  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
  their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        Currency Unit:Mexican Peso

                            EXCHANGERATE

                    October 20,2005: MX$10.84 =US$]

                       WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                Metric System

                              FISCALYEAR
                           1 January-3 1December

                             ABBREVIATIONS
1BANSEFI      I Bank of National Savings and Financial Services               I




 HUSAL          Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Sector Adjustment Loan
 HUTAL          Housing and Urban Technical Assistance Loan
IIBRD         1 InternationalBank for Reconstructionand DeveloDment            I
 IDB            Inter-American DevelopmentBank
 INFONAVIT      National HousingFundfor Private Sector Workers
IMW           I Minimum Warre (1 MW = MX$1.3SO/month US$128/month)
                                                            =                  I
 NAFTA          NorthAmerican Free Trade Agreement
 NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
 OREVIS         State Housing Finance Agencies
 ONAVIS         National HousingFinance Agencies
 PROSAVI        Special Housing Subsidy Program
 SEDESOL        Social Development Secretariat
 SHCP           MinistryofFinance of Mexico
 SHF            FederalMortgage Corporation
 SOFOLES        Special Purpose Financial Companies
 UDI            Inflation adiusted unit of account in Mexcio




                                        ..
                                       11

                                                   FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




                        Vice President: Pamela Cox
                     Country Director: IsabelM.Guerrero
                       Sector Director: Makhtar Diop
                      Sector Manager: John Henry Stein
                         Sector Leader: Anna Wellenstein
                    Task Team Leader: Abhas K.Jha




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

                                        CONTENTS

LOANAND PROGRAMSUMMARY                                             vii

I.INTRODUCTION                                                     1

ILCOUNTRY CONTEXT                                                  3

     RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS                                  3
     MEDIUM-TERM MACROECONOMIC PROSPECTSAND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY    4
     THE HOUSING SECTOR'S ROLE INTHE MEXICANECONOMY                4

111. MEXICO'S AFFORDABLEHOUSINGAND URBANREFORMAGENDA, 2001-06      6

     HOUSING AND SHELTER                                           6
     NATIONAL URBANPOLICY AND SLUMUPGRADING                        8
     AREAS OF BANK SUPPORTFOR THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM             9
     POLICY AREA 1:NATIONAL HOUSINGPOLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS       9
     POLICY AREA 2: IMPROVINGTHE IMPACT OF HOUSING SUBSIDIES       10
     POLICY AREA 3: HOUSINGFINANCE                                 11
     POLICY AREA 4: URBANPROPERTYREGISTRIESAND RIGHTS              11
     POLICY AREA 5: NATIONAL URBANPOLICY, SLUMUPGRADING, AND
                    INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                    12
     POLICY AREA 6: LOW- AND MODERATE- INCOME LAND DEVELOPMENT     12
     POLICY AREA 7: DISASTER PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT             13

IV. THE BANK'S AFFORDABLE HOUSINGAND URBANPOVERTYPROGRAM           13

     RELATIONSHIP WITH OTHER BANK OPERATIONS                       13
     LESSONSLEARNED FROMHUSAL I                                    14
     ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS                                      15

V. THE PROPOSEDLOAN                                                15

     DESCRIPTION                                                   15
     POLICY AREA 1: NATIONAL HOUSING POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS     17
     POLICY AREA 2: HOUSING SUBSIDIES                              18
     POLICY AREA 3: HOUSINGFINANCE                                 20
     POLICY AREA 4: URBANPROPERTYREGISTRIESAND RIGHTS              21
     POLICY AREA 5: NATIONAL URBANPOLICY, SLUMUPGRADING, AND
                    INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                    22
     POLICY AREA 6: LOW- AND MODERATE- INCOME LAND DEVELOPMENT     24
     POLICY AREA 7: DISASTER PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT             25

VI. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION                                        26
     POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACTS                                    26
     PUBLIC PARTICIPATION                                          27
     IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING, AND EVALUATION                    28
     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS             28
     DISBURSEMENT                                                   28
     AUDITING                                                       29
     ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS                                          29
     RISKS AND MITIGATION                                           31
     CONCLUSION                                                     31




                                            iv

ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY                                  33
ANNEX 2: MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS, EXPECTEDOUTCOMES, AND INDICATORS    40
ANNEX 3: INFONAVIT'S REFORMPROGRAM                                     43
ANNEX 4: RECENT DEVELOPMENTS INTHE HOUSING AND URBANUPGRADING PROGRAM  45
ANNEX 5: FUND RELATIONS NOTE                                           49
ANNEX 6: MEXICO: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS                               54
ANNEX 7: MEXICO: KEY EXPOSUREINDICATORS                                56
ANNEX 8: MEXICO: IBRDiIDA OPERATIONSPORTFOLIOAS OF 08/18/05            57
ANNEX 9: MEXICO: IFC'S HELD AND DISBURSEDPORTFOLIO                     58
ANNEX 10: MEXICO AT A GLANCE                                           60




                                          V

This loan was preparedby a World Bank team consisting of Abhas Jha, Angelica Nunez, Marja-Hoek Smit, William
BrittGwinner, JozefDraaisma, Edgardo Mosquiera, Robert Christen, KirstenOleson, Victor M.Ordoiiez Conde and
Benjamin Santa Maria under the supervision of John Henry Stein and Isabel Guerrero. The team is grateful for the
helpfulinputs and suggestions provided by Anna Wellenstein, Jaime Jaramillo, Todd Crawford, David Rosenblatt,
Miguel Lopez-Bakovic, Loic Chiquier and Harold Bedoya. Peer reviewers were Robert Buckley, Sonia Hammam
and Maria Emilia Freire. Cristina Velazco-Weiss provided valuable administrative support.



                                                      vi

                                LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                                    UNITED MEXICANSTATES
SECOND AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND URBANPOVERTY REDUCTIONDEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                                 LOAN

Borrower           United Mexican States

Implementing       Ministry o f Treasury and Public Credit
Agency

Poverty Category   Not applicable
Amount             US$200.51 million
Terms              Fixed spread U.S. dollar-denominated loan, 5 year grace period and total repayment
                   period o f 15 years
Front-End Fee      0.25% o f loan amount capitalized

Objectives,        The proposed operation i s the second in a three-loan program to support housing and
description, and   urban development reforms under the Government o f Mexico`s National Housing Sector
benefits           Program 2001-2006 and National Urban Development and Territorial Planning Program
                   2001-2006.

                   The overall program of World Bank support includes three sector adjustment and
                   development policy loans and a US$7.7 million Housing and Urban Technical
                   Assistance Loan (HUTAL). The program supports the Government's efforts to improve
                   national policies and institutions for housing and urban development; make the federal
                   housing system more efficient by designing and implementing a unified system o f
                   subsidiesto facilitate access to housing by low- and moderate-income families; bolster
                   systems for housing loans and savings and move them down-market; strengthen urban
                   real property registries and rights; coordinate and support physical and social
                   investments in poor neighborhoods; increase the supply o f and access to urban land for
                   poor people and improve this market's functioning; and increase capacity to prevent and
                   manage the damage caused by natural disasters.

                   The first loan in the series (HUSAL I)was approved by the World Bank's Board of
                   Directors on 27 April 2004. That loan supported the design and implementation o f a new
                   national housing policy and accompanying institutional arrangements, establishment o f
                   programs to facilitate home loans for low- and moderate-income groups, and initial steps
                   toward harmonization o f disparate housing subsidy systems and modernization o f urban
                   title systems. Inparallel, a coordinated national urban development policy was developed
                   and implemented at the federal and local levels, with a focus on strengthening
                   institutions, improving approaches to developing land for low-income housing, and
                   introducing programs to mainstream natural disaster risk management in development
                   plans.

                   The proposed loan (HUDPL 11) would provide continued support for the Government's
                   program, which has made strong progress towards its outlined goals. In particular,
                   HUDPL-I1will support five main areas:

                         Reformingthe operation and structure of federal housing subsidies.
                         Developing new financing mechanisms for home purchases, improvements, and
                         additions for low- and moderate-income populations.
                         Expanding the program for modernizing property registries.
                         Strengthening the slum upgrading program.
                         Expanding low- and moderate-income land development.




                                                   vii

                     The Loan's expected benefits include increased access to adequate housing and basic
                      services for low-income households, higher sector efficiency and competitiveness,
                      greater income opportunities and promotion o f access to physical capital, and better
                      environmental conditions. The Program has made better than expected progress in some
                      components notably disaster prevention and management, mainstreaming environmental
                      concerns into the housing sector and up-scaling and reforming Habitat. At the request o f
                      the Borrower, the proposed loan amount i s increased from the US$lOO million that was
                      envisaged at the time o f the approval o f HUSAL-I to US$200.51 million, while
                      remaining within the overall CAS limits endorsed by the Bank Board inApril 2004.

                      In addition, monitoring indicators have been agreed with the Government to enable
                      regular tracking o f the program's progress.

Risks and Mitigation  The program hastwo mainrisks: transition and institutional.

                      The transition risk is related to the presidential elections scheduled for mid-2006.
                      Although the program has gained solid support and ownership from a wide range o f
                      stakeholders, a new administration may choose to change its structure or emphasis.
                      Technically and politically difficult reforms such as the consolidation o f housing
                      subsidies could suffer delays, especially ifthe technical cadre were to change. The risk o f
                      backtracking on reforms i s higher for publicly funded programs like Habitat and housing
                      subsidies than for the housing finance reforms, which are linked to private finance and
                      developers. Indeed, the latter group may prove to be a stable force in support o f
                      maintaining reforms during the Government transition. The overall risk i s considered
                      moderate. Mitigation efforts include a more realistic timeline for the program.
                      Processing o f the third loan o f the program has been postponed by a year (planned now
                      for August 2007) to enable the Bank and the new administration to develop a dialogue on
                      the affordable housing and urban poverty agenda. In addition, a policy note will be
                      prepared for the new administration with a detailed discussion o f the program's
                      objectives and characteristics.

                      The institutional risk reflects the difficulty o f ensuring adequate coordination across
                      agencies. The program's         ambitious,  multi-sectoral approach requires constant
                      coordination between government agencies and ministries, and a failure to do so could
                      put parts o f the program at risk.This risk is considered moderate,and will be mitigated
                      in three ways. First, the forum of the subsidy working group (which includes
                      INFONAVIT) provedto be an effective forum for ensuring inter-ministerial and agency
                      coordination and the working group would be continued. Second, the technical capacity
                      o f Comisibn Nacional de Foment0 a la Vivienda (CONAFOVI) will be strengthened
                      through the HUTAL. This will enable the agency to better provide the necessary
                      leadership inthe housing policy dialogue. Third, the proposed strategic vision study for
                      INFONAVIT, to be financed under the HUTAL, would enable the Bank to continue to
                      engage the institution ina reform dialogue.

ProjectIdentification PO89852
Number




                                                         ...
                                                      Vlll

                        Summary Lexicon of Affordable Housingand Urban Poverty inMexico

 BANSEFI (Bank of National Savings and Financial Services)-federal             institution created in 2001 to promote household
 savings, help popular financial institutions adjust to the 2001 Law for Popular Savings and Credit (which phased in new
 requirements between 2001 and 2004), and coordinate Government support to such institutions, which focus on serving low-
 andmoderate-incomehouseholds.

 CONAFOVI (National Housing Commission)-federal institution formed in 2001 that is part of SEDESOL and reports to
 the Presidentof Mexico. It developshousingpoliciesandcoordinates nationalhousinginstitutions, particularly at the federal
 level (such as SHF andFONHAPO), as well as INFONAVIT andFOVISSSTE.

 CONAVI (National Council of Housing)-forum for public and private input on housingpolicies and programs; managed
 by andreportsto CONAFOVI.

 CORETT (Land Regularization Committee)-federal agency under SEDESOL responsible for regularizing informally
 urbanized ejido land. Operating on a massive scale, it buys (expropriates) such land, regularizes titles to it. and sells it to
 existingoccupants.

 Ejido land-form     of communal property (often called "social land") created by the Mexican Constitution to protect rural
 farming communities, and regulated by a complex set of federal laws and institutions. Two-thirds of land on the fringes of
 Mexican cities now consists of ejidos, providingthe main source of parcels for new housing.

 FONAEVI (National Fund for Low-Cost Housing)-trust fund administered by FONHAPO that manages and disburses
 funds under the unified housingsubsidy system, andcurrently does so for Tu Casa.

 FONHAPO (Low-Income Housing Fund)-trust fund that serves as the main source of federal support for low-income
 housing.Poor repaymentson below-market-rateloans made to state and local housing institutes-which on-lent the funds to
 low-income households-nearly         led to FONHAPO's bankruptcy, from which it has recovered. FONHAPO, through
 FONAEVI, has a mandate to develop a unified system of housing subsidies. FONHAPO's main programs are Tu Casa and
 PROSAVI.

 FOVI(Financial HousingAid Fund)-second-tier            institution that providedmarket-ratemortgages until SHF was createdin
 2002. FOVI is now administeredby SHF, and mainly performs functions relatedto covering liabilities created by its former
 lendingoperations.

 FOVISSSTE (Housing Fund, Social Security ServicesInstitute for Public Sector Workers)-housing fund that receives
 5 percent of the salaries of federal workers, which it uses to provide below-market-ratemortgages, with lower rates for poorer
 households.Providedabout 10percent of mortgage loans in2004. Also part of the pensionsystem(ISSSTE) for contributing
 workers.

 INFONAVIT (National Housing Fund for Private Sector Workers) - pension fund and housing lender funded by a
 compulsory contribution of 5 percent of the salaries of private formal sector workers. It provides below-market-rate
 mortgages, with lower rates for poorer households. Governed by representatives of workers, employers, and Government,
 Provided50 percent ofmortgage finance in 2004. Also part ofthe pensionsystemfor contributingworkers.

 Low-income household-household earningup to three minimum wages

 Minimum wage-income           measure used for social programs, including housing. One minimum wage is about US$128           i
 month.

 Moderate-income household-household earningbetweenthree and six minimum wages

 PROSAVI-subsidy programcreated by FOVI, now run by FONHAPO, that provides housinggrants of about US$5,000 tc
 households earning three to five minimum wages. Beneficiary households combine the grants with mortgage loans (fron
  SHF-funded SOFOLES, which channel the grants to specific projects) and down payments to buy expandable units (eack
 about 40 squaremeters and costingUS$16,000).

 SEDESOL (Social Development Secretariat)-federal ministry responsible for, among other things, urbandevelopment.
1 SHF-(Federal Mortgage Corporation)-created in 2002 as the successor to FOVI; will receive 12 years of federal suppor



                                                              ix

to leadthe development of primary and secondarymarket-ratehome lending.A second-tier institution that provides liquidity
and guaranteesto first-tier lenders (mainly SOFOLES); SHF funds about 11percent of mortgagefinance,

SOFOLES-non-bank         financial institutions/specialized lenders set up as a result of the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA) that have become Mexico's main source of private home lending since banks left the market in 1995.
These institutions can make loans and raise debt on capital markets. but cannot accept deposits froin the public. SOFOLES
are legally allowed to finance only a limited number of activities (for example, for consumer goods, education. and health).
This document refers only to Mortgage SOFOLES (SOFOLES Hipotecarias.)

Tu Casa (formerly V1VAH)-         subsidy programrun by FONHAPO that provideshousinggrants of about US$3,000 for a
new finished unit, or US$1;400 for housingimprovements, to households earning three minimum wages or less, The grants
must be matched by state and local governments, typically in the form of serviced lots for finished housing. Local
governments contract construction of basic units (up to 30 square meters). which beneficiary households buy by combining
the grants with down payments.




                                                             X

                                    IBRD PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR
A PROPOSED SECOND DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOANFOR AFFORDABLE
                HOUSING AND URBANPOVERTY REDUCTION TO THE
                                          UNITED MEXICANSTATES

                                                   I.INTRODUCTION

1.1        On 27 April 2004 the Bank's Board of Directors approved the First Affordable Housing
and Urban Poverty Reduction StructuralAdjustmentLoan (HUSAL I).HUSAL Iwas designed to
be the first in a series o f three quick-disbursing loans, complemented by a technical assistance
loan (HUTAL), to support the Mexican Government's housing and urban reforms, as reflected in
its National Housing Sector Program 2001-2006 and National UrbanDevelopment and Territorial
Planning Program 2001-2006.' Specifically, the program supports the Government o f Mexico's
affordable housing and urban reform inthe following areas:

           0   Improved national policies and institutions for housing and urban development.
           0   Design and implementation of a unified system for federal housing subsidies.
           0   Strengthened systems for housing loans and savings, and move them down-market.
           0   Strengthened urban real property registries and rights.
           0   Coordinated physical and social investments inpoor neighborhoods.
           0   Improved urban land markets and land policies to improve access by poor people.
           0   Prevention and management o fthe damage causedby natural disasters.

1.2        The reforms supported by HUSAL Ihave had apositive impact. Inthe affordable (or low
income)' housing sector, improvements occurred as planned. The Government has advanced on
the institutional and policy reforms recognized in HUSAL I.The design, guidelines and
mechanisms for housing subsidy programs were improved and so was the institutional framework
for mortgage lending. The result was an increased availability o f housing finance for moderate-
income households.3 In the urban sector the first loan helped improve: (i)the development o f an
urban sector strategy, (ii)documentation on land markets (perceived as the main obstacle to
private investment in the sector), and (iii)public sector incentives at the local level to prevent
natural disasters. The first loan also supported the expansion o f urban poverty programs such as
Habitat.

 1.3       The Government of Mexico continues to demonstratestrong commitment and ownership
of the program. The Government has fully complied with five o f the six action triggers for
approval o f the second loan (see the policy matrix in annex 2). In addition to the requirement to
maintain a sound macroeconomic framework, the following actions have beencompleted:

       0   Evaluation of federal housing subsidy. As a result o f this evaluation, several procedural
           bottlenecks were identified which have been taken into account inthe subsidy programs
           prepared for 2005. Furtheranalysis will be conducted to design new mechanisms to align
           and unify the federal subsidy system.




 ' CONAFOVI,   2001, Program Sectorialde Vivrenda2001-2006, available at
littp://www.conafovi.gob.mxlsecciones/banner/programa  percent20sectoriaViiidex. htm; SEDESOL, 2001, Progruma iVucional de
Desarrollo Urbanoy Ordenacidn del Territorio 2001-2006, available at
littp://www.sedesol.gob.mx/subsecretarias/desarrollourbano/subsecretari~programanacional.ht~n.
'Throughoutthe   report, we use low-income housingand affordablehousinginterchangeably.
  Privateinvestment inthe liousiiig sectorjumped 113 percentbetween2003 and2004.


                                                               1

    0   Design and implementation of inicrofinance pilot projects to finance the purchase and
        improvement of existinghousingunits, in accordance with well-establishedstandards.

    0   Modernization of property registry programs in five state governments (in addition to
        those included inthe first loan).

        Strengthening of Habitat -- the federal urban development program -- through
        participatory planning, coordination, and improved sequencing of investments.

1.4     One action - a quantitative analysis of the costs and benefits of different modes of
lowhnoderate-income land development and development o f an action plan that facilitates
lowhnoderate-income residential land development-has been delayed, in part, due to delays inthe
effectiveness o f the HUTAL4.However, the Government o f Mexico remains committed to the
study and to finding options for increasing the supply o f land for low and moderate income
housing, and has agreed to combine the quantitative analysis and action plan with the related
trigger for HUDPL I11 - the implementation of a pilot program that facilitates lowlmoderate
income land development that could be scaled up subsequently. Additionally, in other
components of the program, notably in disaster mitigation, the Government has moved beyond
what could have been expected at this stage of the program.

1.5      Theproposed HUDPL IIsupports the continuation of institutional and regulatory reform
at thefederal level in the housing and urban sectors whilepromoting reforms at lower levels of
Government. HUDPL I1 will support further analysis and reform of the on-budget housing
subsidy and will help ensure the sustainability of housing finance reforms by mainstreaming new
credit products for low-income housing. It will also help the Government design and implement
new models o f land development for the poor and expand improvements in slum upgrading,
including enhanced capacity at the local level for participatory planning o f investments. The
operation will have a strong environmental impact by improving conditions in slums and
promoting formal development on appropriate, well-designed sites.

1.6      The components of theproposed loan draw)om strong technical analysis conducted by
the Bank and the Governmentof Mexico. Particularly relevant are four Bank economic and sector
reports: Prior to HUSAL I,the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) for Mexico
conducted jointly by the IMF and the Bank in 2001; a Contribution to an Urban Strategy for
Mexico (Report 22525-ME, July 2002), and Low Income Housing: Issues and Options (Report
22534-ME, September 2002). Since HUSAL I,               the Urban Poverty in Mexico (Report 33884-ME,
2005). These reports analyze the efficiency of public sector programs and policies and stress the
importance o f housing and shelter as a key sector to help the poor access basic assets. The overall
prograin has been designed on the basis of the conclusions of these studies.

1.7      The proposed loan is consistent with the goals set in the recent Country Assistance
Strategy discussed by the Board on April 15, 2004, e.g., reducing poverty, increasing
competitiveness, and promoting environmental sustainability. HUDPL I1would result in better
housing, basic services, and access to real assets for low-and moderate-income households-key
aspects o f poverty that the loan would address by providing support for a national slum upgrading
program and for new land development and housing for low-income families. The project would
enhance Competitiveness by increasing the efficiency of housing and urban development, housing
finance, and property registries. Many low- and moderate-income homes contain micro-
enterprises in addition to providing shelter, and home owners often build additional rooins to rent


'SignedinMarch 3lSL,2005 and effective in Sept 08,2005


                                                         2

or for family members. Thus housing often serves as a key source of capital accumulation and is
critical to building a strong middle class. By supporting measures to reduce the housing system's
reliance on inefficient public finance and strengthen the financial system, the loan would reduce
risks to the federal Government of bailouts and lower demand for Government support. Finally,
the project would have a strong environmental impact by improving conditions in slums and
promoting formal development on appropriate, well-designed sites.

                                   11.COUNTRYCONTEXT

2.1      Since niid-2003 the Mexican economy has gained momentum by taking advantage of the
global economic recovery and high international oil prices. Broad based economic growth has
been achieved within a framework of macroeconomic and financial stability. Fiscal discipline,
moderate inflation, and a more robust financial system should help ensure that solid economic
performance continues through the end of the current administration, the upcoming presidential
elections (in July 2006) and the transition to the next administration.

2.2      Stronger monetary, fiscal, debt management, and Jinancial sector policies and
institutions should allow the Mexican economy to cope with market volatility resulting )om
increased political competition. Political uncertainty related to the presidential elections may
increase volatility in financial markets, with a negative impact on the real economy. Mexico has
had many bad experiences in this regard, with some of the country7s worst economic crises
occurring around the time of changes in administrations. Only in 2000, with the election of
current President Vicente Fox, was Mexico able to break this cycle and avoid an economic crisis,
Similar as in 2000, Mexican policymakers are in a position to take additional measures to reduce
economic and market vuliierabilities in case o f adverse developments and prolonged political
uiicertainty.

Recent Economic Developments

2.3       Broad based growth has contributed to the economic recovery, though growth is slowing.
Despite a strong rebound of economic activity in 2004-when            GDP rose 4.4 percent-more
moderate expansion i s expected in 2005; duringthe first half of the year growth was 2.8 percent.
The global economic recovery, high oil prices and export revenues, favorable external financial
conditions, and increased domestic credit have stimulated aggregate demand in all of its major
categories-private      consumption,    investment,    exports-raising   economic    activity and
employment.

2.4       Continued price stability and increasing domestic credit have also contributed to the
recovery.    Price stability, public debt management and policies aimed at financial sector
development have allowed for a steady growth o f domestic financial savings, whereas fiscal
consolidation reduced the claim of the public sector on those savings thereby allowing for a
sound expansion in domestic credit to the private sector. Since mid-2003, for the first time since
the 1995 banking crisis, commercial banks' outstanding credit to the private sector has grown in
real terms, leading to higher private consumption and business investment. In addition, the
government managed to extend the domestic yield curve issuing longer term fixed rate bonds (up
to 20 years), thereby creating an important benchmark for longer term private sector credit
contracts, including mortgage lending.

2.5       The Governmenthas kept the deficit within its annual budget targets and in line with its
medium-term goal of Jiscal consolidation. Higher than budgeted oil revenue has played an
important role in achieving fiscal targets, compensating for lower tax revenue and higher public


                                                   3

investment and revenue sharing with state and municipal goveriiinents. Oil-related budget
revenue has grown by a total of almost 2.5 percentage points of GDP over the past three years,
allowing the budget deficit to be cut by almost half that amount and substantially increasing
public sector dependence on oil revenue, which in 2005 accounted for 40 percent of public
revenue.

Medium-Term Macroeconomic Prospects and Debt Sustainability

2.6      Mexico 's macroeconomic fi.amework is solid. Progress in attaining macroeconoinic
stability is starting to pay off, with economic growth stabilizing around the economy's growth
potential. Improvements in Mexico's sovereign credit risk ratings are another reflection of such
progress and provide reasonable assuranceof continued adequate access to external finance, even
at times o f increased market volatility.

2.7      Favorable external conditions are unlikely to continue over the next few years, and
limited progress on legislative reform has reduced Mexico's potential output growth. Thus the
Government's medium-term projection of 3.6 percent average annual GDP growth for 2005-08
may be difficult to attain. If the resolution of global imbalances were to result in a sharp
slowdown in U S growth, there is a risk that the Mexican economy could be adversely affected.
Other factors like oil price volatility, higher international interest rates, and political uncertainty
related to the presidential elections and change in administration could also slow average growth
over the next few years to about 3.0 percent.

2.8      The Government's medium-term fiscal fi.amework aims to further increase fiscal
consolidation and reduce public debt. The Government's 2006 budget, presented in September
2005, updated its medium-termfiscal projections for 2006-09. The projections include ambitious
targets on the budget balance, with a small surplus in 2006, and a drop in off-budget financing.
The fiscal consolidation envisaged in this framework would reduce net augmented debt to about
32 percent of GDP by 2009, from 41 percent in 2004.

T h e Housing Sector's Role in the Mexican Economy

2.9      Recent growth in the construction industry and housing sector is an important driver of
domestic demand and economic activity Since 2002 the construction industry has experienced
continued and increasingly vigorous expansion. This growth outpaced the expansion in overall
economic activity during this period-a       common pattern for a strongly pro-cyclical industry
(Figure 1). The housing sector, which makes up about half o f the construction industryand tends
to be slightly less pro-cyclical, grew at about the same rate as the overall industry through 2004
and is projectedto outperform it and the economy over the next few years.




                                                   4

           Figure 1:Annual Growth in GDP, Construction,and Housing, 1998-2006
     8


 i   4
     6



     2

     0
 I-*
  -4

  -6

 1-8         1                                                          -                        I
              ~~



                  +GDP                    --c Construction                 -A- -Housing      ~-

                                                                       -
                 ~




Source: INEGIdata; World Bank staff projections (for 2005 and 2006)

2.10      Strong linkages to other sectors of the economy reinforce the impact of housing
expansion on economic activity. The value added generated by housing construction amounts to
about 2.5 percent of GDP. But in terms of aggregate demand, housing (including intermediate
inputs such as bricks, mortar, steel, and glass) generates gross fixed capital formation
(investment) demand of about 5.1 percent of GDP. Since more than 90 percent o f intermediate
inputs inhousing are suppliedby domestic sources, the latter figure provides a better indication of
the housing sector's role in overall economic activity.

2.11      Public housing and housingJinance programs and policies laid thefoundations for the
sector's current rapid expansion. The Fox Administration's National Housing Sector Program
2001-2006 set a target for annual construction of 750,000 units by 2006, using policies designed
to strengthen the country's various public housing funds and leverage their financial capacity.
The number and amount o f loans for housing more than doubled between 2001 and 2004, and if
commercial banks and SOFOLES (specialized lenders) continue to increase their participation in
the market, the target for 2006 may be reached (table 1). The stimulus provided by increasing
credit for housing is evident from the rapid growth in credit as a percentage o f housing
investment, which rose from 21.5 percent in2001to 31.6 percent in 2003.

                   Table 1.Loansfor Housingand Home Improvements,2001-045




Note: Amount is inmillions o fpesos.
Source:CONAFOVIand SEDESOL.


2.12      Monetary tightening has had only a minor impact on long-term interest rates, and so
does not pose a major obstacle to the expansion of housingfinance. Monetary tightening has led



'Excludes subsidy programs (Tu Casa, PROSAVI and other implementedby local housinginstitutes)


                                                               5

to a steep increase in short-term interest rates over the past two years-by                         530 basis points since
the low point reached in August 2003. The increase has been much smaller for the longer-term,
nominally fixed peso rates now available in Mexico that are increasingly used as tlie benchmark
for mortgage lending. The returnon 10-year, nominally fixed peso bonds, issued periodically by
the Mexican Government since July 2001, has increased by only about 160 basis points over the
past two years. Despite this more recent monetary tightening, the overall progress in attaining
macroeconomic and price stability brought about an important reduction in nominal and real
interest rates that contributedto a sound expansion of housingfinance inMexico.


 111.MEXICO'SAFFORDABLEHOUSINGAND URBANREFORMAGENDA, 2001-06

Housingand Shelter

3.1        While access to shelter is a recognized priority for the Mexican authorities, there are
serious shortages of housing and housing services in Mexico. The problem is particularly acute
amongst the less affluent. On tlie one hand, low average incomes relative to housing prices
preclude a large percentage of families from accessing the cheapest market-produced housing.
About 40 percent (300,000) o f tlie urban households formed every year earn less than three
minimum wages (about US$380 a month). They cannot afford finished houses in serviced
neighborhoods, even in smaller urban areas. On the other hand, affordability problems have been
exacerbated by inadequate policies. Under previous administrations many housing and urban
policies clashed with efforts to attract private investment in housing. Most federal subsidies and
other housing policies targeted middle- and high-income households, and builders and financial
institutions served only these households.

3.2        This lack of access to housing finance explains two primary characteristics of the low
income housing sector in Mexico. First, most low-income families have access to housing
through the informal markets and tend to build their own units incrementally over time.`.
Presently, in Mexico, more than half of new housing i s built bytheir owners without support from
formal private and public institutions7 Such housing is often located in inadequate sites,
disregarding safeguards and zoning and showing insecure tenure, poor construction, unhealthy
environments, increased exposure to natural disasters, and inadequate and costly service
provision. Second, while more than 80 percent o f Mexican home owners have some property
rights" a large portion o f these homes are o f poor quality. According to official statistics, about
2.5 million houses (about one fourth o f the total housing stock) require major improvements; 1
million need to be replaced. Home improvement is less expensive than buying a new,
commercially built home and is a better solution for tlie low income households. However,
Government programs show a strong bias towards finisheddeveloper-built lio~siiig.~                                 Inaddition,
low-income households prefer improving their homes rather to moving to new units in public
housing developments, which are often far from employment opportunities, friends, and families.


`This  systemof buildingone's home over time is called "progressive housing". The 2002 World Bank report on low income housing
providesa gooddiscussion of the reason progressivehousing is a goodalternative for the poorer householdsgiven their lack of regular
'income.
  Although institutional mortgagefinance has grown over the past decade and now finances about 300,000 units a year, this is less
than half ofthe 750,000 new householdsformed each year.
`About  60 percent of these home owners hold full legal title to their property, while 40 percent have varying degrees of paralegal
rights. Mexico's home ownership rate o f more than 80 percent compares with 67 percent in Canada and the United States and an
average of61 percent in 16 Western Europeancountries.
'The  cheapest commerciallybuilt unit costs USS16,OOO and, without subsidies, is affordableonly to Iiouselioldsearning more than 5
minimum wages. 111contrast, major home improvementor expansion (or both) costs US$2,000-4,000 and is affordable to households
earning 1.5-2.0 minimum wages. Other relatively low-cost housing solutions include building a unit on a lot already owned by a
household (US$6,000-8,000) and buying aunit in alow-income settlement(about USSI0:OOO).


                                                                 6

3.3      INFONAVITstill dominates the Mexican housingfinance system. INFONAVIT accounts
for about 50 percent of total mortgage lending in Mexico. Traditionally, INFONAVIT's loans
have been priced at below market rates, thus generating high levels of implicit subsidies where
higher income levels, which receive a larger loan amount, receive a higher subsidy. In 2004, the
estimated implicit subsidy amount represented around 30 percent of the total funding by
INFONAVIT (US$ 5.8 billion) and 13 percent of the total US$12.7 billion in funding for housing
in Mexico". This system, combined with a poor targeting strategy has generated important
market distortions. In2004 around 40 percent of their loans were granted to beneficiariesearning
five minimumwages or more which represent 20 percent of the contributors to the fund.

3.4      However, recent reforms offer hope for deeper structural reform. Under the present
administration, INFONAVIT has taken a number of concrete steps that were recommendedby the
FSAP for Mexico in 2001 to bring its corporate governance, loan origination standards, loan
recovery and risk management up to international good practice. Total cash inflows grew 16.1
percent annually from 2000-2003. Past-due loans fell from 21.7 percent in 2000 to 7 percent in
2005. Loan loss provisions to NPL ratio went up from 78 percent in 2000 to 243 percent in 2005.
The institution is a market maker for Mexican mortgagebacked securities with a total of 3 billion
pesos of issuances starting with the first issue inMarch 2004. The new INFONAVIT Law which
was approved by Congress in April 2005 introducedcorporate governance and regulatory reform
includiiig creation of an audit committee, prohibition of voting by Board members in matters of
possible conflict of interest and vesting greater regulatory authority to Comisidn Nacional
Bancaria y de Valores (CNBV-the banking and securities regulator). Recent reforms have
introduced two financing schemes which have allowed portability of benefits, increasing
competition in the market. Apoyo INFONAVIT and Cofinanciamiento are expected to target the
highest 10 percent of the beneficiaries, while the institution has been actively pursuing a strategy
to increasethe number of loansto beneficiaries earningup to four minimum wages (78 percent of
the total beneficiaries), now up to 57 percent from its previous level of 43 percent in2002.

3.5       Despite thisprogress, INFONAVIT'sconflicting roles continue to be a causefor concern.
Its roles include functioning as an efficient housing lender that provides loans to an ever higher
proportion of contributing members," aiming to achieve a better social match between "taxed"
contributors and borrowers, and leveragingmore market-oriented credits with private lenders; as
a social housing agency contributing to the provision and targeting of subsidies; and as a
profitable pension fund increasing pension returns for retiring members and improving liquidity
by permitting early withdrawals for housing investments. These three roles create multiple
contradictions. Most fundamental, the extension of subsidized housing loans reduces the returns
available to pay contributors' pensions. Resolving these contradictions is made more complicated
by INFONAVIT's tripartite governance structure (consisting of employers, labor unions and
Government). An agenda for reform of INFONAVIT would involve (i)the gradual separation of
the three functions of housing subsidy provider, mortgage financier and pension fund; (ii)the
withdrawal of the institution from direct mortgage lending and evolution into a second-tier
liquidity and guarantee facility for mortgage backed securities; and (iii)de-linking the subsidies
and financing by moving to an explicit, demand-side on-budget housing subsidy system that is
harmonized with the other existing on-budget housing subsidy programs (Tu Casa and
PROSAVI). The reforms undertaken in the last 2-3 years provide an excellent basis on which to
moveforward inthis regard.




loSubsidy calculationsare basedon the methodologydevelopedby the Subsidy Working Group coordinated by CONAFOVI,March
2005
  Thougli its coveragerate is still low, at less than 20 %.


                                                             7

3.6       To address the country's critical housing problems, in 2001 the Government issued the
National Housing Sector Program 2001-2006. The program emerged from the consultations held
by tlie Federal Goveriiinent in various regional forums'* and is fully consistent with the National
Development Plan. The program has four goals:


0    Consolidating growth of the housing sector.
0    Increasingaccess to housing financing (both to stimulate supply and satisfy demand).
0     Improvingthe sector's productivity.
0    Increasingthe supply of serviced land for housing.

National Urban Policy and SlumUpgrading

3.7      A major issue in Mexico is the high proportion of households living in slums. Unable to
access formal housing or land, about 125,000 poor families each year settle in marginal areas
with overwhelming infrastructure deficits. Location in hazardous or sensitive areas, scarcity of
public facilities and goods, distance from infrastructure and services and the absence of
mechanisms for coinmunity input frequently damage these neighborhoods aiid raise the cost of
regularizing them to well above that of new formal sector developments. The cost to organize and
provide public goods ex post exceeds the capacity of households as well of communities aiid
usually requires public support.

3.8       The GoM (SEDESOL) has developed an integral program called Habitat to address
precarious poor neighborhoods. Habitat provides support for neighborhood upgrading, access to
land, aiid prevention of natural disasters and includes initiatives to support community facilities,
day care centers for working mothers, and local development agencies that bring together
community, private sector, and local government. However, to stop tlie expansion of informal
settlements and develop affordable land for low and moderate incoine .families it is of crucial
importance to have financial mechanisms to enable the poor to access properly planned and
serviced land.

3.9       The limited supply of urban land is a major problem for low- and moderate-income
households. In 2001, the Government estimated that only 32,000 hectares were available for
urban use-sufficient        to meet only two years o f demand. In addition, private sector involvement
i s hampered by a complex and costly system o f building and subdivision regulations. As a result,
most lowhnoderate housing development occurs illegally, generating important public and private
costs.

3.10      The dfjculties of developing ejido land have exacerbated this problem. About two-thirds
o f land on the peripheries of medium-size and large Mexican cities consists o f ejidos". This form
of communal land ownership has a complicated legal regimen that makes it difficult and
expensive to promote private freehold Ownership, amass parcels of significant size, and achieve
rational land development. Maiiy cities have discoiitiiiuous development patterns because formal
construction leapfrogs over ejido lands in search of cheaper parcels far from cities and
employment centers-resulting              in more traffic congestion (and related air pollution) and much
higher infrastructurecosts. These problemshave resulted inGovernmentprovision of virtually all
the parcels used in social housing projects, massive Government purchases of ejido land in order



  CONAFOVI, 2001, Progranza Sectorial de Vivienda2001-2006, availableat
http://www.conafovi.gob.mx/secciones/banner/programapercent20sectoriaUindex.htm.
''High-endprivate developers control most ofthe rest.


                                                            8

to regularize it and transfer titles for the lots to their occupants, and accumulationof landreserves
by Government-often problematic in other countries-for these two purposes.

3.11       Urban development is further hindered by Mexico 's vulnerability to earthquakes,
hurricanes, and other natural disasters. In the past the Government usually provided assistance
after such events occurred. But taking steps to prevent the potential damage from disasters can
avert immense suffering and cost. To that end, SEDESOL has increasingly focused its efforts on
reducing the vulnerability of urban settlements, specifically of poor neighborhoods.

3.12       The National Urban Development and Territorial Planning 2001-2006" addresses the
above issues. Drawing from the consultations that contributedto the National Development Plan,
this Programaims to:

           Reduce regional inequalities in urban development through an integratedurban and slum
           upgrading programcalled Habitat, createdbytlie Governmentin 2002.
       0   Foster synergiesbetweencities and regions.
       0   Increasethe supply of landfor urbandevelopment.
       0   Reducevulnerability to natural disasters.

Areas of Bank Support for the Government's Program

3.13       The Government requestedsupport for housing and urbanpoverty policy reform from the
World Bank in 2003 andthe first loan of the three HUSAL/HUDPL series was approved one year
later in April 2004. The HUTAL was approved in November 2004. The program assumes
continued involvement by the Bank through a series of loans to support an incremental and
calibrated process of policy reform. It supports seven policv areas within tlie Government
program. The following paragraphsdescribe key Government actions and recent developments in
each ofthese areas.

Policy Area 1: NationalHousingPolicies and Institutions

3.14       Institutional arrangements have improved. The Government took effective measures
towards the harmonization and definition of responsibilities of the existing federal housing
agencies. A National Housing Commission (CONAFOVI) was created with tlie responsibility to
make policy and coordinate Government efforts. CONAFOVI coordinates in particular the
FederalMortgage Corporation (SHF), the Low-Income Housing Fund (FONHAPO) and, to some
extent, INFONAVIT and FOVISSTE, two Housing Funds serving the private and the public
sector employees respectively.Inaddition, the Government createdCONAVI (Consejo Nacional
de Vivienda) to promote the dialogue between private and public stakeholders, while SHF takes
the lead in developing primary and secondary mortgage markets. The National Fund for Low-
Cost Housing (FONAEVI) is responsiblefor the design and accountability of federal subsidies in
coordination with CONAFOVI and FONHAPO.

3.15       A new Housing Law is being approved. CONAFOVI was created to coordinate the
federal housing pr~grain'~and the different agencies operating in the sector, including the two
housing funds. As a result CONAFOVI coordinates agencies that are not formally part of the
same institutional structure, creating challenges for its ability to lead reform. A proposedhousing


 ''SEDESOL,   2001, Progrumu Nacional de Desarrollo Urbanoy Ordenacidn del Territorio 2001-2006, availableat
littp://www.sedesol.gob.mx/subsecretarias/desarrollourbano/subsecretari~programanacionaLhtm.
   When the national housingprogramwas developed, it was deemed politically unfeasibleto create a new housing secretariat and
place all housing agenciesunder it-including INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE.


                                                               9

law would clarify CONAFOVI's status relative to other federal agencies and strengthen its ability
to drive policy changes. A draft of the law has been approvedby the Senate and awaits approval
by the Deputies. It is expected to be approved in the next few months. INFONAVIT and
FOVISSSTE will remain largely independent.

3.16       Housing programs are being decentralized. The Government program has a very clear
objective to decentralize the execution of the housing programs. To this end, CONAFOVI and
state governments have worked together to define requirements, amounts, and policy goals for
federal housing funding. These agreements, together with the strengthening of state housing
institutes, will contribute to effective decentralization of housing programs. In addition,
FONHAPO helps municipal governments assess housing needs, compile an inventory of
available resources, and request support from federal programs best suited to local conditions.
The Bank-supported program will help develop models for the administration and Strengthen of
state and local housing institutes, and enhance systems for collecting and analyzing data on
housing markets, housing finance, and urbanplanning, to inform policy and decision-makers.

3.17       INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE have taken steps to reform their operations and increase
their financial sustainability. Both INFONAVIT and FOVISSTE (which in 2004 together
accounted for more than half of all mortgage lending) have made the housing market more
dynamic by improving their corporate governance and financial management, targeting lower-
middle-income households, increasing the portability of beneficiaries' savings, and allowing
those savings to leverageother availablefunds.

PolicyArea 2: Improvingthe Impact ofHousingSubsidies

3.18       The Government is committed to untfjing and coordinating the differentfederal housing
subsidysprograms. Mexico's housing subsidy system has been fragmented into different agencies
and programs. Overall two important groups of programs can be identified:

     0     On-budget subsidies. Over the last five years, Mexico has launched two small-scale
           housing subsidy programs - Prosavi and Tu Casa (formerly VIVAH) for a total of
           US$lS5 million in 2005. Until2004, these programs were managed by separate agencies.
           They are now operatedby FONHAPO as a first step towards a unifiedsubsidy policy.

           Off-budget indirect interest-rate subsidies.The bulk of Mexico's housing subsidiescome
           inthe form of below-market interest rates mainly provided by INFONAVIT. In2004, this
           type of subsidy provided by INFONAVIT amounted to about US$ 2.2 billion."
           INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE granted the highest subsidies on a per credit basis,
           approximately US$9,000 and US$ 14,000 per borrower respectively.Although all formal
           employees pay into these pension funds, the subsidies have gone mainly to the moderate-
           income households that can afford the mortgage payinelits associated with the purchase
           of a finished, commercially-built unit. As low-income households cannot afford the
           finished housing and the subsidized mortgages, INFONAVIT subsidies have rarely
           benefitedthe poor. As a first step towards harmonizing subsidy amounts across programs
           and income groups, in May 2005, the subsidyworking group agreed on a methodology to
           measurethe implicit subsidy levels of INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE loans.




 16The estimate of total subsidies is based on the net present value of the implicit interest rate subsidy for the life of all INFONAVIT
loans originated in 2000. The implicit interest rate subsidy was estimated as the difference between the rate offered on the mortgage
and the conservative estimate o f 7.1% real interest rate on government funds.


                                                                   10

3.19      Direct lending by FONI-IAPO is being phased out. In the past FONHAPO acted as the
primary Government institution providing funds for low-income housing. After recovering from
near bankruptcy, its role as a lending institution has been revised. As an important first step,
FONHAPO eliminated direct lending inAugust 2004 but has continued its second-tier lending to
state housing finance agencies (OREVIs), which could jeopardize its hard-won financial
independence and undermine the Government's strategy of promoting market-rate lending.17The
Government plans to phase out FONHAPO lendingto OREVIs in the medium term and to adopt
inore transparent, private- or NGO-oriented approaches to support low-income housing and
housing finance. In lieu of FONHAPO's second-tier lending to states, SHF will guarantee micro
and mortgage housing loans to low- and moderate-income borrowers originated by private
financial institutions for housing purchase and renovation. FONHAPO will focus on designing
and monitoring PROSAVI grants, in collaboration with SHF, and the Tu Casa program, jointly
with local governments.

Policy Area 3: HousingFinance

3.20       Mortgage transparency and foreclosure procedures have been improved. In 2003
Congress approved a financial transparency law to better inform and protect consumers about the
nature and cost of long-term mortgage loans, and approved reforms to the legal procedures
required to foreclose on a mortgage. The next steps in this direction include plans to build the
confidence o f lenders and investors on the enforceability of mortgage contracts.

3.21        SHF has strengthenedsecondary mortgage markets and SOFOLES. Since its creation in
2001, SHF has advanced the development of Mexico's primary and secondary mortgage markets
by providing steady access to long-term market-priced funding; providing revised, actuarially
priced first-loss credit insurance products; improving risk management and pricing (through
refinancing and guarantees); providing consistent credit risk rating policy applied to SOFOLES;
stimulating access to private bond markets and flmding diversification; and accelerating the
execution of PROSAVI until 2004, before the execution of this program was transferred to
FONHAPO.

Policy Area 4: Urban Property Registries and Rights

3.22       CONAFOVI is supporting efforts to strengthen properly registries. The Government o f
Mexico is aware of the importance of property rights in market development and social stability.
In 2003, it launched a project to strengthen property registries in the three states o f Baja
California, Colima and Sonora. CONAFOVI provides funding (matching the states contribution)
to analyze and reforin their institutional and legal frameworks for property registries and rights;
reengineer the processes and work flows o f their property registries to reduce approval time,
increase efficiency and accuracy, and reduce costs; shift from manual entry o f transactions to
electronic folios o f properties; digitize historical data for electronic storage; permit remote
consultation of the registries; and link state registries to municipal cadastresto unify information.




 "FONHAPOlendsat an interestrateof8% to OREVISandother intermediaries such as Cajas.OREVIS canprovidegovernment
transfers as guarantees. FONHAPO's loan portfolio is relatively small and shrinking fast inreal value. In addition, mostoftlie revenue
from its loan portfolio goes to support its administrativecosts, leaving little for below-market-rateloans.




                                                                    11

PolicyArea 5: NationalUrban Policy,SlumUpgrading,and InstitutionalStrengthening

3.23        Hcibitat is the Government'sflagship program to address slum upgrading needs in an
integrated manner. Until 2000 the Government lacked a coordinated sector program to address
the pressing needs of urban development. The National Urban Development and Territorial
Planning Program 2001-2006 was prepared with the objective of reducing regional inequalities in
urban development. The main instrument is the Habitat program, the new, integrated urban
upgrading program designed to foster synergies between cities and regions; and increase the
supplyo f land available for urban development; and reduce vulnerability to naturaldisasters.                                 18


3.24        Hcibitat finances both preparatory studies as well as the physical investments required
for slum upgrading. Unable to access formal housing or land, each year about 125,000 poor
families settle in marginal areas with overwhelming infrastructure deficits and without urban
planning, To address this problem, Habitat supports the development o f action plans for
comprehensive barrio (slum) upgrading plans, and detailed engineering plans for infrastructure
projects; and invests in urban infrastructure including water, sewerage, storm drainage, paved
access roads, electricity, street lighting, community facilities, and solid waste management.

Policy Area 6: Low- and Moderate-IncomeLandDevelopment

3.25         The Federal Government encourages local governments to increase the supply of
serviced land for low- and moderate-income families-but                                     this approach involves some
challenges.The Government continues to partially fund state and local governments to constitute
 land reserves for the benefit o f the poor. However, governments tend to be ineffective in
 identifying the most desirable land offerings, land reserve agencies tend to become large and
 inefficient, and at the end, an increasing proportion o f land reserves can end up being used for
 other than social purposes.

 3.26         SEDESOL is evaluating options to increase the supply of land for low and moderate
 income housing without distorting land markets. Possible measures include limiting management
 o f land reservesto those local public housing agencies that are well-capitalized and well-managed
 and that carry out functions outside the purview of the private sector (such as provision o f trunk
 infrastructure to suburban areas). All other functions would be carried out by the private sector
 (e.g. housing finance and construction). In addition, SEDESOL will continue to explore the full
 range of alternatives to land reserves, from land adjustment to demand-side subsidies for
 purchases of serviced lots. The 2005 rules for Habitat incorporate serviced lots as alternatives to
 land reserve acquisition by local governments.

 3.27        Land markets are being deepened and made more eflcient. Recognizing that better land
 data are essential to inform analyses of costs, benefits, and land policies, SEDESOL introduced a
 program to prepare land inventories and pass this information on to local authorities to strengthen
 their planning capacity. SEDESOL also plans to develop a system for information and monitoring



   Hibitat has eight priority areas: :(i) Urban planningand planning agencies, which finances preparatory studies such as municipal
 urban-poverty diagnosticsand actionplans, comprehensivebarrio upgrading plans, and detailed engineeringfor infrastructure
 projects, (ii) Slum upgrading, including investmentsinurbanizationincluding water, sewerage, storm drainage, pavedaccess roads,
 electricity and streetlighting, rehabilitationor construction of communityfacilities, and improvedsolid waste management,(iii)
 Social and community development, including training on skills for community members,(iv) Opportunitiesfor women. (v) Security
 for women and their communities bothto address vulnerable groups and improvetheir skills, (vi) Territorial planning and
 environmentalimprovement, including actions to improvethe environmentalsustainabilityof urban poor slums andto decrease
 vulnerability to naturaldisasters, (vii) Land for socialhousingandurbandevelopment, which provides funds for local governmentto
 increaseprovisionof landfor low-incomehousing, and (viii) Urbaninfrastructureand city imagewhich addresses rehabilitation o f
 existing urban equipmentand improvements of historical city centers.



                                                                    12

of urban land, including development plans, cadastres, legal subdivisions, identified informal
settlements drawn from local authorities and complemented by satellite images to register
settlements.

Policy Area 7: DisasterPreventionand Management

3.28    The Habitat slum upgrading program focuses on disaster prevention to mitigate the
vulnerability of poor neighborhoods. Given the vulnerability o f the Mexican population,
particularly the poor, to natural disasters the Government has decided to use the Habitat slum
upgrading program to improve tlie effectiveness of prevention activities and reduce the
vulnerability o f poor neighborhoods. Habitat's Territorial Development and Environmental
Improvement (TDEI) incorporates disaster prevention and mitigation actions by addressing the
risks resulting from unplanned urbanization in vulnerable areas and by providing federal funding
for planning and for preventive works such as retaining walls and storm drainage. Most
importantly, the TDEI will support the preparation of Risk Atlases and will also provide
resources for vulnerability assessments at tlie neighborhood level, identifying risk areas and
suggestingstructural and lionstructuralmitigation measures.

      IV. THE BANK'S AFFORDABLE HOUSINGAND URBANPOVERTYPROGRAM

4.1     Theproposed loan is linked to Mexico 's Country Assistance Strategy. Like HUSAL I,      the
proposed operation supports Mexico's efforts to achieve three objectives of the last CAS,
endorsed by the Bank's Board in April 2004: reducing poverty, enhancing competitiveness, and
promoting environmental sustainability. HUDPL I1would result in better housing, basic services,
and access to real assets for low-and moderate-income households-key       aspects o f poverty that
the loan would address by providing support for a national slum upgrading program and for new
land development and housing for low-income families. The project would enhance
competitiveness by increasing the efficiency of housing and urban development, housing finance,
and property registries. Many low- and moderate-income homes contain micro enterprises in
addition to providing shelter, and home owners often build additional rooms to rent or for family
members. Thus housing often serves as a key source of capital accumulation and i s critical to
building a strong middle class. By supporting measures to reduce the housing system's reliance
on inefficient public finance and strengthen the financial system, the loan would reduce risks to
the Federal Government of bailouts and lower demand for Government support. Finally, the
project would have a strong environmental impact by improving conditions in slums and
promoting formal development on appropriate, well-designedsites.

Relationshipwith Other Bank Operations

4.2     The proposed program makes use of a technical assistance loan and complements
completed and planned Bank operations. The associated Housing and Urban Technical
Assistance Loan (HUTAL) supports the design and implementation o f the policies and reforms
under HUDPL 11, and fosters continuity between the operations. The overall program draws on
the experience and results o f the now closed FOVIBHF operation. That operation was designed
to provide liquidity and technical assistanceto reform SHF in its role to lead the development of
primary and secondary mortgage markets for middle-income households. The three-loan program
will deepenthese efforts by targeting low-income households through broader sector reforms that
provide housing subsidies, move housing finance and savings programs down-market, upgrade
slums, and foster low- and moderate-income land development. The recently proposed
Programmatic Finance and Growth Development Policy Loan complements the whole housing
package by supporting the Government's reform agenda for non-bank financial intermediaries


                                                13

and housing mortgage infrastructure for middle-income households, while the three loans focus
on supporting reforms to increase housing finance access for low- and moderate-income
households.

4.3      Similarly, theprogram complements housing reforms at the local level supported by the
Decentralized Inpastructure Reform and Development Loan. The decentralized infrastructure
loan is helping the state of Guaiiajuato strengthen the capacity of its housing institute and
implement a coordinated housing strategy at the local level, reform housing subsidy and loan
programs to increase progressivity and equity, and improve the sustainability of its housing
sector.19

4.4       The loan involves collaboration with other donors. The proposedloan would complement
the program financed by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to help (i)provision of
housing subsidies through PROSAVI; (ii)support CONAFOVI in the modernization of property
registries; (iii)facilitate access to housingfinance for recipients of remittancesthrough SHF; and
(iv) strengthen the a B I T A T program through a multiphase prograin for urban poverty
reduction.

LessonsLearned from HUSAL 1''

4.5       The working group on housing subsidy reform within CONAFOVIhas proven effective.
The program supported by the Bank and as envisaged at the time of HUSAL Iis ambitious and
involves multiple sectors. Its success will depend on close coordination between Governinent
ministries and agencies. To address the institutional problems and lack of a culture of
coordination, a working group on housing subsidies was formed within CONAFOVI to bring
together all the major actors involved in housing subsidy policy, including CONAFOVI,
SEDESOL FONHAPO, SHF, INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE, and SHCP. The working group has
made progress in agreeing on key reforms of subsidy programs, and is expected to deepen its
work during the next phases ofthe Bank's program.

4.6       HUSAL I showed the needfor an accessible and comprehensive housing information
database. CONAFOVI has a mandate of coordinating housing policy but so far lacks formal
authority over the other Government agencies. It is envisaged that CONAFOVI can effectively
play its coordinating role by providing high-quality information (covering both real and financial
variables) and policy advice on the housing sector. An information database could form the basis
for robust policy analysis and advice by that agency. The information will also assist other
housing agencies and private entities involved in the housing sector. It may also stimulate
research and innovation inthe sector.

4.7       Monitoring indicators are crucial to monitor progress and to measure impact as well as
to adjust the pace and content of the reform program. Monitoring indicators have been agreed
with the Government of Mexico for each component of the three-loan program.




   The Mexico DecentralizedInfrastructureReform andDevelopmentLoan also supports the Stateof Guaiijuato's water and sanitation
andtransport sector programs.
2'1Lessonslearned derivemainly from HUSALIImplementationCompletion Report, ReportNo.32559. June 2005


                                                          14

Analytical Underpinnings

4.8     The three-loan program rests on a solidfoundation of technical analysis conducted by
the Mexican Government, the Bank, and other developmentpartners. This analysis includes four
major Bank reports:

    0  A Contribution to an Urban Strategyfor Mexico (Report 22525-ME, July 2002). This
       document examines Mexico's urban sector and makes policy recommendations on land
       use, housing, and transport; the backlog of infrastructure investment; the coiicentration of
       poverty in peri-urban areas; and development of institutions to manage and implement
       these policies;

       Low Income Housing: Issues and Options (Report 22534-ME, September 2002). This
        study examines poor people's access to housing, quantifies housing needs, and discusses
       the inefficiencies created by the current system of indirect and direct subsidies, It also
       defines the main buildingblocks of a more sustainable low-income housing strategy;

       Income Generation and Social Protectionfor the Poor: Urban Poverty in Mexico (Report
        33884-ME, August 2005). This report analyses the main trends and characteristics of
        urban poverty, the features of poor urban barrios, and the mechanisms that the urban
        poor have to cope with poverty as well as their ability to build assets. It provides policy
        recommendations to fight urban poverty, building on current policies and programs; and

    0  Mexico Financial Sector Assessment Program (Report N o 25850, 2001). The report
        evaluates the main aspects regarding policy issues in housing finance. The ,report
        suggests a comprehensive reform strategy to address interrelated challenges including (i)
        the redesign of subsidy programs, (ii) restructuringof the state owned housing finance
                                              the
        institutions, and (iii)
                              the development of mortgage securitization and o f private mortgage
        originators.

                                  V. THE PROPOSEDLOAN

Description

5.1     HUDPL I1 would consolidate and deepen the reforms made under the first loan. As
discussed, the proposed HUDPL I1aims to continue support to the main strategic areas o f action
under this program, specifically: develop national policies and institutions for housing and urban
development; continue progress towards the design and implement a unified system for federal
housing subsidies; bolster systems for housing loans and savings, and move them down-market;
strengthen urban real property registries and rights; coordinate physical and social investments in
poor neighborhoods; increasethe supply of and access to urban land for poor people and improve
this market's functioning; and prevent and managethe damage causedby natural disasters.

5.2     The schedulefor the third loan has been revised. The three-loan program was originally
scheduled to be complete before the end o f 2006, prior to the end of the current administration.
Under the original schedule the third loan of the program was scheduled for approval in August
2006, just a month after the presidential elections. This may not give sufficient time to fully
engage the new administration on housing and urban poverty issues and the Government and the
Bank have agreed to have the presentation o f the third loan in August 2007. To maintain its
policy dialogue with the Government, the Bank will prepare a policy note on housing and urban
development for the new administration that takes office in December 2006.



                                                 15

5.3          Five of the six key prior actionsfor HUDPL11have been met.21Table 2 below shows the
status for each o f the key prior actions for HUDPL11.The partial fulfillment of the trigger on the
completion o f the cost-benefit analysis of different options for land for low and moderate housing
i s more than made up by the strong performance in the other components of the program such as
hazard mitigation22and national urban p01icy'~where the Government of Mexico has taken steps
well beyond the agreed actions for HUDPL-11. The following paragraphs outline the actions
supported under HUSAL Iunder the Government's overall affordable housing and urban poverty
reduction program (detailed in Section I11of this document), aiid describe, for each component of
the reform program, the status of each trigger for HUDPL I1aiid perspectives for HUDPL I11and
the sustainability o f the reform program, as well as the recently agreed monitoring indicators. At
the request o f the Borrower, the proposed loan amount is increased from the US$lOO inillion that
was envisaged at the time of the approval of HUSAL-Ito US$200.51 million, while remaining
within the overall CAS limits endorsedbythe Bank Board inApril 200424.

                                Table 2. Status of Key Prior Actions for HUDPLI1




Macroeconomic                 Maintenanceof soundmacroeconomic framework consistent                        M e t
framework                     with policy objectives andprogramsdescribedinthe Letter of
                              Development Policy (See annex 1).
Housingsubsidies              The Govemment has completedan evaluationof federal                           M e t
                              housingsubsidyprograms, taking into account landand
                              infrastructuresubsidies deliveredat the local level to federally
                              assistedhousingprojects, andthe results are reflectedinthe
                              subsidy programsdesignedfor 2005.
   Housingfinance             The SHF has designedandimplementedpilot projectsfor                          M e t
                              financinghome improvements, additions, andpurchases, in
                              accordance with standardsagreedbetweenthe Government
                              andthe Bank.

Urbanproperty                 Five additionalstate governments have implementedproperty                    M e t
registriesand                 registrymodernizationprograms, inthe manner agreed

rights                        betweenthe Government andthe Bank.


National urban                SEDESOLhas strengthenedHabitatthroughparticipatory                           M e t
policy, slum                  planning, coordination, and sequencingo f investments.
upgrading, and
institutional
strengthening

Low- and                      The Govemment has completeda quantitativeanalysis ofthe                      Partially metz5.Contractingfor
                                                                                                                                      -
moderate-income               costs andbenefitso f different modes of low- and moderate-                   the analysis is under way,



2 'The Program's policy matrix includedno triggers under HUDPL I1for the Housing Policy and Disaster ManagementComponents
22 For example, Habitat now has a separate component for financing disaster prevention,risk atlases are being preparedfor cities and
metropolitanareas and land use and land planningnow incorporate disasterpreventioncriteria.
21  For example, green guidelines were issued for the housing sector and three more guides on (1) water, (2) energy, and (3) solid
waste management.; CONAFOVI and SEDESOL have incorporated a chapter on "Quality and Sustainabilityof Housing" in the draft
 *'The
 Housing Law; Habitat now offers financing for environmental improvement at city and neighborhoodlevel.
         current CAS envisioned alending rangeof US$O.8 to US$1.7 billion ayear; subject to client demandandthe Bank's careful
 managementof its exposure inview of the government's soundmacroeconomicpolicies and its own prudent debt management
 strategy. With the volume o f quick-disbursinglendingto date in the CAS periodbeing lowerthan originally anticipated, considering
 both the HUSAL I1DPL for $200 millionpresentedto the Boardhereby andthe Financeand Growth DPLfor $500 inillion expected
 later this fiscal year, the Bank's lending would remainwell within the CAS'Sexposuremanagementparameters.
 25The partial fulfillment of this trigger is more than offset by the actions of the Government of Mexico in other components that go
 well beyond the agreedactions for HUDPL-11. These are elaboratedabove in footnotes 22 and 23.


                                                                    16

land development    income landdevelopment, and developedan actionplanthat      delayedpartlyby a delay in
                    facilitates such development.                               effectiveness of the HUTAL.
                                                                                The analysis shouldbe
                                                                                completedby January 2006 and
                                                                                the actionplaninplaceby June
                                                                                2006. It is proposedthat this
                                                                                trigger be shifted to HUDPL111.

PolicyArea 1:NationalHousingPoliciesand Institutions

Activities under the Government'sProgram Supported by HUSAL I

5.4      Thefirst loan sought to improve institutional coordination and increase transparency.
One of the loan's primary objectives was to set a medium-term strategy and develop the
institutional coordination needed to address the challenges facing the housing sector. Previously,
several agencies were responsible for various housing policies and programs, with no clear
strategic vision of who was responsible for coordinating them. With Bank support through
HUSAL I,the Governmentharmonizedand definedthe roles of federal housing agencies, making
CONAFOVI the main body guiding national housing institutions (ONAVIS). Of equal
importance was improving transparency in the sector-a       responsibility assigned to CONAFOVI
inthe national housing plan-through       annual reports on policy implementation and information
on relatedprograms, available to the public onthe Internet.26

5.5      HUSAL I also addressed environmental concerns. With Bank support, the Government
conducted an Environmental Assessment of the housing sector. CONAFOVI is taking the lead in
mainstreainingthese recommendationsinto policy.

Triggers, Benchmarks, and Monitoring Indicatorsfor HUDPL11

5.6      There was no trigger under this componentfor HUDPL II.Nonetheless, the Government
continued to make progress in improving transparency and strengthening sub-national capacity
for policy formulation and implementation.

5.7      CONAFOVI's efforts to increase transparency in the housing sector will receive
continued support. To facilitate policymaking and program evaluations, plans have been made to
improve the quality of the national-level information provided by CONAFOVI and to expandthe
quantity and quality of indicators on housing finance and the real sector. The technical assistance
loan (HUTAL) will support this effort. In addition, the agency's website will provide quarterly
information on loans and subsidies provided by Government agencies and programs.

 5.8     HUDPL 11will also build on CONAFOVI's major progress in creating state housing
councils. CONAFOVI has been establishing state housing councils to strengthen the housing
sector throughout Mexico and align housing policies at different levels of Government. The
agency has helped create 27 state councils, and 4 are about to be launched-covering all but 1 of
the country's 32 states. These results exceed the related prior action for HUDPL I1 envisaged
during the design of the overall program. Next steps will involve making a coordinated effort to




                                                  17

provide states and municipalities with incentives to implement policies in line with federal
priorities, particularly to improve land management systems and housing access for the
underserved.

5.9       The loan will help implement the environmental action plan prepared by CONAFOVI.
For housing this plan includes developing the sector's first Green Guideline, which defines good
environmental practices for green space (guidelines for water, solid waste, and energy will
follow).; establishing alliances among agencies working on sustainable housing development;
initiating a pilot prograin for green housing design; and signing an accord with the National
Water Commission, Trust Fund for Electrical Energy Savings, National Forest Commission,
Mexican Construction Industry Association, and National Industry Association o f Housing
Development and Promotion.

5.10      Monitoring indicatorsfocus onprogress toward a national housingpolicy. Progress will
be measured by the number o f housing solutions for households earning 5 ininiinum wages or
less and by the ratio of this number to the total number of housing solutions.

Perspectivesfor HUDPL IIIand the Sustainability of Reforms

5.11       The draft housing law would improve the institutional jianzework for housing. In 2004
important progress was made toward enacting a new housing law and repealing the 1984 Federal
Housing Law." If approved, the new law would clarify and codify the roles o f federal housing
institutions. It increases the coordination and policyinaking powers of CONAFOVI and
CONAVI, and defines the housingresponsibilitiesof other federal institutions and different levels
of Government. The draft law also promotes popular and private sector participation inhousing."
The HUTAL will support capacity building within CONAFOVI to enable the institution to better
perform its mandated function of overall coordination of housing policy.

Policy Area 2: Housing Subsidies

Activitiesunder the Government'sProgramSupportedby HUSAL I

5.12       The loan supported Government efforts to unifL housing subsidies. FONHAPO now
administers Tu Casa and PROSAVI (the two inah on-budget housing subsidy programs). With
the goal of consolidating housing subsidy policies, HUSAL Ialso supported the creation of
FONAEVI. In addition, the loan helped create the multi-agency working group under
CONAFOVI, formed to consolidate subsidy objectives and programs and continuously refine
them, as well as a database in FONHAPO that contains beneficiaries of TU Casa and
PROSAVI-a         first step toward achieving a more equitable system in which no recipient receives
more than one housing subsidy.

Triggers,Benchmarks, andMonitoring Indicators under HUDPLII

5.13       In May 2005 SHF and CONAFOVI completed a comparative analysis of the housing
subsidies received by different income groups ?om all the major subsidy programs-both                     on-
budgetfederal programs and implicit subsidy program^.^' This study raised important concerns




"TheSenateHousingCommitteeBoardissuedadecreetoenactthedraftlawinDecember2004.
"ThislattercomponentisamajordeparturefromtheFederalHousiiigLawof1984,whichfocusesonthestate'sroleinhousing
construction, management, anddistribution.
"ConductedbyGrupodeEconomistasyAsociados(GEA)


                                                     18

about the objectives of differentprograms, the beneficiary groups they serve, the methods usedto
determine subsidies, and the need to adjust subsidies over time. It also showed how limited the
data are on the different programs, on local contributions, and the negative effect this has on their
targeting, coordination, and adjustment. The study identified several procedural bottlenecks
which are limiting the availability of both federal subsidy programs to reach their target
population. The working group reached agreement on key procedural reforms to address these,
which will be applicable starting 2006. Based on the findings of the study, more detailed
assessments of Tu Casa and PROSAVI are needed to determine how they can improve their
interactions with private actors and sub-national governments, leverage householdcontributions,
and reach low-income groups and informal sector workers. CONAFOVI has taken steps to
conduct such assessments.

5.14     The subsidy working group was reconvened and expanded to discuss thefindings of the
study and made some key decisions. The working group met in May and June 2005 and reached
important agreements on adjusting calculations of housing subsidies and reducing inequities in
current subsidy programs. The group agreed on amethodologyto:


0   Align the subsidy amounts received by the households with recipients' income across
    programs.
0   Adjust the subsidy programs to take into account clear objectives for each program,
    transparency in the quantification of subsidy costs, publication of program objectives and
    beneficiary groups, horizontal and vertical equity, effects on the larger housing market,
    program efficiency, and optimal duration of the subsidy.
0   Share on a quarterly basis information provided by ONAVIS on the number and size of
    disbursed subsidies by income group and value of the houses financed. Coordinate among
    participants on a methodfor determining subsidies, to be set forth in a quarterly report.
0   Gradually expand the number of variables to be used to calculate income, harmonized with
    SEDESOL's definition of poverty.
0   Meet on a quarterly basis to discuss necessary adjustmentsto subsidyparameters.

5.15     It is worth noting that INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE are among the institutions
committed to these agreements. This is important since these institutions are the largest market
players and subsidy providers, and so set the pace and direction for other market participants-
particularly with respectto the housingproducts delivered by private developers.

5.16     FONHAPO has improved the 2006 operating rules andprocedures for PROSAVIand Tu
Casa subsidies. It has simplified the procedures for approval of subsidies, introduced provisions
to share electronic information on beneficiariesand loans with SHF, anddevelopedways to better
promote the program, including efforts to make financial institutions other than SOFOLES (such
as banks and cajas-credit unions) participate in the PROSAVI program. In addition, SHF and
FONHAPO agreed to actively pursue ways of making PROSAVI subsidies accessible to lower-
 income groups (for example, by allowing the program to finance cheaper housing). In addition,
FONHAPO will propose a cap on the total subsidy provided to Tu Casa beneficiaries who also
receive an INFONAVIT subsidized loan, and to phase out this option in order to focus Tu Casa
on uninsuredand informal workers.

 5.17    Monitoring indicators willfocus on increasing equity. Three monitoring indicators will
be collected by CONAFOVI on a quarterly basisandmade publicly available through its website.
 Each derives from a report prepared by CONAFOVI as part of the subsidy working group's
 discussions.The indicators are:



                                                 19

0   Total amount of subsidies (explicit and implicit) provided by all programs to beneficiaries
    earning less than three miniinumwages and/or working inthe informal sector,
0   Eachprogram's average subsidy amounts per household by income segment,
0   Number o f beneficiaries that receive more than one federal subsidy,
0   Ratio o f up-front grants and interest buy-downs to total implicit interest rate subsidies.

Perspectivesfor HUDPL111and the Sustainability of Reforms

5.18     The working group provided a good discussion forum, and will facilitate continued
efforts on subsidy reform. Subsidy reform will require continuous dialogue amongst the different
agencies involved and experience has shown that is a slow process. Lack o f coordination and
leadership had delayed reforms in this area until March this year when the subsidy group was
expanded and restarted meetings. Since then, the results of the working group are especially
significant  with the inclusion of INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE, entities that had previously
resisted dialogue on subsidy policy. The subsidy study points to the need for further analysis and
continuous monitoring and evaluation of the subsidy program performance and impact. In the
longer term the stakeholders of INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE must reach agreements on better
targeting of subsidies and, more critically, on the future roles of these agencies in tlie housing
sector relative to their roles as providing funds for their members.

5.19     The working group will take further steps to improving the effectiveness of housing
subsidies. Based on the results o f the initial subsidy quantification, and the clear gaps in reaching
lower-income groups and informal workers, tlie working group will continue meeting, and will
focus on : (a) reaching agreement on the terms of reference for further evaluation of the outcomes
of the existing subsidy programs and the procedures and iinplementation bottlenecks encountered
in different programs; (b) diagnose tlie housing problems of different groups of the population
and set specific objectives for a federal subsidy policy and package of programs and other
actions; (c) propose adjustments and/or elimination of existing programs and design of new ones
to fulfill the differentpolicy objectives.

Policy Area 3: Housing Finance

Activities under the Government'sProgram Supported by HUSAL I

5.20     HUSAL supported Congressional approval of mortgage-related reforms. These reforms
strengthened the legal framework for mortgages (cre`dito hipotecari0)-allowing         adjudication o f
defaulted mortgage liens in federal courts, simplifying documentation required to prove the
existence of a lien, and allowing for extrajudicial foreclosure of collateral trusts. The reforms also
increased transparency by providing standardized, clear, comparative information and contracts to
borrowers. Inaddition, SHF issued rules for the licensing of property appraisers.

5.21      The loan also supported expansion of housing credit tools and products. HUSAL I
supported SHF efforts to design and implement a database for mortgage risk assessment, and to
expand its products to include refinancing and guarantees inboth UDIs and pesos.Inaddition, the
first loan included actions to launch new savings programs by BANSEFI for low- and moderate-
incoine households linkedto loans from INFONAVIT and subsidies from Tu Casa.

 Triggers, Benchmarks, and Monitoring Indicators under HUDPL N

5.22      SHF has launched apilot program providing microfinance for housing. In January 2005
 SHF's board o f directors approved up to 150,000,000 pesos (about US$14 million) for a pilot


                                                   20

project to provide microfinance for home improvements through two or three SOFOLES. The
pilot will run for one year, after which SHF will decide whether to expand its portfolio in this
area. It began with the strongest players as a way of reducing risk and getting to know the market,
and to help in adapting its internal systems and designing its database on mortgage risk
assessment. While reaching scale is not a central objective of the pilot, efforts will be made to
reach a scale sufficient to test the adequacy of the systems used to analyze and monitor SHF
investments. The pilot started with one of the three SOFOLES that SHF considers market leaders,
and that have a core interest in the target group for microfinance products. The legal contract for
this operationwas signed in July 2005, achievingthe trigger agreedfor this policy area.

5.23     BANSEFI's savings account programs have reached many households. BANSEFI's
savings programs have created more than 20,000 savings accounts for people who want to buy a
house but do not qualify for a mortgage. This is far more than the target of 3,000 accounts called
for in the original policy matrix for the Bank's loan program. BANSEFI's partnership with
INFONAVIT has the most subscribers-about            17,000-and    has been particularly successful
given the fund's recent efforts to reach lower-income beneficiaries. Progress has been slower for
the Tu Casa partnership, which has only 3,500 beneficiaries. The savings program i s subject to
the same operational bottlenecks identified for Tu Casa's subsidy program. CONAFOVI's in-
depth evaluation o f subsidy programs will provide important feedback for BANSEFI.

5.24     Monitoring indicators will focus on private mortgages and SHF microfinance. The
Government will use and make public the followiiig indicators to gauge progress on the program
supported by HUDPL 11:

e   Mortgage loans provided by the private sector (banks and SOFOLES) to beneficiaries earning
    between three and eight minimumwages.
e   Microfinance for housing provided by SHF to households earning five minimum wages or
     less.

Perspectivesfor HUDPL111and the Sustainabilityof Reforms

5.25     Under HUDPL IIL SHF will improve its mortgage risk database, reach out to credit
unions and small SOFOLES and expand micro--naming activities. As part o f its efforts to
mainstream microfinance for home purchases and improvements, SHF has taken steps to include
one or two credit unions in its initial pilot program which is considered to be essential to obtain
significant market coverage. The SHF is also committed to reaching out to a large number of
small SOFOLES and credit unions in order to expand its housing microfinance duringthe second
phase o f the pilot. Since the second tier o f financial intermediaries includes weaker entities that
pose a highercredit risk, SHF will require time and assistanceto build its capacity to evaluate risk
inthese organizations andtheir ability to offer home improvement loans. HUDPL I11will support
SHF's efforts inthis direction.

PolicyArea 4: UrbanProperty Registriesand Rights

Activities under HUSAL I

5.26     HUSAL Isupported initial implementation of the Property Registry Modernization
Prograin inthe states o f Baja California, Sonora and Colima.




                                                  21

Triggers, Benchmarks, andMonitoringIndicators under HUDPL11

5.27     The registry modernization program is expanding. CONAFOVI has signed agreementsto
modernize property registries in six other states-San         Luis Potosi, Tamaulipas, Hidalgo,
Guanajuato, Nuevo Leon, and FederalDistrict-one more than agreed in the policy matrix.

5.28     The monitoring indicator will measure registration times. CONAFOVI will periodically
track and make public through its website the time required to register a property in each state
that has signed a property registry modernizationagreement.

Perspectivesfor HUDPL111and the Sustainability of Reforms

5.29      CONAFOVI has prepared aproperty registry modernizationfiamework. The framework
is being revised by the state property registries and the notaries in order to incorporate their
coiicerns and guarantee its sustainability. CONAFOVI will also incorporate private sector and
ONAVIS to this consultation process. In addition, CONAFOVI will work with the states that
have already signed agreements to incorporate additional actions that guarantee that all the
elements incorporated in the framework are considered, and will establish, with support from
SHF a baseline to operate at least 13 additional registries. Under the HUTAL loan several
activities are considered to strengthen the registry framework, including: (i)definition of a
standardizationstrategy for the procedural aspects of framework implementation, (ii)     support the
diagnosis of the property registries in accordance with the new framework, (iii) a strategy
                                                                                    define
for complementary services, and (iv) support the definition of baselines to monitor progress.
CONAFOVI is committed to promote the progressive adoption of the registry framework within
the states that have signedmodernizationagreements.

5.30     Modernization agreements will be reached with more states. During the preparation of
the whole program, it was envisagedthat by the time HUDPL 111became effective, all 32 states
would have entered into an agreement with CONAFOVI on modernizing their property registries.
Given the current speed at which negotiations between states and CONAFOVI occur and the
voluntary nature of the program, it is unlikely that this target will be met in all Mexican states. A
more feasible approach would focus on the most populated states to impact the largest share of
the population. The milestone from modernization of property registries in all states has been
stated to include at least 18 states covering at least 80 percent of Mexico's urban population
which could potentially take advantage of the program benefits.

PolicyArea 5: NationalUrbanPolicy,Slum Upgrading, and InstitutionalStrengthening

Activities under the Government'sProgram Supportedby HUSAL I

5.3 1    Information on urban development is more widely available. One of the key prior actions
for HUSAL Iwas approval of the National Urban Development and Territorial Plaiining Policy
2001-2006. As part of the Government's commitment to transparency, it mandated the
publication of an annual report on policy implementation and provision of information on related
programs through the Internet. The new urban development program establishedthat all social
programs be targeted to poor areas. SEDESOL has prepared poverty maps for this purpose, as
reflected as a milestone inHUSAL I.

5.32     The piecemeal approach to slum upgrading has been replaced by the Hdbitat program.
To integrate slum upgrading efforts, the Government has combined SEDESOL's physical and




                                                 22

social interventions in slums under an umbrella program (Habitat) approved and funded by
Congress.

5.33    As part of efforts to achieve sustainable urban policies, an environmental assessment of
urban areas was conducted. SEDESOL completed the assessment, backed by HUSAL I,and its
policy recoininendations will be usedto develop an action plan agreed by the GoM and the Bank
which will be part of HUDPL.111.

Triggers, Benchmarks, and Monitoring Indicators under HUDPL11

5.34    SEDESOL has strengthened community participation. SEDESOL provided training to
local authorities and community members at barrios covered by Habitat on participatory planning
and self-diagnosis of neighborhood needs and priorities. In addition, SEDESOL and CEPAL are
preparing an analysis of community participationunder Habitat that will enrich the program.

5.35     The number of Habitat planning agencies has exceeded initial expectations. Instead of
the 45 Habitat agencies expected to become operational, there are 203-and      it is expected that
250 will be operating by the end of 2005.

5.36     Steps have been taken to address environmental concerns. As a follow-up to the
Environmental Assessment preparedby SEDESOL, the Government has:


0   Formed a working group with SEMARNAT to integrate territorial and environmental
    planning, incorporate environmental issues in urban development plans, integrate
    environmental and urban impact assessments, and include environmental considerations in
    the forthcoming atlas on natural disaster risk.
0   Establishedobservatories to collect UN-standardized indicators on the urban environment.
0   Created an agenda within Habitat to deal with environmental issues.
0   Initiated programs to fortify local Geographic Information Systems (GISs) with information
    on environmental and natural disaster risks (10 atlases have been completed).

5.37     SEDESOL has identiJed three indicators to monitor improvements in slum upgrading
capacity andperformance by local governments:

a) Number o f slums that have prepared or updated their self-diagnosis under Habitat.
b) Number o f slums that have prepared participatory planning basedon their self-diagnosis.
c) Number o f social auditing processes financed by Habitat

Perspectivesfor HUDPL111and the Sustainability of Reforms

5.38     Habitat has expanded rapidly. Habitat has moved rapidly up to scale, supporting 818
barrios with US$170 million in financing in 2004. The Government's 2005 budget has been
increased to US$200 million for this program. This i s an impressive start, but to reach its full
potential, HUDPL I11should improve the program by increasing its emphasis on sustainability,
through investments linked to local development plans that analyze bothneeds and resources over
the medium .term; building the capacity o f municipal partners to plan and invest in poor
neighborhoods; and expanding monitoring and evaluation, given the program's rapid expansion.
Monitoring and evaluation efforts began this year, supported by an Institutional Development
Fundgrant from the World Bank.




                                                 23

Policy Area 6: Low- and Moderate-IncomeLandDevelopment

Activities under HUSAL I

5.39     SEDESOL addressedthe lack of systematicdata on land availability through two studies.
The first study provided an inventory of developable urban land, while the second analyzed the
legal and financial options for residential land development. SEDESOL also completed a full
assessinelitof state and municipal landregulations in two regions, to rationalize and simplify the
land development process.30

Triggers,Benchmarks, and Monitoring Indicators under HUDPL 11

5.40     An analysis will be conducted of the costs and benefits of land developmentfor low-
income households. SEDESOL has been willing to enlarge the menu of land policy instruments
through Habitat or other mechanisms, and the policy matrix for the first loan included the
completion of a cost-benefit analysis of different modes of land development as well as the
design of an action plan to implement selected alternatives. Due to delays in effectiveness of the
HUTAL, the analysis will be finished by May 2006, although considerable advances have been
made. The trigger is partially met, and it is proposed to shift its full iinpleineiitation to the third
loan. A parallel benchmark for that operation would involve the implementation of a pilot
programto test the results of the analysis.

5.41     Hbbitat rules are being adapted and made more jlexible. SEDESOL included into
Habitat's operational rules for 2005 the possibility to use Habitat funds to finance serviced lots
for low-income housing. This is a significant advance as such funds could previously only be
usedto purchaseland reserves, the most common form of land development for the poor. As new
models for land development are developed, SEDESOL intends to adapt Habitat's rules to allow
testing of new alternatives in search of greater effectiveness and development impact.

5.42      To monitor progress in this area and complement the Government's efforts to offer
alternative modes of land development, SEDESOL will monitor the number of serviced plots
suppliedby Habitat to low-income beneficiaries.

Perspectivesfor HUDPLIIIand the Sustainability of Reforms

5.43      Hcibitat land acquisitionneeds to better impactpoor people. While the impact ofthe land
acquisition was not part of the first loan, preliminary evidence indicates that the benefits of
Habitat's land reserve program may not be reaching the poor. As the study for alternatives
continues, SEDESOL will pilot the most suitable proposalsand prepareways to scale up the most
successful one. Accordingly, Habitat's operational rules will continue to allow other approaches
in landmanagement.Local governmentswill be provided with adequate incentives.The funds for
acquiring land reserves under Habitat's rules will be capped in 2007. The cost-benefit analysis
and pilot program for options to increasethe supply of land for low andmoderate income housing
will provide the Government with a wider choice of instruments inthis regard.




"' Thetwo regions included the states of Baja California, Baja California Sur, Chihuaha, Coahuila, Durango, Nuevo Leon, Sinaloa,
Soaora, and Tamaulipas.


                                                                 24

PolicyArea 7:DisasterPreventionand Management

Activities under the Government'sProgram Supportedby HUSAL I

5.44    HUSAL I helped Hdbitat implement three important types of projects to reduce disaster
vulnerability. Habitat co-financed 30 community-level risk analyses and 15 sensitization and
mitigation projects, and prepared 10 proposals to organize land use in order to prevent natural
disasters.

Triggers, Benchmarks, and MonitoringIndicators under HUDPL II

5.45     There are no triggers under HUDPL II but signijkant benchmarks were exceeded under
this component. Habitat helped local governments and communities prevent and manage natural
disasters, and have taken steps to increase the sustainability of these efforts. In 2004 Habitat
incorporated disaster prevention and environmental improvements into disaster management
practices. To promote a medium-termvision for disaster prevention, Habitat's operational rules
for 2005 were strengthened to allow co-financing of land and urban development plans
incorporating disaster prevention criteria. The Operational rules for 2005 also increased co-
financing for risk atlases and risk maps from 50 to 66 percent-the          highest in all Habitat
programs-to    encourage local governments to invest in disaster prevention. To widen its scope
beyond slums, Habitat will allow risk atlases and risk studies to be prepared for cities,
metropolitan areas, and municipalities, taking advantage of the methodology already developed.

5.46    An inter-ministerial group supports the inclusion of disaster prevention in Government
policies. Two working groups have been formed at the federal level under the leadership of
SEDESOL. One, comprising representatives from a disaster risk-related institution-the     National
Center for Disaster Prevention, part of the Ministry of the Interior-focuses    on the exchange o f
technical information between ministries. The other group, with members from various
ministries, is devoted to building capacity for disaster risk management, as a component of long-
term institutional strengthening.

5.47     Interms of indicators, SEDESOL will monitor the number of cities that have a risk atlas
and will track the percentage of local regulations and planning instruments that incorporate this
information. Considering that local regulations and planning instruments only change every so
often according to local time frames, this indicator will only take into account those instruments
that are inthe process o f being modified.

Perspectivesfor HUDPL 111and the Sustainability of Reforms

5.48     SEDESOL's progress on disaster prevention and management is ahead of the schedule
developedfor theprogram. Habitat is responsible for creating incentives for local governments to
invest in disaster prevention and management-a      sector not usually a priority for investment by
those governments. Thus it i s impressive that most of the risk maps and related work have been
undertaken inthe urban areas of Chiapas and Oaxaca, two o f the poorest states inMexico.

5.49     Successful disaster prevention has long-term outcomes but few tangible short-term
benefitsfor ordinary people. The population is being encouraged to invest time and resources to
mitigate the risks of an event that may never happen. Incentives are needed to create a culture of
disaster prevention and management, and to change people's behavior. For example, a different
approach (perhaps a sort o f couiiterfactual methodology) to raise awareness of risks could be




                                                 25

included in SEDESOL's guide to community-based analysis, which contains national and
international best practices and is designedto guide local policies, programs, and training.


                                        VI. OPERATIONIMPLEMENTATION

Poverty and Social Impacts

6.1      The Bank's recent assessment on Urban Poverty in Mexico" points out the main
.characteristics and challengesfaced by the urban poor and provides guidance on the policy
mechanisms to address these. Inparticular, the report highlightsthe opportunities and challenges
determined by where the poor live and the importance o f housing as a key asset for the poor, to
provide shelter, as a risk mitigating strategy, and to act as a substitute for formal retirement
systems.

6.2      Cities offer a number of opportunities and specific challengesfor thepoor. Compared to
rural areas, urban areas provide deeper labor markets, better access to services and for some,
freedom from oppressive social traditions and discrimination. However, the urban poor must
generate cash for survival, which inturn means that they must obtain wage-paying jobs or employ
themselves. The urban poor may face difficulties in securing decently paid employment in the
formal sector, for lack of skills, childcare, transportation, or because o f stigma associated with
where they live.

6.3      Location mattersfor determining poverty. Poor people choose to locate in poor areas.
They do so because living there is affordable and social capital is present               -they know people
who live there and can take advantage of existing networks. At the same time, the concentration
of poor people has some negative externalities which reinforces and reproduces poverty over
time, such as commuting times and rental values3*. Additionally, exposure to crime i s high in
barrios; the homicide rate inpoor barrios is five times higherthan the Mexican average. A recent
survey suggests that only around 30 percent of crimes are reported to authorities. Neighborhood
effects might also be compounded by stigma, affecting poor people's access to jobs and other
forms o f discrimination. Overall, the poor participate much less in labor markets than the non-
poor and they do so in lower quality jobs in sectors characterized by lower-than average wages,
highinformality and slow growth.

6.4      Theproposed loan will strengthen Hdbitat - the Government'sjlagship urban upgrading
program to improve the living conditions of households in the poorest neighborhoods through
community participation. In 2004, some 11 percent o f Mexico's urban population was estimated
to be extremely poor and around 42 percent moderately poor. Given Mexico's large urban
population, these figures translate into large numbers o f poor people: 27 million urban poor, o f
which 7 inillion are extremely poor. By strengthening Habitat, the program will support the
urban poor overcome the difficulties they face in securing decently paid employment in the
formal sector due to lack o f skills, childcare, transportation, or because of the stigma associated
with where they live and other forms o f discrimination.

6.5      HUDPL will support actions to strengthen Hdbitat to achieve an appropriate level and
sequencing of investments in each community. Despite Mexico's relatively high coverage ratios



"ThisstudyispartoftheIncomeGenerationandSocialProtectionforthePoorReport,WorldBank.
"Forsuggestedeffectsthatthesocialcompositionofneighborhoodscanhaveonindividualbehaviorsee: WorldBank,Income
Generationand Social Protectionfor the Poor Report et.al.


                                                           26

for basic infrastructure, as much as 15 percent of extreme poor in urban areas and 9 percent of
moderate poor do not have access to piped water and access to sewerage also remains low. This is
combined with the fact that in many serviced poor neighborhoods water service is intermittent
and unreliable, mainly due to a combination of the gradual way in which poor urban
neighborhoods acquire services and sector inefficiencies. This has severe environmental and
public health consequences in densely populated areas. The proposed operation will support the
Government's program to increase local governments' capabilities to identify, plan and sequence
investment needs.

6.6        Increasing access to housing and urban services is critical for the urban poor. In
particular, housing has a significant impact on poverty in terms of basic social support. It plays a
unique role in protection as the center of family and community life, and health and social well-
being. The importance o f housing also reflects its economic role. Many low-income homes are a
place o f economic activity as well as shelter. Equally important, households resort to a variety of
risk mitigating and risk coping strategies to respond to shocks inthe absence of formal insurance
markets and credit co~istraints~~.These strategies include the accumulation of assets, income
diversification, sending women and children to work, migration, and other informal risk-sharing
arrangements. Housing is a key asset that supports households' strategies to survive, meet future
needs, improve their lot, reduce their exposure to shocks or minimize their consequences.

6.1         Theproposed HUDPL IIwill deepenpro-poor reforms inpolicy areas related to housing.
These will continue to increase formal sector housing production (with accompanying services
and land) towards the Government's goal of 750,000 per annum. In addition, HUDPL will
support the development and mainstreaming of housing microfinance or low-moderate income
households for low-cost solutions. These actions will help to address Mexico's housing
challenge: estimates by CONAFOVI indicate that about 4.3 inillion Mexican families are under-
housed. This includes 2.5 million existing units in need o f repair and improvement. As much as
40 percent of the households that make up this annual demand have insufficient incomes to
qualify for mortgage lending and thus have to resort to progressive self-built housing where most
are under-housed, suffer from insecure tenure and crowding out, and are prone to natural
disasters, Reaching a broad range of incomes holds particular importance as experience shows
that higher income groups will find ways to take the housing, land and assistance targeted to
lower-income groups ifthey have no alternatives.

PublicParticipation

6.8         The program supports the National Housing Sector Program 2001-2006 and the
National Urban Development and Territorial Planning Program 2001-2006. Both of these
programs came about as a result of extensive public consultation and participation. The federal
Government with civil society in 2000 held three regional forums inthe cities o f Aguascalientes,
Herinosillo and Veracruz. In addition the Government conducted a consultative planning session
with housing sector academia and specialists. The National Statistics Institute (Institutu Nacional
de Estadistica, Geografia e Informdtica) also received, reviewed and analyzed around 3,500
proposals received during the consultation period for the housing and urban sectors, which were
further incorporatedinto the respective National Sector Programs.34




33 Interestingly,idiosyncraticshocks-those specificto aparticularhousehold, such as illhealthor loss of employment- are the major
source o f riskfor poor households.
   CONAFOVI, 2001, ProgramaSectorial de Vivienda2001-2004, available at
JJ



littp://www.coiiafovi.gob.mx/secciones/banner/programapercent20sectorialhdex.htm. The document includes the summary of the
consultationprocess and the main topics coveredby the proposals receivedduring the consultationperiod.


                                                               27

6.9         In addition, CONAVI serves as a periodic consultation forum for the housing sector.
With representatives from OREVIS, the private and financial sectors, NGO's, academia and
Government officials, it provides continuous feedback to policy makers on the development of
the National Housing Sector Program and monitors its execution35.

Implementation,Monitoring,and Evaluation

6.10        SHF has been designatedby the borrower to be thejnancial agent and to administer the
loan. SHF would be responsible for preparingthe withdrawal application, maintainingthe deposit
account and arranging for its timely audit (ifrequested by the Bank), and monitoring overall loan
implementation. It would also coordinate preparation of the borrower's contributions to the
Implementation Completion Report and write sections related to loan administration. Monitoring
of reform implementation would be supported by the program's accompanying technical
assistance loan. The SHF also performedthis role adequately for the first loan under the proposed
three-loan program.

FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements

6.11        The Mexico Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was completed in
October 2003. The assessment focused on the federal public sector, which was considered to have
generally sound financial management systems and institutions. Country FM risk was rated
moderate, and all individual risk factors were rated low or moderate. The results o f the CFAA
have a direct impact on this project, as funds will flow into Mexico's public FM systems. The
Bank has recently supported Government efforts to strengthen some of the areas considered by
the CFAA to be opportunities for improvement, such as the accountingprocesses and information
systems.

Disbursement

6.12        The proposed HUDPL 11 will follow the Bank's disbursement procedures for
developmentpolicy lending. The untied balance of payment support will be disbursed against
satisfactory implementation of the development policy lending program and will not be tied to
any specific purchases and thus there are no procurement requirements attached to the loan. The
fixed spread, US. dollar loan would be made to the United Mexican States. The full amount of
the loan i s expected to be disbursed upon effectiveness based on actions completed prior to
presentation o f the loan to the World Bank's Board of Directors. The loan would cover the
second o f the three operations under the program, the first of which was closed in December
2004. The closing date for the proposed loan is December 3 1, 2005, and it is, therefore, expected
to disburse within the first two weeks of December 2005. The third loan will be based on the
Government's implementation o f its medium-term reform agenda, as indicated by the actions
outlined in Annex 2.                  The program's companion technical assistance loan for reform
 implementation was signed in March 2005 and declared effective in September 2005.

 6.13       Flow of funds (includingforeign exchange) are subject to normal FMprocesses. It is not
 possible to track the ultimate use of the foreign exchange provided by the HUDPL I1proceeds,
 but loan proceeds flow into a dedicated account36and from it to Mexico's budget, and are thus




 15CONAVI is integratedby 6 representatives from OREVIS, 12 from the privatesector (including financial institutions). 6 from civil
 society organizations, 6 from academiaand 18from the public sector.Meetings are held quarterly.
 i6This dedicated account in the central bank is a local standardprocedure for DPLs (establishedby the GOM for control purposes).
 and it is not an additional FM-related arrangement requestedby the Bank. The FM team has acceptedthis procedureto-date. but as a


                                                                 28

subject to normal public FM processes. By way o f a letter, the Government will provide
confirmation to the Bank when the loan amount has been credited to an account used to finance
budgeted expenditures (as soon as step 3 in the following flowchart is concluded). The Bank's
Finaiicial Management (FM) team for Mexico carried out activities to provide reasonable
assurance that loan proceeds flow into Mexico's normal public FM systems. Given the ample
experience of Mexico managing Bank's DPLs, the F Mteam analyzed the project's flow of funds,
reviewed the audit report of Banco de Mkxico (the Central Bank) and the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment report (CFAA). The IMF's report on the Safeguards Assessment of
                                                                                       -
the Central Bank has not been conducted. The following flowchart illustrates the flow of funds.
                                                                                                 ..                              7,
                                                                                          3
                                CENTRALBANK                SECRETARIAT OFFINANCE
                                                              NATIONALTREASURY                              BUDGET
    WORLD BANK
                      ~~                                                                 M a    L                                 ,




6.14        The FM assessment concluded that ?om a Jiduciary point of view, the control
environment, procedures and regulations governing this Bank operation are generally adequate.
Therefore, based on the flow o f funds described above, the results of the work done by the FM
teain and the relatively small size of this DPL compared with Mexico's overall public
expenditures and foreign exchange reserves held by Banco de Mkxico, no additional FM-related
arrangements are neededfor this project.

Auditing

6.15         The Bank will not request a special audit of the dedicated account established in Banco
de Mkxico, as it is already audited as part of the standard local regulation. For example, this type
of account is audited by the internal control unit of Banco de Mkxico, the Supreme Audit
Institution ASF and an external private firm (KPMG), the latter as part of the annual audit review
of the Financial Statementsof the Central Bank.

EnvironmentalAspects

6.16         The proposed loan follows the guidelines and new requirements in Operational
Policy/Bank Policy 8.60for assessing possible effects on the environment,forests, and natural
resources, as well as social andpoverty effects. Policy reforms supported by the program will
have widespread environmental benefits.                        Informal settlements             suffer from numerous
environmental and social problems due to lack of basic services. Policies supported by the
proposed loan-such           as promoting slum upgrading and formal housing development in suitable,
well-designed areas-will             improve infrastructure provision, access to green spaces, public
transportation, and social services, while reducing vulnerability to natural disasters. According to
the analytical work completed to date, none of the reforms i s expected to have significant
negative environmental or social impacts. Some localized negative environmental impacts are
possible fioin eventual implementation of programs supported by the loan, such as
inconveniences due to construction activities or resettlement from risk-prone areas. As in many
other Bank projects, these impacts will be managed through existing institutions and regulations.




result of tlie ongoing Country Systems work in Mexico, in the future funds might flow directly from tlie Bank to a general foreign
currency accountinthe central bank.


                                                               29

6.17     Preparatory work evaluated policies for their socio-environmental impacts. The
environmental assessment for the program evaluated housing and urban development models, the
regulatory framework, institutional frameworks, technical and enforcement capacities of
responsible Government agencies, communication strategies, and integration of environmental
costs into planning. This work identified several gaps in capacity or knowledge, including
weaknesses and disconnects within and among institutions (including lack o f coordination
between environmental, housing, and urban development institutions at all levels, resulting in
housing and urban development policies with negative environmental impacts), policy
dissonance, legal deficiencies, enforcement problems, process-related bottlenecks, and potential
pressure on environmentally sensitive areas from traditional development patterns. The actions
supported by HUDPL I1described below will partially address these gaps. Additional steps have
also been incorporated into the accompanying technical assistance loan (HUTAL).

6.18     HUDPL II will continue to support Government efforts to strengthen the environmental,
urban development, and housing dialogue, build institutional capacity, and improve knowledge.
The Government has already undertaken important actions in response to the environmental
assessment findings. These include:
0   To support sustainable development, CONAFOVI has established alliances with the
    Secretary o f Energy and the Secretary of the Environment to form a working group which
    will establish a coordinating committee for the operation of the sustainable housing
    development program. Their objective is to elaborate the guidelines and minimumcriteria for
    water and energy efficiency, solid waste management and green spaces under four areas of
    action: (1) technology research and transfer; (2) financing; (3) norms; and (4) information
    diffusion.
0   The working group has signed an accord on sustainable housing with other agencies37,and
    has produceda Green Guide for the housing sector.
0   Under a Canadian-Mexican alliance, CONAFOVI began a pilot program for "green design"
    with three private developers and the Housing Institute of Nuevo Le6n in 5 zones
    representing the most extreme climates. The program enables monitoring and evaluation of
    water and energy efficiency criteria and technologies in housing development. The objectives
    o f the program are to generate knowledge, amplify the market, design sustainable standards
    and establish an empirical basis for national policy. Ultimately, the pilot programs and
    guides will feed into the development of the National Policy on Sustainable Housing.
0   CONAFOVI and SEDESOL have incorporated a chapter on "Quality and Sustainability of
    Housing" in the Housing Law, currently beingreviewed by Congress.
0   As part of the Agenda de Transversalidad established by the Secretary o f the Environment to
    promote sustainable development, SEDESOL began working closely with SEMARNAT in
    late 2004. Four working groups have been formed, focusing on: (1) integrating territorial with
    environmental development plans; (2) incorporating environmental aspects in the urban
    development plans; (3) integrating environmental and urban impact assessments; and (4)
    integrating environmental considerations into the natural disaster risk atlas. These groups
    decided on a 1-year action plan, with the intento f continuing collaboration into the future.
0    SEDESOL is actively integrating environment into the Habitat program (the national slum
    upgrading program) offering finance for environmental improvement at the city and
    neighborhood level. For this purpose, in 2004 Habitat introduced a new line of action
    "Territorial Development and Environmental Improvement" that promotes amongst other




17Includingthe National Water Commission. NationalForestCommission, the Fideicomisofor Electrical Energy Savings.the
MexicanConstructionIndustry Associationand the National IndustryAssociation of Housing Developmentand Promotion,


                                                           30

     projects tlie development of risk maps, and the construction of infrastructure and capacity
     building.
0    At the statehegional level, SEDESOL is working on harmonizing methodologies of State
     Ecological Territorial Development Plans. At tlie municipal level, they completed terms o f
     reference and a first version of tlie Methodological Guide for tlie formation of municipal
     programs integrating ecological and territorial planning.

6.19     Housingand urban development will be considered for inclusion as priority sectors inthe
Bank assisted Third Environmental DPL. This will help deepen and formalize the inter-tninistry
and agency coordination and environmental mainstreaming already being piloted by
CONAFOVI.

Risksand Mitigation

6.20     The proposed program faces two main risks. The transition risk is related to the
presidential elections scheduled for mid-2006. Although the program has gained solid support
and ownership froin a wide range o f stakeholders, a new administration may choose to change its
structure or emphasis. Technically and politically difficult reforms such as the consolidation of
housing subsidies could suffer delays, especially ifthe technical cadre were to change. Tlie risko f
backtracking    011 reforins i s higher for publicly funded programs like Habitat and housing
subsidies than for tlie housing finance reforms, which are linked to private finance and
developers. Indeed, the latter group may prove to be a stable force in support o f inaintaining
reforms during the Government transition. Tlie overall risk i s considered moderate. Mitigation
efforts include a more realistic timeline for the program. Processing of tlie third loan o f the
program has been postponed by a year (planned now for August 2007) to enable tlie Bank and the
new administrationto develop a dialogue on the affordable housing and urban poverty agenda. In
addition, a policy note will be prepared for tlie new administration with a detailed discussion of
tlie program's objectives and characteristics.

6.2 1     The institutional risk reflects tlie difficulty of eiisuring adequate coordination across
agencies. The program's ambitious, multi-sectoral approach requires constant coordination
between government agencies and ministries, and a failure to do so could put parts o f the program
at risk.This risk is considered moderate, and will be mitigated inthree ways. First, the forum o f
the subsidy working group (which includes INFONAVIT) proved to be an effective forum for
ensuring inter-ministerial and agency coordination and tlie working group would be continued.
Second, the technical capacity of Comisidn Nacional de Foment0 a la Vivienda (CONAFOVI)
will be strengthened through tlie HUTAL. This will enable the agency to better provide the
necessary leadership in the housing policy dialogue. Third, the proposed strategic vision study
for INFONAVIT, to be financed under tlie HUTAL, would enable the Bank to coiitiiiue to engage
tlie institution in a reform dialogue.

Conclusion

6.22      Continued Bank support to the program is largely justified by the persistent urban
poverty, the sheer size of unmet housing demand in Mexico, especially by the poor and the
progress achieved in implementing this pro-poor reform program. The experience of HUSAL I
confirmed the positive impact that the Bank has liad on the direction and pace of housing and
urban sector reform. Two examples illustrate this fact. First, the working group on housing
subsidies that was formed within the program includes for the first time all major players in
housing subsidies including CONAFOVI, SEDESOL, FONHAPO, SHF, INFONAVIT,
FOVISSSTE and SHCP. This committee has made remarkable progress inresolving a number o f


                                                  31

contentious issues such as agreeing on a methodology for measuring implicit subsidies and
setting up o f a comprehensive housing database (covering all six components of the program) that
would involve periodic sharing of inforination by all key agencies. Second, the Bank has helped
refine SHF's model for scaling up its assistance for microfinance in terms of detailing issues on
reaching out to a large group of SOFOLES and credit unions, pricing policy, fundingmechanisms
and tracking o f end-use. These positive examples and the significant experience the Bank has in
this sector highlight the benefit and necessity of the Bank staying engaged with the Government
o f Mexico on housing and urban issues.




                                                 32

                      ANNEX 1.LETTEROFDEVELOPMENTPOLICY




Mv. PaulWoifowltz
President
The World Bank
Washington D.C 20433
tl.S.A



Dear Mr.Wolfowitr



This getter of Sector Deveioprrient Policy describesMexicos curront ~conomiccandilions and
its on-going process of financial sactor reforms in order tn improve the housing and urban
sector. The proposad refurins rnctude modifying the incentives faced by the dfleront
ecortomtc agents, strengthening the iegal and regulatory framewarit, as wull a$ completing
the restruetitring of tho sector refated institutions. 'To continue with the impiementation of
inese ieForms and the management of the associated fiscal costs tho Government requests
financial assistancefrom theWorld Bank by meansof a programmaticadjustment loan



3 . Macroeconomic Framework


In the 1990's Moxrco's economic strategy relied on external sources of growth Free trade
agreuments apened new mvesimnt opportunitiesand increased and diversified the hrlexican
exprrri bme. 4s a resuK. exfernal trnde increased from 27.3 % of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP)   ili1993 to 52 X?%   of GDF in 2004 However, the global economic slowdown that
startea rn ?O(!lmade ovident the need to strengthendomestic sourcesof growth.




                                                      33

                                   SURSECRETARiA DE HACENDA Y CR6DITO PIJBLICQ




In this context, the current administrationhas implemented a broad economic poiicy geared
towards strengthening domestic sources of growth, w h i l ~consnlidairng the cnmmgence
process with North America. To that end, the Federal Gave3mmoni has worked intansweiy
through two parallel lines of action:  I) a rediiction of the rcwurmx absorbed by the public
sector through a stnct fiscal discipline, as ovidencaby the docream in thc budget deficit from
0.72% af the GDP in 2000 ta 0.3% of the GDP in 2004, and ii) an tncreasc in dornestic
finatwaf savings through the irripiernentatinnof an ainbitious financial reform, which has
ailowed this variable to increasefrom 43% of GDP in 2000 in 52% rn 2004.
in tandem with the previous lines of acttan, the Federal Government has made important
devclopmonts to mhance competiliveness and promote private Investmcot*modificairans to
the corporate inCor'ltO tax, accelerated depreciation of investment, promotion uf the hausing
scclor, onhertwA campaiitrvcness at tredc-reiated activrties through more efficient custonis
and logistitlcs,and developmentof !OGAdebt markels, aniony others.

hi addition to this, bank lending has become a sustainable element of support for ~ ~ Q ~ ' ~ O T I ? I G
growth In June of 2005. for instonce, lendingto private firms increased at a reai annual rats
of %U,Ci%, whiic lcnrjiny to the housing and consumption sectors increased at real annual
ratcs of 45 .5% and 44.4%, respectively.

Overali, these developmonts have promoted a balanced reccvery of ec~nomicgrowth. in
2004, prrvate consumptionand investmentgrew at 5.5 percent and 7.5 percent. respc
while exports expanded at 11.5 percent. This broad-based recovery wuuld not have tmw
possibts had the commitment with fiscal drsciptine, the responsible ninnagement of public
clrbt andthe prudentexecutionof monetarypoky not being in place.

fht: Government of Mexlco has beenengaged in a broad range of reforms spocificaily related
to housing and urban development.We have developed an cjilicial housfngstrategy and an
afficial urban development strategy that set overall goals and approaches III the se~tur.A h
Mexican policymakers w l be taking addrttonal precautionary measures to fiirther reduce
economic and market vulnerabilrties to a situation of adverse developntanrs and prolonged
political uncertainty.




                                                34

                                  SUBSECRETARiA DE HACIENDA Y CREDIT0 PUSLlCO




The major reforms in housinginclude:

* The National Commission for Housing Deve#opment (CUrslAFoVl) has successfully
managed the caordrnatm of the Natiortal Housirg Plan 2000-2006 with most of the 32 states
through: ft) creation of State /.lousing CoiJncils, (ii) implsfnentatron of prograrns to rediice
indtrect costs associated with construction and tttting. and (tit) dissemination of bast-practice
infrx"ion on buildingstandards end titlingdi-"mntetron

*As part of the effmts to deveEopthe nationalmot-tgagcmarket, Socic:dad Hipotecma Fetf~ml,
S N C. (SHFf has supported the dovelapment of standards for both appraisers and
appraisals. In September 2004, SHF tssiied rules establishing 8 mathndology for appraising
propertiesunder tfrt; ausprcr?~ the Transparency Law
                               of

  Uovolopmer;t af Banco del Ahorrn Nacionai y Servicros Finanaeros, S.N C (BANSEFI) in
order to stimulate hotisehotdsavings. 111gcnural. and the link between househoidsavings and
hominy cradif. in particular

  Expansion and improvement of two subsidy p m p m s          -"Prosavi"    and 'Tu Casa' and

Nacional de Apayo Econlrmico a ta Vivienda (FONAEVlf - to centralize information and
hnnnonizatian of thcsu subsidy programs, and creation of a new organmition - Fando

operation of a unifiod housrngsubsidy system.

* Substantial improvement in the operatton of lnstituto del Fond0 Nacional de fa Vivienda para
tcrs Trabajadorcs (INFONAVIT] fe.g. a substantial drop in arrears, and the devetopmeot of
new products).

a The implemenlationof property regtstries modernization ptans in fwo states WWE! initiated
pnor to bawd approval and CONAFLUVIwilt     SOUR incorporate five mort; status.

These improvements have resulted rn increased productionof housing solutions - 530 000
in 2054. fmprovement In housing      -   arid the social and wmxxnir; benefits rt brings
represents an tmpartafitaccamplishmont of this Administration

The urban sectorhas also seen importanlprogressincluding

  In 2004, the creation uf a national slum upgrading program, "iJ6bitat       f he Secrc:taria de
Oesarrollo Sacral (SEDkSaL] inade several improvements to titcorporatc?disaster rnttrgaticrn
and environmental rmprovementas a disastermanagcmentpradicc




                                                35

  Spreading a range of poverty relfefefforts  "--such as `*Oportunrdades" from rimi to urban
areas

  Strengtheningof SEDESOLfor moreeffective execution of urban polir:ics and programs.



2, Strategies and Actions


rhis section highlights SOI'IIC mf the main strat        and actions that the Government has
impternentadin recent years and will iniplemerrt         medium term to deepen recent and on-
going reforms and to provide the fratnewark for donor-assistedprogram in the housing and
ijrban develapmcnt scctors. fhesa ineastifes are aimed at facilitathg and building markets,
strcrrgthening institutions, and targeting assrstance to [ow-income households that would
otherwisebe unableto afford basic tiousing and urban services

Carisolidationof macro-economic stability. A criticalelement inthis medium-termprogram
is the maintenance of fiscal discipline and macro-economic stabttity. Housing and urban
deveiopmcnt are p~rticularlysensitiveto macro-economic canditicins for a number of reasons.
Foremost,long-term mortgage interest rates are set off the yretd curve on the Government`s
debt In turn, the leviei of mortgage interest rates plays a crucial role in the ability uf
househofdsto afford adequate housingand the urban se"?s            firianced with it (land,tenure,
water, sanitation) in formal-sector development. Hence, the most fundarnentat piicy for
Government in this sector is to bring dawn nominal arid real inlersst rates through contrntred
macro-ewn~mt~     stabtiizationand fiscal disctpfins

Macro-econorntcstabilrzation has had substanttal positive cmpact throughout the sector and
an the financial position of public and private organizations that sc~ir/c!it. For example, the
decrease in long-term interest fates has brought INFONAVIT loans to middle incoma
households to levels that are close Za market rates in cnfitrast the ~ a m enorrrtnaf rates on
such INFBNAVITloans were previouslysubstnnttally below market,with this burdenzssumcd
by this autQnc"us pubtic irnancrai organization.The dmp in nominal iritcresi rates has aisri
substantially expanded the potential market for mortgage tandtng and ttx potentrat fur
development of a secondary niortyage markel by SIiF, 3s more and more households caii
afford these loans. Hence, the Governmeflt`s most fiindamentat aciiari rn thc housing and
urban sectors consists of maiotainingmacmqacoiiotiiiCstability, whiih has prr~h~ccdsharp  a
decEine in the level of riominal irlbrest rates arid a gradual decline in the level ut mal interest
rates




                                                   36

Even with such macro-economicimprovementsa substantiaf share of Mexicansare unable lo
afford adequate housing and urban services, while developing markets (for crcdit, land, urtmn
services)dso requrressupport. Hence,the Governmentis pursuinga series of .E;fldar-spcaiic
actions to be supported by the programmatic adjustment kmn, bascd on ttic foilawing
principies:

Housing strategy and instifufions. Fhe recently torinufatori Nattonal Housing Policy for
2001-2006 stares the importance of increasing produdion and access of the poor to shcltar
The G a v m " t   has Set as at? over-arctimggoal the doubling formal housing productkin by
2006 (to 750,OUU housing soiulions p e ~year) through a docentralized and markat-based
approach, The pillars underlying this Admintstration'shousing strategy include fi) targeting
lowlmoderate-inconio households, (it)       an unified system of houstng subsidies to be
atfministeredby a single agency complernonted by credit and savinqs, (iii)expanding housing
finance by pulting rn place the rnethods and institutions to develop primary and secondary
markets, and by working with financial institutions experienced in sewing low/modorate-
tncome groups to develop products for financing low-cast housing sofutiuns (tmpravement,
oxpansinn, purcheseof cxrstinghousing), Civ) strengtheningproperty rights.

Housing subsldy programs and p o k y The Government has compkted an evafuation of
federal housing subsidy programs takrng into account land and infrastructure substdies
delivered at the focal level io federally assisted housing projects. and the results are refiec$ed
in the subsidy programs desigfied for 2005 In this sense the nationai institution for housing
(DNAVIS) agreed to a subsidy calculation methodology for implicit subsidies and on the
related refercncu niarket rate to be used as a discount rate by income segmeot. As wall,
ONAViSagreed a set of guidelinesfor subsidy development that smphasizes the irnportaiico
of transparency, horirontal and verticai equity,and efficiency, and avoids negative impacts on
private sector participationinhousingfinance and housingproduction

 Housing credit and househdd savings. This Administration views reform of the housing
finance system os critical to meeting its goals in both the housingand urban sectors SHF t ~ a s
desgnod and put rn practice pilot projects, in accordance with standards agreod betweenthe
Government and the Rank, for financing home rmprovemont, additsons, and purchasa ot.
existing hausing

Other tcforms in housing credit under this loan wrlf include. (a) issue of rules uft property
npprarsal methuds and disclosure at casts for constrtictron loans. (hi making alr~tlaltlen
mcirtgage credit-risk database to the private sector; (c) adjusting SHF pricing to rcfletf thc
effectivcnsss of foreclosure practices In states; arid fd) SI 1F developrrtent of financial
prihICts forfinance of low-cost housing sollitionsto lowrmoder,~ie-rr~cor~~   hotrsehofds




                                                   37

                                    SLIBSECRETARfRDE HAC!ENDA Y CREDIT0 PUBLICO



                                    202-8-114




Property rights modernization The Mexican Government places gceak priority on securing
property rights as key to the devofopment of many markcfs and stici.o-ecunamtc benefits,
including those for mortgage and housing crtrdtt, urban real estate taxation, axtension and
charging of publrc-utility tariffs, safeguarding of family relations, and the genernl wcliart!
GONAFOVI is preparing a modoi far the comprehensive reform of the property regrstrres
including a basic legat and regulatory framework; srmplifiod ancl costless registry proccsues
including those Fer the rogistry of safes and mortgages, tho conceptualization of the IT
systems for registry operations; the basic elenrorits for the implementation of `folio real"
system. a strategy ancl plan for thc: integration of t h rogistry and cadastre's information; a
                                                         ~
mcthodulngy for the reviewand correctionof the rcgistry"~   in

National urban development policy and slum upgrading. The Government has recently
formutaicd an Urban Dovelopment Plan for 2001 -2006 that emphasizes reachrng poor
communitieswith physicaf infraslrucluroand social services Troughthe "Habitat" Programall
slum-upgrading intorvontbns have to hc prioritized to poor areas (as defined by asset
poverty), request fom! counterpart funding and co-responsibility and have char allocating
ruios "H8bitat" has moved rapidly up to scale, supporting 828 barrioswith MXN 1,(40 iniliiort
in financing in 2004

Land development and access by the poor. Land access for the poor              IS a particularly
crucief problem, Currently, one component of `HPbitat" helps iocai governments access land
for bw-income housing dwefopment, As in many other countries if tho poor are unable to
access land fonafly, they typicaliy do so snformalfy, although such informat methods
temporanty provide a soiu+donto the individual famrly's rmmedinte problem, tha evidence
suggosts that such irreguiar settlement creates great costs to government in subsequent
reordering and infrastructureprovision, and to households in the farm of a poor, itnheafthy
living environment. SEDESOL completed poverty maps to ba used for targeting so~tai
programs and has provided training to local governments to incorporate povorty maps into
their municipalpriority setting for investment programs.

SIC committed to designing and putting into practice pilot prujects fur financing home
improvement, additions. and purchase of existing housingfor low inmme famiiies prior to tiiu
second adjustment Joan. In January of 2005 the Board of Directors oi SMF ripproved up to
MXN ,150 million to the undertakrny of R pilot przljoct in tiuusrng mkxofinanm for home
improvementwith two or three SocredadtrsFlnariaeras de Objeto I.imrtntio iSOFOL s)        11wilt
engage in a pilot effort tor a period of one year hefore r-nakrrly a final decision to grow ~ l s
portfolioexponentiallyin this area.




                                                 38

Mlfigaticin of natura1 dkasteers In 2004 SEDESOt. made several mprovrtments to this
modafity to incorporate disaster mitigation and environmcntal improvement as; a disaster
nianiigetnant practico



3. World Bank Support


As has been explained, in recent years the Government of Mexico has made many
substantrai advances in housing and urban devetopment However, we recognize that much
progress IS still necessary to reach the goal of producin$ 750.000 housing solutrons pw
annum on a sustainable basis. The above measures wikt hetp address the secbis r:onsttaints
and promote economic growth and job creation, as cvell as provide social banofits lo larnrlim
with new or improwed hamas and urban sewic~s.The proposed Affartlable Housing and
UrbanPoverty Program Ii will play an importantrole in facilitating the necessary reform




                                              39

0
d


N
d

                              ANNEX 3: INFONAVIT'S REFORMPROGRAM

Below-market-rate loans provided by INFONAVIT for private formal sector workers account for
about 50 percent of mortgage originations in Mexico. The primary funding source, 5 percent of
formal sector payroll, has provided the cash flow for considerable housing production-even
during times of economic stagnation or instability, and despite substantial losses experienced in
the past as a result of weak origination and collection practices. Traditionally, these loans have
crowded out the private sector, hindered the mobilization of private savings, reduced liquidity in
the private housingmarket, and provided few housing options for low-income households.

INFONAVIT has introduced an impressive array of reforms under the current administration. In
2004 it originated a record 350,000 loans-50              percent more than in 2001. Better management o f
credit has come from more consistent, fair, and transparent credit allocation; reformed internal
organization; an active and outsourced debt recovery program, improved management of credit"
and operational risks;39 new minimum down-payment requirements; a simplified scoring system;
and extraordinary provisions for noiiperforming loans. As result, cash revenues from loan
payments have increased from 32% to 5 1% of total cash revenues between 2000 and June 2005 as
delinquency has been reduced to 7% from its 2000 value of 22%. Total cash inflows grew 16.1%
annually from 2000-2003. Past-due loans fell from 21.7% in 2000 to 7% in 2005. Loan loss
provisions to NPL ratio went up from 78% in 2000 to 243% in 2005. The institution is a market
maker for Mexican mortgage backed securities with a total of 3 billion pesos of issuances starting
with the first issue inMarch2004.

On the savings side, INFONAVIT expects to pay an annual returnof the minimumwage plus 2.5
percent on its savings accounts, exceeding its minimumrequirement and paying closer to private
pension fund benchmarks (net of management fees). After many years of poor performance, this
trend reflects INFONAVIT's growing importance as a mandatory saving institution, in addition
to its traditional role as a home lender.

INFONAVIT has traditionally generated large market distortions in the mortgage finance market
through implicit subsidies via below-market rates. Due largely to the macroeconomic stability
achieved by the GoM, and to the ambitious reform program undertaken by INFONAVIT this
situation has improved. In, 2000 implicit subsidies delivered by the fund represented as much as
52% o f the total MX$43,374 million extended in funding. In 2004, the estimated subsidy amount
represented around 30% o f the total amount o f funding. This high level o f subsidy has
traditionally been combined with a regressive structure of the benefits. INFONAVIT has also
taken steps to move its lendingportfolio down-market, including targeting the largest component
of its lending programs to individuals earning five minimumwages; introducing an "open access"
line o f credit for applicants earning four minimum wages, corresponding to a housing price o f
about MX$167,000 (USD 15,000); exploring a mortgage product for new housing that would be
affordable for households earning less than three minimumwages (with a housing value o f about
MX$120,000); and exploring infill development for low-income units at higher densities to avoid
increasingtransportationcosts.

Also, recent reforms in INFONAVIT have been designed to incorporate market conditions
starting with the higher income segments. The two new financing schemes Apoyo INFONAVIT
and Cofinanciamiento are expected to target the higher 10% of the beneficiaries, while,the
institution has been actively pursuing a strategy to increase the number of loans to beneficiaries


''Mostly
'`Mostly for workers that becomeunemployed or changejobs, notably to the informalsector.
         due to improperpayroll deduction by employers.



                                                           43

earning up to 4MW (78% of the total beneficiaries), now up to 57% from its previous level of
43% in2002.

INFONAVIT has also taken bold steps to improve its accountability and transparency. These
include adoption of best practices in corporate governance (mandatory five year financial plan,
approval o f code of ethics, permanent professional career service, prohibition o f board members
to vote in matters with possible conflict o f interest), greater control and supervisory powers, and
greater accountability (obligation of INFONAVIT to submit annual report to Congress,
mandatory publication of its balance sheet).

Despite this progress, INFONAVIT's conflicting roles continue to undermine the development of
housing credit markets. Its roles include functioning as an efficient housing lender that provides
loans to an ever higher proportion of contributing members,40aims to achieve a better social
match between "taxed" contributors and borrowers, and leverage more market-oriented credits
with private lenders; as a social housing agency contributing to the provision and targeting o f
subsidies; and as a profitable pension fund increasing pension returns for retiring inembers and
improving liquidity by permitting early withdrawals for housing investments. These three roles
create multiple contradictions. Most fundamental, the extension of subsidized housing loans
reduces the returns available to pay contributors' pensions.

Over the long term, the Government aims to rationalize INFONAVIT's conflicting roles. But the
mortgage system's dependence on INFONAVIT and the institution's complex governance
structure coinplicate this transition. Rationalizing INFONAVIT's roles will require time and a
clear plan in order to build broad support among stakeholders, avoid potentially devastating
disruption o f mortgage lending, and facilitate increased private lending.




40Though its coveragerate is still low, at less than 20 percent.



                                                                 44

                   ANNEX 4. RECENTDEVELOPMENTSOF THE GOVERNMENT'SHOUSING
                                                 AND SLUMUPGRADINGPROGRAMS

1.               The Government of Mexico launched the five-year National Housing Sector Program in
2001. The program includes a set of reforms to generate economic growth through housing
investment, increase the sector's productivity, strengthen the institutional framework, target
assistance to low income families through direct subsidies, increase access to land for moderate
and low income families, and strengthen property registries. The overarching goal of each of the
sector program was to double production of housing to match the rate o f new household
formation (750,000 solutions per annum).

2.               Table 1 below presents the number o f housing loans and grants allocated through the
ONAVIS since the year 2002. Overall, the sector has experienced an important expansion during
recent years, in particular through increased liquidity in the market from private sector agents,
which presents the largest year to year increaseby number of loans granted.




 11Jan August 2005
 ?IIncludes PROSAVI
 21 Includes Tu Casa and FONHAPOr direct lending
 31 Includes loans by SOFOLES wth own I~EOYICEI
 41 Includes PET ViVRuial PEMEX CFE BANOBRAS ISSFAM HABITAT and FOVlM
 Source CONAFOVI



                   Several factors explain the expansion inthe sector:

          Regulatory reforms: The reforms approved by Congress in 2002 and 2003 allowed
          adjudication o f defaulted mortgage liens in federal courts, simplified documentation to prove
          the existence o f the lien, allowed for extra-judicial foreclosure o f collateral trusts, increased
          transparency and regulated licensing of property appraisers. These have contributed to the
          mobilization o f private resources, increasing liquidity inthe market. This is also evidenced by
          the fact that in January 2005 SHF undertook the country's first transaction of mortgage-
          backed securities on the secondary market

          Introduction of new financial products and schemes. In recent years, there has been a
          substantial consolidation o f the mortgage finance sector. Along with the favorable
          macroeconomic conditions, the introduction o f new products and schemes has deepened
          reform in the sector. SHF continues to provide guarantees in UDI and pesos, successfully
          advancing the development o f primary and secondary Mexican mortgage markets (See table
          2). INFONAVIT has also increased the financing options, introducing portability and
          competition into a previously monopolized segment. The new Apoyo-INFONAUT, a loan



                                                                        45

    granted by a SOFOL or a Bank, where the beneficiary's savings in their INFONAVIT
    account act as a guarantee, and the co-financing schemes with Banks and SOFOLs designed
   to address the higher income beneficiaries are part o f the efforts to increase market conditions
    into INFONAVIT funds. By December 2004 INFONAVIT had granted 3,500 loans under the
    co-financing strategy, and the preliminary estimate to June 2005 was 10,500 loans granted.




                                                Total              55,152      62,453

                              Source: SHF



    The Government, through BANSEFI established in 2002 two savings program linked to
    mortgage finance: Ahorro -INFONAVIT and TU CASA - VIVIENDAHORRO. The latter
    supports households to save up to Mxp 8,000 (the mandatory savings contributions under the
    TU CASA program). Up to this date, 3,500 beneficiaries have registered for the program.
    Through this program BANSEFI provides FONHAPO with useful information identifying
    demand for Tu Casa throughout the country. FONHAPO then coordinates with the local
    housing institutions the counterpart funding for each beneficiary. More recently, in March
    2004, SHF launched AHORRASIF                      -SHF's savings program linked to housing finance. SHF
    intendsto expand the program and has increased the staff to promote the program amongst
    financial institutions and to enhance the database o f subscribers.

    BANSEFI, along with CONAFOVI and several SOFOLs launched in mid 2004 a new
    mortgage finance program for migrant workers, financed by SHF, to support households to
    buy new or used units or improve their existing one using the transfers from abroad. This
    scheme has currently around 15,000 loans in its portfolio.

4.       Subsidy Programs. The main product in the Government's federally-funded subsidy
strategy i s TU CASA. Under this program federal funds are transferred to the beneficiaries as a
direct subsidy, and have to be matched by household savings and counterpart funding from the
local governments, usually in the form of a serviced plot. Table 3 below shows the number of
subsidies allocated in recent years. This program is highly dependent on the existing capacity at
local levels to provide counterpart funds, hence performance amongst states varies considerably.
The states which have the highest subsidy allocation are: Aguascalientes, Coahuila, Colima,
Chiapas, Chihuahua, Durango, Estado de Mexico, Quintana Roo, Sail Luis Potosi, Tlaxcala and
Zacatecas.




                                                 897       102,993        18,175     121,168
                                               1,012       122,989        22,703     145,692
                                               1,462       101,587        30,176     131,763
                                                822         12,967        16,777      29,744
                 I11January July 2005
                            -                                                               I

                  21Average subsidy an"!=    MX$16,000
                  31 Subsldy anaunt = MX$ 32,000
                  Source FONHAPO




                                                            46

5.      Modernizationof PublicRegistries.As of March 2003, CONAFOVIhas been working
with several states under the Property Registry modernization program to co-finance the
introduction of new technologies in the property registries offices and several state programs to
promote legalization of currently informally established properties. In addition, in 2004
CONAFOVI provided technical assistance to 14 states for modernization o f public registries,
several o f which will soon sign agreementswith the Federal Government.

                            RecentDevelopmentsof the Hibitat Program

6.      The MBITAT Program, launched in 2003, i s the first slum upgrading program which
integrates physical and social interventions in the urban sector. Through this program all slum-
upgrading interventions have to be prioritized to poor areas (as defined by asset poverty), request
local counterpart funding and define shared responsibility and have clear allocation rules. The
program has moved rapidly up to scale, supporting around 8,000 projects in 818 barrios with
MX$1,770 inillion in financing in 2004. This figure is complemented by the same amount via
counterpart funding. Table 4 below shows the main financing categories under the Program and
the number of actions carried out during 2004 and planned for 2005. The 2005 budget approved
by Congress allocates MXP 2,070.4 million for the Habitat Program, o f which M X P 352 inillion
have been invested between January and June.
          I
            Social and Community Development
               Centers of Community Development                             204

            Oportunities for Women
               Number of children in infant centers and day care units    17,907

            Slum Upgrading
               Number of slums                                              722

            Territorial Planning and Environmental Improvement
               Number of slums                                              368

            Habitat Agencies and Urban Planning
               Number of agencies installed or certified                     172

            Land for Low-income housing and urban development
               Number of hectares                                          1,124

            Equipamiento Urbano e lmagen de la Ciudad
               Number of Historic City Centers                                I C

            Security for Women and their communities
            (launchedin 2005)
               Number of Projects                                            n a

            Source SEDESOL


In terms of infrastructure, the 8,000 projects financed have the breakdown presented in Table 5
below.




                                                               47

                 I
                 Water, sewerage and sanitation                    876      512
                 Waste management                                   60      45
                 Pavement of roads and access to cities            1285     1040
                 Electrification                                   206      100
                 Urban equipment and city image                   97,416 *  n.a.
                 Community and development centers                 356      230
                 Recreational and sport facilities                 200      250
                 Trainning centers                                 189      224
                 1/ Projectsapproved to August 2005
                 * Estimated number of beneficiary households
                 Source: SEDESOL


6.      To reach its full potential the next phase should focus on improving the quality o f the
program in areas including: (i)more emphasis on sustainability through linking investments to
local development plans; (ii)building capacity of municipal partners; and (iii) more emphasis on
monitoring and impact evaluation as the program has expanded in scope over the last two years.
In particular, the link between urban upgrading and housing through the program could be
strengthened. During 2004, less than 1% o f the total number of projects financed belongs to the
land available for housing and urban development modality. All of these actions have solely co-
financed land reserve acquisition. The new operational rules for 2005 incorporate new
mechanisms to address this problem, including: (a) the condition that acquired land has to be for
the progressive production o f serviced lots, (b) the local Government's contribution can be
structured in the form o f a loan, and, (c) lots should at least have vehicle access, water supply,
electricity and any form of sanitation solution.




                                                             48

                              ANNEX 5. FUNDRELATIONSNOTE


Under Article I V of the IMF's Articles of Agreement, the IMF holds bilateral discussions with
members, usually every year. The IMF released the attached Public InformationNotice (PIN) on
December 23, 2004 summarizing the views of the Executive Board as expressed during its
discussion of the staff report that concluded the Article I V consultation. Additional information
on recent developmentsis beingprovided separately.




                                                49

Public lnfor~~a~~onNotice (PIN)No. 041140
FQR l ~ , ~ ~ ~ ~ E ~ ~
                      RELEASEA T E
December23,2004


          IMF Executive Board Concludes 2004 Article EV Consultation with Mexico

On October 18, 2004,the ExecutiveBqardof the lnterna~iona~Monetary Fund (1MF)concluded
the Article I'd consul~~~ion Mexico,
                               with

Background

After three years of weak activity. the broad-basedrecovery under;my this year provides
e n c o ~ r a ~evidencethat the factors holding back Mexico'sgrowthwere temporary. Business
                j n ~
confidenceandexports
                   investmenthave risen, foreign direct tnvestment (FDtj inflowsare
                            have pickedup sharply,and market perceptionsof Mexico remain
                  f? inflation has risenmoderatelyabove the authorities'objective. it remains far
                    orically experiencedby Fdtexaco. Higheroii pricesand a recovery Innon-oil
exports haveled to a narrowing in the current account deficit.The current account deficit has
been morethan matched by FDt Infiows,

Economicactivityacceleratedto 3.8 percent inthe first half of 2004over the previous year,
This recovery is partly a ~ t r i ~ ~to~sa~~ ~ee n ~US,~industrialp~~ ~ d uas ~ ~ ~ ntn~
gro\.?.thin Mexican m a n u ~ ~ ~ ~exports ofl 10%percent p&w"lly adjusted)cinreflected
                                                           ~  e n ~ n
                                       u r e d                                        the first
seven monthsof 2004 over the same period in 2003 Inflattionacceleratedfrom 4 percent at
end-2003to 5.1 percent in September. boostedby slapply shocks, includinga temporary
suspensionof some meat impartsfrom the UnitedStates,hrgher oil and c o ~ ~ o dprices.      i t ~
and their impact on a ~ ~ ~ n ~ s tprices.
                                       e r e d Core inflationwas lower,~ ~ a nat~3.5~percent,but
                                                                                   i    3
has sho~~trn signs of deceleratingsince early 2003.
              no




                                                  50

Net international reserves increasedto USS58          on in August 2004. compared\,vifh
USS48 billion at end-2002, reflectingstrong PEMEX receipts,A change `was made to the
mechanismfor auctioning internationa        serves in March2004.The Bancode Mexrco
contfnuesto pre-announcethe atnoun           dottars io be sold in the market. equal to 50 percent
of net reserveaccumulation in the previousthree-monthperiod. The sale of dollars M no::,
however,be spread over the foila"ing 12months,as opposedto three months. to reduce
volatility in the amount sold throughoutthe year,

Targets for the traditionaldeficit have been met In recentyears, But the pace of fiscal
consolidation, viewed in terms of the augmentedpublic sector deficit. has been slower than
envisaged in the authorities'2002 medium-termplan.Whik this deficit was reducedfrom
3.7 percentof GDP in 2000 to 3.1 percentEn 2003, gross publicdebt rose by about I.75
percentage points to 51 percentof GDP duringthose years, reflecting both currency
deprecrationand slow growth. For 2004, the augmenteddeficit is expected to reina,n broadly
                    the traditional deficitwoLM fall slightly to 0.4 percent of GDP, in Pnewith
                    e draft budgetfor 2005 c      for a decline in the augmentec deficit to 2,2
percentof GDP, while the traditional deficit     uEdfall to 0,l percent of GDP.`

The BanCO de Mexico has tightened policy seven times since the beginning of 2004 da
mreases in the coda (:he borrowed          ewes objective). In addition, domestic market
conditions have been affectedby the        o increasesin the U.S. federalfunds target rate.The
overnrghtinter-bank(fondeo)rase from about 5 percent in January to slightly over 8 percent in
md-September, Long-term interest rates rose by slightly less over this period. \c:Mthe ?&year
government bond yield increasingfrom about 8% percent in January to 30%percent rn
September.The peso depreciated hy 2 percentthrough end-Septemberafter falling by
6% percentagainstthe US. dollar in 2003.

Market sentinienttoviard hlexico remains positive,as reflected in its investment-gradestatus.
After a short-livedspike to 250 &ashpoints in mrd-May as US. interest rates rose. Mexico's
EMBI+ spread has fallen back to about 180basis points.

The government has made significant progress ~nstrengtheningthe structureof publicdebt.
Several itabiiity managementoperations. including an exchangeof global bands in early 2004.
have helped to improvethe efficiency of the yield curve. Domestic pubiic debt management
has concentrated on extending maturities. improvingthe liquidity of benchmark issues.and
deepeningdomestic financial markets. Nevertheless.s5me publicdebt vulnerab
wth a large portion of domestic debt either short term or linkedto short-terminterest rates,
The publicsector also has a significant gross financing need.




                                                   51

                                               - 3 -




Executive Board Assessment

Executive Directors commendedthe Mexican authoritresfor thetr continued pursuit of sound
macroeconomicpolicies, andi:delcotned signs that recently the economic recovery has
strengthened and becomemore broadly based,while business confidence and investment
                    hile, FDI inflows have been strong. expods have picked up, and market
perceptions of Mexico remainfavorabte. Progress in modernizingthe financial sector has
continued, and balance sheets appear healthy. The key chalienges going fQn'4ard MI1he to
enhance Mexico's economic performanceon a lasting basis by bringinginflationdown to the
long-termobjective. reducing debt vulnerabslities,and reinvigoratingthe program of structural
reforms

On fiscal policy, Directorswelcomed the authorities` contin       commitmentto medaum-term
fiscal consolidation,and commendedthe authorities'track           rd in meetingfiscal targets.
They noted that the budget is dependent on volatile oil revenues.In this context.most
Directors encouragedthe authoritiesto aim at saving significantly more of the excess oil
revenuesfor the mediumterm, .&vhilesome considered the use of part of these revenrtesfor
productive invesfnientsto be a prudent strategy, Lookingahead, Directors urged the
author;ties to establishstronger mechanlsmsto ensure that a substantialportion of the 12;indfall
is saved. This will require redoubledefforts to ensure that medium-term expenditure redtcction
1s combined with measuresto achieve significant increases in non-oilrevenues.

Directors considered that fiscal reformswill have a crtrcial rote to play in achieving further
conso~~dat~on.In particular,formal fiscal responsibilityprinciples based on the augmented
f scar measures should be helpfulin avoidingstippages in meetingme
Directors regrettedthe setback to efforts aimed at enhancingthe efficiencyof the tax system
and promoting fiscal stability. They believedthat tax reformto raise non-oil rewmues v:Ji be
needed to avoid budget cuts that couldjeopardize spending in social areas and on public
               Pension reform f;dili also he requ,red to ensure that the fiscal accounts rema:n on
               Dfrectorsencouragedthe authoritiesto take actionsto enhance the
               and efficiencyof severa!pubtic enterprises, including PEMEX, in order to
strengthen the fiscal position and raise the quality of Mexico's infrastructure.

Directors identified several other key elements of the reform agenda that should be pursued
These include stepped up effortsto improve governance and enhance flexibility in the labor
market. Directors consideredthat building a consensusaround these efforts. as '-#ellas on
actions to enhance competition in the telecommunicationssector. wili be vital for promoting
pwate investment.

Regarding monetary policy, Directors recognizedthe success of Mexico's inflation targeting
                  ging infiationd a m to low singie-drgit levels.They noted that, although the
long-term inflationtarget is close to being met, sustarnedachievement of the target is proving
to be problematic in an environment of repeated price shocks. Directorsaccordingly viewed
Me recent trgktening of the monetarystance as appropriateto ensure the credibilityof the
aokthoritles"commitmentto loweringinflation, Looking ahead, Directorsagreed that a tightening




                                                  52

                     main appropriate irntilthere are clear signs that inflafionexpectations are
                      long-term objective.

Directors supported the autho es` effortsto refine monetar\/policy announcementsto signal
the policymakers'vtews more       ectly to markets. Steps in this drrection have led to more
stable short-term interest rates in recent months. as well as to morepredictable market
responsesio policy actions. Directorsgenerally agreedthat there is scope to further increase
transparency and predictability in policy implementationover time, tncluding by movingto an
interest rate instrumentwhen conditionswarrant, Directorswere encouragedby the
refinementsto the inflation-targetingframework, Many Directors acknowiedgedthe drawbacks
to movingtoward publicationof an officialinflationforecast in the immediate circrrtmtances,
given the evolving na      of monetaryinstruments andthe risks of ad             uncertaintyabout
policy intentions at a     al time. However,this issueshould be kept

Dsrectors observed that Mexico'sflexible exchange rate regime        s keen effective in
cirshionrngthe economy from external shocks.They viewed externalcompetitivenessto be
broadly consistentwith a sustainable balanceof payments pos                ey agreed that the
rukes-basedmechanismfor accumulatingforeign reserves app                   y reflects the
authorities'transparent approach to reserves managementand their commitmentto a market-
determinedexchange rate.

Directorswelcomed the continuedimprovement In broad indicatorsof banking sector
soundness.They noted that the banking system as a whoiie has a sound level of profitability
                                       iallenge Inthe periodahead    +i   be ta deepenfinance!
                                        andto streamiinefinancial regulatio
                                       gard. Directorsencouragedthe auth                     the
                                       ector and the developmentbanks to                     y do
not pose a source of hidden financial risks.

Directors endorsedthe authorities' contrnuedcommitnient to reducevulnerab
public debt, In additionto sustained progresswith fiscal consolidation,they welcclmedplans to
Improvethe debt structurefurther by continuingto increasefixed-rate domestic-currency
instruments,extendingthe domestic yield curve, and diversifyingthe investor base.




                                              53

                                ANNEX 6. MEXICO -KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS

                                         Mexico Key EconomicIndicators
                                                  -

                                                           Actual                  Estimate              Projected
                 Indicator                      2001     2002    2003      2004     2005     2006     2007      2008   2009
National accounts (as Yo of GDP)
Gross domestic producta                            100     100       100      100       100     100      100      100     100
 Agriculture                                         4        4         4       4          4       4       4         4       4
 Industry                                           27       26        26      26        26      26       26       26       26
 Services                                           69       70        70       69       71      70       70       70       70

Total Consumptioil                                  81       81        81       80        80     82       82        82      82
Gross domestic fixed investment                     20       19        19      20        21      20       20       20       20
 Government investment                               4        4         5        5         4       4       4         4       4
 Private investment                                  16      15        14       15        17     16        16       17      17

~xports(GNFS)~                                      28       27        28       30        30     30        30       29      29
Imports (GNFS)                                      30       29        29       32        32     33       33        33      32
Gross domestic savings                               19      19        19       20        20      18       18       18      18
Gross national savings`                              18      19        19       21        20      19       19       19      19
Menzoranduni itenis
Gross domestic product                         622093   649076   639076    676497   747295   785645   824358    869181 918214
(US$millionat current prices)
GNI per capita (US$, Atlas method)                5560     5960     6290     6790      6840    7060     7410      7700   8000
Real annual growth rates ("h,calculated from 1993 prices)
 Gross domestic product at marketprices            -0.2     0 8        1.4     4.4       2.8     3 2      2.9      3.3      3.5
 Gross Domestic Income                             0.0       1.2       1.1     3.8       3.8     2.3      2.5      3.0      3.3
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1993 prices)
 Gross domestic product at market prices           -1.6    -0.6      -0 1      2.9       I.4     1.8      1.5      1 9      2 1
 Total consumption                                  0 5    -0.1       0.6      3 2       2 5     2.6      1.6       1 6     2.1
 Private consumption                                1.0     0.1       0.8      4 0       4 3     3 0      2 0       1.6     1.9
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
 ~xports(GNFS)~                                 171440   173738  177299    201911   223171   234077   244496    253360  262808
   Merchandise FOB                              158780   161046  164766    187999   207779   217510   226749    234350  242444
 Imports (GNFS)~                                184614   185419  187680    215372   238460   256187    270443   2843 19 297075
   MerchandiseFOB                               168396   168679  170546    196810   218590   234765    247676   260025  271099
 Resource balance                               -13174   -11681   -10380   - 13460  -1 5290   -22111   -25947   -30959  -34267
 Net current transfers                            9338    10268    13858     17044    18875    20865    22897    24873   26745
 Current account balance                        -17870   -13499     -8604    -7355    -9003   -15247   -19154   -23696  -27 124
 Net private foreign direct investment           27687    15477    12279     17377    14363    13799    15179    16697   18366
 Long-term loans (net)                            2517    -3906      -139     4200      7807   12651    14140    16662   18038
  Ofticial                                        -669      246      -372     -182       561    -1 I O   -335     -608   -1445
  Private                                         3186    -4152       233     4382      7246   12760    14474    17270   19484
 Other capital (net, inci errors & ommissions)   -4996     9304      6297  -10161      -7150   -7012    -6893    -6791   -6706
 Change in reservesd                             -7338    -7376     -9833    -4061     -60 17  -4190    -3272    -2872   -2575
Memorandum items
Resourcebalance (% of GDP)                         -2.1     -1.8      -1.6     -2 0      -2 0    -2.8     -3 1     -3 6    -3 7
Real annual growth rates ( YR93 prices)
 Merchandiseexports (FOB)                          -2.7     -0.7      -2 5      7 5       3 7    3.7       3 4      3 3     3 3
  Primary                                         -17.3    11.1      18.4     18 1        0 9    2.9       0 8      0 8     0.8
  Manufactures                                     -0.6     -2.1      -5.4      5 7       4 2    3.8       3 9      3 7     3.7
 Merchandise imports (CIF)                         - 4 0     0.6   .  -1.3      9 3       7 6    4.0       3 6      4 2     3 5




                                                                  54

                                    Mexico Key Economic Indicators
                                               -
                                                    (Continued)


                                                          Actual                Estimate           Projected
                 Indicator                  2001       2002       2003    2004   2005     2006   2007     2008   2009


Public finance (as  O hof GDP at market prices)'
 Current revenues                              21.9       22 1       23 2   23 2    22 9    21 9   21 5     21 5   21 4
 Current expenditures                          20.0       20 1       21 0   20 2    19 I 17 9      17 7     17 6   17 7
 Current account surplus (+)or deficit (-)       1.9       2 0        2 2    3 1     3 9     4 0    3 9      3 9    3 7
 Capital expenditure                            2.6        3 2        2 9    3 4     4 1     3 9    3 8      3 8    3 7
 Foreign financing                                        -0 4       -0 2   -0 2     0 9     0 5    0 4      0 2    0 0

Monetary indicators
 M2iGDP                                        29 0       29 1       28 3   28 3    27 8    30 8   33 3     33 3   33 3
 Growth o f M2 (%)                             12.5        8 3        7 1   10 7     6 1    18 2   15 4      7 0    7 2
 Private sector credit growth i               446.3       90 9      -49 9   51 3   382 7    88 I 66 3      1103    56 2
 total credit growth (%)

Price indices( YR93   =loo)
 Merchandise export price index               117.9     120 7       I26 7  134 5    143 4  144 7  145 9    145 9  146 1
 Merchandise import price index               111 3     1108        113 5  1199     123 7  127 9  130 2    131 2  132 2
 Merchandise t e r m o f trade index          106.0     108 9       111 7  1122     115 9  113 1  1120     111 2  110 6
 Real exchange rate (US$iLCU)'                 62 9       61 2       72 0   77 4    74 4    75 5   75 4     74 4   73 4

 Real interestrates
 Consuiner price index (% change)               6.4        5 0        4 5    4 7     4 1     4 2    3 9      3 8    3 8
 GDP deflator (% change)                         5.9       7 0        8 5    6 1      5 2    3 4    3 5      3 6    3 6



a. GDP at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c Includes net unrequitedtransfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use o f IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central governinent.
f, "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increaseinUS$/LCUdenotes appreciation

                           ANNEX 7. MEXICO-KEY EXPOSUREINDICATORS

                                  Mexico Key Exposure Indicators
                                             -

                                                     Actual                    Estimate               Projected
              Indicator                   2001    2002      2003      2004      2005    2006      2007      2008    2009

Total debt outstandingand               145675     141264   140391    140778    143625  153464    164512     177772 192069
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a


Net disbursements (US$m)a                  1175     -4012     -790       1396      4935     9840    11047     13261  14296


Total debt service (TDS)                 48291     43535     34279      33568    32275    36016     37015    47270   52791
(US$m)a


Debt and debt service indicators
("h)
  TDO/XGS~                                  78.5     75.3     72.1        62.9     58.3     59.2      60.5     62.8   65.2
  TDOIGDP                                   23.4     21.8     22.0        20.8     19.2      19.5     20.0     20.5   20.9
  TDSiXGS                                   26.0     23.2     17.6        15.0     13.1      13.9     13.6     16.7    17.9
  ConcessionaliTDO                           0.8      0.9       0.9        0.9      1.0      0.8       0.7      0.6    0.5


IBRD exposure indicators(%)
  IBRDDS/public DS                           8.8      10.9     14.1       17.6     10.8       9.5      6.7      4.8     7.0
  Preferredcreditor DS/public               11.7      15.0    20.7        19.9     17.1      15.4     11.6      8.7    10.4
  DS (%)'
  IBRD DS/XGS                                1.2       1.1       1.O       1.1      0.7       0.6       0.5     0.4     0.7
  IBRD TDO (Us$in)d                      10883     10797    10717        9567     8809      8240     7953     7805    6769
    Of which presentvalue of
    guarantees(US$m)
  Share of IBRD portfolio ("h)                 9         9         9         8        8         8         8       8       8
  IDA TDO (US$m)d                              0         0         0         0        0         0         0       0       0


IFC (US$m)
  Loans
  Equity and quasi-equity /c




a. Includespublic and publicly guaranteeddebt, private nonguaranteed,use of IMF credits and net short-
   term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, includingworkers' remittances.
c. Preferredcreditors are defined as IBRD; IDA, the regionalmultilateral developmentbanks, the IMF; and the
   Bank for InternationalSettlements.
d. Includes presentvalue of guarantees.
e. Includesequity andquasi-equity types o f both loanandequity instruments.




                                                              56

 m                   N
 9                               'D 9
                     P
                     r           WP




      m P                           9
      - 0                           7




                                    4
                                    b




7
"     o ~ o o o r ~ m o o r m o o o o m
      g b z z N m,
      o m o m m , m o b m o m ~ o ~ o o m
                    g g g w m m m m m
                                ~   m  m

         ANNEX 9. STATEMENTOF IFC'S HELDAND DISBURSEDPORTFOLIO

                                     Mexico
                                Statement of IFC's
                            Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                 As of 06/30/2005
                             (InUS Dollars Millions)

                                         Held                   Disbursed

FY Approval Company           Loan   Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
       1998 Ayvi                 4.3    0.0   0.0    0.0   4.3   0.0    0.0   0.0
            BBVA-Bancomer      16.0     0.0   0.0    0.0  16.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
1995199     Baring MexFnd        0.0    1.4   0.0    0.0   0.0   1.4    0.0   0.0
       1998 CIMA Puebla          3.3    0.0   0.0    0.0   3.3   0.0    0.0   0.0
      2005  CMPDH              14.5     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
            Chiapas-Propalma     0.0    1.o   0.0    0.0   0.0   1.o    0.0   0.0
2001104     Compartamos        15.7     0.0   0.0    0.0   6.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
      2002  Coppel             30.0     0.0   0.0    0.0  30.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
       1999 Corsa                5.6    3.O   0.0    0.0   5.6   3.0    0.0   0.0
      2005  Credit0 y Casa     21.5     0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
      2004  D T M              34.9     0.0   0.0    0.0  21.3   0.0    0.0   0.0
       2001 Ecomex               4.3    0.0   0.7    0.0   2.3   0.0    0.7   0.0
       2000 Educacion            5.7    0.0   0.0    0.0   4.1   0.0    0.0   0.0
       2005 FINEM              15.3     0.7   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
       1997 Fondo Chiapas        0.0    3.1   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
       1998 ForjaMonterrey       5.6    3.0   0.0    5.6   5.6   3.O    0.0   5.6
       2001 GFNorte            100.0    0.0   0.0    0.0  50.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
       1996 GIBSA                8.1    0.0    0.0  27.3   8.1   0.0    0.0  27.3
1996100     GIRSA              28.9     0.0    0.0  38.6  28.9   0.0    0.0  38.6
       2005 GMAC Financiera    116.4    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
1998104     Grupo Calidra      22.5     0.0    0.0   0.0  21.8   0.0    0.0   0.0
       1989 Grupo FEMSA          0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0
       1997 Grupo Minsa          4.8    0.0    0.0   7.2   4.8   0.0    0.0   7.2
1996199     Grupo Posadas        0.0    0.0   10.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   10.0   0.0
       1998 Grupo Sanfandila     4.8    0.0    0.0    1.6  4.8   0.0    0.0    1.6
            Grupo SuCasita       0.0    8.9    0.0   0.0   0.0    8.9   0.0   0.0
       2004 HipNal             105.8    0.0    0.0    0.0 105.8  0.0    0.0   0.0
            Homex                0.0    5.6    0.0    0.0  0.0    5.6   0.0   0.0
       2000 ITR                  8.0    0.0    0.0    2.0  8.0    0.0   0.0   2.0
       2000 Innopack             0.0   15.0    0.0    0.0  0.0   15.0   0.0   0.0
            Interoyal            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
       2003 Lomas de Real      51.3     0.0   20.0 104.0  50.0    0.0  20.0  104.0
       1998 Merida I11         26.0     0.0    0.0  57.2  26.0    0.0   0.0  57.2
       2003 Mexmal               0.0    0.0    1.3    0.0  0.0    0.0    1.3   0.0
1995199     Mexplus Puertos      0.0    0.3    0.0    0.0  0.0    0.3    0.0   0.0
       1999 NEMAK                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
       2003 Occidental Mex     27.9     0.0    0.0  37.2  27.9    0.0    0.0 37.2
            Occihol              0.0    10.0   0.0    0.0   0.0  10.0    0.0   0.0

                                        58

       2003   POLOMEX S.A.         5.7    0.0  0.0     0.0  5.7   0.0  0.0   0.0
       2000   Pan American         0.0   4.3   0.0     0.0  0.0   4.3  0.0   0.0
       2002   Puertas Finas       10.6    0.0  0.0     0.0  10.6  0.0   0.0  0.0
       2002   Qualita              0.0    0.0  3.5     0.0  0.0   0.0   3.5  0.0
       2000   Rio Bravo           45.5   0.0   0.0    51.1 45.5   0.0   0.0  51.1
       2004   SSA Mexico          45.0    0.0  0.0     0.0 45.0   0.0   0.0  0.0
       2000   Saltillo S.A.       32.2   0.0   0.0    37.1 32.2   0.0   0.0  37.1
       2000   Servicios            6.8    1.5  0.0     6.0  6.8   1.5   0.0   6.0
 04/05/2001 Su Casita             51.2   0.0   0.0     0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
       1997 TMA                    1.3    0.0  3.1     4.6   1.3  0.0   3.1   4.6
       2003   TMWC                 3.0    0.0  0.0     0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0
       2003   Valle Hermoso       52.4   0.0   20.0  107.1 51.8   0.0 20.0  107.1
              ZNMexico I1          0.0   10.0  0.0     0.0   0.0  6.3   0.0   0.0
       1998 ZN Mxc EqtyFund        0.0    1.7  0.0     0.0   0.0  1.7   0.0   0.0

         Total Portfolio:        934.5   69.5  58.6  486.5 633.3 61.9  58.5 486.5



         Approvals PendingCommitment
                            Loan Equity Quasi  Partic
2005  Centro Espanol          5.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
1998 Cima Hermosillo          0.0    0.0   7.0   0.0
2005  Coppel I1               5.0    0.0  10.0   0.0
2001  Ecomex                  3.5    0.0   0.0   0.0
2000  Educacion               3.2    0.0   0.0   0.0
2001 GFNorte-CL               0.0    0.0   0.0 100.0
2003  Mexmal                  0.0    0.0   5.0   0.0
2005  Pan American 2          0.0    4.5   0.0   0.0
2003  Polomex                2.0     0.0   0.0   0.0
2005  UNITEC                 30.2    0.0   0.0   0.0

Total Pending Commitment:    48.9    4.5  22.0 100.0




                                         59

                                         Mexico at a glance                                                                                8/25/05

                                                                         Latin       Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                   America        middle-
                                                           Mexico     8 Carib.      income       Developmentdiamond`
2004
Population, mid-year (millions)                               103.8        541          576
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                           6,770       3,600        4,770                        Life expectancy
GNi (ANas method, US$ bi//ions)                              703.1       1,948        2,748                                -

Average annual growth, 1998-04
Population ("A)                                                  1.4        1.4         0 8
Labor force ("A)                                                 2.4        0.9        -0 9      GNI                                       Gross
                                                                                                 per          -J          .p* 2-          primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                                            capita              **,                enrollment
Poverty ("A ofpopulation below national povertyline)                                                                    **

Urban population ("A of totalpopulation)                         75         71           62
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                 74         71           69
Infant mortality (per 1,000live births)                          24         28           24
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)                          a                                        Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source ("A ofpopulation)             88          89          93
Illiteracy ("A ofpopu/ation age 15+)                              8          11           9
Gross primary enrollment ("A of school-agepopulation)           110        123          106        *    m__X   Mexico
    Male                                                        111        126          108                    Upper-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                                       ~

    Female                                                      110        122          106

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                    1984       1994      2003          2004      Economic ratios`
GDP (US$ billions)                                  175.6    421.7       639.1        676 5
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                       19.9        21.9      20.6         21 3
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                    17.4       16.8      27.8         30 1                              Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                          27.7        17.1      19.0         19 9
Gross national savings/GDP                          22.7        14.9      19.2         20 5
Current account baianceiGDP                          2.4        -7.0       -1.3         -1 3
Interest payments/GDP                                5.8         1.5        1.6          1 5
Total debt/GDP                                      54.0        32.9      22.0         20 8
Total debt service/exports                          45.1        25.7      17.6          15 1
Present value of debffGDP
Present value of debtlexports
                                                                                                                    indebtedness
                                        1984-94  1994-04      2003       2004       2004-08
(average annual growth)
GDP                                         2.7      3.3         1.4        4.4          3 0            "'---Mexico
GDP per capita                              0.8       1.8       -0.1        2.9          1 6                     Upper-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                                           ~
Exports of goods and services               6.0      9.6         2.7       11.5          4 1


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                    1984       lgg4
("A Of GDP)                                                                                      Growth of Investment and GDP(Oh)

Agriculture                                           9.4        6 0        3 9          4 1    I15
Industry                                             34.9       26 8       258          264      lo
    Manufacturing                                    22.7       18 7       180          181      5
Services                                             55.7       67 2      703           695     1
Private consumption                                  63.1       71 4      686           685      5
General government consumption                        9.2       11 5       124          117
Imports of goods and services                         9.6       21 6       295          31 9                     ---GDi         I O - G D P


                                                 1984-94 1994-04          2003         2004
(average annualgrowth)                                                                          IGrowth of exports and imports (Oh)             1
Agriculture                                           0.8        1.9        3.5          4.0
Industry                                              3.3        3.3        -0.2         3.0
    Manufacturing                                     3.5        3.6        -1.3         3.8
Services                                              2.7        3.3         1.9         4.6

Private consumption                                   3.6        3.7        2.3          5.5
General government consumption                        2.2        1.2         0.8        -1.2
Gross domestic investment                             5.6        4.8        -4.2         1.5
Imports of goods and services                        14.8       10.6         0.7        10.2


Note: 2004 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the Country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
     be incomplete.



                                                                      60

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1984    1994    2003    2004
Domestic prices
("Achange)
Consumer prices                             65.4      7.0     4.5     4.7
Implicit GDP deflator                       59.1      8.5     8.5     6.1

Government finance
("Aof GDP,includes current grants)                                                                             t        ,--
Current revenue                             31.2    22.7    23.2    23.2               99     00      01       02      03       04
Current budget balance                       -1.2     3.3     2.2     3.1
Overall surplus/deficit                      -6.4    -0.3    -0.7    -0.3             a  -'-*GDP  deflator   --C--CPI             I
TRADE                                                                                                                             I
                                            1984    1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                Export and import levels (US) mill.)

Total exports (fob)                       29,100  60,882  164,923 189,159    250 000
  Oil                                      16,601  7,445   18,654 23,706
  Agriculture                               1,461  2,678   4,664   5,421
  Manufactures                             10,499 50,402  141,087 159,093
Total imports (cif)                        15,916 79,346  170,546 197,247
  Food
  Fueland energy
                                                                                                                                  I
  Capital goods                             2,573  13,322  20,205  22,599

Export price index (1995=100)                120      95      111     111
Import price index (1995=100)                 79      95      105     107  I                  rExports             Imports    O4
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     153     100     106     104

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                            1984    1994    2003    2004
(US$ mil/ions)                                                               j Currentaccountbalanceto GDP (%)

Exports of goods and services             33,926  71,184  177,395 202,625
Imports of goods and services             21,028  91,616  187,680 215,718
Resource balance                           12,898 -20,432 -10,285 -13,094

Net income                                -10,076 -13,012 -12,160 -12,662
Net current transfers                       1,361   3,782  13,858  17,044

Current account balance                     4,183 -29,662  -8,587  -8,712

Financing items (net)                      -2,034  12,463  18,420  12,774
Changes in net reserves                  ' -2,149  17,199  -9.833  -4,061

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      7,355  6,300   59,027  64,204
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocal/US$)              0.2     3.4    10.8    11.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            1984    1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                 Compositionof 2004 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed       94,830 138.545 140,391 140,778
  IBRD                                      2,852  13,038  10,717   9,567
   IDA                                          0       0       0       0                     G 9,900 A 9,567

Total debt service                         16,960  20,076  34,279  33,568
   IBRD                                       485   1,989   1,972   2,499
   IDA                                          0       0       0       0

Composition of net resourceflows
   Official grants                             27      47
  Official creditors                          832    -583    -372    -182
  Private creditors                           791   5,296    -418   1,578
  Foreign direct investment                   390  10,973  12,625  16,602
   Portfolio equity                             0   4.084                                     F 112,001
World Bank program
   Commitments                                576   2.380     888     621      A-  IBRD                            E. Bilateral
   Disbursements                              682     942   1,258     767      B - IDA     D Other multilateral
                                                                                             -                     F - Private
   Principal repayments                       253   1,065   1,359   1,976      C. IMF                              G Short-term
                                                                                                                     -
   Netflows                                   430    -123    -101  -1,209
   Interest payments                          233     924     613     524
   Nettransfers                               197  -1,046    -714  -1,733


DevelODment Economics                                                                                                      8/25/05




                                                          61




