Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER H598-TD 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Second Population and AIDS Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 25, 2010 
Page  2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H598-TD 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
Agreement dated August 25, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement or in the Original Financing Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
thirteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 13,300,000) (“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Euro. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project through MEP, in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
Page  4
2
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consists of the following: that a situation 
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant 
part thereof will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has installed a financial management system for the 
Project satisfactory to the Association, and 
(b) 
The Recipient has recruited a procurement specialist within the PCT 
under terms of reference and conditions acceptable to the Association. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of the Recipient at the time 
responsible for economic promotion and development. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Plan 
 
B.P. 286 
 
N’Djamena 
 
Republic of Chad 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
5329
KD   235-251-51-85 
 
235-252-00-87 
Page  5
3
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at N’Djamena, Chad, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CHAD 
 
By //s// Mahamat Ali Hassan 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By //s// Jean-Claude Brou 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
4
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to contribute in changing 
the behavior of its population, in order to reduce the risk of infection from HIV and to 
have too closely spaced and/or unwanted pregnancies. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A:
Strengthening the Capacities of the MOPH, Ministry of National 
Education, Ministry of Defense and Interior, and Ministry of Public 
Security
1. 
Strengthening the technical capacities of the decentralized HIV/AIDS units of the 
Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Interior and of Public 
Security at the regional level through the provision of technical advisory services and 
training. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacities of MOPH through the provision of training and 
technical advisory services, and the acquisition of equipment and Medical Products for 
the following units of MOPH: the Sector Program for AIDS/STI Control, and the Psycho-
Medico-Social Center.  
Part B:
Strengthening of FOSAP
1. 
Provision of FOSAP Grants to selected NGOs and public sector entities with 
respect to activities that support the Recipient’s population and AIDS control programs, 
including, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the financing of activities that will assist in: (i) promoting and 
distributing condoms; (ii) carrying out target information, education and 
communication activities for behavior change in the areas of population, 
reproductive health, and STI/HIV/AIDS prevention and care; 
(iii) providing psycho-medical-social support for people living with 
HIV/AIDS; (iv) providing economic and legal support for HIV infected 
and affected persons; (v) providing support and care for HIV/AIDS 
orphans; (vi) promoting voluntary HIV counseling and testing in the 
general population and in at risk and/or vulnerable groups; (vii) 
promoting the access to voluntary counseling and testing as well as 
mitigation of mother to child transmission of HIV; and (viii) promoting 
modern methods of contraception;  
Page  7
5
(b)  
the financing of the technical advisory services and supervision services 
to be provided by selected NGOs (“Selected NGOs”) to the beneficiaries 
of the FOSAP Grants.  
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of FOSAP through the provision of Operating Costs, 
technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of office equipment, medical 
supplies and vehicles. 
Part C:
Support to a pilot Performance-Based Approach to improving 
Maternal and Child Health Outcomes
1. 
Provision of Health Services Packages, principally to pregnant women and 
children under five, through the provision of Performance-Based Payments to eligible 
Health Centers in Targeted Areas.  
2. 
Payment of the management fee of the PB NGO. 
3. 
Strengthening MEP’s, MOPH’s and PCT’s capacity to supervise and measure 
impact of performance-based activities in Targeted Areas, through: (i) the provision of 
technical advisory services and training; and (ii) the acquisition of equipment and 
medical supplies.   
4. 
Establishment of external controls in relation to the provision of  Health Services 
Packages, including the carrying out of third-party verifications thereof. 
Part D:
Support to the Implementation of the National Population Policy
Strengthening MEP’s and MOPH’s capacity to implement population and 
reproductive health activities in Targeted Areas in accordance with the PNP, through: 
(i) the provision of technical advisory services and training; and (ii) the acquisition of 
equipment.   
Part E
:
Support to Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Support to PCT through the provision of technical advisory services, the 
financing of Operating Costs and training, and the acquisition of vehicles, office 
equipment and furniture. 
2. 
Strengthening monitoring and evaluation through the carrying out of studies and 
surveys, the provision of technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of 
equipment. 
3. 
Carrying out of the third national consumption household survey through the 
provision of technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of materials. 
Page  8
6
4. 
Strengthening medical waste management capacity through the provision of 
technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition of medical materials.  
5. 
Carrying out financial audits of the PCT, PB NGO and FOSAP, through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
Page  9
7
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Institutional Arrangements
 
1.  
Steering Committee, FOSAP Committee and PCT
During the execution of the Project, the Recipient shall cause: (i) the Steering 
Committee and the FOSAP Committee to each meet quarterly; (ii) PCT and FOSAP to 
prepare for the Steering Committee and the FOSAP Committee, respectively, not later 
than two weeks before such meetings, a report on the progress during the preceding 
quarter of the respective parts of the Project for which they are responsible; and (iii) PCT 
to be responsible for the financial management and procurement aspects of the Project. 
2.  
The Recipient shall ensure that, at all times during the execution of the Project: 
(a) 
 
the Steering Committee shall oversee the overall planning, 
implementation and supervision of the Project, the FOSAP Committee 
shall oversee the overall planning, implementation and supervision 
activities of the FOSAP, and PCT shall be responsible for the day to day 
coordination of the Project; 
(b) 
the qualifications, experience and performance of the staff within MEP, 
MOPH, PCT and FOSAP, in charge directly or indirectly of the 
implementation of any activities of the Project, shall be satisfactory to 
the Association; 
(c) 
PCT and FOSAP shall be maintained with functions and staffing 
satisfactory to the Association, including, without limitation: (i) in the 
case of FOSAP, a management unit with the following staff: an 
administrator, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, two  program 
officers, an assistant administrator, and an accountant; and (ii) in the case 
of PCT, the following staff: a project coordinator, an administrator, a 
procurement specialist, a monitoring and evaluation officer, two internal 
auditors, an accountant and a program officer in charge of Part C of the 
Project; 
(d) 
the HIV/AIDS units within each of the MOPH and the Ministry of 
National Education, Ministry of Defense, and Ministry of Interior and 
Public Security shall be maintained with functions, composition and staff 
Page  10
8
with qualifications, experience and performance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(e) 
the Steering Committee and the FOSAP Committee shall be maintained 
with functions, composition and members with qualifications, 
experience, availability and performance satisfactory to the Association, 
including, without limitation: (i) in the case of the Steering Committee: 
the 
Secrétaire Générale
 of the MEP who shall be the chair, the 
Secrétaire Générale
 of the MOPH who shall act as vice-president, one 
representative for MEP, two representatives for MOPH, one 
representative for each of the key ministries, a representative of CNLS 
and four representatives for NGOs and civil society; the Project 
coordinator will act as secretariat of the Steering Committee; and (ii) in 
the case of the FOSAP Committee: the 
Secrétaire Générale
 of the MEP 
who shall be the chair, one representative for MEP, two representatives 
for MOPH, one representative for each of the Key Ministries, and Project 
coordinator and four representatives for NGOs and civil society; and 
(f)  
the relevant Ministries, agencies and authorities shall collaborate with 
PCT, FOSAP, and the Population Division in compliance with the 
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, and the FOSAP Grant 
Procedures Manual, in particular with respect to the appointment of staff 
whose experience, position and performance are satisfactory to the 
Association, and who shall assist PCT, FOSAP, and the Population 
Division in ensuring proper implementation of the Project. 
3. Annual 
Consultations
The Recipient shall cause FOSAP to organize annual regional workshops to 
establish annual priorities for HIV/AIDS in conformity with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual, and the FOSAP Grant Procedures Manual. 
B. 
Anti-Corruption 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. 
Sub-projects
 
(a) FOSAP 
Grants
(i) 
FOSAP Grants (“FOSAP Subproject Grants”) shall be made to 
NGOs and public sector entities meeting eligibility criteria 
mentioned in the FOSAP Grant Procedures Manual, to finance 
Subprojects in the areas of HIV/AIDS and population; 
Page  11
9
(ii) 
FOSAP Grants (“FOSAP TA Grants”) shall be made to Selected 
NGOs providing technical assistance and supervision to the 
beneficiaries of the FOSAP Grants pursuant to paragraph (a) (i) 
above, selected by FOSAP in collaboration with the FOSAP 
Committee, in accordance with eligibility criteria mentioned in 
the FOSAP Grant Procedures Manual, which shall take into 
account, 
inter alia
,
the prior experience of the relevant Selected 
NGO, its success in implementing multi-sectoral projects, and its 
geographical location; 
 
(iii) 
FOSAP Subproject Grants shall not exceed an amount equal to 
80% of the total Subproject cost; and 
 
(iv) 
FOSAP Beneficiaries shall be required to enter into a subproject 
agreement (“Subproject Agreement”), on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association, with FOSAP, setting forth their 
respective obligations thereunder, including the obligation of 
FOSAP to make FOSAP Grant funds available in a timely 
manner, as well as the right of FOSAP: 
(A)  
in the case of FOSAP TA Grants, to require that the 
Beneficiaries: (1) supervise the implementation of the 
Subprojects in accordance with the FOSAP Grant 
Procedures Manual; and (2) provide guidance to other 
applicants for FOSAP Grants regarding the preparation, 
implementation, and evaluation of their potential 
Subprojects and provide all information as FOSAP and 
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operations and financial conditions of the 
relevant Subproject;  
(B)  
require Beneficiaries to carry out the technical assistance 
or Subproject activities in accordance with the FOSAP 
Grant Procedures Manual;  
(C)  
inspect, by itself or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the technical assistance or 
Subproject activities, as the case may be, and any 
relevant records and documents;  
(D)  
require Beneficiaries to: (1) carry out the technical 
assistance or Subproject activities with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
economic, financial, managerial, environmental and 
social standards and practices satisfactory to the 
Page  12
10 
 
Association, including in accordance with the provisions 
of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to 
recipients of loan proceeds other than the Recipient; and 
(2) use the FOSAP Grant funds exclusively for the 
carrying out of the technical assistance or Subproject 
activities;  
(E)  
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiaries to 
benefit from the FOSAP Grants upon failure by such 
Beneficiaries to comply with any of their obligations 
under their Subproject Agreement; and  
(F)  
(1) maintain a financial management system and prepare 
financial statements in accordance with consistently 
applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
technical assistance or Subproject activities; and (2) at 
the Association’s or the Recipient’s request, have such 
financial statements audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, and promptly furnish the statements as so 
audited to the Recipient and the Association. 
D.  
Performance-based Payments to Eligible Health Centers 
1. 
The Recipient shall, not later than 12 months after the Effective Date, submit to 
the Association for review and approval: (i) a satisfactory implementation plan (the “PB 
Plan”) outlining the work plan and budget for the first 12 months of implementation of 
Part C.1 of the Project, and (ii) a satisfactory operational manual (the “PB Manual”), 
outlining implementation, organizational, administrative, monitoring and evaluation, 
environmental and social monitoring and mitigation, financial management, 
disbursement, and procurement arrangements for purposes of implementation of results-
based financing in the health sector under Part C.1 of the Project, as well as a detailed 
assessment of the estimated unit costs of the Health Services Packages to be provided by 
the Eligible Health Centers. 
2. 
The Recipient (through the PCT) shall make Performance-Based Payments to 
Eligible Health Centers under Part C.1 of the Project in accordance with eligibility 
criteria and procedures acceptable to the Association, which shall include the following: 
(a) 
a pre-screening by the PB NGO of the eligibility of the Health Centers 
included in the PB Plan, having regard to eligibility criteria and 
Page  13
11 
 
procedures acceptable to the Association, which shall be specified in the 
PB  Manual and shall include the following:  
(i) 
The proposed Health Center must satisfy technical and financial 
capacity standards as assessed by the PB NGO; 
(ii) 
the proposed Health Center is a public or non-profit health 
service provider carrying out Health Services Packages; 
(iii) 
the proposed Health Services Package satisfies the requirements 
of Part C.1 of the Project as described in further detail in the PB 
Manual; 
(iv) 
the proposed Health Services Package is consistent with the 
relevant sectoral, environmental, and social standards and 
policies (including the Medical Waste Management Plan); and 
(v) 
the proposed Health Center has put in place all necessary 
arrangements, including financial and human resources, for the 
management of the proposed Health Services Package. 
(b) 
a review by the PB NGO, prior to any Performance-Based Payment to a 
specific Eligible Health Center, of the performance of such Eligible 
Health Center, having regard to the performance targets set out in the PB 
Manual and the Sub-agreement with such Eligible Health Center . 
3. 
The Recipient shall make Performance-Based Payments to Eligible Health 
Centers pursuant to an agreement with such Eligible Health Center on terms and 
conditions acceptable by the Association (the “Sub-agreement”), which shall include the 
following:   
(a) 
The Performance-Based Payments shall be on a grant basis. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and 
those of the Association, including the right to: 
(i) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Eligible Health Center to 
use the proceeds of the Performance-Based Payments, or to 
obtain a refund of all or any part of the amount of the 
Performance-Based Payment then withdrawn, upon the Eligible 
Health Center’s failure to perform any of its obligations under 
the Sub-agreement, including, without limitation, the obligation 
to use the proceeds of such Performance-Based Payments solely 
for the financing of goods, services and Operating Costs; and  
Page  14
12 
 
(ii) 
require each Eligible Health Center to: (A) carry out its activities 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, economic, financial, managerial, environmental and 
social standards and practices satisfactory to the Association, 
including in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-
Corruption Guidelines; (B) provide, promptly as needed, the 
resources required for the purpose; (C) procure the goods and 
services to be financed out of the Performance-Based Payments 
in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and economy; 
(D) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to 
the Association, the progress of its performance and the 
achievement of its objectives; (E) (1) maintain adequate records 
to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting standards 
acceptable to the Association, the resources, operations, and 
expenditures relating to the Performance-Based Payments; and 
(2) at the Association’s or the Recipient’s request, have such 
records audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, and promptly furnish the 
records as so audited to the Recipient and the Association; 
(F) enable the Recipient and the Association to inspect the 
performance of such Eligible Health Center, its operation and 
any relevant records and documents; and (G) prepare and furnish 
to the Recipient and the Association all such information as the 
Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request relating to 
the foregoing. 
4. 
The Recipient (through the PB NGO) shall exercise its rights under each Sub-
agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing. Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate
 
or
waive any Sub-
agreement or any of its provisions.
 
E.  
External Controls 
1. 
The Recipient shall appoint external auditors, with qualifications, experience, and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of the third-party 
verification of Health Services Packages to be carried out under Part C.1 of the Project. 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause said auditors to carry out, throughout Project 
implementation, quarterly verifications of provided Health Services Packages, including 
community and focus group surveys, beneficiary spot checks, verification of data 
provided and records kept by beneficiaries in relation to Health Services Packages, and 
Page  15
13 
 
assessments of the quality of health services provided under such activities, in accordance 
with the provisions of the BP Manual and the BP Plan. 
Page  16
14 
 
F.  
Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Medical Waste Management Plan, and the Recipient shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, the 
aforementioned, or any provision thereof. 
2. 
In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the MWMP and those of 
this Agreement, the latter shall prevail. 
3. 
Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under Section II.A.1 of 
this Schedule, the Recipient shall take all measures necessary on its part to regularly 
collect, compile, and submit to the Association, as part of the Project Report, information 
on the status of compliance with the Medical Waste Management Plan, giving details of: 
 
(a) 
measures taken in furtherance of said Plan; 
 
(b) 
conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the 
smooth implementation of said Plan; and 
 
(c) 
remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such 
conditions. 
4. 
The MOPH shall be responsible for the implementation and monitoring and 
evaluation of said Plan. 
G.  
Manuals 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in 
the Project Implementation Manual, the FOSAP Grant Procedures Manual, the FOSAP 
Administrative Manual, the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan, the PB Plan and the PB 
Manual, and shall not amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or 
waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof. In the event of any inconsistency 
between this Agreement, on the one hand, and Project Implementation Manual, the 
FOSAP Grant Procedures Manual, the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan, the PB Plan or 
the PB Manual, on the other hand, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and the 
Original Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the 
Page  17
15 
 
Project Implementation Manual.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date. 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General Conditions.  
2. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause the management of PCT and FOSAP to 
maintain a financial management systems, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition. 
(b) 
The Recipient shall cause the management of PCT and FOSAP to: 
(i) 
ensure that the records, accounts and financial statements of PCT 
and FOSAP (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year, be provided to 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association in view of 
their audit, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year: 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such fiscal year as so audited; 
and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
3. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, separate interim unaudited financial reports for PCT and FOSAP 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  18
16 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall have the Financial Statements of PCT and FOSAP separately 
audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  
Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the 
Recipient. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. 
General
 
1.
 Goods.
 
All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
 
(c)  
Single Source Selection  
(d)  
Procurement from UN agencies 
Page  19
17 
 
C.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a)   
Least-Cost Selection 
(b)   
Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications 
(c)   
Single Source Selection 
(d)
 
Individual Consultants 
D.
 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to the 
Association’s Post Review.   
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  20
18 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Goods, 
services, 
 
100% 
 
 (including 
audits), 
Training 
9,150,000 
 
 
and Operating Costs 
 
 
 
 
(2) 
FOSAP Grants 
2,150,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed 
 
(3) 
Performance-Based Payments 
2,000,000 
100% of amounts 
 
under Part C.1 of the Project 
 
disbursed 
 
_________ 
 
TOTAL 13,300,000 
 
======== 
 
3. 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(a) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the reasonable and necessary 
incremental expenses, as approved by the Association on the basis of 
budgets acceptable to the Association, incurred on account of Project 
implementation, management, monitoring and reporting, including office 
supplies, vehicles operation and maintenance, communication and 
insurance costs, rental expenses, office administration costs, utilities, 
banking charges, equipment maintenance, transport, local 
per diem
 for 
supervision and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials of 
the Recipient’s civil service; and 
(b) 
the term “Training” means training activities to be carried out under the 
Project, including the reasonable and necessary travel and visa expenses 
incurred by participants in training workshops and study tours, as well as 
lodging, subsistence and 
per diem
 allowances, registration, tuition fees, 
minor organizational expenses (including costs of stationery, handouts 
and training materials), and other expenditures directly relating to the 
training workshop and study tour activity, as may be agreed with the 
Association. 
 
Page  21
19 
 
B.
 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for  
(a)  
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)  
expenditures under Category (2) unless, in the case of individual FOSAP 
Grants, the FOSAP Grant has been made in accordance with the criteria, 
procedures and terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and 
(c)  
expenditures under Category (3) unless: 
(i)  
the Recipient has recruited the PB NGO pursuant to terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association and in accordance with 
the terms of Section III of Schedule 2 of this Agreement;  
(ii)  
the Recipient has adopted the PB Plan and PB Manual pursuant 
to the terms of Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
(iii) 
the Recipient has appointed the external consultants referred to 
in Section I.E.1 of this Schedule; and 
(iv) 
In the case of individual Performance-Based Payments the Sub-
agreement has been entered into in accordance with the criteria, 
procedures and terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date for the Project is June 30, 2012. 
Page  22
20 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I.   
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in 
Section III of this Appendix. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. “CNLS” 
means 
Comité National de Lutte contre le SIDA
,
the Recipient‘s 
national comittee for the fight against AIDS. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006 and May 2010. 
5. 
“Eligible Health Centers” means a Health Center determined to be eligible 
pursuant to the procedures and criteria referenced in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
6. 
“FOSAP” means the 
Fonds de Soutien aux Activités en Matière de Population et 
de lutte Contre le SIDA
,
governed by the FOSAP Decree (as hereinafter defined) 
and responsible for the implementation of Part B of the Project. 
7. 
“FOSAP Administrative Manual” means the manual outlining, 
inter alia
,
criteria, 
procedures and guidelines for the administration of FOSAP referred to in 
Section I.G of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time, and such term includes any schedules to the FOSAP Administrative 
Manual. 
8. 
“FOSAP Beneficiary” or “Beneficiary” means an NGO, public sector entity or 
Selected NGO, as the case may be, benefitting from a FOSAP Grant.  
9. “FOSAP 
Committee” 
means 
Comité de Direction du FOSAP
,
the committee 
established by the Recipient referenced in Section I.A. of Schedule 2 of this 
Agreement.  
10. 
“FOSAP Decree” means the Recipient’s Decree No. 139/PR/MPAT/98 dated 
June 1, 1998, amending Decree No. 250/PR/MPC/94 creating FOSAP. 
11. 
“FOSAP Grant” means a FOSAP Subproject Grant or a FOSAP TA Grant, as 
applicable.  
Page  23
21 
 
12. 
“FOSAP Grant Procedures Manual” means the manual outlining, 
inter alia
,
criteria, procedures and guidelines for the preparation, appraisal, selection, 
administration and supervision of Subprojects to be financed through FOSAP 
Grants referred to in Section I.G of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and updated as 
of August 2007, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes any schedules to the FOSAP Grant Procedures Manual. 
13. 
“FOSAP Subproject Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made to a 
FOSAP Beneficiary other than a Selected NGO, by FOSAP to finance a 
Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part B.1 of the Project. 
14. 
“FOSAP TA Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made to a Selected 
NGO, by FOSAP to finance a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part B.1 
of the Project. 
15. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
16. 
“Health Center” means a health center, district or regional hospital located in the 
territory of the Recipient. 
17. 
“Health Services Packages” means the Recipient’s package of health services, 
referred to under Part C.1 of the Project and detailed in the PB Manual and, PB 
Plan comprising preventive and curative services, including basic health services 
for pregnant women, and care for children under the age of five. 
18.  “HIV/AIDS” means Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Syndrome. 
19. 
“Medical Products” means essential drugs (with the exception of anti-viral tri-
therapy) and packaging, condoms, oral contraceptives, impregnated bed nets, oral 
rehydration salts, HIV tests, reagents, medical supplies and small medical 
equipment. 
20. 
“Medical Waste Management Plan” or “MWMP” means the Recipient’s plan, 
dated July 29, 2007 agreed with the Association and setting out the measures to 
be taken for the development and implementation of medical waste management 
and safe handling of said waste, as the same may be modified from time to time 
with the prior written agreement of the Association, and such term includes any 
annexes or schedules to said Plan. 
21. 
“MEP” means the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of economy and planning. 
Page  24
22 
 
22. 
“Ministry of Defense and Interior” means the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of 
defense. 
23. 
“Ministry of National Education”, means the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of 
education. 
24. 
“Ministry of Public Security” means the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of 
security. 
25. 
“Monitoring and Evaluation Plan” means the plan adopted pursuant to the 
Original Financing Agreement, outlining the monitoring and evaluation 
arrangements for the Project referenced in Section I.G of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
26. 
“MOPH” means the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of public health. 
27. 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating under 
the laws of the Recipient. 
28. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Second Population and AIDS Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated September 12, 2001 as amended to the date of this Agreement (Credit 
No. 3548-CD). 
29. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
30. 
“PB Manual” means the performance-based manual adopted pursuant to 
Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and such term includes any 
schedules to said Manual. 
31. 
“PB NGO” means the NGO recruited by the Recipient to oversee implementation 
of Part C of the Project, provide technical assistance, assess the capacity of health 
facilities, calculate the unit cost of the services, contract with health centers, and 
verify achievement of results in accordance with the terms of the PB Manual. 
32. 
“PB Plan” means the action plan adopted pursuant to Section I.D.1 of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement. 
33. 
“PCT” means the Project Coordination Team located at MEP. 
34. 
“Performance-Based Payment” means a payment made or proposed to be made 
out of the proceeds of the Financing by the PB NGO to an Eligible Health Center 
in accordance with Section I.D. of Schedule 2 of this Agreement to finance the 
provision of the Health Services Packages.  
Page  25
23 
 
35. 
“PNP” means the Recipient’s Population Policy dated 2007. 
36. 
“Population Division” means the Population Division
 
within the Directorate 
General of Economy and Planning at MEP established by the Recipient, 
inter 
alia
,
to assist the Recipient to implement the Recipient’s revised National 
Population Policy dated June 22, 2007. 
37. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006 and May 2010. 
38. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 12, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.  
39. 
“Program” means the strategy set out in the letter dated June 8, 2001 from the 
Recipient, describing a set of actions, objectives and policies designed to fight 
the HIV/AIDS epidemic and prevent unwanted pregnancies.  
40. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual outlining, 
inter alia
,
the 
administrative, financial, accounting, disbursement and procurement 
arrangements, and work plans for the implementation of the Project, referred to 
in Section I.G of Schedule 2 of this Agreement and updated as of August 2007, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Implementation Manual. 
41. 
“Selected NGOs” means specific NGOs selected by FOSAP (
projets  
dynamisateurs
)
which will provide technical assistance and supervision services 
to the beneficiaries of the FOSAP Grants under Part B.1(b) of the Project.  
42. 
“Steering Committee” means the committee established by the Recipient, 
referenced in Section I.A.1 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement.  
43. 
“STI” means Sexually Transmitted Infections.  
44. 
“Sub-agreement” means an agreement between the Recipient and an Eligible 
Health Center, setting forth the terms and conditions governing Performance-
Based Payments. 
45. 
“Subproject” means a specific activity financed, or proposed to be financed 
through a FOSAP Grant under Part B.1 of the Project. 
46. 
“Subproject Agreement” means an agreement between the Recipient and a 
FOSAP Beneficiary, setting forth the terms and conditions governing FOSAP 
Grants. 
Page  26
24 
 
47. 
“Targeted Areas” means the following regions of the Recipient: Guéra and 
Tandjilé.  
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of: (i) a determination by the Association or the Bank that 
the Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank; and/or (ii) a declaration by another 
financier that the Project Implementing Entity is ineligible to receive proceeds of 
financings made by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation 
or implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as 
a
result of a determination by such financier that the Project Implementing Entity 
has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection 
with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
3. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
Page  27
25 
 
(a) The 
term 
“Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.” 
Section III.  Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines 
The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:   
1.  
Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read 
as follows: 
“… (b)  These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be imposed 
by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all other 
individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that the 
Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as a 
result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or 
entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in 
connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
2. 
Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows: 
“… (a)  sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures 
(fn13)
 a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (
fn 14) 
or an individual or 
entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower, individual or entity 
ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of time: (i) to be 
awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-financed contract, 
financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and (iii) to otherwise 
participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or any other 
project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the Bank 
determines 
(fn 15) 
that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection 
with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has 
entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has 
declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made 
by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation 
of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a 
determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has 
engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with 
the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.” 
Page  28
26 
 
Footnotes:
“13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a 
Bank financed contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings 
pursuant to the  Bank’s sanctions policies and procedures, or under the 
procedures of temporary suspension or early temporary suspension in 
connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a sanction 
by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross 
debarment agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that 
the firm or individual has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of a 
financing made by such financier.” 
“14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national 
government or of any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and 
government owned enterprises and agencies that are not eligible to bid 
under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines or participate under 
paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines.” 
“15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, 
for the purpose of making such determinations. The procedures of the 
Sanctions Board sets forth the full set of sanctions available to the Bank. 
In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal protocol outlining the 
process to be followed in implementing debarments by other financiers, 
and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s 
website and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders.” 
 
