Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/19/2010 
Report No.:  54662
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Original Project ID: P072226 
Original Project Name: Second Population 
and AIDS Project 
Country:  Chad 
Project ID:  P105724 
Project Name:  Population and HIV AIDS Additional Financing 
Task Team Leader:  Boubou Cisse 
Estimated Appraisal Date: December 5, 
2007 
Estimated Board Date: June 24, 2010 
Managing Unit:  AFTHE 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Health (60%);Other social services (20%);Central government administration 
(20%) 
Theme:  Other communicable diseases (23%);Population and reproductive health 
(22%);Participation and civic engagement (22%);HIV/AIDS (22%);Gender (11%) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
20.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project's development objective remains unchanged: to contribute to changing the 
behavior of the Chadian population to reduce the risk of: (i) HIV infection; and (ii) too 
closely spaced and/or unwanted pregnancies.   
 
3. Project Description 
The proposed additional financing will extend the new integrated and decentralized 
approach to STI/HIV/AIDS and population and reproductive health services to ten health 
districts in five regions, in addition to the capital city, Ndjamena. Under this approach, 
the health sector response would be strengthened and the project will finance, in the ten 
districts, (i) the supply of a comprehensive package of basic maternal and child health 
services through mobile teams; (ii) strengthening of the existing public and private health 
centers and voluntary counseling and testing centers, including for medical waste 
Page  2
management; and (iii) promotion of demand for services through social mobilization, 
communication and peer education activities implemented by civil society. Activities 
focused on STI/HIV/AIDS prevention include, among others, testing and treatment of 
STIs, HIV testing and counseling, and psycho-social, medical and nutritional support to 
PLWHAs. Maternal and child health activities include, among others, family planning, 
pre-natal care, referral for assisted deliveries, and vaccination. The bulk of the financing 
for this component will go to front-line service delivery with a small amount of financing 
for supervision by the central level (resulting in an overall reduction of number of 
activities). The project will continue to finance civil society interventions to stimulate 
demand through social mobilization, communication and peer education activities 
implemented by civil society. However, these interventions have also been restructured 
and their number would be reduced to strengthen the implementation, improve quality of 
interventions and maximize the impact of those activities that will continue to be 
financed over the next two years. Moreover, performance-based contracting will be 
introduced for NGO contracts  
 
A
RBF approach will be piloted in two additional regions to improve maternal and child 
health outcomes. The project will provide support to the design of the RBF pilot and 
contracting of a performance purchase agency (PPA) who will be responsible for 
undertaking an assessment of the capacity of health facilities, calculating the unit cost of 
the services, contracting with health centers, and verifying achievement of results. In 
addition, NGOs and CBOs will be contracted to undertake external reviews through 
random household surveys to verify that beneficiaries actually received services.  Finally, 
the project will support project management costs and strengthening medical waste 
management of health centers supported by the project, through provision of equipment, 
materials and incinerators (where needed). Moreover, monitoring and evaluation capacity 
will be strengthened, including routine monitoring of project results and data collection, 
in particular at the regional and district levels, and use of evaluation tools and studies. A 
household survey will be undertaken after project effectiveness to validate and update 
existing data and after the first year of project implementation to determine progress. An 
evaluation of the results of the project will be undertaken at the end of the 
implementation period. Data from these studies will be complemented by data from 
Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS), a Demographic and Health Survey and a 
HIV prevalence survey. The project will also finance the third Household Consumption 
Survey (ECOSIT) to assess progress on key health sector indicators and the reduction of 
poverty since 2003.  
 
No new construction and/or rehabilitation of facilities will take place under the proposed 
additional financing operation. The implementation of the National Medical Waste 
Management Plan will be supported under component 5.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Project local response activities will take in Ndjamena, Kanem, Logone Occidental, 
Logone Oriental, Moyen Kebbi Ouest, and Salamat. The RBF component will be piloted 
in Guera and Tandjilé.   
Page  3
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Serigne Omar Fye (AFTSP) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The original project was given a "C" rating since it was not expected to generate any 
adverse environmental effects. The proposed additional financing project is rated as a "B" 
as is the case for all HIV/AIDS projects, due to the risks associated with the handling and 
disposal of medical waste.  In Chad, as in other countries, inappropriate handling of 
infected materials by an inappropriate management of biomedical wastes (collection, 
control, storage and disposals) constitutes a risk, not only for hospital personnel and 
people frequenting the health facilities, but also for agents in charge of collecting solid 
wastes from healthcare areas. As a result, the only safeguard triggered is the 
environmental assessment, because a Medical Waste Management Plan (MWMP) is 
required.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
The population lives in a very insalubrious environment. More than 71 percent of the 
population does not have hygienic toilets. This situation encourages the outbreak of many 
diseases, particularly diarrheal diseases.  The disposal of household wastes constitutes a 
major problem with the absence of waste elimination and removal systems.  The 
evacuation of rain and used waters also causes major public health problems.  The 
country epidemiological profile includes mainly malaria, tuberculosis, acute respiratory 
diseases, HIV/AIDS, and diarrheal diseases. With an efficient implementation of the 
MWMP, most risks associated with medical waste can be prevented.  No new 
construction and/or rehabilitation of facilities will take place under the proposed 
additional financing operation.   
 
Page  4
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Chad has put in place a National Biological Waste Management Strategy to improve 
waste management methods and hygiene conditions by putting in place systems that are 
viable, technically feasible, socially acceptable and able to guarantee a healthy and clean 
environment. The Strategy was elaborated taking into account the communities# 
preferences and practices. The related MWMP was prepared and disclosed in the 
Infoshop and in country in August 2007 and remains valid.  The Borrower's institutional 
capacity for implementing safeguard measures is somewhat weak as they do not have 
much experience. Provision of critical materials and equipment for medical waste 
management, capacity building and supervision of safeguards is included in the 
additional financing under Component 5 to address weaknesses and enhance the 
implementation and systematic monitoring of the MWMP.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders include key health centers, hospital personnel and the population. The 
medical waste plan was widely distributed and a module on medical waste management 
was included in the local response training sessions, including awareness creation of the 
risks linked with the handling of medical/biological wastes, the danger of potentially 
contaminated objects, food, animal wastes and other hazardous wastes.  The MWMP was 
disclosed in-country and at the Infoshop and includes all the concerned actors and 
describes their specific responsibilities and commitment.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 Yes 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
07/20/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
08/15/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
07/30/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Page  5
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  6
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Boubou Cisse 
11/09/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Serigne Omar Fye 
11/12/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Harvey D. Van Veldhuizen 
01/28/2010 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr John F. May 
05/17/2010 
Comments:  Cleared with: Serigne Omar Fye. 
