                                        Document of
                                       The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                        Report No: 41320-TD




                                      PROJECT PAPER

                                            ON A

                     PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                                     IN THE AMOUNT OF

                  SDR 13.3 MILLION (US$20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF CHAD

                                           FOR A

                       SECOND POPULATION AND AIDS PROJECT

                                        May 28, 2010




Human Development
Health, Nutrition and Population
Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2010)
                               Currency Unit =       Franc CFA
                                CFA 450.89 =         US$1
                                      US$1. =        SDR . 66176081

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1       ­    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS     Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome          MOPH          Ministry of Public Health
AAP      Africa Action Plan                           MoU           Memorandum of Understanding
AMASOT   National Social Marketing Agency             MTEF          Medium Term Expenditure
                                                                    Framework
ARV      Anti Retro Virals                            MTR           Mid-Term Review
BCG      Bacille Calmette-Guérin (Tuberculosis        MWMP          Medical Waste Management Plan
         vaccine)
CBO      Community-Based Organization                 NGO           Non Governmental Organization
CFPs     Country Financing Parameters                 PAD           Project Appraisal Document
CPPA     Central Pharmaceutical Purchasing            PCT           Project Coordination Team
         Agency
DHS      Demographic and Health Survey                PEPFAR        President's Emergency Plan for AIDS
                                                                    Relief
DPT      DiphteriaTetanus Pertussis Vaccine           PLWHA         People Living With HIV/AIDS
ECOSIT   Household Consumption Survey                 PMTCT         Prevention of Mother to Child
                                                                    Transmission
EU       European Union                               PPA           Performance Purchase Agency
FFG      Fund for Future Generations                  PPLS2         Second Population and AIDS Project
FOSAP    Fund for Population and HIV/AIDS             PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
         Activities
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus                 RBF           Results Based Financing
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction        SDR           Standard Drawing Rights
         and Development
IDA      International Development Association        STI           Sexually Transmitted Infections
IMF      International Monetary Fund                  UNAIDS        United Nations Program on
                                                                    HIV/AIDS
ISN      Interim Strategy Note                        UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
MAP      Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for
         Africa
MDG      Millennium Development Goal                  UNGASS        United National General Assembly
                                                                    Special Session on HIV/AIDS
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation                    WHO           World Health Organization
MEP      Ministry of Economy and Planning             VCT           Voluntary Counseling and Testing

                           Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                        Country Director:            Mary Barton-Dock
                 Sector Director/Manager:            Tawhid Nawaz/Eva Jarawan
                       Task Team Leader:             Boubou Cissé
      CHAD SECOND POPULATION AND AIDS PROJECT ADDITIONAL FINANCING


                                                      CONTENTS

Project Paper Data Sheet........................................................... i

I.      Introduction ........................................................................................ 1

II.     Project Performance and Country Background ............................. 1

III.    Rationale for Additional Financing .................................................. 5

IV.     Proposed Changes .............................................................................. 7

V.      Consistency with PRSP, MDG and AAP .......................................... 9

VI. Appraisal of Restructured or Scaled-up Project Activities ............ 9

VII. Expected Outcomes ............................................................................10

VIII. Benefits and Risks .............................................................................10

IX.      Financial Terms and Conditions .....................................................11



Annex 1: Results Based Financing (RBF) Approach ....................... 12

Annex 2: Revised Results Framework and Project Indicators ........... 15

Annex 3: Results Arrangement ................................................. 18

Annex 4: Evaluation of Original Results Framework and

          Indicators of the PAD ................................................... 21

Annex 5: Project Implementation, Financial Management,

          Disbursement and Procurement Arrangements ................... 26

Annex 6: Project Costs and Financing Plan of the

          Additional Financing .................................................... 31

Map No. IBRD 3385
                            PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET

Date: May 28, 2010                            Team Leader: Boubou Cissé
Country: Chad                                 Sector Director/Manager: Tawhid Nawaz /
Project Name: Second Population and           Eva Jarawan
AIDS Project                                  Country Director: Mary Barton-Dock
Original Project ID: P072226                  Environmental Category: B
AF Project ID: P105724
Borrower: Government of Chad
Responsible agency: Ministry of Economy and Planning
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m) (Original project + AF)
FY                   11             12              13
Annual               7.0            7.0             6.0
Cumulative           7.0           14.0            20.0
Current closing date: July 31, 2008
Revised closing date: June 30, 2012
Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from  Yes  No
Bank policies?
Based on exceptional country circumstances and in accordance with
paragraph 5 of BP l3.20, there was an authorization request addressed
to OPCS to process an Additional Financing for the Chad Second
Population and HIV/AIDS project ("PPLS2") which closed on July 31,
2008.

Have these been approved by Bank management?                                Yes  No
The Approval was granted by VP OPCS
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 Yes  No
Revised project development objectives/outcomes

The development objectives of the project have not been revised.


Does the project trigger any new safeguard policies?
Yes, a Medical Waste Management Plan was prepared(OP/BP 4.01)
The original project was given a "C" rating since it was not expected to generate any
adverse environmental effects. The proposed additional financing project is rated "B" - as
is the case for all HIV/AIDS projects. This is due to the risks associated with the handling
and disposal of medical waste. As a result, the only safeguard triggered is the
environmental assessment, because a Medical Waste Management Plan (MWMP) is
required. No construction and/or rehabilitation of facilities will take place under the
proposed additional financing operation. A MWMP was prepared and disclosed in the
Infoshop and in-country in August 2007.
                                For Additional Financing




                                             i
[] Loan [ ] Credit [X] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       Total Bank financing (US$m.): US$20.0 million
       Proposed terms: IDA Grant Financing
                              Financing Plan (US$m.) (AF)
                    Source                                       Total
Borrower/Recipient                           0.0
IBRD                                         0.0
IDA                                          20.0
  -New                                       20.0
  -Recommitted                               0.0
Others                                       0.0
Total                                        20.0
                      Financing Plan (US$m.) (Original project + AF)




                                           ii
      REPUBLIC OF CHAD SECOND POPULATION AND AIDS PROJECT ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                   PROJECT PAPER

I.       INTRODUCTION

1.     This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide additional
financing in the amount of SDR13.3million (US$20.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of
Chad for the Second Population and AIDS Project or PPLS2 (P105724).

2.      The proposed additional financing will extend the new integrated and decentralized
approach to HIV/AIDS and maternal and child health services in ten health districts in five
regions, in addition to the capital city, Ndjamena. This approach decentralizes oversight to local
governments, involves community-based organization in service delivery, and expands the use of
mobile teams to reach isolated villages. It will also introduce a results-based financing (RBF)
approach to improve maternal and child health outcomes that would be piloted in two additional
regions. Lastly, the additional financing will strengthen monitoring and evaluation, including
data collection, analysis, and the use of national household based surveys, and medical waste
management. The project's development objective will remain unchanged; however, project
components will be modified to introduce the new RBF approach and better reflect the integrated
and decentralized approach to maternal and child health and the fight against HIV/AIDS. Project
indicators will also be modified to reflect the current international thinking in HIV/AIDS and be
line with UNGASS indicators as well as integrate the lessons learned during implementation and
define more precisely the expected outcomes of the original project.

3.     The original project closed July 31, 2008 despite a request from Government for an
extension of the closing date. The project was not extended given the nature of the dialogue
between the Bank and the Government at the time and that it was also almost fully disbursed.
Despite the lack of IDA funds, the Government provided the necessary financing to continue to
support the most critical project activities on the ground while waiting for approval of the
additional financing. Based on exceptional country circumstances and in accordance with
paragraph 5 of BP l3.20, there was an authorization request addressed to OPCS VP to process an
Additional Financing for the Chad Second Population and HIV/AIDS project ("PPLS2") which
closed on July 31, 2008. The approval was granted by VP OPCS.


II.      PROJECT PERFORMANCE AND COUNTRY CONTEXT

4.      Project Background: The PPLS2 was approved on July 12, 2001 and became effective
on April 11, 2002. The amount of the credit was SDR 19.6 million (US$24.56 million
equivalent). The development objective of the project is to contribute to changing the behavior of
the Chadian population in order to reduce the risk of infection from HIV and too closely spaced
and/or unwanted pregnancies. To this end, the project financed five main components: (i) multi-
sectoral activities at the central and local levels of key ministries; (ii) community interventions
and local response initiatives through a social fund mechanism (FOSAP); (iii) social marketing
of key health-related products; (iv) support to implementation of the national population policy;
and (v) project coordination and monitoring and evaluation (M&E).
                                                1
5.      Results of the Mid-Term Review (MTR): The MTR was held in December 2005 and,
to ensure better results on the ground, recommended (i) further decentralization and better
integration of the response to HIV/AIDS at the local level; (ii) delivery of a complementary
package of services for People living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHAs); (iii) emphasis on the
prevention and treatment of STIs; and (iv) renewed focus on behavioral change, through high
quality peer education programs. Box 1 outlines the new decentralized approach to HIV/AIDS
introduced to respond to the issues raised during the MTR.

       Box 1: Introduction of Decentralized Local Response to HIV/AIDS after MTR

In response to MTR recommendations, the project piloted an integrated decentralized response to
HIV/AIDS in two regions, Ndjamena and Logone Occidental. Through the financing of activities
of Community Based Organizations (CBO) by the FOSAP, the project sought to stimulate
demand for STI and Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT) services. CBO interventions
included peer education, social mobilization, and condom promotion and sales. FOSAP also
financed social centers to provide social and nutritional support to the most vulnerable PLWHAs
as well as educational support to orphans. Given the expected increase in demand, the project
also sought to improve the access and quality of these services. As such, PPLS2 supported the
strengthening of existing health and VCT centers and put in place two mobile units to cover 40
sites within the two regions. Support included training of public and private health personnel to
ensure a certain level of knowledge and skill and provision of vehicles, equipment, drugs, STI
kits, reagents, and medical supplies to all partners. Anti-retroviral (ARV) treatment is provided
by the Government with financial support from the Global Fund.

Results from 2007 and 2008 of the decentralized local response showed an acceleration of
counseling and testing activities, as well as a high rate of HIV positive cases among those tested,
demonstrating both a large unmet demand and the relevance of this targeted strategy. In 2007,
22,761 people were tested in the intervention areas (38 percent increase from 2006) of which 22
percent tested positive; and in 2008, 25,102 people were tested (10 percent increase) of which 22
percent tested positive. Out of those infected in both regions, 8,434 are being followed by health
facilities of which 4,805 are under ARV treatment. Furthermore, 4,459 cases of STI were treated
(a 107 percent increase from 2006).

6.      The MTR showed that the project was not as successful in meeting its population
objectives. The latter were secondary objectives of the project as only 14 percent of the total
credit amount was allocated to these activities. To try to redress the dismal results, and following
the successful experience of Tunisia, the MTR recommended reorienting the population
activities and putting in place mobile teams focused on reproductive health and family planning
services in a region with very low contraceptive usage (see Box 2). An international technical
assistance program was structured to support this process and ensure a transfer of skills and
knowledge.

7.     Both approaches are overseen by the Governor of the respective region, in close
collaboration with the regional health delegates, and are managed by de facto regional
committees comprised of regional representatives of the ministries of education, security,

                                                 2
defense, social affairs, and communication as well as civil society. The PPLS2 facilitates the
preparation of regional action plans integrating the activities of all stakeholders, the
implementation of which are then jointly supervised by the Governor, the regional health
delegate, the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), certain Ministry partners and the FOSAP on a
quarterly basis. A major strength of this approach is the close involvement and commitment of
the local authorities to these activities, which has facilitated the behavior change of the
communities given that they are seen as role models.

               Box 2: New Approach to Population Activities: Mobile Teams

To improve the results of the population activities, a mobile team approach was piloted in 2007
with support from Tunisian experts in Mayo Kebbi Ouest, a region with the lowest reproductive
health indicators in the country. Two mobile teams were put in place to provide a comprehensive
package of reproductive and child health services in 40 sites (located in both existing health
centers and in villages without access to health centers) in the sub-prefects of Torrock and Lamé
and part of Pala for 120,000 inhabitants of 103 villages within a five kilometer radius of the
intervention sites, resulting in coverage of around 80 percent of the population. On the demand
side, FOSAP financed community mobilization, social communication and peer education
activities by theme, such as family planning, maternal behavior during pregnancy and prevention
of childhood illnesses. These activities are implemented by CBOs under the supervision of
facilitating organizations responsible for quality control of the activities.

This new approach had very encouraging results in 2007:
   ·Number of prenatal consultations: 17,794 (276 percent increase from 2006)
   ·Number of assisted deliveries assisted by qualified personnel: 434 (132 percent from 2006)
   ·Number of women using modern methods of contraception: 2,883
   ·Number of children (0-11 months) vaccinated: 37,814 (188 percent increase from 2006)
   ·Number of women vaccinated: 10,538 (266 percent from 2006)

Despite the suspension of activities in Pala from March to September 2008 as a result of lack of
financing, this positive trend continued in 2008 and 2009. Activities resumed in September 2008
with partial Government financing.

8.      Country Context and Impact on Project Implementation: The last four years have been
difficult for project implementation given the challenging country context. In January 2006, the
IDA portfolio in Chad was suspended (see Box 3). The development objective and
implementation progress ratings of all IDA-financed projects in the country were downgraded to
unsatisfactory during this period. Following the lifting of the suspension in June 2006, a mission
was undertaken to re-launch project activities and address the procurement and financial
difficulties experienced by the project implementing agencies. However, considerable
momentum had been lost during the six-month suspension and it took an additional six months to
effectively regain this momentum. Moreover, a national general strike from February to August
2007 significantly hampered service delivery and project activities.

9.    Rebel Attack in February 2008: In 2008, severe civil unrest broke out again. The capital,
Ndjamena was attacked by rebels in February and a period of major insecurity followed. During

                                                3
this time, project buildings and materials, including vehicles, furniture and files, were set on fire
and destroyed by rebel factions. Project staff remained at home for safety reasons and work at
the regional and district level was stopped. The country office was closed and World Bank staff
evacuated. The office was partially re-opened in January 2009.


Box 3: Suspension of IDA Portfolio in Chad and Memorandum of Understanding

In December 2005, the Government of Chad, unilaterally revised the Petroleum Revenue
Management Program that was the contractual basis for the Bank's financial support to the
Chad-Cameroon Pipeline Project, by (i) revising the Petroleum Revenue Management Law, (ii)
abolishing the Fund for Future Generations (FFG) and providing for the repatriation of its
balance by decree; (iii) expanding the list of priority sectors financed by earmarked oil revenue
to include energy, justice, territorial administration, and domestic security; and (iv) increasing
the share of oil revenue allocated to the general budget from 13½ percent (the original 15 percent
net of the FFG) to 30 percent.

In response, the World Bank suspended its portfolio in Chad from January to June 2006. In July
2006, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was agreed upon as an interim solution to the
dispute between the World Bank and Chadian authorities over petroleum revenue management.
The MoU was expected to remain in force until the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP),
the basis for the 2008 budget, was updated. It committed the Chadian authorities to: (i) allocate
70 percent of its total budgetary resources to specified priority sectors in 2007; (ii) develop a
Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in coordination with the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) to guide annual budgetary expenditures; (iii) develop a
mechanism by end-2006 to manage oil resources in excess of annual expenditures in the MTEF;
(iv) strengthen the oversight role of the Collège de Contrôle et de Surveillance des Ressources
Pétrolières; and (v) implement the Action Plan for the Modernization of Public Finances.

10.     Results of the Project: Despite these extraordinarily difficult conditions, the project made
progress on meeting its development objectives related to HIV/AIDS. Knowledge about
HIV/AIDS has increased in both men and women, the use of condoms has increased for both
men and women during non-union sexual contacts, the use of condoms among military personnel
has greatly increased and the number of VCT centers and number of community based
interventions have surpassed the target. Less progress though has been made on meeting the
population targets, especially prior to the reorientation of the activities of the population
component following the MTR in December 2005. Since the introduction of the new approach in
2007 in pilot areas, there has been an increase in basic mother and child health care indicators as
well as HIV/AIDS related indicators, including use of contraceptives and HIV testing.

11.     Project Performance: At the time of project closing, implementation progress was
satisfactory as was progress towards the attainment of the project development objectives,
despite the turbulent country circumstances. Implementation progress and project management
had been upgraded due to the significant improvements in the management of FOSAP as well as
the solid results produced by the field activities, especially in terms of VCT testing rates among
the target groups. M&E, rated unsatisfactory in 2006, was upgraded to satisfactory as a result of

                                                 4
  significant restructuring within the M&E team and the development and dissemination of new
  streamlined M&E tools for implementing agencies. Financial management, counterpart funding
  and procurement were all rated moderately satisfactory.


                    Table 1: Progress on Selected Indicators of the Original PAD
                       Indicator                         Base-line*    End 2006**                  Target
Increase in the use of condoms by young people        Men: 1.8%       Men: 25%                  50%
(aged 15 to 24) during non-union sexual contact in    Women: 2.6% Women: 18%
the last 12 months
Increase in the use of condoms by military personnel 15%              68%                       75%
during sexual contact over the last 12 months
Increase in knowledge of men and women aged 15-       Men: 88%        Men: 90%                  Men: 95%
24 years regarding HIV/AIDS                           Women: 60% Women: 80%                     Women: 90%
Increase in the use of modern contraceptive methods Urban: 4.1%       Urban: 7.2%               Urban: 10%
by women in union                                     Rural: 0.3%     Rural: 0.4%               Rural: 3%
Increased number of public VCT centers throughout 6                   50                        41
the country
Number of condoms distributed                         --              3.9 million               4 million
Number of units of oral rehydration salts distributed --              1.5 million               2 million
  * Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), 1996/1997; ** DHS 2004/2005 (fieldwork completed end 2005)

  III.    RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

  12.     Renewed Bank Engagement in Social Sectors: A 2010-2012 Bank Interim Strategy
  Note (ISN, forthcoming) confirms the Bank's continued engagement in social sectors which can
  have a direct impact on the population and poverty. This includes work in the health sector. The
  ISN is forthcoming in June 2010.

  13.     HIV Prevalence Remains High: Although the official HIV prevalence rate appears to
  have stabilized at around 3.3 percent according to the 2005 HIV prevalence survey, high rates of
  STIs coupled with high-risk sexual behavior could translate into a rapid increase in the number
  of new HIV infections. Heterosexual transmission is the predominant mode of transmission with
  high-risk groups emerging as a result of certain socio-cultural characteristics of Chad (i.e.
  frequent conflicts, the status of women, activities linked to the oil field development in the
  South). High risk groups include commercial sex workers (with a prevalence rate of 20 percent
  in 20091), truckers (10 percent2) and the military (7 percent3). Women still remain at a higher
  risk of infection and prevalence rates tend to be higher among women than men. In a country
  where a large share of the population is not aware of their HIV status and where the capacity of
  health services nationwide is overstretched, targeted interventions (such as those expected under
  the additional financing) are critical to prevent the epidemic from spreading further.



  1
    2009 UNAIDS survey among commercial sex workers.
  2
    2005 national HIV prevalence survey.
  3
    Idem.

                                                       5
14.     Very Poor Reproductive and Child Health Outcomes: Even though antenatal care and
skilled attendance at delivery has increased, maternal mortality in Chad remains high at 1,009
deaths per 100,000 live births. The risk of maternal mortality is heightened by precocious and
intense fertility (6.3 children on average per women and 15-19 years old girls contributing to 15
percent of national pregnancies). Contraceptive use remains very low: in 2004, the contraceptive
prevalence rate was 2 percent4. This is not only due to cultural barriers but is also the result of
frequent shortages in family planning supplies at the health center level. Under-five mortality,
which is 209 deaths per 1,000 live births, is among the third highest in the world.

15.     Limited External Support: Continued World Bank support through the additional
financing is critical as the Bank is one of the few donors supporting reproductive health and child
health and HIV/AIDS activities in the country. The additional financing will provide an
opportunity for continued policy dialogue and support high-impact, priority interventions.

16.     Building on Successful Approaches: The project will help achieve better results on the
ground by extending the integrated decentralized response to HIV/AIDS and maternal and child
health activities to districts with the poorest indicators. Thus far this approach has resulted in
positive trends in key health indicators. With the appropriate reinforcement of quality and scaling
up, the approach would complement activities of other development partners.

17.     Going beyond Input Financing: The Government has made enormous investments in
constructing new health facilities. However, results on the ground have been disappointing,
mostly due to the poor performance of the health service providers. Health workers are poorly
motivated, one major demotivating factor mentioned by all cadres of health workers being low
salaries. Other demotivating factors mentioned were lack of supportive supervision by the
Ministry of Health and poor human resource management practices, including lack of continuing
education. In addition, poor infrastructure, equipment and the absence of basic amenities such as
water and electricity were considered to negatively affect work performance. The focus on inputs
has limited the focus on results. Given this situation, to ensure Chad makes progress towards
achieving the health Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), it is critical that the health sector
develop innovative financing mechanisms, such as results based financing (RBF), to motivate
health service providers. RBF provides health facilities with payments based on the amount of
services they provide which means a greater focus on results rather than inputs. This approach
has been successful in a number of low income countries such as DRC, Rwanda, and Burundi.
(Annex 1 has further details on this approach).

18.     Measuring Results: Chad, across all sectors, needs to do a better job of tracking the
results of its development activities. The project will help ensure the systematic collection of
epidemiological data which will provide a better understanding of the HIV epidemic (thus
addressing the changing epidemiological and HIV vulnerability scenario through more tailored
activities). The project will also introduce new techniques, such as health facility surveys that
will strengthen service delivery and help in the design of a possible future population and basic
service delivery project for Chad.



4
    DHS 2004.

                                                6
19.     The Additional Financing instrument was deemed the appropriate Bank instrument to
address the financial needs of the sector rather than preparing a new investment project at this
time because: (i) more time is needed to allow for consolidation of the results of the new
integrated local response approach to HIV/AIDS and population activities; (ii) strengthened
monitoring and evaluation will be required to prepare a new phase of financing; and (iii) the
IDA envelope available for Chad at this time would not allow for a full population and basic
health service delivery project. Based on exceptional country circumstances and in accordance
with paragraph 5 of BP l3.20, there was an authorization request addressed to OPCS VP to
process an Additional Financing for the Chad Second Population and HIV/AIDS project
("PPLS2") which closed on July 31, 2008. The approval was granted by VP OPCS and given the
exceptional country conditions, Regional management, has endorsed the additional financing, to
be implemented within two years, closing on June 30, 2012.

IV.        PROPOSED CHANGES

20.     PDO and Indicators: Although the project's development objectives would remain
unchanged, indicators would be revised to reflect the current international thinking in HIV/AIDS
and be aligned with UNGASS indicators as well as integrate the lessons learned during
implementation. The number of indicators has been reduced to facilitate data collection and
analysis. Given that both incidence and prevalence were originally used as indicators, an
assessment of the original indicators was undertaken to ensure the indicators used were those that
were directly linked to measuring progress in HIV-related awareness and behavior change, such
as condom use among at-risk groups. The assessment identified those indicators that were
difficult to measure, unrealistic or more strictly related to activities funded by the Second Health
Sector Support Project rather than by the PPLS2. A revised set of indicators was agreed upon
with Government and is presented in Annex 2. The table outlining the results of the assessment
of the original PAD indicators is in Annex 3.

21.     Project Components: The project's components for this Additional Financing are the
same as those of the Original Project, with the following modifications:
(i) Component A (multi-sectoral response) would increase support to the health sector, given the
important role of the sector, and provide financing to only three additional key Ministries,
namely education, defense and security.
(ii) Component C (social marketing) will be removed since activities under Component C are
now being financed by Global Fund and KfW. This component will be replaced by the new RBF
component.
(iii) Activities under Component B (community interventions) and Component D (population
activities) will be re-oriented to support the implementation of the decentralized and integrated
approach.
(iv) Finally, Component E would be expanded to strengthen monitoring and evaluation efforts as
well as medical waste management.

22.     Within the above framework, in the ten health districts5 employing the decentralized,
integrated approach to HIV/AIDS, the additional financing will finance: (i) the supply of a
comprehensive package of basic maternal and child health services through mobile teams;
5
    The population of the ten health districts is around 1.96 million inhabitants.

                                                              7
(ii) strengthening of the existing public and private health centers and voluntary counseling and
testing centers, including for medical waste management; and (iii) promotion of demand for
services through social mobilization, communication and peer education activities implemented
by civil society. Activities focused on HIV/AIDS prevention include, among others, testing and
treatment of STIs, HIV testing and counseling, and psycho-social, medical and nutritional
support to PLWHAs. Maternal and child health activities include, among others, family
planning, pre-natal care, referral for assisted deliveries, and vaccination. HIV/AIDS activities
would also be implemented in Ndjamena.

23.     Component A: Strengthening the Capacity of the MOPH, Ministry of National
Education, Ministry of Defense and Interior, and Ministry of Public Security (Multi-
Sectoral Response). This component would finance scaled-up activities of the health sector as
well as the education, defense and security sectors. The bulk of the financing for this component
will go to front-line service delivery with a small amount of financing for supervision by the
central level (resulting in an overall reduction of number of activities). Component B:
Strengthening of FOSAP would continue to finance civil society interventions to stimulate
demand. However, these interventions have also been restructured and their number reduced to
improve the quality of their interventions and maximize the impact of those activities that will
continue to be financed over the next two years. Moreover, performance-based contracting will
be introduced for NGO contracts. Micro-credit activities under this component will be dropped
given the lack of results and the resulting cost-savings will be allocated to other project
components. Activities under Component D: Support to the Implementation of the National
Population Policy would be scaled up to cover a greater number of districts under the integrated
approach.

24.      Component C: Support to a Pilot Performance-Based Approach to Improving
Maternal and Child Health Outcomes would support a pilot RBF implementation through the
provision of Performance-Based payments to eligible health centers in the pilot regions to
improve critical maternal and child health outcomes. This approach will be piloted in selected
districts of two regions, namely Guera and Tandjilé. The component will finance the RBF
payments and provide support for the design, implementation and supervision of the RBF pilot,
through contracting of a performance purchase agency (PPA). The PPA will contract with RBF
health facilities in the selected districts based on payments for a defined set of services. The
amount of services provided and the quality of care would be evaluated by the PPA (in
collaboration with external reviewers) every three months. Based on the final verified results, the
health facility would receive an agreed payment (linked to the results achieved), made by the
Project Coordination Unit. The PPA will be responsible for undertaking an assessment of the
capacity of health facilities, calculating the unit cost of the services, contracting with health
centers, and verifying achievement of results. In each district, technical assistants of the PPA will
check the consistency between reported results and health facility records. In addition, NGOs
and CBOs will be contracted to undertake external verification through random household
checks to confirm that beneficiaries actually received services.

25.    Component E: Support to Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation will
support project management costs and strengthening medical waste management of health
centers supported by the project, through provision of equipment, materials and incinerators


                                                 8
(where needed). Moreover, monitoring and evaluation capacity will be strengthened, including
routine monitoring of project results and data collection, in particular at the regional and district
levels, and use of evaluation tools and studies, including household and health facility surveys to
assess the use and quality of services. It is proposed not only to implement "periodic household
surveys" using rapid assessment techniques, but complementing them with "limited facility
surveys" which will provide a comprehensive picture of both "demand and supply" side
bottlenecks. Carrying out such surveys at a more decentralized level on a regular basis will
immensely support development of appropriate strategies to address any bottlenecks. A baseline
household survey will be undertaken after effectiveness by September 2010 to validate and
update existing data and after the first year of project implementation to determine progress in
the last quarter of 2011. An evaluation of the results of the project will be undertaken at the end
of the implementation by the end of 2012. Data from these studies will be complemented by data
from Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS), a Demographic and Health Survey and a HIV
prevalence survey. The project--under this component--will also finance a third Household
Poverty and Consumption Study (ECOSIT3). This will be a follow-up to a 2003 household study
(ECOSIT2), which provides a baseline for poverty levels in Chad prior to the emergence of oil
revenues. ECOSIT3 will provide up-to-date and reliable poverty data for Chad and allow for an
assessment and analysis of progress on key health sector indicators and the reduction of poverty
since 2003. ECOSIT3 will have a particular focus on gender issues.

26.    Project implementation, financial management, disbursement and procurement
arrangements would generally remain the same as under the original project. However, under the
Additional Financing, the percentages of eligible expenditures will be increased to 100 percent
for IDA financing of all grant expenditures, as allowed by the Country Financing Parameters
(CFPs) for Chad, given the problems faced by the project in mobilizing counterpart funding. An
overview of these is provided in Annex 4. The total project cost, including taxes and duties, is
estimated at US$20 million. The project costs, allocation and disbursements of the additional
financing are shown in Annex 5.

V.     CONSISTENCY WITH PRSP, MDG AND AFRICAN ACTION PLAN

27.      The Government adopted a second generation PRSP in 2008. The proposed project is
fully aligned with this PRSP, specifically to the objectives of improving: (i) the social, judicial,
political and economic environment through building institutional capacity and promoting good
governance at the local level; and (ii) human capital by training and reinforcing the capacity of
staff at various levels of government. The proposed project includes activities that are central to
achieving the MDG 4 (reduce the child mortality rate), MDG 5 (reduce the maternal mortality
rate) and MDG 6 (halt and reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS and malaria by 2015). Finally, the
proposed project supports the objectives laid out in the Africa Action Plan, including with
respect to the results framework for achieving impact and the development of national capacity
and management of STI/HIV/AIDS and Population programs.

VI.    APPRAISAL OF SCALED-UP PROJECT ACTIVITIES

28.      Although the project is being scaled-up, the program and economic, financial, technical,
institutional, fiduciary, and social aspects of the activities to be undertaken with the additional


                                                 9
financing remain the same as in the original project.

29.     Environmental analysis: The original project was given a "C" rating since it was not
expected to generate any adverse environmental effects. The proposed additional financing
project is rated "B" - as is the case for all HIV/AIDS projects. This is due to the risks associated
with the handling and disposal of medical waste. As a result, the only safeguard triggered is the
environmental assessment (OP/BP 4.01), because a Medical Waste Management Plan (MWMP)
is required. No construction and/or rehabilitation of facilities will take place under the proposed
additional financing operation. A MWMP was prepared and disclosed in the Infoshop and in-
country in August 2007. The Borrower's institutional capacity for implementing safeguard is
somewhat weak as they have little experience in this area and implementation of the Plan is
uneven. Provision of critical materials and equipment for medical waste management, capacity
building and supervision of safeguards is included in the additional financing under Component
E to address weaknesses and enhance the implementation and systematic monitoring of the
MWMP.

VII.   EXPECTED OUTCOMES

30.     Key outcome indicators to measure behavior change include the following: (i) increased
percentage of young people (aged 15 to 24 years) reporting the use of condom in their last act of
sexual intercourse with a non-regular partner in the last 12 months (by gender); (ii) increased
percentage of persons aged 15 to 49 who both correctly identify ways of preventing the sexual
transition of HIV and who reject major misconceptions about HIV (by gender); and
(iii) increased percentage of women using modern methods of contraceptives in project
intervention areas.

VIII. BENEFITS AND RISKS

31.     Benefits. The additional financing will help ensure increased awareness of the importance
of maternal and child health and of STI and HIV/AIDS through community and social
mobilization. It will also increase the availability and provision of services through existing
health centers and mobile teams. Renewed emphasis on counseling and testing and STI
prevention and treatment should generate greater results in terms of changing HIV related
behavior. In addition, on the health side, behavior change among women of child-bearing age,
especially in remote areas, is expected to gradually­but substantially--improve family planning
and antenatal and postnatal care indicators. The project would contribute to improving family
welfare by providing contraceptive and essential medicines related to child survival. Finally,
health workers in the project interventions areas will benefit from capacity strengthening related
to reproductive health.

32.    Risks. Most of the risks mentioned in the original PAD with respect to the achievement of
the project development objectives remain valid especially with respect to inability to ensure
continuous supply in medical products, misuse of funding, and deteriorating political
environment and instability.




                                                10
 Inability of the Central Pharmaceutical Procurement Agency (CPPA) to regularly supply
 the necessary drugs, medical supplies and reagents (high risk). The CPPA continues to have
 problems with assuring a regularly supply of the necessary drugs, reagents and medical
 supplies throughout the country and specifically to the project. This has repeatedly resulted in
 delays in the implementation of project activities. As a result, the Bank has accepted that the
 project procure the necessary supplies through competitive methods until such time as the
 CPPA is reorganized. In parallel, other donors, such as the EU and the French, are working
 closely with the MOPH on restructuring the CPPA, including providing a new legal
 framework, putting in place a new management team and reviewing distribution mechanisms
 for the regions.

 Grant proceeds may not be used for their intended purposes, financial transactions may
 not be properly accounted for, and control and procurement procedures may not be
 properly applied (high risk). Mitigation measures have been taken, including the recruitment
 of independent external auditors and strengthening of the internal auditor function.
 Moreover, monitoring of the beneficiary compliance with the new financial management and
 procurement guidelines will take place on a more regular basis. Close supervision of
 financial management and accounting practices of the project by the IDA team will continue.

 Health workers may manipulate results data to increase RBF payments (high risk). This
 risk is significantly reduced by contracting a third party and by using field surveys to
 measure and verify results.

 Suspension of activities due to political instability or general strikes (high risk). Project
 activities may be impacted due to political instability in the country, or as a result of internal
 strikes. However, given that the project directly finances activities on the ground, such as the
 mobile teams, ensuring that staff receive their salaries and the necessary drugs and reagents,
 the potential impact of instability of strikes will be reduced (as evidenced during the general
 strike in 2007 during which the mobile teams continued to operate).

IX.    FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS

33.     The proposed Additional Financing Grant will be provided on standard IDA terms. Other
than submission of a satisfactory legal opinion on the Financing Agreement, there are two
conditions of effectiveness as the project's implementation and Administrative and Financial
Manuals have been updated recently and reflect the new indicators: (i) the Recipient has
recruited a procurement specialist for the Project implementation Unit, (ii) the Recipient has
installed a financial management system for the Project satisfactory to the Association.
Covenants to be included are standard and pertain to financial management, including the
auditing of project financial statements by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.




                                                11
                    ANNEX 1: RESULTS BASED FINANCING (RBF) APPROACH

1.      The project will adopt a highly targeted approach to improving the existing health service
delivery by introducing a RBF approach. The Government's investment in health structures has
shown little results on the ground. In the context of Chad, it is believed that the greatest impact in
increasing the use of services will need to come from: (i) improving the motivation of health
workers; (ii) reducing financial barriers to patient access; (iii) increasing the amount of financing
at the health facility level to improve the quality of the services provided; (iv) using internal and
external controls to verify what services are actually provided by facilities; and (v) involving the
community in increasing demand for services. While improving the quality of service through
better equipment and infrastructure, experience suggests that, even with existing capacity, it
should be possible to pilot a RBF mechanism, if it is well implemented.

2.      Given these constraints the pilot seeks to:

        (i)     Strengthen internal control and verification mechanisms and introduce external
                verification mechanisms that involve civil society;
        (ii)    Prioritize high-impact, cost-effective maternal and child health interventions;
        (iii)   Increase the amount of financing available to health facilities (and health
                providers) and ensure that they have sufficient autonomy to adapt to their local
                circumstances and are able to innovate;
        (iv)    Ensure sufficient flexibility to be able to respond and adapt to lessons learned
                during implementation and to harmonize with other donors' efforts;
        (v)     Build the capacity of communities (as the pilot develops) to stimulate demand
                for services and promote health behaviors among the population; and
        (vi)    Increase the capacity of the MOPH to plan, manage, and oversee its programs
                and measure effectiveness.

3.       To implement the pilot, a Performance Purchase Agent (PPA), generally a highly
experienced NGO, will be contracted to provide technical support and external monitoring and
will be accountable, along with other actors, to ensure that the performance of service providers
improves and that tangible results are achieved. It will have the managerial autonomy to develop
and implement diverse RBF mechanisms adapted to the local context. The PPA will introduce
innovations aimed at achieving the stated RBF objectives, and be held accountable for the results
in its region of intervention.

4.       The transfers under the RBF will reimburse facilities for the provision of services already
provided. The services to be paid for through the RBF mechanism include, among others,
primary health care and preventive services for pregnant women, delivery and post-partum care,
care for children under the age of five, family planning, and HIV/AIDS services. Although the
final list of services/outputs to be related to RBF has to be defined and confirmed, a preliminary
list was drafted based typical activities of health centers and is outlined in Table 2 below. The
RBF payments obtained from these quantitative outputs will be adjusted with the quality of care.
The final list of items for measuring quality of care will be included in the RBF operational
manual. For each of the RBF outputs defined above, the RBF operational manual will define the
unit costs to be used for calculating RBF payments to facilities. A study on unit costs will be


                                                 12
undertaken accordingly and these unit costs will be estimated more precisely before the start of
the RBF process. They will also be updated annually.

                               Table 2: RBF Services/Outputs (indicative list)
        MATERNAL CARE SERVICES
        1. Antenatal care visit
        2. Antenatal care visit for a woman identified as poor
        3. Family planning visit
        4. Assisted delivery
        5. Assisted delivery for a woman identified as poor
        OTHER HEALTH CARE SERVICES
        6. Antenatal care visit for a woman with fever and having been tested for malaria (rapid test)
        7. Antenatal care visit for a woman with malaria and having received CTA
        8. Outpatient visit for a child with diarrhea
        9. Outpatient visit for a child with fever and having being tested for malaria (rapid test)
        10. Outpatient visit for a child with malaria and having received CTA
        11. Distributed Insecticide-Treated mosquito Net (ITN)
        12. Fully immunized children
        13. Hospital care for medicine case
        14. Hospital care for surgery case
        15. Voluntary counseling and Testing for HIV/AIDS

5.      There will be a standard tariff for key services. Front-line health facilities will be paid
a standard tariff for each type of high impact service. The tariff reflects an estimate of the
incremental recurrent cost of providing the service and the priority that the MOH attaches to it.
Tariffs would be modified based on experience. Table 3 below provides an example of how the
payment for a given health facility will be calculated.

                  Table 3: Calculating a Health Facility's RBF Payment - Example
Type of Service Provided            Tariff      Number of Services Provided             Total Amount Earned by
                                     ($)           in Previous Quarter                     the Health Facility
Voluntary counseling and            $3.00                      100                                  $300
testing for HIV
New or Continuing user of           $2.00                      150                                  $300
family planning
Antenatal visit                     $1.00                      200                                  $200
Child becomes fully                 $1.50                      300                                  $450
immunized
Birth in the health facility        $5.00                       25                                  $250
Total                                                                                              $1,500

6.      Equity will be taken into consideration in the tariffs. Because remote health facilities
have a harder time attracting staff, these centers will receive an additional equity bonus that will
be a specified percentage of how much they have earned during the month. The criteria for
selecting the facilities to receive this higher tariff will include the current availability of staff at
the facility and its physical remoteness. These criteria will be reflected in the RBF Manual of
Procedures.

                                                          13
7.       The quality of care will be reflected in three monthly transfers. In order to ensure that
facilities are focusing on the quality of the care that they provide, the payments given to the
facility will be adjusted according to a quality score during the quarter. The quality score will be
given following an assessment carried out in health centers and hospitals, based on a broad
variety of indicators such as the availability of staff and medicines, cleanliness, and the quality of
recordkeeping. The payment to the health facility will be adjusted according to the given quality
score. For example, if the health facility depicted in Table 3 scored 80 percent on its quality
assessment it would receive $1,200 (i.e., $1,500 x 80%).

8.      Facilities will have considerable autonomy in spending RBF payments. The facility
will have substantial autonomy over how to use the funds they receive, although the Project
Coordination Team (in collaboration with the RBF Steering Committee) and the PPA will set
some general guidelines in the RBF manual. For example, the RBF payments cannot be use for
construction and the percentage of its funds a health facility can spend on performance incentives
to staff will be limited. However, the facilities can spend these funds on buying equipment and
medicines, maintaining the facility, and supporting community-based activities.

9.      Implementation Manual: The PPA will develop an implementation manual for the RBF
model with details including: (i) institutional arrangements; (ii) roles and responsibilities for the
verification and control of results for payment and auditing purposes; (iii) indicators and targets
to be met; (iv) penalties and sanctions for exaggeration or fraud in the amount billed;
(v) management and data collection tools; (vi) rules for the use of funds; and (vii) reporting
mechanisms. The manual will be a working document that will be regularly updated on the basis
of agreements reached between the PPA and the health facilities but subject to the non-objection
of the Bank. The non objection of the Bank to the manual is a disbursement condition for this
activity.

10.     Evidence Supporting RBF: A recently reported randomized trial from Rwanda has
demonstrated the effectiveness of RBF even when controlling for the amount of funds provided
to the facilities. In Burundi, a controlled, before and after study conducted between 2006 and
2008 compared two provinces in which RBF was introduced with two control provinces where
NGOs were also active but provided only input-based financing. For 22 out of 27 indicators, the
RBF provinces experienced significantly larger improvements than the control provinces,
including a 12 percentage point increase in coverage of insecticide-treated bed nets and a 39
percentage point increase in births taking place in health institutions. Similar results have been
reported for an RBF scheme in the Democratic Republic of Congo.




                                                 14
             ANNEX 2: REVISED RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND PROJECT INDICATORS

Project Development                    Project Outcome Indicators                      Use of Project
     Objective                                                                            Outcome
                                                                                        Information
Contribute to changing    1. Persons aged 15 to 24 who both correctly identify      To track progress
the behavior of the       ways of preventing the sexual transition of HIV and who on a major project
Chadian population so     reject major misconceptions about HIV (% by gender)       objective and to
that they will adopt      [UNGASS]                                                  contribute to global
behaviors which will                                                                reporting on
reduce the risk of: (i)                                                             HIV/AIDS
HIV infection; and (ii)   2. Young people aged 15 to 24 years reporting the use     To track progress
too closely spaced        of condoms in their last act of sexual intercourse with a on a major project
and/or unwanted           non-regular partner in the last 12 months (% by gender) objective and to
pregnancies.              [UNGASS]                                                  contribute to global
                                                                                    reporting on
                                                                                    HIV/AIDS
                          3. Women using modern methods of contraception in         To track progress
                          project intervention areas (% & number)                   and service uptake
                                                                                    for contraception in
                                                                                    project areas
   Results for each                          Results indicators
       component
1. Availability and       1. Direct project beneficiaries (number), of which           In order to track
quality of                female (percentage)                                          whether the project
STI/HIV/AIDS              [CORE INDICATOR]                                             is contributing to
services improved in                                                                   one of the overall
project interventions                                                                  objectives, and to
areas.                                                                                 contribute to global
                                                                                       IDA reporting
                                                                                       In order to track
                          2. People with access to a basic package of health,          whether the project
                          nutrition, or population services (percent increase)         is contributing to
                          [CORE INDICATOR]                                             one of the overall
                                                                                       objectives, and to
                                                                                       contribute to global
                                                                                       IDA reporting
                          3. Persons aged 15-49 who received counseling and            To track service
                          testing for HIV and received their test results (by gender   uptake for VCT
                          and age) (number/%)                                          among the general
                          [AFRICA HIV/AIDS CORE INDICATOR]                             population and to
                                                                                       contribute to global
                                                                                       IDA reporting
                          4. Military personnel tested for HIV (number/%)              To track VCT
                                                                                       uptake among high
                                                                                       risk group
                          5. Pregnant women tested for HIV during prenatal             To track progress
                          consultations (number/%)                                     in service uptake
                                                                                       for VCT among
                                                                                       pregnant women, in

                                                    15
                                                                                   support of PMTCT
                                                                                   activities
2. Demand for            6. Condoms distributed (number)                           To track progress
STI/HIV/AIDS and         [ AFRICA HIV/AIDS CORE INDICATOR]                         on condom
reproductive health                                                                distribution and
services increased in                                                              will contribute to
project intervention                                                               global IDA
areas.                                                                             reporting
                         7. Orphaned and vulnerable children aged 0-17 whose       This is a core
                         households received free basic external support in caring indicator for the
                         for the child (number)                                    Africa region and
                         [AFRICA HIV/AIDS CORE INDICATOR]                          will provide
                                                                                   information on
                                                                                   service provision
                                                                                   and support for
                                                                                   vulnerable children
                         8. Women of child-bearing age reached by CBO              To track progress
                         interventions (number/%)                                  in CBO activities
                                                                                   and service reach
                                                                                   among the target
                                                                                   population and
                                                                                   project sites
3 & 4. Utilization of    9. Children immunized (number/%)                          Immunization
maternal and child       [CORE INDICATOR]                                          status is a
health services in                                                                 fundamental
project interventions                                                              indicator of the
areas.                                                                             performance of the
                                                                                   health system.
3. RBF Approach (in       10. Pregnant women receiving antenatal care during a     To track service
two pilot regions)       visit to a health provider (number/%)                     uptake for ANC
                         [ CORE INDICATOR ]
4. Integrated approach   11. Assisted deliveries in public and private health      This is a major
(in five regions)        centers (number/%)                                        indicator of
                                                                                   improvement in
                                                                                   MCH operations
                                                                                   and will serve as a
                                                                                   proxy indicator for
                                                                                   reduction in
                                                                                   maternal and child
                                                                                   death
                         12. Pregnant women vaccinated (number/%)                  To track progress
                                                                                   in vaccination
                         13. Women attending post natal care consultations         To track progress
                         during a visit to a health provider (number/%)            in service uptake
                                                                                   for antenatal care
                         14. Health personnel receiving training (number)          To improve the
                         [CORE INDICATOR]                                          adequacy of
                                                                                   competence in
                                                                                   service delivery
                                                                                   and other areas

                                                  16
15. Long-lasting insecticide ­treated malaria nets     To track progress
purchased and/or distributed (number)                  on purchase and/or
[CORE INDICATOR]                                       distribution of
                                                       LLTNs
16. Health facilities constructed, renovated, and/or   To track IDA
equipped (number)                                      contribution to
[CORE INDICATOR]                                       health system
                                                       strengthening




                          17
                                                     ANNEX 2: RESULTS ARRANGEMENT

                  Outcome Indicators                        Latest          Target        Data Source        Frequency      Persons
                                                           Progress     End project                                       Responsible
1. Persons aged 15 to 24 who both correctly identify M : 57,3%          M : 70%        Household       2010 (HS),2011     Project
ways of preventing the sexual transition of HIV and F : 28,7%           F : 50%        Survey/DHS/MICS (MICS) and 2012    PPLS2,
who reject major misconceptions about HIV (% by        EDST2                                           (HS)               UNICEF
gender)                                                (2004/056)
2. Young people aged 15 to 24 years reporting the      M : 25%          M : 65%        Household       2010 (HS),2011     Project
use of condoms in their last act of sexual intercourse F : 18%          F : 35%        Survey/DHS/MICS (MICS) and 2012    PPLS2,
with a non-regular partner in the last 12 months (% EDST2                                              (HS)               UNICEF
by gender)                                             (2004/05)
3. Women using modern methods of contraception         Urban : 7,1% (   Urban : 10%    Household       2010 (HS),2011     Project
in project intervention areas (% by zone)              Rural : 0,4%     Rural : 3%     Survey/DHS/MICS (MICS) and 2012    PPLS2,
                                                       EDST2                                           (HS)               UNICEF
                                                       (2004/05)
                  Results indicators                        Latest         Target         Data Source
                                                           Progress      End project
                                                 COMPONENT 1
4. Persons aged 15-49 who received counseling and M : 3,7% (62)         M : 12,5%      Project Reports   Every 6 months   Project
testing for HIV and received their test results (by    F : 0,9% (55)    (40625)                                           PPLS2
gender ) (number%)                                     EDST2            F : 10%
                                                       (2004/05)        (47564)

5. Military personnel tested for HIV (number/%)       2,517 (13,8%)     6,400 (35%)    Project Reports   Every 6 months   Project
                                                      2007                                                                PPLS2
6. Pregnant women tested for HIV during prenatal      (173) 7,7%        (28038) 40%    Project Reports   Every 6 months   Project
consultations (number/%)                              EDST2                                                               PPLS2
                                                      (2004/05)
COMPONENT 2
7. Condoms distributed (number)                       3,900,000         5,050,000      FOSAP / MEN,      Every quarter    FOSAP
                                                      (2007)                           MISP / MDN/
                                                                                       VCT Reports
8. Orphaned and vulnerable children aged 0-17         6,872             8,872          FOSAP Reports     Every quarter    FOSAP

6
    Field work was completed end 2005.

                                                                        18
whose households received free basic external                2008 FOSAP          (2,000 new
support in caring for the child (number)                     FM report           OVC)
9. Women of child-bearing age reached by CBO                 29,082              393,600           FOSAP Reports            Every quarter            FOSAP
interventions (number/%)                                     (39%)               (50%)
                                                             Pala                Project
                                                                                 intervention
                                                                                 areas

                                               COMPONENTS 3 AND 4
10. Children immunized (number/%)                              a. 59,367         a. 71,620         PPA Reports              Every quarter            MoH,
    a. Integrated Approach                                     (80%)             (95%)             HMIS / Facility                                   Project
    b. RBF Approach7                                                                               surveys                                           PPLS2
                                                               b. 34,420         b. 46,732         Household surveys        Every quarter            PPA and
                                                               (57%)             (95%)                                                               Project
                                                                                                                                                     PPLS2
11. Pregnant women receiving antenatal care during a           a. 50,928         a. 70,094         PPA Reports              Every quarter            MoH,
visit to a health provider (number/%)                          (52%)             (80%)             HMIS / Facility                                   Project
     a. Integrated Approach                                                                        surveys                                           PPLS2
     b. RBF Approach                                           b. 27,817         b. 45,912         Household surveys        Every quarter            PPA and
                                                               (40%)             (80%)                                                               Project
                                                                                                                                                     PPLS2
12. Assisted deliveries in public and private health           a. 16,321         a. 25,659         PPA Reports              Every quarter            MoH,
centers (number/%)                                             (20%)             (30%)             HMIS / Facility                                   Project
    a. Integrated Approach                                                                         surveys                                           PPLS2
    b. RBF Approach                                            b. 11,086         b. 16,807         Household surveys        Every quarter            PPA and
                                                               (18%)             (30%)                                                               Project
                                                                                                                                                     PPLS2
13. Pregnant women vaccinated (number/%)                       a. 51,305         a. 70,094         Project Reports          Every quarter            MoH,
    a. Integrated Approach                                     (58%)             (80%)             HMIS / Facility                                   Project
    b. RBF Approach                                                                                surveys                                           PPLS2
                                                               b. 34,726         b. 45,912         Household surveys        Every quarter            PPA and
                                                               (49,1%)           (80%)                                                               Project
                                                                                                                                                     PPLS2

7
 Data for the RBF component is an average of the regional data from the two pilot regions. The base line data and targets will be validated and refined after the
selection of the specific project intervention districts.

                                                                                19
14. Women attending post natal care consultations   a. 3,389     a. 7,698 (30%   Project Reports     Every quarter   MoH,
during a visit to a health provider (number/%)      (3.1%)       of assisted     HMIS / Facility                     Project
    a. Integrated Approach                                       deliveries)     surveys                             PPLS2
    b. RBF Approach                                 b. N/A       b. 11,765       Household surveys   Every quarter   PPA and
                                                    (household   (70% of                                             Project
                                                    survey to    assisted                                            PPLS2
                                                    provide)     deliveries)
                                                    b. 898       b. 15,577
                                                    (0,31%)      (5%)




                                                                 20
                           ANNEX 3: EVALUATION OF ORIGINAL RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND INDICATORS OF THE PAD


Project Development        Outcome / Impact Indicators           Baseline         Achievements   Status of    Comments
Objective                                                                         (end 2006)     Indicator
                                                                                                 for
                                                                                                 additional
                                                                                                 financing
The development            Use of condoms by young people        Men: 1.8%        Men: 25%       Revised      Indicator revised (Cf. Indicator
objective of the           (aged 15 to 24 years) during non-     Women:           Women: 18%                  Outcome n0 2) to reflect the
project is to contribute   union sexual contact in the last 12   2.6%                                         current international thinking in
to changing the            months will have increased to 50%                                                  HIV/AIDS and be aligned with
behavior of the                                                                                               UNGASS indicators
Chadian populations        The prevalence of STIs within 15-                                     Dropped      Support to STI initially financed
so that they will adopt    49 years of age population will be                                                 by Second Health Sector
behaviors which will       reduced                                                                            Support Project. Although
reduce the risk of: (i)                                                                                       PPLS2 is financing STI
HIV infection; and (ii)                                                                                       activities as of 2007, outcome
too closely spaced                                                                                            cannot be achieved within 2
and/or unwanted                                                                                               years.
pregnancies.               Incidence of STI, syphilis, and                                       Dropped.     Support to STI originally
                           HIV/AIDS among truck drivers,                                                      financed by Second Health
                           and prevalence of HIV/AIDS and                                                     Sector Support Project. HIV
                           syphilis among truck drivers with                                                  prevalence no longer used as
                           STIs                                                                               outcome indicator.
                           Incidence of STI, syphilis, and                                       Dropped      Support to STI initially financed
                           HIV/AIDS among CSWs, and                                                           by Second Health Sector
                           prevalence of HIV/AIDS and                                                         Support Project. Although
                           syphilis among CSWs with STIs                                                      PPLS2 is financing STI
                                                                                                              activities as of 2007, outcome
                                                                                                              cannot be achieved within 2
                                                                                                              years.
                           Condom use by in the last non-                                        Dropped      The number of military
                           union sexual contact among                                                         personnel testing for HIV will
                           military personnel will increase to                                                be measured under Component
                           75% by the end of the project                                                      1.

                                                                             21
Reduction in the prevalence of                                  Dropped   Support to STI initially financed
STIs, syphilis and HIV/AIDS                                               by Second Health Sector
among military personnel                                                  Support Project. Although
                                                                          PPLS2 is financing STI
                                                                          activities as of 2007, outcome
                                                                          cannot be achieved within 2
                                                                          years.
By the end of the project, at least   Urban: 4.1% Urban: 7.2%   Revised   Indicator revised to measure
10% of Chadian women in urban         Rural: 0.3% Rural: 0.4%             progress in project intervention
areas, and 3% in rural areas use a                                        areas and not nationally.
modern method of contraception
By the end of the project, 60% of                               Dropped   Indicator is not measurable.
women aged 15-49 wish to space                                            Problem with DHS.
next pregnancy by at least 2 yrs




                                              22
   Project Development                    Outcome / Impact Indicators                    Revised                      Comments
        Objective                                                                       Indicator
                                 By the end of the project, 95% of all men and        Revised       Indicator revised (cf. indicator Outcome n0
                                 90% of all women aged 15-24 years are aware of                     1), to reflect the current international thinking
                                 HIV/AIDS, and 90% of them know at least two                        in HIV/AIDS and be aligned with UNGASS
                                 means of prevention                                                indicators
                                 Increase the number of condoms available             Revised       Indicator is a results indicator, not outcome
                                 nationally through social marketing by at least                    and is already captured in the results of
                                 10% a year to reach 3 million by end of 2003 and                   component 3.
                                 at least 4 million by the end of the project
    Intermediate Results              Results Indicators for Each Component              Revised                      Comments
    One per Component                                                                   Indicator
1. Strengthened capacity of      National HIV/AIDS program is operational and         Dropped.      Indicator is a process indicator, not results
the Government, the private      implements the national strategic plan. The 6                      indicator.
sector and civil society, at     technical services of the program prepare annual
the national, regional and       work plans that are evaluated each year.
local level to formulate and     The 6 key ministries implement an annual             Dropped.      Indicator is no longer relevant.
adopt HIV/AIDS                   HIV/AIDS action plan and report on the activities
prevention strategies            carried out the previous year.
tailored to the local context.   VCT are available in 75% of the 54 existing          Revised.      Replace with a Scorecard indicator, namely:
                                 health districts                                                   persons aged 15 or older who received an
                                                                                                    HIV/AIDS test in the last 12 months and
                                                                                                    received their test results (by gender and by
                                                                                                    age) (number and percentage)
2. Strengthened capacity of      FOSAP has implemented at least 170 sub-              Dropped       indicator not relevant
FOSAP                            projects.
                                 The implementation of sub-projects and allocation    Dropped       Indicator is a process indicator, not results
                                 of funds for each category of sub-projects will be                 indicator
                                 at least 90% consistent with the annual plan.
                                 Micro-credit programs are developed in all of the    Dropped.      Indicator remains relevant and measurable.
                                 Departments (created in 1999)                                      However, project stopped financing micro-
                                                                                                    credit programs following the MTR.




                                                                             23
   Intermediate Results        Results Indicators for Each Component               Revised                      Comments
   One per Component                                                              Indicator
                           At the end of each year, the Regional Population     Dropped.      Indicator is no longer relevant as the project
                           Commissions prepare an annual activity report                      has stopped financing these Commissions
                           and identify a list of priority activities for the                 given the lack of results.
                           following year for behavior change in the areas of
                           HIV/AIDS and reproductive health.
                           The Regional Health Councils develop annually        Dropped       Indicator is no longer relevant.
                           an action plan including prevention and care
                           activities and report on the activities of the
                           previous year.
3. Support to the Social   The number of condoms available through the          Dropped.      Indicator is no longer relevant.
marketing Program          social marketing program reaches 4 million by the
                           end of the project
                           The number of oral re-hydration salt packets         Dropped.      Indicator is no longer relevant.
                           distributed by AMASOT reaches 2 million by the
                           end of the project.
                           Between 2003 and 2005, 18 workshops/seminars         Dropped       Indicator is no longer relevant.
                           (6 per year) designed for 1,000 religious leaders
                           by AMASOT to raise awareness on HIV/AIDS,
                           STIs and risks associated with frequent &
                           numerous pregnancies
                           Between 2002 and 2005, 28 workshops/seminars         Dropped       Indicator is no longer relevant.
                           (7 per year) designed for 1000 traditional leaders
                           by AMASOT to raise awareness on reproductive
                           health issues.
                           75 IEC activities (15 per year) designed to modify   Dropped       Indicator is not measurable.
                           reproductive health behavior are implemented
                           using radio as media.
                           A marketing program for oral contraceptives is       Dropped.      Indicator is no longer relevant.
                           established in 2004 and ensure the sales of
                           500,000 cycles a year by the end of the project




                                                                       24
  Intermediate Results           Results Indicators for Each Component                Revised                      Comments
  One per Component                                                                  Indicator
                             A marketing program for impregnated bednets is        Dropped       Indicator is no longer relevant.
4. Support to the            established in 2002 and is active in least 5 of the   Dropped       Indicator is no longer relevant as the project
implementation of the        southern prefectures.                                               has stopped financing these Commissions
National Population Policy   All 14 Population Commissions implement and                         given the lack of results.
                             update an annual action plan                          Dropped       Indicator is not measurable. Problem with
                             The percentage of women wishing to space their                      DHS.
                             birth by at least 2 years will have increased to      Dropped       Indicator is no longer relevant as the project is
                             60%                                                                 no longer financing this activity under this
                             Number of religious leaders trained in population                   component, rather under component 2.
                             and development issues.




                                                                          25
   ANNEX 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND
                          PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS

1.      Implementation mechanisms. The implementation arrangements under the additional
financing would be the same as for the original project, as they are working well. The Ministry
of Economy and Plan (MEP) is responsible for the planning, implementation and supervision of
project activities through a Steering Committee presided by the Permanent Secretary (Secrétaire
Général ­ SG) of the MEP. The day-to-day coordination of project activities is undertaken by the
Project Coordination Team (PCT), headed by a Project Coordinator under the direct supervision
of the SG of the MEP. The team also includes an administrator, a procurement specialist, a
monitoring and evaluation officer, two internal auditors, an accountant and a program officer in
charge of component C of the project. The MOPH will continue to be responsible for the
coordination and technical supervision of the health sector related activities as well as provision
of qualified medical personnel and vaccines. The MEP is responsible for the provision of the
contraceptives and general implementation supervision. Local response and community
interventions are coordinated by FOSAP, a national fund that has been responsible for the
selection, procurement, financial management, and monitoring of community sub-projects all
over the country for over ten years. FOSAP will include a management with the following staff:
an administrator, an assistant administrator, two program officers, a monitoring and evaluation
specialist, and an accountant. Implementation arrangements, including procurement, financial
management and monitoring and evaluation, are detailed in the PPLS2 Project Execution
Manual, the FOSAP Grant Operational Manual and the FOSAP Administrative and Financial
Manual. These manuals were reviewed again and approved in February, 2010.

2.      The RBF component will be managed by a technical unit to be created within the PCT. A
Purchase Performance Agency (PPA), generally a highly experienced international NGO, will be
contracted to provide technical assistance to the PCT (through the provision of one technical
assistant at the central level and four technical assistants at the district level), assess the capacity
of health facilities, calculate the unit cost of the services, contract with health centers, verify
achievement of results, and strengthen the capacity of the Government and project team in
collecting, analyzing and using data from different sources. Household and facility surveys
would be used to evaluate the quality of services, the knowledge skills and practices of health
workers, utilization of services and the opinions and attitudes of communities regarding
availability and quality of health services. Technical assistance provided by the PPA will include
on-the-job training and other knowledge transfer activities so that the national teams are
technically autonomous by the end of the project and support to carry out controlled (before and
after) evaluation of the RBF pilot.

3.      The PPA will be accountable, along with other actors, to ensure that the performance of
service providers improves and that tangible results are achieved. It will have the managerial
autonomy to develop and implement diverse RBF mechanisms adapted to the local context. The
terms of reference (ToRs) will be prepared and an expression of interest will be published to
identify interested candidates. A request for proposal will then be tendered out, and both
technical and financial proposals will be requested before selecting the appropriate candidate.
Selection criteria for the PPA include demonstrated project and financial management capacity.
The development of an implementation manual for this component and the modalities of


                                                  26
verification will be included in the tasks outlined in the ToRs and is a disbursement condition for
this activity.

4.      Careful and independent monitoring and evaluation of this Component will be carried out
by the PCT.

5.      Financial management and disbursement arrangements. In accordance with Bank
policy and procedures, the financial management arrangements of the project were reviewed in
October 2009 to determine whether they are acceptable to the Bank. This review is rather an
update since the financial management system of this project was already assessed during the
implementation period of the original project. The overall conclusion from this review is that the
project financial management is acceptable. Fiduciary risk remains substantial as is the case for
all IDA-financed projects in Chad. Following the civil unrest in February 2008 and the looting of
the project, the computerized accounting and reporting system (TOMPRO) to be maintained for
the timely production of financial information required for managing and monitoring project
activities as defined in the PPLS2 Project Execution Manual, is no longer in place given the lack
of equipment. The Government will finance the purchase of the necessary equipment and
TOMPRO software (which is an effectiveness condition) as soon as possible to avoid any delay
in project implementation to ensure that the system is operational prior to the launch of the
project. To ensure efficient use of grant funds for the purposes intended and consistent
application of policies and procedures and in response to weakness in auditing, the internal
auditor that was recruited for the FOSAP will be transferred to the PCT to cover all project
components and will be assisted by an assistant internal auditor. Independent auditors acceptable
to IDA will audit the project accounts annually as well as the FOSAP account under the
Additional Financing.

6.      Two new designated accounts (one for the PCT and one for the FOSAP) will be opened
in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The ceiling of each DA has been set at 750,000,000
Francs CFA which is equivalent to around US$1.5 million for each account. For the purpose of
Performance Based (PB) payments under Part C 1, bank accounts will be opened by eligible
health centers in a bank acceptable to IDA or at the post office in the prefectures where there are
no banks. Funds withdrawn from IDA are advanced to the DAs from which payments for eligible
expenditures are made; PB payments to eligible health centers will be transferred from the [DA-
PCT] to their bank accounts (cf. Table below).




                                                27
                                     Grant Account
                                     (Washington)
                                         IDA




                                                              Designated Account
             Designated Account
                     DA-FOSAP                                      DA-PCT
         Financial Bank Ndjamena                                Financial Bank Ndjamena




          FOSAP Beneficiaries

                                                          Performance based payments to
                                                          eligible Health Centers Accounts
                                                          Goods, Consultants Services,
                                                          audits, training and operations
                                                          costs




7.      An initial advance up to the ceiling of the DA will be disbursed upon request and after
effectiveness. Subsequent advances will be made against submission of Statement of
Expenditures (or records as the case may be) documenting the use of the previous advance.
Disbursements for the Results Based component will be made against submission of a
withdrawal application supported with a Customized Statement of Expenditures (Attachment 5
to the Disbursement Letter) providing a list of health service packages billed by the health
centers. Other disbursements methods (reimbursement, direct payments and special comments)
will also be available and these are described in detail in the Disbursement Guidelines for World
Bank projects of May 2006 (Annex 1 to the Disbursement Letter).

8.       Disbursement percentages for the additional financing will be increased to 100 percent
IDA financing of all grant expenditures, as allowed by the Country Financing Parameters (CFPs)
for Chad, given the problems faced by the project in mobilizing counterpart funding. This should
facilitate implementation of project activities in a timely manner and prevent delays in provision
of equipment, medicines and medical supplies.


                                               28
9.      Disbursement under Component C.1 would be subject to the following disbursement
conditions: (i) recruitment and signature of the contract with the PPA; and (ii) a satisfactory
implementation plan (the "PB Plan") outlining the work plan and budget for the first 12 months
of implementation of Part C.1 of the Project, and (ii) a satisfactory operational manual (the "PB
Manual"), outlining implementation, organizational, administrative, monitoring and evaluation,
environmental and social monitoring and mitigation, financial management, disbursement, and
procurement arrangements for purposes of implementation of results-based financing in the
health sector under Part C.1 of the Project, as well as a detailed assessment of the estimated unit
costs of the Health Services Packages to be provided by the Eligible Health Centers; and (iii) the
recruitment of the external consultants to carry out quarterly verifications of the health services
packages.

10.     Procurement arrangements. Under the proposed additional financing, the general
procurement arrangements would be the same as the arrangements under the Second Population
and HIV/AIDS Project; however, the updated "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credit" published by the Bank in May 2004, and as revised in 2006 and in May 2010,
will apply to all contracts financed under the additional financing. Procurement of consultants'
services shall be governed by the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 ad
in May 2010. No works will be financed under the additional financing. To ensure cost
efficiency, all contracts should be grouped to the extent possible and the project should avoid
launching small bids.

11.    The same procurement methods for goods used under the ongoing project will be applied
to the additional financing, namely: international competitive bidding, national competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank, shopping, and direct contracting. In addition,
procurement from United Nations specialized agencies, acting as suppliers, pursuant to their own
procedures consistent with para 3.9 of the Bank Procurement Guidelines, may include IAPSO,
United Nations Development Program, UNICEF and WHO. The form of contract between the
Government and the UN agency will be prior reviewed by the Bank. The items to be procured
from UN agencies would be agreed on in the procurement plan if and when to be used.

12.    Procurement methods for consultants include Quality and Cost-based Selection, Least-
Cost Selection, Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications, Single Source Selection and
Individual Consultants. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior
review requirements, and the time frame are outlined in the Financing Agreement, the
Implementation Manuals and the Procurement Plan.

13.    Prior review will be required for contracts for goods and vehicles costing US$500,000 or
more, contracts for medical supplies costing US$300,000 or more, contracts with consultant
firms costing US$200,000 or more, contracts with individual consultants costing more than
US$100,000 and all single source contracts.

14.    A Procurement Plan for the full implementation period of the additional financing was
evaluated on May 12, 2010 and found satisfactory. As per Bank policies, the Procurement Plan


                                                29
will be disclosed on the Bank's website upon approval of the additional financing. The
Procurement Plan will be reviewed and updated regularly and at least once a year. Compliance
with procurement procedures has generally been satisfactory in the past; however, delays
systematically occurred during implementation in the past, due to the overall country context,
weak capacity, and the cumbersome national procurement procedures.

15.     To address these issues, all procurement undertaken by national bidding will be carried
out in conformity with paragraph 3.3 of the Procurement Guidelines of May 2004, revised in
October 2006 and May 2010 and considered to be acceptable by the Bank. Furthermore, a new
procurement specialist is being recruited prior to effectiveness based on experience with Bank
procedures. To mitigate the risk of project implementation delays, several measures have been
put into place to strengthen procurement. Firstly, to simplify and accelerate procurement,
FOSAP has been given some responsibility for certain procurement under Component B. In
general, the PCT is responsible for implementation and supervision of procurement matters
related to Components A, C and D. For Component B, FOSAP will be assisted as needed by the
PCT's procurement specialist for contracts of amounts less than or equal to 3 million Francs
CFA.

16.     A further measure to facilitate project implementation and raise any potential
procurement issue is the organization of quarterly meetings by the project procurement specialist
with each implementing agency to review the implementation of the procurement plan. Finally,
close supervision of the project and its procurement will continue to be undertaken by the Bank
team as under the original project. In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out
from Bank offices, the capacity assessment of the implementing agency has recommended bi-
annual supervision missions to visit the field to carry out post review of procurement actions.




                                               30
      ANNEX 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN OF THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                 ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
                                  (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                   Total
                                              (expressed in
                Category                     millions of USD)       % of expenditures
                                                                to be financed (inclusive of
                                                                           taxes)

1. Goods, Consultants' services, including          13.8                   100%
audits, Training and operating costs

2. FOSAP Grants                                     3.2         100% of amounts disbursed

3. Performance Based Payments under Part            3.0         100% of amounts disbursed
C1 of the project
Total Project Costs                                 20.0

                        FINANCING PLAN (BY PROJECT COMPONENT)
                                (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                     Local       Foreign           Total
Project Cost By Component and/or Activity
Component A: Multisectoral response to               1.2          0.2              1.4
HIV/AIDS
Component B: Support to the Social Fund              6.6          0.9              7.5
(FOSAP) and community interventions
Component C: Piloting of Performance Based           4.1          0.9              5.0
Financing
Component D: Support to the implementation           0.1          0.0              0.1
of the National Population Policy
Component E: Project management and M&E              4.0          2.0              6.0
                             Total Financing        16.0          4.0             20.0




                                               31
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33385
                                              15°E                                                                                                             20°E                                                                          25°E


                                            To                                                                         0           100                  200                      300 Kilometers
                                         Akhaltsikhe


                                                                                                                       0                     100                                      200 Miles



                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHAD

                                                                                                                                                                      LIBYA
                                                                                                                  Aozou

                                                                                                                                       Tarso Emisou
                                                                 Pic Touside                                                           (3,376 m)
                                                                  (3,315 m)
                                                                                                                  sti
                                                                                                               be
                                                                                                            Ti
                                                                                  Zouar

20°N                                           To                                                                                                                                                                                                                    20°N
                                            Séguédine                                                                              Emi Koussi
                                                                                                                                   (3,415 m)

                                                                                                     S a h a r a                                            D e s e r t
                                                                                                                                     kou
                                                                                                                                 Bor

               N IG E R                                                                                                      BORKOU - ENNEDI - TIBESTI
                                                                                                                                                    Faya-Largeau


                                                                                                                                                                                                      Fada
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a   r
                                                                                                                                                                                                          En                                               ow
                                                                         lé                                                                                                                                  ne                                          iH
                                                                     é




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ad
                                                                 d                                                                                                                                              di                                  W
                                                             o
                                                         B
                                                                                                                                    Koro Toro
                                                                                                                                         Toro
                                                                                                                                                               Oum-Chalouba


                                                                                                                                                        ma
                                                                                                                  o)                                O Fa
                                                                                                                or
15°N
                                                  KANEM                                                    al
                                                                                                              (S                                                                           BILTINE                                                                   15°N
                                                                                                     h   az
                                                                                                 G
                                                                                            el                                                                                             Biltine
                                                                                       hr
                                                                                  Ba
                                                       Mao                             Salal
                        LAC
                                                                                                                                B AT H A                                                                                          SUDA N
                                                                                                                                                                                          Abéché
                                                                                                                                                                                          Abéché
                                                                                                                                                                                          Abéché
                                  Bol                                           Moussoro
                                                                                                                                                    Oum
                                                                                                                                                   Hadjer                                                             To
                                                                     Mouzarak                                                    Ati                                                                                 Nyala
       1963 Level
        1973 Level                                                                                                                        Batha
         2001 Level                        Lake
                                           Chad
                                                       Massaguet
                                                                                                         Bokoro
                                                                                                                             Mongo
                                                                                                                                                              Mangalmé
                                                                                                                                                              Mangalmé                 OUADDAÏ
                                                 N´DJAMENA
                                                 N´DJAMENA
  N IG E RIA                     To
                               Fotokol
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Beïda
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Beï
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Goz Beïda                        This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the Map Design Unit of The
                                                    CHARI-                                                 Masalasef
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      colors, denominations and
                                                   BAGUIRMI                                                                                                  Deïa
                                                                                                                                                             Deï
                                                                                                                                                        Abou Deïa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      on this map do not imply, on
                                                                         Massenya                                                                                                                                                     the part of The World Bank
                                  To                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the
                                                                                                                                                                                        Timan
                                                                                                                                                                                     Am Timan
                                 Maroua                 Gélengdeng
                                                        Gélengdeng                                                 Melfi      GUERA                                                                                                   legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                         at                                                           or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                          S A L A M AT
                                                                                                                                                                     m




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                  ala




                                                                                                     ha
                                                                                                 C




                                                                         Bousso                            ri                                                                                                                         boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                              hr S




                       To                              Bongor
                      Maroua
                                                                                                                                                            Ba




10°N
                                                                                                                                                                         Harazé
                                                                                                                                                                         Harazé
                               MAYO-
                               MAYO- KEBBI
                                                             Kélo
                                                             Kélo
                                                                         TANDJILE
                                                                         TANDJILE
                                                                          Lai                                   MOYEN- CHARI
                                                                                                                                                                      Mangueigne
                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Birao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CH A D
                                    Pala                                      L
                                                                                                                Koumra             Sarh                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                              og
                                                                                on




                                                  LOGONE
                                                                                  e




                                                       Moundou                                                                                                   Ba                                                          PREFECTURE CAPITALS
                                                  OCC.         Doba
                                                                                                                                                                   ng




                                                                                                                                                                              r an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                         o




        C AM E RO O N                                    ORIENTAL
                                                  LOGONE ORIENTAL
                                                                                                                                            Gribingui




                                                                                                                                                        am                                                                   RIVERS
                                 Vina                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                        B




                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                           Kaga Bandoro
                                                                                                                                                            ng




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                              ui




                                                           To                               To                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
                                                         Bozoum                         Bossangoa
                                                                                                                             CENT RA L A FRICA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                 REPUBLIC
          Mbakaou                                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
            Res.
                                     15°E                                                                                                                         20°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEPTEMBER 2004
