                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                             Report No: ICR2810



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT


                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR US$18.8 MILLION
                        (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

           UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES

                                      FOR THE

     HORN OF AFRICA EMERGENCY HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT




                                 September 20, 2013




Health, Nutrition, and Population Unit; Eastern and Southern Africa (AFTHE)
Human Development Department
Country Department AFCRI
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective: July 31, 2011)

                   Currency Unit = Kenyan Shilling (KES)
                            90.21 KES = US$1
                    Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (ETB)
                            16.82 ETB = US$1
                             US$1.596 = SDR1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 – December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFTHE   Africa Region Health, Nutrition and Population Unit, Eastern and Southern Africa
AFTDE   World Bank Africa Region Development Effectiveness Department
ARI     Acute Respiratory Infections
AWD     Acute Watery Diarrhea
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDC     United States Center for Disease Control and Prevention
CRW     Crisis Response Window
FPA     Fiduciary Principles Accord
GAM     Global Acute Malnutrition
HIS     UNHCR Health Information System
ICT     Information and Communications Technology
IDA     International Development Association
IFR     Interim Unaudited Financial Report
INT     Integrity Vice Presidency
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MDGs    Millennium Development Goals
MDTF    Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MOH     Ministry of Health
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
OCHA    United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
OP/BP   Operational Policy/Bank Policy
OPCS    Operations Policy and Country Services
P&L     Pregnant and Lactating
POI     Project Outcome Indicators
PDO     Project Development Outcome
SAM     Severe Acute Malnutrition
SFP     Supplemental Feeding Program
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNHCR    United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Fund
WASH     Water, Sanitation and Hygiene




              Vice President:             Makhtar Diop
              Country Director:           Colin Bruce
              Sector Manager:             Olusoji O. Adeyi
              Project Team Leader:        Sheila Dutta
              ICR Team Leader:            Carolyn Shelton
                  Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project

                                                     CONTENTS

A. Basic Information........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... ii
E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... v
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors............ 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 29
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR ........................................................................... 33
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 34
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 35
Annex 10: Map ............................................................................................................. 37
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Horn of Africa
Country:                Africa                  Project Name:             Emergency Health and
                                                                          Nutrition Project
Project ID:             P127949                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H7350
ICR Date:               08/30/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:                 UNHCR
Original Total
                        XDR 18.80M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 18.80M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 18.80M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/02/2011     Effectiveness:             08/16/2011        09/19/2011
Appraisal:            08/12/2011     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/15/2011     Mid-term Review:           01/21/2013
                                     Closing:                   03/29/2013        03/29/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                56                  56
Sanitation                                                            22                  22
Water supply                                                          22                  22


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                          45                  50
Nutrition and food security                                           22                  25
Other communicable diseases                                           33                  25

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Colin Bruce                          Yusupha B. Crookes
Sector Manager:            Olusoji O. Adeyi                     Eva Jarawan
Project Team Leader:       Sheila Dutta                         Sheila Dutta
ICR Team Leader:           Carolyn J. Shelton
ICR Primary Author:        Carolyn J. Shelton

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's development objective (PDO) was to support the emergency response in
targeted refugee camps, in Kenya and Ethiopia, by expanding implementation of a health
and nutrition package of services, in a manner consistent with the sub-region's medium-
term human development goals.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised during the implementation period.

                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                              documents)           Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Children under five years treated for severe/acute malnutrition (number)
Value
quantitative or 0                           5,275                            85,967
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/19/2011                    03/29/2013                       03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Pregnant and lactating women who received food or micronutrient supplements
Indicator 2 :
                (number)
Value
quantitative or 0                           23,475                           173,541
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/19/2011                    03/29/2013                       03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Children under five years who received treatment for acute respiratory infections
Indicator 3 :
                (number)
Value
quantitative or 0                           68,263                           209,466
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/19/2011                    03/29/2013                       03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Children under five years who received treatment for watery diarrhea (number).
Value
quantitative or 0                           23,662                           88,939
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/19/2011                    03/29/2013                       03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Direct project beneficiaries (number), of which female (percent)
Value
quantitative or 0                           440,272                           1,666,824
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/19/2011                    03/29/2013                       03/29/2013
Comments
                 Fifty percent of direct project beneficiaries were female.
(incl. %

                                               iii
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                          Values (from                       Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                             approval                       Completion or
                                                           Target Values
                                           documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Targeted children 6-59 months old and pregnant/lactating women screened
Value
(quantitative   0                        123,475                            406,895
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/19/2011                 03/29/2013                         03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Children 6-59 months old with severe/acute malnutrition referred for
Indicator 2 :
                treatment/food supplements
Value
(quantitative   0                        5,275                              85,967
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/19/2011                 03/29/2013                         03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Pregnant and lactating women received food supplements
Value
(quantitative   0                        23,475                             174,403
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/19/2011                 03/29/2013                         03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Targeted children 9-59 months old vaccinated against measles
Value
(quantitative   0                        70,000                             77,238
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/19/2011                 03/29/2013                         03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Targeted children 6-59 months old receiving one dose of vitamin A supplements
Value
(quantitative   0                        70,000                             297,751
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/19/2011                 03/29/2013                         03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %

                                             iv
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Latrines built or renovated for improved sanitation services
Value
(quantitative     0                           5,000                              27,239
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/19/2011                  03/29/2013                         03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Percent of six monthly financial reports submitted on time
Value
(quantitative     0                           85%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/19/2011                  03/29/2013                         03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Share of six monthly M&E reports submitted on time
Value
(quantitative     0                           85%                                100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/19/2011                  03/29/2013                         03/29/2013
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     12/28/2011             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    20.00
  2     06/27/2012             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    29.21
  3     03/13/2013             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    29.21


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                    v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Regional context of the emergency: The Horn of Africa has experienced
droughts – particularly in the last ten years - and each time, they have reversed progress
in reducing poverty, disrupted food production systems, and jeopardized the hard-won
improvements in human development. In 2011, the sub region experienced its worst
drought in sixty years which yielded a severe food crisis. A sharp rise in food prices in
parallel with the drought dramatically exacerbated the situation. Over 12 million people
were severely affected and in urgent need of humanitarian aid across Kenya, Ethiopia,
Somalia and Djibouti (Table 1). The crisis escalated dramatically between March and
July 2011 as the estimated number of affected people in the Horn of Africa increased by
nearly 40 percent during that period.

Table 1 Overview of Most Affected Countries
             Local       Somali     Other
                                               Total                     Comments
           Population   Refugees   Refugees
Djibouti    146,600      17,600     1,510     165,710     Northwest and southwest pastoral lands
                                                          Somali, Oromia, Afar, Tigray, Amhara,
Ethiopia   4,567,256    157,923     80,500    4,805,679   Southern Nations, Nationalities and
                                                          Peoples Region
                                                          Upper eastern, north eastern, lower eastern
Kenya      3,200,000    476,808     77,777    3,754,585   and south regions: Garissa, Wajir,
                                                          Moyale, Marsabit, Turkana
                                                          Mainly southern Somalia; some areas in
Somalia    3,700,000                          3,700,000
                                                          central Somalia also affected
 Total     11,613,856    652,331      159,787 12,425,974
Source: OCHA East Africa Drought: Humanitarian Snapshot – Regions Affected (June 28, 2011);
Population Affected Update (August 9, 2011).
Local
2.      Although famine was declared in Somalia, large parts of Ethiopia and Kenya also
experienced severe food insecurity and increasing inflows of Somali refugees. By mid-
2011, an estimated 25 percent of Somalia’s 7.5 million population had been displaced,
either within Somalia or to neighboring countries, primarily Kenya and Ethiopia. Due to
the persistence of food insecurity in southern Somalia sparked by the drought as well as
conflict in parts of the country, people were unable to receive assistance in the most
heavily affected areas of Somalia. As a result, Somalis were forced to travel long
distances under difficult conditions which in turn had negative effects on their health
condition while also depleting their resources and livelihoods.

3.      Somali refugees – particularly women and children – arrived at the camps in
Kenya and Ethiopia in poor states of health, dehydrated and severely undernourished,
especially the children. For example, according to the nutritional screening conducted at
the reception and transit sites in Ethiopia’s Dollo Ado camp, one in three children under
five was suffering from severe acute malnutrition (SAM). In Dadaab, approximately one
quarter of children arriving from southern Somalia were malnourished with reported


                                               1
child deaths inside Somalia and among new arrivals. As of end July 2011, the daily
arrival rate to camps in Kenya and Ethiopia hovered at 2,000. The population of Kenya’s
Dadaab camp swelled to over 400,000 by July 2011 - granting it the distinction of being
the largest refugee settlement in the world. By end August 2011, Ethiopia‘s Dollo Ado
camp reported a camp population of over 120,000 – of which nearly 21,000 had arrived
in July alone. 1 Given the pre-existing food security emergencies in both countries,
refugee populations overcrowded and overwhelmed the existing response capacity in
Kenya and Ethiopia at project appraisal.

Africa Region’s Drought Response Plan in the Horn of Africa
4.      With the onset of the drought, the Bank actively monitored the situation and
engaged with affected clients. In July 2011, the Bank participated in an Emergency
Ministerial-Level Meeting on the Horn of Africa. There was consensus that while relief
and recovery were the first order of priority, medium- to long-term support would be key
to promoting economic recovery. The Bank’s Africa Drought Response Management
team developed the Africa Region’s Drought Response Plan for the Horn of Africa,
which combined rapid response measures with economic recovery and longer term
drought resilience. 2 A package of US$1.88 billion was identified which included
restructuring, additional financing, trust fund contributions and proposed support from
the Crisis Response Window (CRW). This operation was a part of the Bank’s first six
month rapid response phase, and was presented to the Board in parallel with the CRW
Strategy, as the first operation to be funded under the CRW/International Development
Agency (IDA) allocation for the Horn of Africa. In addition to the provision of health and
nutrition services to refugee populations through this operation, the immediate response
focused on boosting safety net programs, cash transfer and cash for work programs,
followed by support to livelihood recovery, reinvigorating crops and livestock
production, strengthening health facilities, and disaster preparedness.

5.      With respect to the global response, the United Nations Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) coordinated a joint donor emergency
response in the Horn of Africa with the development of a report and response plan,
“Humanitarian Requirements for the Horn of Africa Drought,” as of July 2011. The joint
multi-agency report drew on the latest updates of each country’s humanitarian
requirements, outlined the needs and key elements of an immediate donor response with
detailed projections and addressed donor mobilization through existing coordination
mechanisms. This joint assessment provided critical background for project appraisal.
According to the report, the following drought-related priorities and financing gaps for
Ethiopia and Kenya as a whole were:

    (a) Nutrition: About half of the 480,000 children under five with severe acute
        malnutrition did not have access to interventions for treatment. Many were


1
 UNHCR, Refugees in the Horn of Africa: Somali Displacement Crisis, Information Sharing Portal.
2
 The three-phased Drought Response Plan [Rapid Response (first 6 months), Economic Recovery (6
months to 2 years), and Drought Resilience (2-5 years)] was outlined in the Africa Region's briefing for the
Board on July 28, 2011.


                                                     2
        expected to perish if immediate measures were not taken, while new arrivals were
        overwhelming camp capacities to deliver emergency nutrition services.
    (b) Health: The overcrowding camps posed a severe risk of further health outbreaks
        given limited service delivery and insufficient funding. This disease profile was
        expected to further exacerbate malnutrition among vulnerable populations and
        increase the risk of child mortality.
    (c) Water, sanitation, and hygiene: An estimated 50 percent of communities in
        drought affected areas could no longer afford clean water, due to deteriorating
        household incomes. In the driest areas, water was trucked to the refugees and
        sanitation and hygiene conditions were severely affected.

6.      As of July 2011, health and nutrition needs in Ethiopia3 for the remainder of 2011
were estimated at US$31.4 million – available funding at that time covered 47 percent of
these costs. Water and sanitation, and hygiene costs were estimated at US$20.2 million
over this same period, of which only 14 percent had been financed. In Kenya 4, 2011
health needs were estimated at US$16.7 million (of which 14 percent had been financed),
nutrition needs at US$65.3 million (of which 15 percent had been financed), and water,
sanitation, and hygiene needs at US$17.4 million (of which 34 percent had been
financed). These needs were superimposed on existing high levels of food insecurity and
poor health and nutrition indicators among local populations in Kenya and Ethiopia –
yielding an additional urgency to prevent further attrition of critical human development
measures.

7.       This operation aimed to contribute to the overall international response through
financing for health and nutrition interventions to vulnerable populations in targeted
refugee camps in Kenya and Ethiopia, for which UNHCR took overall lead
responsibility. In 2011, refugee camps and their surrounding areas in Kenya and Ethiopia
were the destination of 98 percent of Somali refugees. Since the Bank, and most key
international development partners, had limited ability to operate in Somalia directly, the
focus on the major refugee camps in Kenya and Ethiopia receiving Somali refugees was
the best available solution.
 2011ec 2011
Rationale for Bank involvement
8.       In light of the severity of the drought emergency and efforts to reprogram the IDA
allocation and accelerate disbursements, the Africa Region requested a US$250 million
allocation from the dedicated CRW5 for the Horn of Africa to complement existing IDA
resources. Bank management noted that the exceptional nature of the drought emergency
in terms of scale, scope and severity warranted eligibility for a CRW allocation to
complement IDA emergency financing as a last resort and to support a robust World
Bank Group crisis response. This operation set two significant precedents: (i) it was the
first to receive financing through the dedicated CRW in IDA16; and (ii) it was the first
CRW grant to an international institution such as UNHCR. Furthermore, this was the


3
  Revised Humanitarian Requirements Document for Ethiopia 2011. 28 July 2011.
4
  2011+ Kenya Emergency Humanitarian Response Plan. 28 July 2011.
5
  Approved under IDA-16


                                                 3
first and only IDA/CRW operation for which the Fiduciary Principles Accord (FPA)6
would be applicable on an exceptional basis.

Project focus on balancing humanitarian needs and development objectives
The Bank’s role in the crisis response was its ability to link short-term a humanitarian
crisis response with development objectives, and also help mitigate the negative impact
of the crisis on the two refugee recipient countries (Kenya, Ethiopia). As a result, this
operation contributed to the broader humanitarian effort led by specialized UN agencies,
as reflected in the project development objective (PDO) which emphasized the Bank’s
contribution to the humanitarian effort. This approach took into account the evidence
from humanitarian efforts which show that short term actions to address urgent health
and nutrition needs – particularly among infants and children – have significant medium
to longer-term effects on cognitive development, growth, nutritional status and thus
human capital.7

9.      This approach was also consistent with the 2011 WDR Conflict, Security and
Development which makes the point that managed and contained communicable diseases
in high density environments such as refugee camps mitigate negative spillover effects
and create indirect benefits for countries hosting refugees, who also face their own
development challenges. This operation was also designed to reduce the economic shock
of the drought and the resulting population displacement by providing health and
nutrition services to vulnerable populations in the targeted refugee areas. The project’s
emphasis on targeting poor and vulnerable populations in refugee camps in Kenya and
Ethiopia was aligned with the Bank‘s mandate to manage vulnerability and assist member
countries to manage crises.

OP/BP 8.00: Rapid response to crises and emergencies
10.     Under OP/BP 8.00, Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies, emergency
support may be provided in response to a request for urgent assistance or, in response to
an event that has caused, or is likely to cause, a major adverse economic and social
impact. Consistent with OP 8.00, and in light of the magnitude of the crisis in the Horn of
Africa, the project’s activities were designed to contribute to the scaling-up of essential
health and nutrition services in targeted refugee areas, with emphasis on the needs of
vulnerable populations. As required by OP 8.00, and given the exceptional
circumstances, the Governments of Kenya and Ethiopia submitted formal requests for
emergency assistance from the World Bank, whereby the United National High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) would serve as the direct recipient of IDA funds
and act as implementing agency for the Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition
Project.



6
  On October 7, 2008, the World Bank‘s Board of Executive Directors endorsed the "World Bank and UN
Fiduciary Principles Accord for Crisis and Emergency Situations" (SecM2008-0404). As a result, the
United Nations Fiduciary Principles Accord (FPA) was entered into among certain UN agencies and the
World Bank, including UNHCR.
7
  The Lancet, Maternal and Child Nutrition Series of June 6, 2013.


                                                 4
11.     Policy exceptions and Board Waiver: The project was granted a Board Waiver,
endorsed by the Acting Managing Director of the World Bank on August 10, 2011 in
advance of the project’s Board date, which allowed for the application of the Fiduciary
Principles Accord (FPA).8 The FPA was applied on an exceptional basis and enabled
UNHCR to serve as the grant recipient and implementing agency for the project, using
the FPA as the framework. UNHCR was the only agency able to respond with requisite
speed to the health and nutrition crisis in targeted camps in the Horn of Africa –
particularly given its extended track record of service delivery, and established operations
including well defined supply chains and partnerships with ministries in Kenya and
Ethiopia responsible for refugees. The exceptional application of the FPA was viewed as
the only viable option to allow the Bank to respond in a timely fashion. Bank
Management agreed that this unprecedented approach would be justified given the
magnitude of the challenge and the need for a swift response.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

12.     The project's development objective (PDO) was to support the emergency
response in targeted refugee camps, in Kenya and Ethiopia, by expanding implementation
of a health and nutrition package of services, in a manner consistent with the sub-region’s
medium-term human development goals.

13. The PDO is measured by the following five key indicators:

    (i) Children under five years receiving treatment for severe/acute malnutrition
         (number)
    (ii) Pregnant and lactating women who received food or micronutrient supplements
         (number)
    (iii) Children under five years who received treatment for acute respiratory infections
         (ARI) (number)
    (iv) Children under five years who received treatment for watery diarrhea (number)
    (v) Direct project beneficiaries (number) of which are female (percent)

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

14. The PDO was not revised during the 18 month project implementation period.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries


8
  The FPA’s application is limited to country-specific multi- and single-donor trust funds established to
support emergency recovery programs in weak-capacity environments. Under the FPA, all funds
transferred by the Bank to a UN agency would be received, administered, managed, expended, reported on,
and audited, in accordance with the policies and procedures of the UN agency in a manner consistent with
the standards set out in the FPA. The FPA did however include specific provisions to ensure that Bank
standards, for example, with respect to governance and anti-corruption as well as procurement, were
explicitly upheld. For example, UNHCR was not able to enter into contract with organizations on the
Bank’s list de-barred firms.


                                                    5
15.    The project beneficiaries were the populations served in the Ethiopia (Dollo Ado)
and Kenya (Dadaab) refugee camps for all interventions outlined in the PDO. The project
preferentially benefitted children under five years of age and pregnant or lactating
women. From September 2011 – March 2013, this emergency response operation
contributed to the expansion of health, nutrition and sanitation services to over 1.5
million beneficiaries in Kenya’s Dadaab and Ethiopia’s Dollo Ado refugee camps. A
reported 51% of the combined camp populations were women during the project
implementation period. Other project beneficiaries included communities surrounding
the camps and broader camp populations accessing clean water and sanitation services.

1.5 Original Components

16. Component 1 (US$27.9 million equivalent): Treatment and prevention of
    malnutrition and provision of basic health services, including the screening of
    beneficiaries and direct costs associated with service delivery. This component
    would expand the coverage of UNHCR’s core package of health, nutrition, and
    population related services being provided in Dadaab and Dollo Ado.

   (i)     Component 1a: Treatment and prevention of malnutrition among
           vulnerable populations, particularly children and women. This component
           addressed the prevention and treatment of acute malnutrition among children,
           in addition to focusing on the nutritional needs of pregnant and lactating
           (P&L) women.
   (ii)    Component 1b: Screening and provision of basic health services. This
           component focused on maternal and child health services, in addition to the
           prevention and treatment of common sources of morbidity and mortality,
           including respiratory tract infections, diarrheal disease, and malaria.
   (iii)   Component 1c: Strengthening of sanitation facilities and safe water
           supply as key contributors to improved health status. This component
           enabled the provision of improved water and sanitation facilities in the
           targeted areas.
   (iv)    Component 1d: Strengthening project monitoring and evaluation (M&E).
           This sub-component supported M&E activities (including the innovative use
           of ICT technology to facilitate data collection, monitoring, and management).

17. Component 2: Project Management (US$ 2.1 million equivalent). Project
    management consisted of indirect costs required to support project delivery.

1.6 Revised Components

18. The original components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
19. No changes were made to the design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements
    or funding allocations during the 18 months of project implementation.



                                           6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.     Preparation: The project was prepared by a multi-disciplinary Bank team in
close collaboration with UNHCR. The Bank’s task team prepared the project within a
five week period and extensively consulted with internal units Bank-wide to ensure that
all areas of preparation (e.g. safeguards, procurement, financial management, and
governance) would be approved by management in a timely manner. Preparation efforts
also included field-based support from country-based staff in Addis and Nairobi,
particularly in enabling dialogue meetings with key government officials. Senior
management across the Bank were actively engaged during preparation such that the
decision review was overseen by the Rapid Response Committee (RRC) which included
representation from three Chief Counsels, and senior staff from OPCS, INT, as well as
the Africa Region (RRC Decision Note, August 2011). The project design was closely
coordinated under the Bank’s three phase strategy to address the Horn of Africa crisis
unfolding in 2011. The task team prepared the project drawing on the available resources
and evolving data during the design phase. A background analysis, conducted in close
collaboration with UNOCHA and UNHCR, informed the design which was endorsed by
counterparts in Ethiopia and Kenya.

21.     Design: The project’s design focused on best practices in emergency refugee
responses appropriate for the drought context. The design included appropriate objectives
and indicators, a clearly outlined results chain and results framework. Lessons from
previous operations in the Horn of Africa, as well as from global disaster risk
management and emergency recovery/reconstruction experience were taken into account
when relevant and appropriate. This operation also built on collaboration experience with
UNHCR in the Horn of Africa and the Great Lakes Region, among others. In view of the
significant capacity limitations, establishing a new project management unit and
executing entities would not have been practical when the use of an existing
implementing agency was critical to an efficient emergency response. The project used
UNHCR as its implementing agency, given both its overall mandate in the management
of refugee crises and on-going leadership role in the targeted refugee areas in Kenya and
Ethiopia. UNHCR also is a signatory of the FPA, thereby enabling the streamlining of
project processing. Given the high risk implementation environment, the use of UNHCR
as the implementing agency could be considered a risk mitigation strategy.

22.     The project was designed to enable retroactive financing of up to US$3 million
which gave UNHCR the ability to initiate urgent procurement and other related
transactions during the period immediately preceding the Board date. This allowed
UNHCR the ability to scale up support almost immediately which was especially critical
at the peak of the crisis.

23.   Given the magnitude and urgency of the crisis in the Horn of Africa, the Bank
demonstrated its ability to be agile and flexible in deploying available CRW resources



                                           7
and trigger the FPA Accord under exceptional yet entirely applicable and justifiable
circumstances. The speedy implementation start-up, agreement on key implementation
issues (e.g. endorsement of operations manual/environmental safeguards) in advance,
effectiveness declared two days after Board approval, candid risk assessment, review at
high levels (ROC, OPCS, VPU and INT), strong stakeholder involvement including
affected Governments of Ethiopia and Kenya, NGOs and other development partners
demonstrated high quality preparation. The manner in which the operation was prepared
showed the Bank’s ability to draw on its technical and operational resources to prepare a
well-informed operation which adequately responded to the urgent health and nutrition
needs in the Horn of Africa.

24.    Risk Assessment and Mitigation: The overall risk rating was high, reflecting a
candid and realistic assessment of project risks elaborated in the ORAF including: (i)
careful management of project stakeholder relations to ensure that local/community
leaders endorsed the project’s refugee focus given the food shortages, malnutrition and
other impacts of the droughts in the camps’ surrounding areas; (ii) planned interventions
may be diverted away from targeted beneficiaries or possibility of leakage and spoilage
of program resources; and (iii) a large financing gap in light of projections that the
number of refugees would increase, further risking the sustainability of the supported
interventions. The mitigation measures were appropriate, including: (i) the Bank’s
mobilization of further support from its existing portfolio in Kenya and Ethiopia to
address needs in the drought-affected areas as part of the Africa Region’s Drought
Response Plan; and (ii) the selection of UNHCR as an implementing agency with clear
accountability and decision-making structures and an extended track record of service
delivery in refugee camps in Kenya and Ethiopia by trusted NGOs.

25.     Despite the identified risks and mitigation measures including those covered
under the FPA, the Bank team also clearly stated the potential for higher than usual
implementation and reputational risks. With the approval of the Board waiver to apply
the FPA, alternatives of inaction or a much delayed response would have been more
costly from a socio-economic development perspective for Ethiopia and Kenya (and
beyond) and would pose much higher reputational risks for the Bank. The Board’s
approval of this operation demonstrated the Bank’s flexibility to which it is able to apply
instruments intended for emergency crises situations such as the CRW and the FPA. The
approval also signaled that the Bank was willing to take an exceptional and entirely
justifiable risk to benefit the greater target population in the Horn of Africa.

2.2 Implementation

26.    The Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project delivered on the
expectation of a rapid response, with 70 percent of the grant disbursing within 3 months
of Board approval, and 100 percent of the grant disbursing within 8 months of Board
approval (nearly one year ahead of schedule). The project quickly became effective four
days after the September 15, 2011 Board approval. Overall, the project was implemented
smoothly in spite of security disruptions. Both Project Development Outcome and
Implementation Progress were rated Satisfactory throughout, as well as fiduciary,



                                            8
safeguards, M&E and project management. The project was not restructured or in risk
status at any point. A mid-term review was not conducted as the project only had an 18
month implementation period. Activities supported by UNHCR essentially “hit the
ground running” which affirmed the Bank’s exceptional decision to designate a UN
agency as the Recipient of the CRW/IDA funds as well as the sole implementing agency
for the project.

27.     This operation was an integral part of the Africa Region’s first phase of its
Drought Response Plan and contributed to achieving some of the short-term targets of the
Bank’s US$1.8 billion Response Plan. It complemented other projects under the first
phase in Ethiopia and Kenya which disbursed at a slower pace. The other projects were
the Ethiopia Productive Safety Net Project (PSNP) and the Kenya Health Sector Support
Project.

28.     Despite a challenging geopolitical implementation context, steady results were
reported over the 18 month implementation period (September 2011- March 2013), as
documented in the project’s six monthly Technical and Financial Reports. With respect to
the five PDO indicators, all end-project targets were surpassed in the first 12 months of
the project’s 18-month implementation period, which was in part because the number of
refugees covered turned out to be much higher than originally anticipated. Achievements
included key targets met for: children treated for severe acute malnutrition and acute
respiratory infections, and pregnant/lactating women receiving food or micronutrient
supplements. Similarly, end-project targets for all 8 interim project indicators were met
before project closing.

29.     Targets were surpassed which indicates a degree of conservative target setting.
While these targets were set at the design stage based on the available knowledge whilst
the crisis was unfolding, with the benefit of hindsight they could have been revised
during the course of implementation to more accurately reflect the magnitude of the
rapidly increasing health and nutrition needs of the refugees. For example, for the
treatment of children with SAM, due to the scale of the crisis, the proximity of the
treatment centers to the refugee population and the effectiveness of the community
outreach and communication program elements meant that not only could the centers
absorb more malnourished children than originally expected, but coverage and retention
of malnourished children in the program was also high. In addition, unprecedented levels
of malnutrition were observed amongst the new arrivals in Dollo Ado that far surpassed
the levels used in the calculations for the targets set (e.g. over 45% in the surveys in Kobe
and Hilaweyn in November 2011).

30.    Reported results reflect implementation of UNHCR’s package of health, nutrition
and sanitation services in the targeted refugee camps. Considering the daily changes in
refugee camp populations and the evolving health and nutrition needs among refugee
populations during different phases of the crisis, it would not have been feasible or
helpful to the emergency response to earmark the use of IDA’s contribution. The
exceptional circumstances of this operation led the project team not to use the traditional
incremental coverage of health and nutrition services financed by the project. Therefore,



                                             9
the targets indicated in the Results Framework were the targets of UNHCR’s overall
program through which the package of nutrition and health and sanitation services was
implemented. With the benefit of hindsight this approach was generally reasonable as it
allowed UNHCR and its specialized agencies to focus on the delivery of services rather
than tracking contributions of each agency.

31.    Key results achieved between September 2011- March 2013, as detailed in the
Results Framework, include the following (aggregate data for Kenya and Ethiopia
refugee camps):

      over 1,500,000 direct project beneficiaries (of which 50 percent are female).
      over 290,000 children (6-59 months) received a dose of Vitamin A supplements.
      over 85,000 children treated for severe acute malnutrition.
      over 170,000 pregnant and lactating women received food or micronutrient
       supplements.
      over 200,000 children under five years treated for acute respiratory infections.
      over 77,000 children (6-59 months) immunized against measles.
      over 27,000 latrines constructed or renovated for improved sanitation services.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32.      Overall, the project design included clear and pragmatic M&E arrangements. The
emergency project paper presented a strong results framework, utilized a results chain to
delineate links between project inputs and targeted outcomes and elaborated a plan for
data collection and monitoring arrangements. The M&E data collection was based on
UNHCR’s existing health information system which provided timely data validated by
their field presence.

33.     The selection of indicators in the Results Framework was guided by the content of
the package of services provided by UNHCR in the camps. Indicators were selected from
those that were already collected by UNHCR in both refugee camps to ensure minimal
additional data collection burden and disruption to service delivery. The quality of the
indicators was also assessed according to accepted criteria such as clarity, relevance,
adequacy, feasibility and economy of implementation.
34.    Given the relatively short implementation period (18 months), a conscious choice
was made to utilize service delivery indicators in the Results Framework. Given the lag
between many health outcome improvements and services delivered, this was a pragmatic
approach for the project’s context.

35.     Throughout implementation, UNHCR submitted comprehensive technical
progress reports which reported on the project’s results framework and included available
data on camp population and statistics and various survey results. Complete data was
reported in the ISRs for all PDO and interim indicators for each 6-month period of
project implementation. The project explicitly utilized the timely M&E data generated to
assist in planning and guiding the numerous operational assessments conducted by


                                           10
UNHCR. This enabled the project to be more responsive to the evolving needs of highly
vulnerable sub-groups within the refugee camps (particularly with respect to the service
delivery needs of new arrivals from Somalia). UNHCR provided progress reports every
six months as agreed which included detailed information on activity implementation
progress, challenges and resolution of bottlenecks as well as data collected and analyzed
per camp. The reports also included detailed annexes which contained for example camp
population statistics, results from joint nutrition and health surveys, WASH camp
assessments, and a knowledge, attitudes and practice survey.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution)

Environmental and social safeguards
36.     Given the application of the FPA for this operation, World Bank safeguard
policies did not apply. UNHCR's 2005 Environmental Guidelines were adopted for this
operation according to UNHCR's standard project implementation mechanisms. The
UNHCR Guidelines were assessed as largely consistent with the Bank’s respective
policies. The project was classified as a Category B operation and OP 4.01 was triggered
for the purpose of Bank records and to signal that had this been a standard Bank
operation, not using the FPA instrument, these elements would be appropriate and
relevant safeguard tools would have been prepared. An ISDS was also completed.

Fiduciary compliance and expenditure (Trend of disbursements in data sheet)
37.    Fiduciary issues were handled by the implementing agency, UNHCR. As agreed
under the FPA, the financial management and disbursement procedures of UNHCR
applied. As agreed during project negotiations, UNHCR maintained a separate ledger
account (Grant Control Account) to record the financial transactions of this project. All
six month financial reports (IFR) were submitted on-schedule and cleared by AFTFM.
The Bank's final FM review indicated that the Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds
presented a fair and reasonable accountability of IDA resources channeled to the project
since the project effectiveness. The project was consistently rated Satisfactory for
Financial Management throughout implementation.

Procurement
38.     Since this project was implemented under the FPA, the procurement procedures
and policies of the UNHCR were applied. The objective of UNHCR‘s procurement
policy is to provide the beneficiaries or end users with appropriate quality products or
services at the specified time and place and at the lowest total cost. Whether carried out
locally or internationally, all contractual arrangements are subject to the financial rules
and procurement procedures established by UNHCR in line with the Financial
Regulations and Rules of the United Nations and the Financial Rules for Voluntary Funds
Administered by the High Commissioner.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (transition arrangement to post-completion
operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation & Maintenance
arrangements, sustaining reforms & institutional capacity, & next phase/follow-up
operation, if applicable)



                                            11
Sustainability
39.    The issue of sustainability falls beyond the scope of this 18-month emergency
operation. Given the human and social costs of a protracted response to the crisis in the
Horn of Africa, the counterfactual of no response was simply not acceptable.

40.     While challenges in sustaining critical services within Dadaab and Dollo Ado
persist with new arrivals to the camps and anticipated extended-term needs of the Somali
refugee population, other development partners are better equipped to address these in the
medium-term. Moreover, the project contributed to putting in place capacity which
remains at project completion. . The small scale water and sanitation infrastructure and
health facilities improvements under the project will continue to serve the camps'
populations and local communities going forward using financing for UNHCR’s other
partners. The drinking water treatment and pumping infrastructure built with support
from this project reduced the cost of providing safe drinking water to the camp
populations by trucking it in.

41.     The project also had positive spillover effects to communities surrounding the
camps. For example, the community surrounding Dollo Ado has access to improved
health facilities and water infrastructure in the camp, as well as upgraded health facilities
in the town of Dollo Ado and new entrepreneurial opportunities as the result of the
increase of refugees and aid workers who provide new customers for goods and services.
The host communities will also benefit from the water infrastructure established for the
camps. Locals were also trained on operations and maintenance of such facilities and
equipment – thereby enhancing its sustainability.

42.    In line with the Bank’s broader mandate to eradicate poverty and promote
development, at project completion senior management decided not to process Additional
Financing for the Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project (noted in the
June 2012 ISR) but to explore possibilities for further support to refugee camps and their
surrounding communities through country-specific operations (which would not require
an IDA policy exception).

43.    To mitigate the sustainability risk, a longer term livelihoods development
perspective will be incorporated in the Regional Pastoral Livelihoods Recovery and
Resilience Project for delivery in FY14 which will target cross-border pastoral
communities in both Ethiopia and Kenya. This proposed operation is part of the original
long term response portion of the Bank’s Horn of Africa Drought Response Plan.
UNHCR has also received support from the IKEA Foundation for longer term livelihood
development activities in Kenya and Ethiopia.


3.     Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: High



                                             12
44.     The objectives of the Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project
were (and remain) highly relevant to the existing geopolitical context, country
development objectives, global priorities and the Bank’s regional and country assistance
strategies. Technical considerations continue to be in sync with the current international
emergency health response as well as the Bank’s strategic drought response to the
subregion.

Relevance of PDO: The PDO remains relevant to the subregion’s emergency challenges
and health and nutrition service needs. The Bank’s rationale for involvement grounded in
balancing humanitarian needs with medium-term objectives remain consistent with
national and local development priorities for the Horn of Africa, current Bank assistance
strategies and prevailing overall corporate goals. Persistence of food insecurity in
southern Somalia, combined with conflict in parts of that country, continue to provoke
refugee outflows into Ethiopia and Kenya. Kenya’s Dadaab camp is both the largest
refugee camp in the world and the third largest city in Kenya (based on population). After
Dadaab, Dollo Ado in Ethiopia accommodates nearly 200,000 Somali refugees.
Maintaining coverage of essential health and nutrition services in these refugee camps
remains a critical challenge which continues to be addressed by UNHCR and its
specialized agencies.

45.     Relevance of Design: The operation provided swift, expanded coverage of critical
health, nutrition and water and sanitation needs to refugees in a challenging context -
maximizing benefits and minimizing administrative burden through a highly effective
collaboration with UNHCR. The project relied on existing UNHCR systems and its
network of highly specialized institutions partners already on the ground. This should
serve as an example for future crises where a rapid response is needed.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (brief discussion of causal linkages
between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in Annex 2)

Rating: Substantial

46.     This section assesses outcomes against project targets and objectives and
highlights project outputs and inputs that contributed to those outcomes. Directly
attributing the outcomes achieved to the Bank’s support in this joint response would have
been difficult and time consuming, diverting attention to the main task at hand of serving
vulnerable groups.. However, the Bank’s contribution to the larger international response
effort was critical in that it was able to deploy available resources quickly to meet urgent
health and nutrition needs, and played a role in bridging the gap between the
humanitarian response and the broader development agenda. Furthermore, the Bank
acted responsibly as an international partner, filled a short-term financing gap by utilizing
its emergency CRW funds which in turn, helped Kenya and Ethiopia mitigate the overall
impact stemming from the influx of refugees




                                              13
  47.     Attainment of PDO: The Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition
  Project achieved its development objective. The project was implemented well within the
  time frame and the implementation of planned activities was done in a timely manner and
  undoubtedly contributed to the achievement of expected outputs. All 5 PDO indicators
  surpassed their end-project targets before project closing. On the basis of the solid
  evidence presented below, project efficacy is rated as Substantial.

i.    PDO Indicator 1: Children under five years treated for severe acute malnutrition
      (number). More than 85,000 children were treated for SAM in both camps of Ethiopia
      and Kenya during the project period – surpassing the target of 5,275. In Dollo Ado,
      the SAM recovery rate among children aged 6-59 months increased from 68.8%
      reported in March 2012 to 84.4% (Standard > 75%) by the March 2013 project
      closure (Figure 1). Recovery rates for moderate acute malnutrition (MAM) 9 also
      steadily improved in Dollo Ado, from 85.6% reported in September 2012 to 92.7% by
      March 2013, demonstrating the effectiveness of these interventions. The mortality
      rate from SAM was also kept low at 0.3% (standard <10%), indicating effective
      health and nutrition interventions.

      Figure 1: Recovery Rate for Severe Acute Malnutrition among children aged 6-59
      months in Dollo Ado

        90
        80
        70
        60
        50
        40
        30
        20
        10
         0
                  Sept 2011-             Apr 2012-             Oct 2012 -
                  Mar 2012               Sept 2012             Mar 2013
      Source: UNHCR Narrative Report October 2012 – March 2013; UNHCR HIS




  9
    MAM is a less severe form of acute malnutrition and usually represents the major part of the total acute
  malnutrition levels, with SAM representing only a small proportion (often < 10%). At appraisal, the
  evidence gathered through nutrition surveys and screenings from this crisis show a highly unusual pattern
  of the ratio of MAM to SAM, whereby 2 out of 3 acutely malnourished children were suffering from
  MAM. This suggested a shift in the severity of the acute malnutrition and made the appropriate treatment
  of MAM all the more urgent in order to prevent children from sliding further into the state of SAM.


                                                     14
48.    In Ethiopia, the Outpatient Therapeutic Program (OTP) 10 and Stabilization
Centers (SC) carried out the management of SAM. During the final reporting period
(October 2012 – March 2013), 1,632 children aged 6-59 months and 435 children aged 5-
10 years were newly admitted for management of SAM in the OTP and SC. This was a
decrease compared to 3,403 in September 2011 (when the project was approved),
highlighting effective efforts to contain malnutrition and the smaller number of children
in need of support by project completion. Overall coverage of blanket supplementary
feeding program (BSFP) was high by project closure. By March 2013, over 32,000
children in Dollo Ado were enrolled, resulting in 89.2% coverage (standard > 90%).

49.     Similarly in Kenya’s Dadaab, the number of new admissions for treatment of
SAM among children under five years old peaked at the height of the drought crisis in the
latter part of 2011, and gradually declined until March 2013. The increased number of
admissions in therapeutic feeding centers in November and December 2012 as shown in
Figure 2 below is attributed to the acute watery diarrhea and accelerated active case
finding.

Figure 2: Number of new admissions for treatment of SAM among children 6-59
months, September 2011- March 2013 in Kenya




Source: UNHCR Narrative Report October 2012 – March 2013; UNHCR HIS

(ii) PDO Indicator II: Pregnant and lactating women who received food or micronutrient
     supplements (number). Over 173,000 pregnant and lactating women received food or
     micronutrient supplements in both camps of Ethiopia and Kenya during the project
     period – surpassing the initial modest target of 23,475. Supplementary feeding for
     P&L women provided additional nutritional needs that arise in pregnancy and
     lactation. It is used to ensure that P&L women access adequate nutrients to prevent


10
  . The OTP supports the rehabilitation of SAM in children aged 6 months to 10 years old presenting
without medical complications, while the SC supports the treatment and partial rehabilitation of SAM in
children with medical complications.


                                                   15
   maternal and neonatal malnutrition. Nutritious food in the form of corn, soya, sugar,
   and oil are provided through this program. In Dollo Ado for example, coverage under
   the supplementary feeding program (SFP) progressively improved from 44% to 97%
   throughout the project reporting periods (Figure 3).

Figure 3. Supplementary feeding program coverage for pregnant and lactating
Women in Dollo Ado
 8000                                                                          100.00%

 7000
                                                                               80.00%
 6000

 5000                                                                          60.00%
 4000

 3000                                                                          40.00%

 2000
                                                                               20.00%
 1000

    0                                                                          0.00%
         Oct 2011 - Mar 2012   Apr 2012 - Sept 2012    Oct 2012 - Mar 2013

             Number of P&L women enrolled             Coverage of SFP - P&L - (%)

Source: UNHCR Narrative Report October 2012 – March 2013; UNHCR HIS

(iii)PDO Indicator III: Children under five years who received treatment for acute
     respiratory infections (number). Over 200,000 children under five years received
     treatment for acute respiratory infections (ARI) during the project period – tripling
     the target of 68,263. While the overall service delivery target was met, ARI continues
     to be a major public health concern.

(iv) PDO Indicator IV: Children under five years who received treatment for watery
     diarrhea (number). More than 88,000 children received treatment for acute watery
     diarrhea (AWD) during project implementation surpassing the target of 23,662. In
     Dolloa Ado, the incidence per 1,000/month of AWD among children under five years
     declined from 23.5% in March 2012, 21.1% in September 2012 and to 18% by March
     2013.

(v) PDO Indicator V: Number of direct project beneficiaries, and percent of which
    female. The IDA core indicator tracked the number of targeted direct project
    beneficiaries in the camps and the percent of which were female. By end project
    closure, cumulatively approximately 1.6 million people directly benefitted from the
    project’s interventions - of which 50% were female.

50.     The provision of bednets formed part of UNHCR’s basic package of health and
sanitation services as outlined in the project paper. While tracking bednets was not part of


                                               16
the results framework given this project’s focus on nutrition and sanitation related
services – UNHCR reported over 32,000 treated nets were distributed in Dollo Ado, and
over 161,000 at Dadaab (of which 88,000 were supported by IDA). This was an
important contribution in protecting mothers and children from malaria.

Efficiency (net present value/economic rate of return, cost effectiveness, e.g. unit rate
norms, least cost, and comparisons; financial rate of return)

Rating: Substantial

51.     Project efficiency examines whether costs involved in achieving project
objectives were reasonable in comparison with both benefits and recognized norms (i.e.,
value for money), in addition to efficiency in implementation.

52.     This operation contributed to the rapid scale up response to meeting health and
nutrition needs of a population in crisis. In the two largest refugee camps in the world
where project interventions were implemented – increased service delivery and coverage
of high impact interventions were possible. The project supported the rapid expansion
and strengthening of UNCHR’s ongoing health program in the Dadaab and Dollo Ado
refugee camps, and consequently built on existing infrastructure and systems (versus
establishing new/parallel implementation arrangements) and worked through strong,
efficient specialized UNHCR partner institutions.

53.     UNHCR has been coordinating service delivery in the Dadaab refugee camp for
over 20 years and in Dollo Ado for nearly 15 years. For example, UNHCR has well
established supply chains and was able to leverage economies of scale in procurement
which would not have been possible through a separate stand-alone project. Medical
supplies and other related commodities financed by the project were procured directly
through UNHCR’s established global supply chains and benefited from bulk procurement
pricing. In addition to the lower costs associated with such bulk procurement, this
arrangement also enabled critical standards regarding both quality and reliable/rapid
delivery to be met. The implementation efficiency of this project benefited from this
extended service delivery experience in Dadaab and Dollo Ado, which also enabled the
mitigation of risks resulting from the challenging geopolitical environment (e.g. UNHCR
has substantial experience in planning for, and rapidly responding to, service delivery
challenges caused by annual/seasonal flooding in Dollo Ado; similarly, UNHCR has
long-term expertise in addressing periodic security challenges around Dadaab's camp
perimeter (in collaboration with national authorities). Such extended experience in
planning/managing camp operations in Dadaab and Dollo Ado enabled consistently
strong service delivery, and rapid scale-up, as can be evidenced in each of the six
monthly technical reports).

54.     In terms of ensuring quality and consistency, all health, nutrition, water, and
sanitation services in Dadaab and Dollo Ado were delivered following UNHCR’s
operations manuals which enabled standardization in service delivery across
countries/camps and detailed project monitoring (including epidemic surveillance),



                                             17
despite a challenging emergency context. This standardized approach ensured that the
technical design of the package of health, nutrition, and sanitation services being
delivered met internationally endorsed standards.

55.     UNHCR’s practice of working through qualified local, national, and international
NGOs, also served to enhance service delivery efficiencies by contracting organizations
with specialized skills. The project consequently further strengthened UNHCR’s practice
of harnessing civil society potential to increase access, enhance quality, and improve
efficiency in the delivery of health, nutrition, water, and sanitation services in the Dadaab
and Dollo Ado refugee camps.

56.     Project costs for reaching the indicated objectives were likely lower in
comparison to alternative institutional arrangements proposed (e.g., the establishment of
a new, parallel Project Management Unit managed by a governmental/inter-governmental
agency with less direct experience in coordinating refugee programs). Furthermore,
approximately 7 percent of the total project amount of US$30 million was set aside for
project management and administration costs – which represents good value for money.
As outlined above, the project promoted the efficient use of limited resources in
addressing the needs of increasing Somali refugee populations in the Horn of Africa. The
overall design of the project also served to enhance inter-agency partnerships, ownership,
and engagement of stakeholders at the national, regional, and international levels.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of
PDOs and efficiency)

57.     Implementation of the Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project
contributed to the rapid expansion of health and nutrition services provided in the
targeted refugee camps of Kenya and Ethiopia. All PDO indicators and IO indicators
were achieved and all targets were surpassed. In view of high relevance, substantial
efficacy (attainment of PDO/Implementation progress), substantial efficiency, the overall
project outcome rating is rated Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously
covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development:

58.     Impact on Poverty: The project had positive spillover effects on communities
surrounding the camps. The community surrounding Dollo Ado has access to improved
health facilities and water and sanitation infrastructure in the camp, as well as upgraded
health facilities in the town of Dollo Ado and economic opportunities with the increase of
refugees and humanitarian aid workers.

59.     Impact on Gender: Approximately 50% of this project’s 1.6 million
beneficiaries were female. Over 170,000 P&L women received food or micronutrient
supplements and over 400,000 children under 5 years old and P&L women were screened
for nutrition through a blanket SFP. The SFP provided additional nutritional needs that


                                             18
arise in pregnancy and lactation, and ensured that P&L women access adequate nutrients
to prevent maternal and neonatal malnutrition. In Ethiopia, coverage progressively
improved throughout the project reporting periods and currently stands at 96.6%
(Standard > 90%).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term
   capacity and institutional development)

60.      This operation bolstered the expansion of the provision of a health and nutrition
package of services in the targeted refugee camps of Ethiopia and Kenya. This expansion
improved UNHCR’s ability to respond more effectively to rapidly growing needs. Water
and sanitation systems were improved in the camps through installation of pumps instead
of, at the height of the crises, trucking water in to serve over 2 million people. UNHCR
and its implementing partners strengthened the disease surveillance capacity across the
camps. Improvements were made in responses to epidemic-prone diseases, prevention of
outbreaks (through scaling-up vaccination programs particularly for measles, polio and
the Expanded Programs on Immunization-EPI), distribution of long-lasting insecticide-
treated bed nets, vitamin A supplementation, and in water, sanitation and hygiene as well
as health education and promotion.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

61.     Challenges in sustaining critical services within Dadaab and Dollo Ado persist
with continued new arrivals to the camps and anticipated extended-term needs of the
Somali refugee population. While the Bank plans on continuing to support the
governments of Kenya and Ethiopia with broader development needs and UNHCR and
its specialized agencies will continue to focus on the needs of refugees, the risk to
development outcome is high, given the volatile environment in the Horn of Africa.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

62.     The strong multi-disciplinary Bank team should be commended for the speed and
quality in which this operation was prepared in close collaboration with UNHCR. The
task team successfully and rapidly prepared the project drawing on the available
resources and evolving data available during the design phase. The task team prepared
the project under exceptional circumstances which required close collaboration internally
from both regional and OPCS units responsible for operational policies (and IDA policy


                                              19
exceptions), financial management, procurement and safeguards. In addition, the team
ensured extensive involvement from INT, CFP and AFTOS to further enhance quality at
entry. Well planned monitoring and evaluation arrangements in agreement with UNHCR
took advantage of existing information systems, and ensured the availability of reported
results. This enabled project activities to essentially “hit the ground running,” and
affirmed the Bank’s decision to designate a UN agency as the sole implementing agency
for the project. As part of the OP/BP 8.00 including the request for the Board waiver and
the eventual Board approval of the FPA application, the Bank took measures to assess
quality at entry by an OPCS review conducted at the VP level.

Bank’s Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

63.     The Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project was implemented in
a challenging and rapidly changing environment which required the need for flexibility,
and rapid scale up. Implementation progress was relatively smooth and accelerated
throughout its 18 month implementation period which included clear and concise
reporting on project achievements. The Bank team closely coordination with UNHCR
staff in Kenya and Ethiopia as well as the Geneva headquarters to address potential
challenges and ensure smooth implementation.

64.     Despite significant security constraints (particularly in Dadaab, where missions
were cancelled three times due to security challenges), the Bank team did an excellent job
in terms of comprehensive reporting and staying in touch with key counterparts.. It
should be noted that supervision of operations under the FPA are viewed with a
somewhat different lens than a standard IDA investment since the project was essentially
“outsourced” to UNHCR. In July 2012, a World Bank mission, accompanied by
UNHCR representatives from Geneva and Addis Ababa visited Ethiopia’s Dollo Ado
refugee camps. As a result of the security situation, this was the only Bank mission
conducted over the 18 month implementation period. Key members of the UNHCR team
working on Kenya’s Dadaab also joined the Bank’s mission to Ethiopia’s Dollo Ado to
share inter-country experiences.

65.     Despite the noted security challenges, core project activities were effectively
implemented and not substantially affected. Refugees continued to receive essential
health, nutrition, water and sanitation services as supported by the project.

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance




                                           20
Rating: Satisfactory

66.     The Governments of Ethiopia and Kenya showed their commitment to addressing
the crisis affecting their countries and both endorsed the decision to outsource
implementation to UNHCR. Government commitment was high as there was no
interference on their part or additional requirements, restrictions or limitations put in
place that would hinder UNHCR’s implementation of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Lead Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

67.      Given the complexities and challenges of oversight and implementation in two
separate populations separated by country borders – UNHCR was well suited for the task
as originally expected. They worked to achieve impressive results in a challenging
environment and reported on a timely basis in great detail. No major problems of
misprocurement of mismanagement of funds were reported. Technical and financial
reports were submitted on time and were complete with both quantitative and qualitative
data collected by UNHCR and reported against this operation’s results framework.
Subcontracted NGOs with a long standing track record working with refugees carried out
activities on a timely basis under huge demands with positive results.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

6.         Lessons Learned

68.    The following lessons may be drawn from the implementation of the Horn of
Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project:

     i.   Ensuring a quick disbursing mechanism and working through specialized partner
       agencies for an effective emergency response. The project's rapid results and efficient
       manner in which project funds were disbursed indicate that UNHCR was indeed the
       appropriate institution to implement this emergency refugee health operation in the
       Horn of Africa. The Bank’s senior management decision to invoke the FPA and grant
       a waiver to enable UNHCR to serve as the project’s implementation agency was
       timely and demonstrated the Bank’s flexibility and pragmatism.

 ii. Need for speed and flexibility when responding to an emergency context. The
    speed, flexibility, and responsiveness with which the project was prepared, reflected
    the urgency and severity of the 2011 crisis in the Horn of Africa. While this operation
    was considered high-risk (given the context in the subregion and the inherent service
    delivery challenges in refugee camps with rapidly increasing populations), the
    development impact risks from not responding quickly were considered much higher.




                                               21
 iii. Inclusion of retroactive financing in an emergency operation: The inclusion of
     retroactive financing in the project design encouraged and enabled rapid
     implementation start-up in the emergency response context.

 iv.       Standard IDA lending instruments have limitations in addressing service delivery
       needs of refugee populations. Utilizing standard IDA lending instruments in support
       of refugee populations generally does not provide appealing options to governments.
       This is particularly the case for IDA credit-eligible countries, where governments
       would be required to borrow in support of foreign refugees. For IDA grant-eligible
       countries, utilizing IDA funds for such an endeavor may have an impact on national
       IDA ceilings. In addition, countries would need to take fiduciary and implementation
       responsibility for programs benefiting refugees, which may overstretch service
       delivery capacities and have political ramifications nationally. This operation’s Board
       waiver enabled substantial policy exceptions to standard IDA lending terms. In the
       absence of the flexibility granted by the Board waiver, it would not have been
       possible to replicate the rapid preparation, efficient implementation, and results
       achieved.

  v. Importance of addressing the needs of refugee camp populations and surrounding
    communities in an integrated manner. The refugee camps targeted in the project serve
    and continue to serve as centers for provision of health, nutrition and sanitation
    services. This project supported such interventions for the target population but the
    surrounding communities also benefitted – which gave needed access and may have
    indirectly raised the bar in terms of access and quality of services available for groups
    in remote areas. This avoided distortions in the quality and level of services available
    and supported the national governments as they faced enormous challenges in
    addressing the rapidly evolving and increasing needs of refugees occupying their
    territories.

 vi.      Regional operations have an added benefit of addressing hard to reach
       communities. The communities surrounding both Dollo Ado and Daadab may have
       been much harder to reach through country level operations.

7.        Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors

          (a)     Grantee/Implementing Agencies:


          (b)     Comments from Co-financiers/Donors

Not Applicable

          (c)     Other partners and stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                               22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
Components                                                     Estimate (USD
                                          (USD million)                          Appraisal
                                                                  million)
Component 1: Treatment and
prevention of malnutrition and
provision of basic health services,
                                                 27.9              27.2             98%
including the screening of
beneficiaries and direct costs
associated with service delivery.

Component 2: Project
management                                        2.1               2.0             95%

Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs                              30.0              29.2             97%
Project Preparation Costs

Total Financing Required                         30.0              29.2            97%11


(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of Co-     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
Source of Funds
                                              financing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                             millions)   millions)
IDA Crisis Response Window                                     30.0        29.2        97%




11
     In SDR terms, 100 percent of the grant was disbursed.



                                                        23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


1.    This annex presents a detailed description of the project components, its main
outcome indicators and the outputs by Component.

2.      Component 1: Treatment and prevention of malnutrition and provision of
basic health services. This component addressed the treatment and prevention of
malnutrition through the strengthening of the provision of an existing package of basic
health, nutrition services, including screening of beneficiaries and direct costs associated
with service delivery. The component would expand the basic package (such as blanket
feeding provided by the World Food Program), to enhance program efficiencies, improve
health and nutrition outcomes, and reduce vulnerabilities to infection and mortality.

3.       Component 1a: Treatment and prevention of malnutrition among vulnerable
populations, particularly children and women. This subcomponent focused on the
treatment of Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) and Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MAM)
as well as the prevention of acute malnutrition especially amongst the most vulnerable.
Treatment for SAM was provided in existing health facilities or temporary nutrition
facilities in the camps. A community based management (CMAM) approach was used for
the treatment of SAM, whereby patients with SAM or severe complications were
managed in inpatient stabilization units, requiring qualified personnel and sufficient
supplies of therapeutic milks and essential medicines. Other uncomplicated SAM cases or
stabilized cases were managed on an outpatient basis in the community which required
qualified personnel, Ready-to-Use Therapeutic Foods (RUTF), essential medicines and
equipment. Treatment of MAM was on an outpatient basis from clinic/health facilities
based inside the camp, managed directly by NGO and government partners of UNHCR.

4.     The scale of the emergency required additional nutrition support for the most
vulnerable groups within the refugee population. Blanket feeding programs provided
additional energy, macro (carbohydrate and protein) and micronutrients (vitamins and
minerals) to children 6 months to 5 years old and pregnant and lactating women. Strong
links between the existing Infant and Young Child Nutrition (IYCN) elements of the
program as well as reproductive health care services were also promoted. Services were
provided by NGO and governmental partners and products provided by WFP. UNHCR is
responsible for the procurement of equipment and the operational costs for the
preventative programs.

5.      The treatment programs for SAM and MAM and the preventative programs also
included nutrition education and counseling for caregivers, with a focus on improving
nutrition in the window of opportunity period from pregnancy to 24 months old.

PDO Indicator 1: Children under five years treated for severe acute malnutrition
(number). More than 85,000 children were treated for SAM in both camps of Ethiopia
and Kenya during the project period – grossly surpassing the target of 5,275. In Dollo
Ado, the SAM recovery rate among children aged 6-59 months increased from 68.8%


                                            24
reported in March 2012 to 84.4% (Standard > 75%) by the March 2013 project closure
(Figure 1). Recovery rates for moderate acute malnutrition (MAM)12 also steadily
improved in Dollo Ado, from 85.6% reported in September 2012 to 92.7% by March
2013. The mortality rate from SAM was also kept low at 0.3% (standard <10%),
indicating effective health and nutrition interventions. By March 2013, over 32,000
children in Dollo Ado were enrolled in the Blanket Supplementary Feeding Program
(BSFP), resulting in 89.2% coverage (standard > 90%).

6.      In Ethiopia, the Outpatient Therapeutic Program (OTP) 13 and Stabilization
Centers (SC) carried out the management of SAM. During the final reporting period
(October 2012 – March 2013), 1,632 children aged 6-59 months and 435 children aged 5-
10 years were newly admitted for management of SAM in the OTP and SC. This was a
decrease compared to 3,403 in September 2011 (when the project was approved).
Similarly in Kenya’s Dadaab, the number of new admissions for treatment of SAM
among children under five years old peaked at the height of the drought crisis in the latter
part of 2011, and gradually declined until March 2013.

7.     PDO Indicator II: Pregnant and lactating women who received food or
micronutrient supplements (number). Over 173,000 pregnant and lactating women
received food or micronutrient supplements in both camps of Ethiopia and Kenya during
the project period – surpassing the target of 23,475. Supplementary feeding for P&L
women provided additional nutritional needs that arise in pregnancy and lactation. It is
used to ensure that P&L women access adequate nutrients to prevent maternal and
neonatal malnutrition. Nutritious food in the form of corn, soya, sugar, and oil are
provided through this program. In Dollo Ado for example, coverage under the
supplementary feeding program (SFP) progressively improved from 44% to 97%
throughout the project reporting periods.

8.      PDO Indicator III: Children under five years who received treatment for acute
respiratory infections (number). Over 200,000 children under five years received
treatment for acute respiratory infections (ARI) during the project period – tripling the
target of 68,263. While the overall service delivery target was met, ARI continues to be a
major public health concern.

9.     PDO Indicator IV: Children under five years who received treatment for watery
diarrhea (number). More than 88,000 children received treatment for acute watery
diarrhea (AWD) during project implementation - surpassing the target of 23,662. In Dollo


12
    MAM is a less severe form of acute malnutrition and usually represents the major part of the total acute
malnutrition levels, with SAM representing only a small proportion (often < 10%). At appraisal, the
evidence gathered through nutrition surveys and screenings from this crisis show a highly unusual pattern
of the ratio of MAM to SAM, whereby 2 out of 3 acutely malnourished children were suffering from
MAM. This suggested a shift in the severity of the acute malnutrition and made the appropriate treatment
of MAM all the more urgent in order to prevent children from sliding further into the state of SAM.
13
   . The OTP supports the rehabilitation of SAM in children aged 6 months to 10 years old presenting
without medical complications, while the SC supports the treatment and partial rehabilitation of SAM in
children with medical complications.


                                                    25
Ado, the incidence per 1,000/month of AWD among children under five years declined
from 23.5% in March 2012, 21.1% in September 2012 and to 18% by March 2013.
Following September 2012, a cholera case was reported in Dadaab and local transmission
within the camps confirmed the declaration of an outbreak. By February 2013, 38 cholera
cases were listed in Dadaab. WASH and health partners worked to initiate cholera
preparedness and response mechanisms with weekly outbreak coordination meetings to
monitor response activities. Health staff from camp agencies, CDC, UNICEF, UNHCR,
and MOH-Kenya were also trained in clinical management of AWD.

10.     Component 1b: Screening and provision of basic health services. This
component focused on maternal and child health services, in addition to the prevention
and treatment of common sources of morbidity and mortality, including respiratory tract
infections, diarrheal disease, and malaria. Primary health care service provided in the
targeted camps in Kenya and Ethiopia, built on UNHCR‘s existing health service
delivery infrastructure. Services included preventative activities such as routine and mass
vaccinations, growth monitoring of the youngest children, reproductive health and child
health services, as well as curative services for a wide range of morbidities. Common
morbidities observed were respiratory tract infections, diarrheal diseases and malaria.
Bank support included the procurement and delivery of a strengthened basic health care
package that includes immunization, treatment, and prevention of common diseases, such
as diarrhea, acute respiratory infections, and parasitic infections.

11.     Component 1c: Strengthening of sanitation facilities and safe water supply as
key contributors to improved health status. This component recognized the
importance of ensuring safe water supply as an essential component of nutrition and
health programs and key to improving the health and nutrition status of the population are
at severe risk. The challenge of providing 15 liters/person/day of clean water for
drinking, cooking and hygiene was further compounded by the severe drought situation.

12.      Activities to improve the quantity and quality of water available to refugees
included: upgrading, extension and maintenance of exiting water networks; provision of
higher capacity pumps and sufficient fuel to run them for long periods; construction of
increased numbers of tap stands; increased capacity for water tanking, storage and
treatment facilities; hydrological survey, installation of pumps and generators, reservoir
tanks, distribution systems and distribution of jerry cans for water transport and storage.
Over 27,000 latrines were constructed or renovated for improved sanitation services –
triple the original target.

13.      Overcrowded conditions in the camps made the provision of adequate sanitary
conditions a first line defense against preventable illness. This included ensuring
provision of adequate latrine facilities, an effective solid water management system,
provision of soap and widespread hygiene measures and promotional activities. Pit
latrines and disposal pits were constructed and in view of the increasing numbers,
facilities at the Transit Center and reception centers would be rehabilitated. Along with
the regular distribution of soap, hygiene promotion activities were organized.




                                            26
14.    Component 1d: Strengthening project monitoring and evaluation (M&E).
This sub-component supported M&E activities (including the innovative use of ICT
technology to facilitate data collection, monitoring, and management). The UNHCR
Health Information System (HIS) was used by Health Workers to record activities daily
including outcomes (number of admissions, number of children seen, defaulters, number
of discharged cured) which were compiled monthly for statistical reporting. Death and
recovery rates of children in each camp were monitored using the HIS as well as
morbidity and mortality were also monitored using HIS as well as the associated
standardized tools available from the primary health care facilities and community.
Various nutrition surveys (referenced in Annex 5) were conducted to monitor the
improvement of the nutrition situation.

15.     The project design noted that UNHCR had begun to develop expertise in the use
of improved appropriate technology to facilitate data collection and management. This
also included adaptation of standard nutrition survey tools especially designed for refugee
situations for use on Android phones. The March 2013 Kenya Dadaab nutritional survey
report noted the use of such technology. Data collection questionnaires were prepared on
paper in English before being coded as electronic questionnaires in Open Data Kit
Collect (ODK Collect) and uploaded onto Android smart phones for testing. The
questionnaires were revised with the input of Supervisors and Team Leaders and then
piloted by teams in two to three households before the survey. Data validation ranges and
skip patterns were coded in the questionnaires to help reduce data entry errors. Following
piloting and several rounds of revision, the electronic questionnaires were finalized.
These were administered in Somali via translators if required – many team members
spoke Somali and associated dialects.

Achievements of Intermediate Results Indicators

IO#            Indicator and Result
IO#1           over 77,000 children (6-59 months) immunized against measles (target
               was 70,000).
IO#2           over 290,000 children (6-59 months) received a dose of Vitamin A
               supplements (target was 70,000).
IO#3           over 400,000 targeted children 6-59 months old and pregnant/lactating
               women screened (target was 123,475).
IO#4           over 85,000 children 6-59 months old with severe/acute malnutrition
               referred for treatment/food supplements (target was 5,275).
IO#5           over 170,000 pregnant and lactating women received food supplements
               (target was 23,475).
IO#6           over 27,000 latrines constructed or renovated for improved sanitation
               services (target was 8,500).
IO#7           100% of six monthly financial reports submitted on time (target was
               85%).
IO#8           100% of six monthly M&E reports submitted on time (target was 85%).




                                            27
16.     Component 2: Project Management and M&E: Project management by
UNHCR was satisfactory throughout, as evidenced by detailed quarterly program
monitoring and monthly registration data from Dadaab and Dollo Ado and the
submission of timely (and complete) six monthly technical and financial progress reports.
Despite the security limitations in Dadaab, UNHCR still included both quantitative and
qualitative data for Dadaab in its progress reports. Bank support to project management
consisted of indirect costs required to support project delivery which included fixed and
variable elements. An example of fixed indirect costs relate to costs of UNHCR's HQ
support on supply and logistics to field offices. Variable indirect costs related to local
costs of recruitment, procurement actions and contracting, budget preparation and control
and some elements of reporting contingent on a specific project.




                                           28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The Bank does not conduct appraisal of specific activities under the Fiduciary Principles
Accord (FPA). Furthermore, given the evolving context of the emergency, a formal
economic and financial analysis was not feasible. Instead, a detailed contextual country
analysis was conducted for Ethiopia and Kenya by UNOCHA. This was done in the place
of the standard Economic and Financial Analysis. The assessments supported: (i) the
rationale for the approach in the delivery of health and nutrition services in the targeted
camps; (ii) the activities under the UNHCR program are appropriate to respond
efficiently to the needs on the ground; and (iii) the UNHCR‘s implementation structure is
conducive to cost-efficient provision of services, given the challenging operating
environment. Moreover, this emergency response project was designed to reduce the
down-side economic shock of the extraordinary drought conditions and the resulting
population displacement, by providing health and nutrition services to vulnerable
populations in the targeted refugee areas to reduce the impact of morbidity and mortality.
The social and human development cost of a protracted response to the crisis in the Horn
of Africa would have been incalculable.




                                            29
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Preparation

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
Names                    Title                              Unit
                                                                     Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Sheila Dutta         Senior Health Specialist               AFTHE    Task Team Leader
Carla Bertoncino     Senior Economist                       AFTED
Gayle Martin         Senior Health Economist                AFTHE
Anthony Molle        Counsel                                LEGAF
Casey Torgusson      Operations Analyst                     AFRCI
Frode Davanger       Senior Operations Officer              AFRCI
Zhanar Abdildina     Senior Operations Officer              AFTDE
Aisha Khan,          Operations Analyst                     AFTDE
Bolormaa Amgabazaar Senior Operations Officer               AFTDE
Cary Ann Cadman      Senior Forestry Specialist             AFTOS
Victoria Gyllerup    Senior Operations Officer              AFTDE
Menno Mulder-Sibanda Senior Nutrition Specialist            AFTHE
Zia Hyder            Senior Nutrition Specialist            AFTHE
Meera Shekar         Lead Nutrition Specialist              AFTHE
Jose Janeiro         Senior Finance Officer                 CTRFC
Rajiv Sondhi         Senior Finance Officer                 CTRFC
Fily Sissoko         Lead Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Henry Amuguni        Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM
Qamrul Hasan         Senior Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
Supervision/ICR
Sheila Dutta         Senior Health Specialist               AFTHE    Task Team Leader
Miriam Schneidman    Lead Health Specialist                 AFTHE
Carolyn Shelton      Operations Officer                     AFTHE
Henry Amuguni        Financial Management Specialist        AFTFM
Menno Mulder-Sibanda Senior Nutrition Specialist            AFTHE
Casey Torgusson      Operations Analyst                     AFRCI

Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                 No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                        9.65              40,298.40
Total:                           9.65                       40,298.40
Supervision/ICR                  47.55                      221,447.88

Total:                           57.20                                    261,746.28




                                          30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No end of project beneficiary survey was carried out. However, UNHCR and other
development partners conducted health and nutrition surveys as well as a knowledge,
attitude and practice report conducted in Ethiopia. The following lists the various survey
and studies carried out by UNHCR over the 18 months of implementation:

1. UNHCR guidance on Laboratory Services in UNHCR-Supported Primary Health
   Care Facilities, Principles and Guidance, UNHCR, 2011.

2. Long Lasting Insecticide Treated Net Distribution Strategy and Training Manual with
   Monitoring Tools (March 2012 Progress Report)

3. Training Curriculum for Refugee Health workers in Clinical Management of Sexual
   Violence (March 2012 Progress Report)

Dollo Ado, Ethiopia:
1. Annual nutrition surveys Ethiopia, December 2011
2. IMC conducted an assessment on causes of malnutrition in Kobe and Melkadida
   camps following the high GAM prevalence rates in Kobe (March 2012 progress
   report).
3. Knowledge, Attitude and Practices Haleweyn Refugee Camp, Somali Region,
   Ethiopia, Oxfam June 2012
4. Joint Nutrition and Health Survey, Dollo Ado Refugee Camps Kobe and Hilaweyn,
   by UNHCR, ARRA, WFP, UNICEF, ACF, IMC, GOAL, September 2012
5. Baseline Assessment of Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Status in
   Boqolmayo Refugee Camp, Somalia Region, Ethiopia, International Medical Corps,
   June 2012
6. Baseline Assessment of Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Status in
   Kobe and Melkadida Refugee Camp, Somalia Region, Ethiopia, International
   Medical Corps, June 2012
7. WASH Strategy for Refugee Camps in Dollo Ado, Ethiopia 2011 – 2014, UNHCR
8. Nutritional Survey for Dollo Ado, Ethiopia – March 2013

Dadaab, Kenya:
1. Nutrition Survey Kenya, August/September 2011
2. Report on the findings of a mass MUAC screening carried out in Ifo1, Ifo 2,
   Dagahaley, Hagadera and Kambioos camps from 26-30 March, 2012
3. Outbreak Preparedness and Response Guidelines –Dadaab (March 2012 progress
   report)
4. Anaemia Strategy, Dadaab (March 2012 Progress Report)
5. Laboratory Assessment Checklist, Dadaab (March 2012 Progress Report)
6. Nutritional Survey for Dadaab, Kenya – March 2013




                                           31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Given the duration of this operation and the nature of the Bank supported activities
implemented through a pooled joint emergency crisis response, it was not possible to
conduct a stakeholder workshop. A number of assessments conducted by UNHCR
throughout implementation that were done to improve service delivery along the way,
including nutrition and health surveys, as well as water, sanitation and hygiene
assessments as noted in Annex 5.




                                          32
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR




                                    33
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable




                                    34
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

      United Nations. Humanitarian requirements for the Horn of Africa Drought. July
       2011
      UNHCR Letter to World Bank President (September 2011)
      UNHCR Technical and Financial Report and Annexes (September 2011 – March
       2012)
      UNHCR Technical and Financial Report and Annexes (April – September 2012)
      UNHCR Technical and Financial Report and Annexes (October 2012 – March
       2013)
      World Bank. Official Memo from AFRVP to OPCVP: Board Waiver request to
       enable UNHCR to serve as the implementing agency under the FPA (August 10,
       2011)
      World Bank. World Bank and United National fiduciary principles accord for
       crisis and emergency situations. Operations Policy and Country Services,
       September 19, 2008.
      World Bank. Decision Note: Rapid Response Committee Meeting Decision
       Meeting (August 11, 2011)
      World Bank. Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project. Emergency
       Project Paper (September 2, 2011)
      World Bank. Implementation Status Reports (1 – 3)
      World Bank. Technical Note - Mission to Dollo Ado, Ethiopia (July 2012)




                                         35
                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 40372




                                                                         HORN OF AFRICA
                                                                        REFUGEE CAMPS                              MAIN ROADS

                                                                        CITIES AND TOWNS                           RAILROADS

                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                        RIVERS


This map was produced by the                                                               40°E
Map Design Unit of The World                                                                                                                  0      100     200     300 Kilometers
Bank. The boundaries, colors,
denominations and any other
information shown on this map
do not imply, on the part of The
                                                                                                                                              0            100        200         300 Miles




                                                                                                  Re
World Bank Group, any
judgment on the legal status of




                                                                                                    d
any territory, or any




                                                                                                     Se
endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries.                   KHARTOUM




                                                                                                        a
                                                                ERITREA              ASMARA                                         SANAA
                                                                                                                                                                                        15°N
     GSDPM
     Map Design Unit
                         SUDAN                                                                                              REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
                                                                                  Axum

                                                                                 Mek'ele
                                                                                                              Assab
                                                               Gonder                                                                  Aden
                                                                                                                    Balho
                                                                                                                                                           Gulf of Aden
                                                                                                                        Tadjourah
                                                                                                                           DJIBOUTI
                                                                                     Dese                                                                                    Boosaaso
                                                                          Debre Markos
                                                                                                                                         Berbera
                                                                                                                                                                                        10°N
                                                                   ADDIS                                           Harar                              SOMALIA
                                                         Nek'emte ABABA                                                    Hargeysa


                                                                                            Mojo
                                                       Gore                                                                                                            Garoowe

                                                                  Jima
                                                                                              ETHIOPIA
           SOUTH                                                                                   Goba
                                                                                   Awasa
           SUDAN                                                                                                                                                 Gaalkacyo
                                                         Arba Minch
                                                                                                                                                       Dhuusa Mareeb
                        JUBA
                                                                                 Dollo-Ado, Ethiopia                                         Beledweyne                                 5°N




                 Arua          Gulu                                                                                   Garbahaarey                                      INDIAN
                                         Moroto                                                                                                   Jawhar               OCEAN
                          UGANDA                                                           Wajir                                              MOGADISHU
                                             Mbale                 KENYA                                      Bu'aale
                KAMPALA                              Eldoret

                                                                        Dadaab, Kenya
                                          Kisumu
                                                     Nakuru                                                                                                                               0°
             Mbarara                                                                                                    Kismaayo
                               Lake                                NAIROBI
                              Victoria                                                                                                               ETHIOPIA
       KIGALI
                                                                                                                                                       KENYA
RWANDA                                                                                                      Lamu


BURUNDI
                                         TANZANIA
                                                                                                  Mombasa

                                                                                              40°E                                    45°E                                      50°E
                                                                                                                                                                              SEPTEMBER 2013
