                                                                                                         96385
Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project                                                April 9, 2012




 Delivering emergency health and nutrition services to refugees in the
 Horn of Africa
 Support to refugee camps in Kenya and Ethiopia


Overview
The severe drought in the Horn of Africa has caused Somali refugees—and particularly women
and children—to arrive in camps in Kenya and Ethiopia in urgent need of health and nutrition
services.  This regional International Development Association (IDA) grant supports the
expansion of the United Nations Refugee Agency’s (UNHCR) on-going program of health,
nutrition, water, and sanitation service delivery to the largest refugee camps in Kenya and
Ethiopia.  By March 2013, this emergency operation is expected to provide services for an
estimated 500,000 beneficiaries.


Challenge
The Horn of Africa is experiencing the most severe food
                                                                   More Results
crisis in the world today.  As a result of this drought-induced
food crisis, an estimated 25 percent of Somalia’s population

                                                                   100 %
has been displaced, either within Somalia or to neighboring
countries (primarily Kenya and Ethiopia).  Unable to receive
assistance in the most heavily affected areas of Somalia,
people are being forced to travel long distances under             Polio immunization coverage
                                                                   among children 0-59 months of
difficult conditions.  As a result, Somali refugees—and            age
particularly women and children—are arriving in camps in
Kenya and Ethiopia in urgent need of health and nutrition
services.  Given the sub-regional emergency context,
refugee populations are overcrowding and overwhelming the
existing response capacity in Kenya and Ethiopia, given the
pre-existing food security emergencies in both countries.
                                                                   61,000
                                                                   number of long lasting
 The Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project         insecticide-treated bed nets
contributes to the overall international response through the      procured

provision of financing for health and nutrition interventions to
vulnerable populations in targeted refugee camps in Kenya
(Dadaab) and Ethiopia (Dollo Ado).                                 MORE INFORMATION

                                                                    Horn of Africa Emergency
Approach                                                            Health and Nutrition Project
World Bank Group management noted that the exceptional              Ethiopia Country Website
nature of the drought emergency in terms of scale and               Kenya Country Website
severity warranted a number of significant precedents to
enable a robust crisis response.  This operation sets at least      UNHCR - Refugees in the Horn
                                                                    of Africa: Somali Displacement
three significant precedents:  (a) it is the first operation to
                                                                    Crisis
receive financing through the dedicated Crisis Response
Window (CRW) in IDA16; (b) it is the first CRW grant to a
regional institution; and (c) it is the first and only IDA
operation for which the 2008 United Nations Fiduciary
Principles Accord (FPA) has been applied on an exceptional basis.  The rationale for the
application of the FPA was the need for rapid financial support for health sector service
delivery in the refugee camps. 
The project has delivered on this expectation of a rapid response, with 68 percent of the grant
disbursing within three months of approval by the World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors.
The project has enabled the grant recipient (UNHCR) to scale up its package of health,
nutrition, water, and sanitation services within the largest refugee camps in Kenya and
Ethiopia.  Given the scope of the crisis in the Horn of Africa, the project was processed under
Operational Policy/Bank Procedure (OP/BP) 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and
Emergencies).  UNHCR has an extended track record of service delivery in refugee camps in
Kenya and Ethiopia, including those targeted by the project.  Following extensive internal
consultations across the World Bank, it was agreed that UNHCR would be the only agency
able to respond with requisite speed to the health and nutrition crisis in targeted camps in the
Horn of Africa.  The above policy decisions and exceptions enabled IDA to channel emergency
support to the refugee crisis in the Horn of Africa through its implementing partner, UNHCR. 
This project contributes to the Rapid Response phase of the Africa Region’s Drought
Response and Resilience Plan. 
Results
The Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project focuses on expanding
implementation of a health and nutrition package of services.  The project initiated
implementation in September 2011.  Although the first full progress report is not due until May
2012, key results from the first quarter of implementation (October-December 2011) include the
following: 
In the Dadaab Camp (Kenya):

      35,449 supplemental feeding sessions conducted with malnourished children (under five
      years), pregnant and lactating women, tuberculosis (TB) patients, and people living with
      HIV/AIDS as beneficiaries

      8,500 children (6-18 months of age) underwent growth monitoring and received lipid
      nutrient supplementation

      Community management of acute malnutrition was implemented, reaching 18,627
      children

      Polio immunization campaign was conducted in response to a recent outbreak and
      achieved 100 percent coverage among children 0-59 months of age

      970 camp residents received mental health services

      61,000 long lasting insecticide-treated bed nets were procured

      Five new boreholes drilled and five pump houses completed

      47.5 km of water pipelines installed, along with 69 emergency tap stands and 97
      permanent tap stands. 

In the Dollo Ado Camp (Ethiopia): 

      15,850 malnourished children (6-59 months) provided with nutritional rehabilitation and
      care in supplemental feeding centers

      24,433 children (under five years) have been receiving support through the Blanket
      Supplemental Feeding Program each month
       100 percent of new arrivals from Somalia (aged 6 months to 30 years) were vaccinated
       against measles

       Water supply improved from 10 liters per person per day to 11 liters per person per day

       Due to construction of new sanitation facilities, latrine coverage improved from an
       average of 150 people per stand to 50 people.

Bank Contribution
The project involves a US$30 million IDA grant to UNHCR in support of the expansion of its
health, nutrition, water and sanitation services.
Partners
Given the magnitude of the refugee crisis in the Horn of Africa, the governments of Kenya and
Ethiopia requested alternative implementation arrangements for this emergency operation,
whereby UNHCR serves as the direct recipient of IDA funds and acts as implementing agency. 
Given UNHCR’s extended track record of service delivery in refugee camps in Kenya and
Ethiopia and following extensive internal consultations across the World Bank, it was agreed
that UNHCR would be the only agency able to respond with requisite speed to the health and
nutrition crisis in targeted camps in the Horn of Africa. 
Through its programmatic support of UNHCR’s program, this operation supports the
Paris/Accra harmonization efforts. In addition, it supports the first phase of the World Bank’s
Horn of Africa Drought Response and Resilience Plan, which involves three phases:  Rapid
Response (first six months), Economic Recovery (six months to two years), and Drought
Resilience (two to five years).  To date, a US$1.88 billion Drought Response Plan package has
been identified including restructuring of existing projects, additional financing, trust fund
contributions and proposed support from the Crisis Response Window.  In addition to the
provision of health and nutrition services to refugee populations, the immediate response
focuses on boosting safety net programs, cash transfer and cash for work programs, followed
by support to livelihood recovery, reinvigorating crops and livestock production, strengthening
health facilities, and disaster preparedness. 

Toward the Future
While the UNHCR program is already under implementation, on the ground, the number of
refugees coming into the camps could grow exponentially if the drought continues and resulting
food crisis persists, leading to crowding and stretching UNHCR’s capacity and facilities to their
limit in both countries. At the moment, a substantial financing gap also exists.  As part of the
Africa Drought Response Plan, IDA is mobilizing further support from its existing portfolio in
Kenya and Ethiopia to address needs in the drought-affected areas. New regional and country-
specific IDA financed operations are under preparation and are likely to be effective before this
project is closed.
 
Beneficiaries
Provision of a reliable water supply in Dadaab Camp in Kenya
In a windy desert camp, two women vigorously insult each other over who will be the first to fill
their plastic can with water. For much of their lives, the women have been accustomed to
travelling several kilometers for the precious substance and it is a resource worth battling over.
 Local leader Bashir Abdi Kassim, 38, arrives on the scene before the argument comes to
blows. He takes the two Somali refugees aside and discusses the problem. The women do not
yet understand that there is more than enough water for everyone at the new extension at Ifo
camp, part of the sprawling Dadaab refugee complex in northeast Kenya.  Kassim puts forward
a solution that has the elegance of being both obvious and face-saving. Anyone who wants
water must place his or her jerrycan in a line. Queue-jumping is not tolerated. "We’ve taken
enough lessons about conflict and tribal clashes in Somalia to know that no arguments are
good," says Kassim, who arrived in Dadaab more than a month ago from Gedo region in
southern Somalia.
The dispute is part of the camp’s social evolution. A delicate lattice of community has begun to
take hold among the thousands of refugees who inhabit the white tents.  The sense of
neighborhood is fragile, as would be expected among a group of strangers whose arrival
reflects the desperation attendant with drought and conflict. An emergency still whirls around
them with continued concerns about disease, security, and the provision of basic amenities.
The Horn of Africa Emergency Health and Nutrition Project supports the fact that provision of
sufficient quantities of clean water is an essential component of nutrition and health programs.
Activities being financed by the project to improve the quantity and quality of water available to
refugees in the Dadaab and Dollo Ado camps include: (a) upgrading, expanding, and
maintaining existing water networks; (b) construction of increased numbers of tap stands; (c)
increased capacity for water tanking, storage and treatment facilities; and (d) distribution of
jerrycans for water transport and storage.
