Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFmICIAL USE ONLY
3qggtNe. P-2867-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
August 6, 1980
This domet bas a rstrlcted distributio and may be _ed by recipients oly in the pufmance of
thor kii dties. ts coteuts may not oterwise be dseloed witbout Wodd Bank admthizatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00      =     NRs 12.00
NR 1.00      =     US$0.08
NRs 100      =     US$8.33
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBN     -   Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AMC      -   Agricultural Marketing Corporation
APROSC   -   Agricultural Projects Services Center
DCA      -   Development Credit Agreement
FAMSD    -   Food and Agricultural Marketing Services Department
FPCC     -   Food Policy Coordination Committee
HMG      -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
MFA      -   Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MSU      -   Management Support Unit
MT       -   metric ton
NFC      -   Nepal Food Corporation
PA       -   Project Agreement
PMCC     -   Project Management and Coordination Committee
PEU      -   Project Engineering Unit
REC      -   Rice Export Company
SDRs     -   Special Drawing Rights



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiary:         Nepal Food Corporation (NFC)
Amount:              Special Drawing Rights 4.8 million (US$6.2 million
equivalent as of date of negotiations).
Terms:               Standard
Terms to NFC:        The Government would pass on US$5.9 million equivalent
of the proceeds of the credit to NFC as equity contri-
bution.
Project
Description:       The proposed project would assist the Government in imple-
menting its foodgrain policies by providing good storage
facilities and strengthening NFC and the Rice Export
Companies (RECs), so that they may be able to meet food-
grain procurement, distribution and export requirements
and reduce quantitative and qualitative storage losses.
The project would also provide necessary information for
further development of the storage, processing and dis-
tribution sub-sector and for future Government foodgrain
marketing and price policy formulation. The project would
consist of: (i) construction of 40,000 MT of bagged grain
storage warehouses comprising 37,000 MT storage capacity
at eight procurement centers in the Terai and a 3,000 MT
transshipment storage facility at Hetauda; (ii) technical
assistance for NFC in management and organization, and in
finance and accounting, and for NFC and RECs in grain
quality control and godown maintenance; (iii) training and
study tours for NFC and RECs managers; and (iv) studies
on future needs for foodgrain storage and processing
facilities and on foodgrain marketing and price policy.
The project faces no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost                                       US$ Million Equivalent
of Project:          Component                     Local   Foreign   Total
I.  Storage Facilities
Land                             0.04        -      0.04
Civil Works                      1.79      1.47     3.26
Equipment                        0.16      0.46     0.62
Subtotal                   1.99     1.93      3.92
II. Project Engineering Unit
Vehicles                         0.01      0.03     0.04
Operation                        0.09      0.21     0.30
Subtotal                0.10      0.24      0.34
III. Technical Assistance
and Training                     0.11     0.63      0.74
IV.  Studies                          0.18      0.08      0.26
Base Cost               2.38      2.88      5.26
V.  Contingencies
Physical                         0.28      0.29     0.57
Price                            0.64      0.78     1.42
Subtotal Project Cost  3.30       3.95      7.25
VI.  Duties and Taxes                 0.79       -        0.79
TOTAL PROJECT COST      4.09      3.95      8.04
Financing Plan:                                       US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total
IDA                                  2.25      3.95      6.20
Government                           1.80        -       1.80
NFC                                  0.04        -       0.04
Total                              4.09      3.95      8.04
Estimated IDA                               US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:       IDA FY            1981    1982    1983    1984
Annual            0.10    1.91    2.67    1.52
Cumulative        0.10    2.01    4.68    6.20
Rate of Return:      18%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2862-NEP dated July 24, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR A GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)
4.8 million (US$6.2 million equivalent as of the date of negotiations) on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Grain Storage Project. The Government
would pass on US$5.9 million equivalent of the proceeds of the credit to the
Nepal Food Corporation as an equity contribution.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Nepal-Development Perform-
ance and Prospects" (Report No. 2692-NEP) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 14, 1979. The principal findings of the Report are
described below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at $110 (1977), and health and education standards
are well below the average of South Asia: life expectancy at birth is about
45 years, infant mortality 150 per thousand, and adult literacy 19%. The
population, growing at the rate of 2.6% a year, is estimated to be 13.3
million (1978).  Over 90% of the population live in rural areas.
4.        The economy of Nepal centers around agriculture.  It accounts for
more than 60% of GDP and 75% of merchandise exports, and provides a livelihood
to over 90% of the population. In addition, most of the industrial sector,
which comprises about 9% of GDP, processes agricultural raw materials. About
25% of total rural incomes are estimated to arise from non-agricultural
activities. Cottage industries are one of the most important of these,
engaging over 1 million people and comprising about 6% of GDP. They provide
basic consumer goods in the many small isolated markets where such goods would
otherwise not be available.
5.        As a small open economy, Nepal is highly susceptible to develop-
ments in India.  The Terai, which lies along the Indian border, has close
and virtually free trading links with India, and accounts for about 60% of
the country's GDP, and about 40% of the population. The Kathmandu Valley,
the administrative and commercial center, is closely linked with the Terai,
but at significant transportation costs. The rest of the country, the Hills
and Mountains, is almost inaccessible and consists of a large number of
fragmented markets.
1/ Part I of this Report is substantially the same as Part I of the Report
and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a
proposed credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for a Third Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (Report No. P-2862-NEP of July 8, 1980).



-2 -
6.        When Nepal adopted economic and social development as major govern-
ment objectives in the early 1950s, there was virtually no economic or
administrative infrastructure. Initial development efforts were necessarily
concentrated on establishing a foundation for future development. During
these early stages, it was inevitable that growth would remain slow and that
there would be little if any increase in per capita income. However, the
Fifth Development Plan (1975/76 - 1979/80) was to be a turning point; it was
believed that the country was poised for more rapid growth on the order of 4 -
5% annually. The level of investment was to increase substantially and its
focus to shift towards the more directly productive sectors and the social
services.
7.        Public investment performance has been excellent; development
expenditures have grown at over 15% annually in real terms and the Government
has been relatively successful in reorienting investment away from the trans-
port sector towards agriculture and the social services. However, few of the
other Fifth Plan objectives have been achieved. The GDP growth rate is likely
to average only 2.4% per year, mainly because of poor agricultural performance.
Little progress has been made in increasing agricultural productivity and
agricultural production increased at an annual rate of only 0.7% during the
first four years of the Fifth Plan. Growth in other sectors has been mixed,
with the poor agricultural performance limiting the growth of agro-related
industries. Production in several large industries including jute goods,
sugar, leather goods, and cement have increased but most Fifth Plan targets
will go unmet.  In the services sector, tourism has been dynamic, but it
still only contributes about 1% of GDP.
8.        The economic situation deteriorated markedly in 1979/80 and is now
worse than it has been in many years. The poor monsoon in South Asia in 1979
has had a severe impact on Nepal's foodgrain production in 1979/80. Both the
maize and rice crops suffered major losses, and as a result, agricultural
production is likely to decline by 4%. The non-agricultural sector continues
to be constrained by supply bottleneck problems and delays in the preparation
of new development projects in the public sector. This sector's growth is
expected to be only about 4% in 1979/80, which when combined with the decline
in agriculture, gives a 1% decline in GDP.
9.        The disappointing overall performance of the domestic economy during
the Fifth Plan period has been accompanied by a widening trade deficit.
Imports have grown under the impetus of the Government's development program
while the trend in export earnings has been sluggish due to declining rice
exports. The deterioration on the trade account has been partly covered by
increased tourism receipts and remittances from Gurkhas (soldiers from Nepal
serving in the British or Indian armies). Foreign assistance in the form of
grants and concessionary financing have generally ensured that the overall
balance remained in surplus. Foreign exchange reserves in July 1979 were
equivalent to nearly nine months of imports. However, the shortfall in food-
grain production in 1979/80 could have a serious impact on Nepal's external
position, since not only will rice exports further decline, but foodgrains
will have to be imported, this all coming at a time when Nepal's oil bill is
rising steeply. The Government has therefore appealed to the international
community for emergency assistance in obtaining foodgrains and for help in



distributing food to the shortfall areas; by the end of January 1980 donors
had committed 33,000 tons of foodgrains.
10.       On March 31, 1978, the authorities replaced a complex system of
multiple exchange rates and exchange and trade restrictions with a dual
exchange system. Transactions with India, which were virtually free from
restrictions, were unaffected by these changes. New treaties on trade and
transit with India were also concluded in March 1978. Under the dual exchange
rate system, Nepal maintains a basic rate of NRs 12.00 per dollar, with a
second, premium rate applying for all merchandise trade with third countries
except for imports of certain development goods. On February 21, 1980,
the premium rate was changed from NRs 16.00 per dollar to NRs 14.00 per dollar,
but the exemption was restricted to only imports of petrol and petroleum
products, cement and chemical fertilizers. These exchange rate adjustments
involved an appreciation of about 14% for exports to third countries and an
overall appreciation of about 2% for imports from third countries. But this
was partly offset by (i) withdrawing the 12% duty on exports of raw jute; and
(ii) raising import duties on a wide range of imports from third countries.
However, with the exception of raw jute exports, earnings in domestic currency
from exports to third countries will decline, leading to a possible shift of
some exports to India. The overall trade balance is likely to be adversely
affected by the recent measures.
11.       The poor long-run performance of the economy is chiefly due to the
failure of agricultural production to keep pace with population growth. Over
the period 1967-77, foodgrain production grew at an average annual rate of
only 1.5%. Increases in the area under cultivation account for almost all of
this, since average yields rose by only 0.1% annually. Although poor monsoons
have adversely affected agricultural production, the more fundamental reason
is the failure to more fully exploit the irrigation infrastructure. In the
past, insufficient attention has been paid to bringing water down to the farm
level and this has been compounded by inadequate support services such as
extension and research, timely supplies of improved seed and fertilizer and
other inputs, credit and farm-to-market roads. However, recent major irriga-
tion projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are addressing
these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches.
12.       In the Hills and Mountains, which contain only one-third of the
country's agricultural land and yet have nearly two-thirds of the population,
population pressures have pushed cultivation up steep hillsides and onto
marginal land; average yields have actually declined. Population density on
agricultural land in these areas is higher than in Bangladesh. Malnutrition
is acute; food production meets only two-thirds of minimum subsistence needs.
Because they have little to trade except their labor, one-third of the inhab-
itants of these Hill areas migrate seasonally to the Terai plains and northern
India for food and work. Since the early sixties, an estimated 400,000 have
migrated permanently, and there are signs that this exodus is accelerating.
13.       The seriousness of the economic and social problems confronting
Nepal calls for a well focused development strategy that directly addresses
the difficult choices to be made. The revised Fundamental Principles of the



Sixth Plan recently adopted by the Government and endorsed by members of the
Nepal Aid Group at its January 31, 1980 meeting, is an important milestone in
the Government's efforts to evolve a program that meets Nepal's needs. The
highest priority is placed on developing agriculture, including revitalization
of Hill food nroduction to meet local requirements since significant agro-
climatic specialization between the Hills and Terai is feasible only in the
longer run. At the same time, since land holdings in the Hills are too small
to generate much more than subsistence needs, programs will be started to
encourage diversification into other activities such as small-scale and cottage
industries to supplement Hill incomes. For the Terai, the strategy is to
continue efforts to realize the Terai's considerable potential for increasing
production of foodgrains and cash crops. The irrigation infrastructure is to
be more fully utilized and improvements to extension services and associated
inputs concentrated on those areas with irrigation facilities. Rural electri-
fication is seen as an important element in providing for increased production
in rural areas. Reafforestation programs are given priority in order to
provide fuelwood and fodder as well as to reduce soil erosion.
14.       While these efforts in the directly productive sectors merit urgent
attention, Nepal faces similar challenges in developing its human resources.
Although curbing population growth requires major actions, selective programs
in education and health can greatly assist population planning as well as
alleviate human suffering and lay the basis for future increases in productiv-
ity. The Government's strategy recognises that the approach must be selective
since programs for meeting basic needs generally have only a long-term impact
on manpower development but divert resources away from activities more directly
and immediately related to production. Increasing foodgrains production will
meet the major need of improved nutrition. Better and more readily available
supplies of drinking water and fuelwood will meet other needs, while also
freeing labor currently spent in their collection. Basic health facilities
are to be expanded through integrated community health posts, while in educa-
tion, stress is placed on improving the quality of primary and adult vocational
education. Family planning programs are to be stepped up. The other basic
need to be met in rural areas is improved transport, and the Sixth Plan will
include programs to improve trails, tracks, and suspension bridges.
15.       For Nepal to establish a basis for more rapid and sustained growth,
the structure of its economy will need to change since its present dependence
on agriculture limits the economy's overall growth potential to about 4% per
year. Tourism offers perhaps the best near-term potential for increased
foreign exchange earnings; however, efforts are needed to reduce its capital
intensity, strengthen linkages with other local industries and extend its
benefits beyond the Kathmandu Valley. Hydropower also offers some possibil-
ities, but neither it nor tourism will ever be substantial generators of
employment. In the long run, Nepal must diversify and develop its industrial
sector. Obviously, efforts in this sector must be on a highly selective basis.
The multiplicity and complexity of the constraints to industrial development,
including the lack of natural resources and a skilled labor force, as well as
Nepal's small domestic market and landlocked position will nullify any general-
ized approach. Public enterprises need to operate more efficiently, village
and cottage industries should be promoted. Beyond this, joint ventures with



-5-
India, for example, as in cement production, may be attractive.  The precon-
ditions for industrialization must be established in the near future or there
is a danger that Nepal will always be struggling to move its economy beyond
subsistence.  These include providing financial incentives, research and
extension services on the technical, financial and marketing aspects of enter-
prise, and the upgrading of manpower skills in the areas where Nepal may have
a comparative advantage.
16.       Nepal has made significant progress in mobilizing domestic resources
to support its development efforts, considering the extreme poverty, low degree
of monetization, and fragmented nature of the economy.  Revenue grew at 16% a
year in current terms between 1969/70 and 1978/79, while as a percentage of
GDP it increased from 5% in 1969/70 to about 9% in 1978/79. Over the same
period, the Government was able to maintain savings on current account in
excess of 2% of GDP, a good achievement for a country in Nepal's economic
position. However, this excellent record is now in jeopardy. Revenues from
income and land taxes declined in 1978/79 and although total revenues grew by
14%, the bulk of the increase came from taxes on international trade as a
result of higher imports. No real growth in total revenues is expected during
1979/80, after allowing for inflation. This slowdown reflects not only the
weak economy in 1979/80, but also the impact on the tax system of the political
difficulties facing Nepal. While only limited scope exists for discretionary
tax measures, there is a potential for increased tax revenues from agriculture,
particularly in the Terai. Revenues could be increased through improving the
tax machinery, and the government has approved, in principle, various admin-
istrative reforms in this direction, including the formation of a Special
Revenue Service.
17.       Foreign assistance has been a decisive factor in Nepal's development.
During the Fifth Plan, foreign financing equalled about 45% of development
expenditures. In view of the limited prospects for increased domestic resource
mobilization, foreign financing requirements may be about 60% of planned Sixth
Plan development expenditures, which amount to about NRs 10 billion or over $800
million at 1979/80 prices. Aid commitments need to average about $225 million
annually during 1980-82 compared with $160 million during 1977-79. However,
even this level of foreign assistance would not provide the Government with
sufficient resources to meet increasing consumption demands. Additional aid,
either through financing a higher proportion of total project costs or in the
form of commodity assistance, could provide budgetary support to meet pressing
recurrent expenditure requirements, particularly in the social sectors. The
Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976 to assist in the overall coordination of
financial and technical assistance efforts. The Group has met three times at
plenary meetings under the Chairmanship of the Bank to discuss overall external
assistance needs as well as at the local level in Kathmandu to discuss and
coordinate strategy. At the latest plenary meeting, which was held in Paris
on January 31, 1980, and was attended by representatives from eight countries
and six international organizations, Nepal received aid indications exceeding
US$200 million equivalent.
18.       Although foreign aid commitments and disbursements grew by over
25% annually during the Fifth Plan period, only 40% of disbursements included
in the Government's budget were from foreign borrowing, the remainder being
grants. As of December 31, 1978, official foreign debt outstanding was only



-6-
$88 million, of which $i5 million was due to multilateral agencies. These
loans were obtained on a highly concessional basis and the grant element of
total aid remains in excess of 90%. As a result, debt service payments were
only US$3.1 million during 1978/79, equivalent to less than 2% of exports of
goods and services. Medium-term prospects are also good; by 1981/82 total
service on existing debt is expected to amount to only US$5.1 million, still
less than 2% of projected goods and services exports.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
19.       Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit
of US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then,
20 additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to
Nepal to US$261.4 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's
many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a wide variety
of sectors. Six of these sectors account for 85% of IDA credits by amount:
irrigation ($75.0 million for 5 projects); water supply and sewerage ($46.8
million for 3 projects), power ($40.8 million for 1 project); telecommunica-
tions ($21.7 million for 3 projects); highways ($19.2 million for 2 projects);
and rural development ($19.0 million for 2 projects). The remaining $38.9
million of IDA assistance has been for one project in each of the areas of
settlement, technical education, tourism, technical assistance, forestry and
industrial development financing. The proposed credit would be the second in
FY81, bringing the total amount of IDA assistance to Nepal to US$267.6 million
equivalent, net of cancellations. No Bank loans have been made to Nepal. IFC
made its first investment in Nepal ($3.1 million) in a hotel project in
Kathmandu in FY75. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations as of June 30, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing IDA
projects. It shows certain delays in the implementation of these projects,
particularly during the initial periods. These delays have been largely due
to Nepal's limited technical and managerial capabilities. In order to assist
Nepal in coping with this constraint, considerable technical assistance is
being given by Bank Group staff, including our Resident Mission in Kathmandu.
As a result, improvement in the rate of disbursements is being realized.
During FY78, US$11.8 million equivalent were disbursed compared to US$12.8
million equivalent disbursed during the entire previous seven years; disburse-
ments during FY79 and FY80 indicate a further improvement, disbursing a
further US$18.2 million and US$22.6 million equivalent, respectively.
20.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level
compared to the country's need for external assistance. The international
community has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development and,
to date, shortage of funds has not been a bottleneck. The main constraint on
the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive capacity,
affecting the pace of project preparation and implementation. The Bank is
assisting the Government in project preparation through the Technical Assis-
tance Credit and by acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical
assistance projects in the current UNDP Five-Year Program. The Bank Group has



also addressed the problem of absorptive capacity through its role in organ-
izing the Aid Group for Nepal (para 17).
21.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the e-Telopment
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly con-
necting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in irrigation, Hill food production, agricultural
extension, cottage/small scale industry, technical education and power is
under way.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND FOODGRAIN SECTORS
A. The Agricultural Sector
22.       The agricultural sector dominates the Nepalese economy, accounting
for more than 60% of GDP, providing employment to about 90% of the labor force,
and constituting about 75% of merchandise exports, mostly foodgrains. Agri-
cultural potential and practices vary widely among the country's three distinct
geographic regions, which run parallel to each other from east to west.  T e
northern region accounts for 16% of the country's total area of 141,000 km
and comprises the Mountains. Crop cultivation in this area is extremely
limited and livestock is the main source of livelihood. The Hills amount to
some 61% of total land area. With only about one-third of arable land, the
Hills must support nearly two-thirds of Nepal's population.  Cultivation is
confined to the narrow valleys, plateaus and steep terraced slopes. Yields
are low, and soil erosion is serious. The Terai lies to the south, and
comprises 23% of the area; it consists of a narrow strip of alluvial plain and
has traditionally produced an agricultural surplus which is the basis for
Nepalese agricultural trade and exports.
23.       In the 1970s agricultural production grew at only about 2.2%
annually, below targets set in the Fourth and Fifth Plans of 2.8% and 3.5% per
year, respectively. Growth has primarily come from area expansion, but further
scope for this is limited. Inadequate institutional support, especially
trained manpower, extension and credit services, provision of inputs and
recurrent cost financing, are severe constraints on agricultural development.
In the Hills the high cost of transportation exacerbates these constraints.
B. The Foodgrain Sector
Production
24.       Foodgrain production accounts for 90% of total cropped area and
80% of the agricultural sector's value added. The major foodgrains are
paddy, maize and wheat followed by millet and barley. Cereals, particularly
rice, constitute the major portion of the Nepalese diet, and rice, the main
crop, has accounted for about 30% of Nepal's merchandise exports. Paddy



- 8 -
production, about 2.5 million MT a year, is mainly concentrated in the Terai,
with less cultivation in the Hill areas. Use of modern inputs has remained
low, and only about 10% of cropped area under paddy is irrigated. Maize, the
second crop, is mainly produced in the Hills. Yields have declined in recent
years. Production reached 740,000 MT in 1977/78. Wheat, a relatively new
crop grown mainly in the Terai, has had the best production record of all
foodgrains, having increased by more than 150% from 159,000 MT in 1966/67 to
411,000 MT in 1977/78, mainly due to the extension of the area under cul-
tivation. Millet and barley, minor grains in terms of overall production,
make a significant contribution to the diet in the Hill and Mountain areas,
where their cultivation is concentrated. Overall performance of the foodgrain
sector has not been encouraging, and per capita foodgrain production has
actually declined since 1973. In addition to the effect of unfavorable weather
conditions, inadequate inputs and organizational constraints, farmgate prices
in the last years may have not been high enough to provide adequate incentive
to increase production.
Consumption and Exports
25.       Cereal consumption is estimated to constitute some 80% and 85% of
the Hill and the Terai diet, respectively. Due to a growing population and
stagnating production, 26 out of 53 Hill districts are reported to have
chronic foodgrain deficits.  Therefore, the Government subsidizes distribution
of foodgrains to the poor in deficit areas. Subsidized distribution has been
increasing steadily from 21,900 MT in 1974/75 to an estimated 40,000 MT in
1978/79. On the other hand, rice exports have declined from 221,000 MT in
1975/76 to 39,200 MT in 1977/78,. before recovering somewhat in 1978/79 to an
estimated 70,000 MT. With reduced demand from the traditional Indian market,
Nepal has been actively seeking new export markets, but the poor quality of
Nepalese rice, resulting in part from substandard storage conditions, has
severely hampered this effort. Construction of better storage facilities
would be an important step for upgrading Nepalese rice to improve its accept-
ability in international markets, while the reduction in the present extensive
storage losses would contribute to foodgrain availability.
Marketing
26.       It is reported that 30-40% of produced grains are traded.  However,
there are no reliable data on this trade. Due to shortage of storage facil-
ities and need for cash, the large majority of farmers sell their produce
shortly after harvest, when prices are usually lowest. They sell mainly to
private traders, who often are also money lenders advancing farmers cash
against future grain. Present policies require Sajhas (cooperatives) to
procure any surplus grain from farmers. However, due to capacity constraints,
they play only a minor role in foodgrain marketing. They sell procured paddy
to Rice Export Companies (RECs), and the Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) has,
from time to time, purchased wheat through them. There is considerable
potential for additional involvement of Sajhas in the procurement for NFC and
RECs; but coordination between these institutions would have to be improved,
and NFC/RECs would have to assist Sajhas in developing necessary procurement
and storage management expertise. RECs buy most of their needs from private
traders and millers, while NFC depends on RECs for most of its rice purchases.



-9-
Milling
27.       There are only 50 modern mills in Nepal. Otherwise milling is
carried out by traditional means, or using old equipment. The recovery rate
in milling ar' the quality of milled rice would be greatly improved by the
use of modern milling practices.
Storage
28.       On-farm storage is usually limited to grain for family consumption
and for seed. Farmers in the Terai commonly store paddy in traditional
outdoor or indoor bamboo and mud bins. In the Hills, the standard storage
container for paddy is a woven bamboo cylinder. For maize, rack storage of
cobs is practiced in all parts of Nepal and wheat is generally stored in
earthenware pots, woven baskets and wooden boxes. Inadequate drying and poor
storage facilities cause considerable losses from insect attack especially
in the case of wheat and maize, which often suffer initial infestation in
the field. For late paddy, harvested in October-December and dried to safe
storage levels, insect infestation is a lesser problem, but rodent damage
appears to be high.
29.       Off-farm foodgrain storage is maintained by Sajhas, private traders,
millers, NFC and RECs.  Grain is invariably stored in bags.  Sajhas procure
and store paddy on behalf of RECs mainly in the Far Western Region, where
market infrastructure is lacking. Sajha storage facilities have been in-
adequate and some of them are being replaced by new well-designed multi-purpose
facilities, financed by the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN).
However no serious attempt has yet been made to introduce sound foodgrain
storage practices, and pest control is largely ineffective. Rice mill storage
is usually also of poor quality with inadequate protection against moisture
and rodents.
30.       Some of the godowns used by NFC and most of RECs' godowns have
damp mud floors and are without protection against rodents and birds; fum-
igation is often impracticable or ineffective because of internal structures
obstructing the use of fumigation sheets, or is hampered by the proximity of
many storage facilities to private residences. Protection against weather
is frequently inadequate because of leaking roofs and poor ventilation; and
unsuitable design prevents efficient grain movement. NFC and RECs manage-
ments are now giving increased attention to proper storage practices and have
recently begun to employ quality control staff. However, only limited progress
has been made due to shortage of equipment and suitable godowns and inadequate
experience. Although data on storage losses are scarce, NFC and RECs losses
are estimated to reach about 7.5% per annum.
31.       Sajha cooperatives own multi-purpose warehouses with a combined
capacity of 37,290 MT, with additional 5,600 MT being constructed or proposed
under ongoing Government programs. NFC and RECs warehouses, which directly
serve the distribution and export activities, have a total capacity of 33,000
MT, of which 15,700 MT are located in the Terai. By April 1979, they had
rented an additional capacity of 60,900 MT, bringing their combined total
available storage capacity to approximately 100,000 MT. Most of the hired
godowns are small (between 200 and 500 MT) and not suitable for long-term



- 10 -
grain storage; some are rooms in residential buildings. These rented
godowns are mostly widely scattered, badly located and not easily accessible
by trucks. Storage under construction totals 26,300 MT, including 10,000 MT
funded by UNDP and 12,750 MT by UK/ODA. These will replace some of the
dilapidated warehouses. ODA is also providing technical assistance and
training in quality control together with its financial assistance.
C. Government Foodgrain Policies and Practices
Policy Objectives and Formulation
32.       The government foodgrain policy aims at making foodgrains available
to the poor in food deficit areas at reasonable prices; stabilizing foodgrain
prices; promoting foodgrain exports; and increasing foodgrain production by
providing incentive prices to producers. The Government implements its policy
through NFC and RECs. Responsibility for policy decisions in the sector rests
with the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA), with the Food and Agricultural
Marketing Services Department (FAMSD) playing a crucial role. FAMSD collects
price information, analyzes trade patterns, and prepares an annual Food Balance
Sheet which presents the overall foodgrain situation in the country, assesses
food surplus and deficit status by district and prepares recommendations for
public sector grain procurement for public distribution programs in the defi-
cit districts, and for the amount of rice exports. Subsequently, distribution
quantities are agreed between MFA and NFC, and the overall export target as
well as quotas for individual RECs are set by the Food Policy Coordination
Committee (FPCC), which comprises the Ministers of Food and Agriculture,
Finance, and Industry and Commerce as members; the Secretary, MFA as an
observer; and the General Manager of NFC as ex-officio Executive Secretary.
Foodgrain Distribution Policy
33.       The Government program for subsidized foodgrain distribution is
implemented by NFC. NFC distribution prices are determined by MFA which takes
into account the remoteness of the deficit areas and concomitant transportation
cost, in addition to local market prices and overhead expenses. Distribution
prices are heavily subsidized with the biggest subsidy being provided in the
Mountains and remote Hills. Total cost of the subsidy is estimated to have
reached approximately the equivalent of US$4 million in 1977/78. Part of the
subsidy is carried by RECs which have to sell to NFC, under an export levy
scheme, tne equivalent of 20% of their rice exports at a concessionary price
fixed annually by MFA.  Such prices have in some cases been as low as 52% of
RECs' procurement price. However, as rice exports declined, levy procurement
has diminished, and NFC has been compelled to procure a growing amount of
foodgrain directly at open market prices (mostly from RECs).
34.       To ensure adequate food supplies for the Hills, especially in
emergencies, and to stabilize prices during times of food shortages, HMG has
recently adopted a food security program under the auspices of the World Food
Program. Under this scheme, NFC is to maintain a foodgrain reserve stock of
5,000 MT at strategic locations in the Hills and 10,000 MT in the Terai and
at trans-shipment centers such as Hetauda. Implementation of the program and
effective price stabilization through maintenance of adequate buffer stocks
are, however, constrained by inadequate storage facilities.



-11 -
Foodgrain Export Policy
35.       Until 1974, rice exports were in the hands of a few private traders,
and went almost exclusively to India, where Nepal enjoyed an easily accessible
market.  Due to Nepal's long open border with India, a large p(tion of this
trade was through informal channels, resulting in substantial foreign exchange
and revenue losses to the Government. Since 1974, the Government has estab-
lished eight RECs as joint ventures with the private sector traditionally
involved in rice trading and milling, with the majority of the shares being
held by the Government, and granted them a rice export monopoly. The main
objectives of institutionalizing rice exports were to (i) provide incentive
prices to paddy farmers; (ii) increase Government revenue by preventing
customs and income tax evasion; (iii) increase Government foreign exchange
earnings; and (iv) provide foodgrains to NFC at low prices, through the levy
system, to meet food requirements in deficit areas.
36.       During their first two years of operation, RECs were successful in
meeting the stated objectives, with rice exports reaching a high of 221,000 Mi
in 1975/76. But, rising local requirements and India's steadily increasing
foodgrain harvests sharply reduced exports and RECs in some instances incurred
financial losses. Part of RECs problems has been the result of the relatively
low quality of Nepalese rice, partly due to the lack of proper storage facili-
ties and quality control equipment. In July 1979, the Government removed RECs
export monopoly, permitting private traders to resume rice exports, except
government-to-government rice export which is reserved for RECs. Should
internal food requirements continue to expand faster than production, Nepal's
ability to export rice would be increasingly constrained by the dwindling
surplus.
Price Support Policy
37.       The Government's price policy for foodgrains aims at assuring low
and stable consumer prices while providing adequate incentives to producers.
Each year the Government fixes a support price for the purchase of paddy and
wheat by public sector institutions. However, a number of factors have
reduced the effectiveness of the support price. Firstly, the price is fixed
only after planting, thereby reducing the potential impact on producer deci-
sions. Secondly, the long open border with India limits independent price
decisions as differentials result in considerable grain movements across the
border. Thirdly, although market prices have tended to be above support
prices, profit margins for foodgrains have been below those for cash crops.
Fourthly, the support price for paddy has remained constant for three years,
and public sector direct procurement from farmers has been limited (para 26).
In the east, the RECs have been purchasing rice mainly from millers and
traders, thereby limiting direct effect of their operations on farmgate prices.
Finally, for the price mechanism to be a more effective instrument of produc-
tion policy better data would be required on the costs and returns of agri-
cultural crops, supplemented by a further strengthening of public sector
capability to implement Government price policy objectives. Therefore, NFC
and RECs are being instructed to increase their direct procurement from
farmers and through Sajhas. By the end of the Sixth Plan in 1984/85, such
direct procurement is to reach 50% of the foodgrain marketed annually by



- 12 -
farmers. Additional storage capacity for NFC/RECs would be crucial for
meeting this objective.
Nepal Food Corporation (NFC)
38.       Until mid-1972, Government's foodgrain distribution policy was
mainly concerned with the Kathmandu Valley. In 1972, widespread food short-
ages compelled the Government to expand distribution operations nationwide and
to that end, the Agricultural Marketing Corporation was established, to be
succeeded by NFC in 1974. NFC's seven member Board of Directors, appointed by
the Government, comprises representatives of the Ministries of Finance,
Industry and Commerce, and Works and Transport, and of the Nepal Rastra Bank
and FAMSD. Shortage of trained staff, inadequate management information
systems, and weak financial and internal control systems constrain NFC's
operations.
39.       Until recently, the major portion of NFC's procurement took place
in the form of the levy purchases from RECs (para 33). Due to declining
exports levy purchases fell from 49,900 MT in 1975/76 to 17,800 MT in 1977/78.
On the other hand, NFC procurement from RECs at prices covering RECs' cost
rose from zero in 1975/76 to 15,100 MT in 1977/78. At the same time, NFC
started to procure rice from traders and millers, and also commenced purchas-
ing wheat and maize. In 1977/78, wheat and maize procurement were 9,600 MT,
almost 20% of NFC's total foodgrain procurement.
40.       NFC uses a national network of Sajhas and private dealers for
distributing foodgrains. In remote Hill and Mountain areas, NFC sells directly
to the public through its own field offices. Foodgrain distribution by NFC
has increased from 21,900 MT in 1974/75 to 35,400 MT in 1977/78 and an esti-
mated 40,000 MT in 1978/79. NFC estimates that distribution will reach 65,000
MT in 1984/85. Most NFC grain is distributed in Kathmandu Valley, but the
share of the Mountain and Hill regions has been growing and will expand
further as food deficits increase in these regions. Since transportation
costs, especially to Hill and Mountain districts, are very high (exceeding
500% of the grain procurement price in some cases), proper inventory management
and transportation planning will become increasingly important.
41.       Decreased levy procurement of rice and increased market purchases
to meet growing distribution needs at strictly controlled prices have caused
NFC's financial position to deteriorate seriously. Accumulated losses are
estimated at about NRs 65 million at the end of FY1978/79. Due to increasing
distribution requirements, annual deficits are rising steadily and are pro-
jected to reach about NRs 71 million by 1984/85. These deficits have so far
been funded almost exclusively through bank borrowings, aggravating NFC's
financial problems.
Rice Export Companies (RECs)
42.        Foodgrain procurement of each of the eight RECs established by the
Government (para 35) is limited to one Zone, except for the Seti and Mahakali
Rice Export Company which covers two. Each REC is governed by a Board of
Directors consisting of nine members. The Board generally comprises the



- 13 -
General Manager, who is appointed by the Government; three traders and
millers (one of whom chairs the Board); a farmers' representative; the Chief
Customs and Chief Excise Officers; and representatives of NFC and ADBN.
43.       REC° procure paddy, wheat and maize through Sajhas and through their
own depots. Rice is procured from millers or traders. With diminishing
exports, total rice and paddy procurement has decreased from 236,800 MT in
1975/76 to 119,100 MT in 1977/78, with paddy amounting to less than 15% of the
total. Shortage of storage facilities in some Zones and cash flow problems at
individual RECs constrain purchasing of large quantities of paddy. With the
elimination of the rice export monopoly in 1979, rice exports are open to the
private sector, and RECs can no longer rely on millers and traders for their
supply.
44.       In addition to setting annual export targets for each REC, FPCC also
functions as an important link with third country buyers, often negotiating
sales contracts on behalf of RECs. However, rice export to third countries
has not been very successful because of the low quality of Nepalese rice.
Notwithstanding some increased attention to quantity control, poor quality of
most RECs godowns, the shortage of essential equipment and inadequate exper-
ience and training of the quality control staff hamper these efforts.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       The proposed project was identified by an IDA mission in 1978.
The Government prepared the project using the services of the Agricultural
Projects Services Center, a Government agency. It was appraised in October/
November 1979, and negotiations were held in Washington-in May 1980. The
Nepalese Delegation was led by Dr. T. N. Pant, Joint Secretary, Ministry of
Food and Agriculture. The staff apprasial report (No. 2862-NEP dated July 24,
1980) is being distributed separately. A supplementary data sheet is attached
as Annex III.
Project Objectives
46.       The proposed project would assist the Government in the implementa-
tion of its foodgrain policy by providing good storage facilities, strengthen-
ing the management and technical capabilities of NFC and RECs and providing
necessary information for development of the foodgrain subsector.
Project Description
47.       The project would consist of: (i) construction of 40,000 MT of
bagged grain storage warehouses comprising 37,000 MT storage capacity at eight
procurement centers in the Terai and a 3,000 MT transshipment storage facility
at Hetauda, an important transshipment center for distribution to Kathmandu
Valley and other Hill areas; (ii) technical assistance for NFC in management
and organization, and in finance and accounting, and for NFC and RECs in grain
quality control and godown maintenance; (iii) training for NFC and RECs
managers; and (iv) studies on foodgrain marketing and price policy and on
future needs for foodgrain storage and processing facilities.



- 14 -
48.        Storage requirements of NFC/RECs have been estimated on the basis
of projected foodgrain production and the assumption that the NFC/RECs procure-
ment as a percentage of foodgrain production in the Terai will decline as a
result of the recent Governmnent decision to eliminate RECs' rice export
monopoly. NFC/RECs storage needs by 1985/86 have been projected separately
for each Zone and are estimated to total about 105,000 MT. Taking into
account existing suitable storage facilities, and an average storage period
of about six months, the total storage gap by 1985/86 is projected to reach
74,400 MT in the Terai and 5,100 MT at Hetauda. The construction of storage
of 37,000 MT in the Terai and 3,000 MT at Hetauda under the proposed project
would thus meet about 50% of total additional NFC/RECs storage requirements in
the project area. In view of local construction constraints, a larger con-
struction program under the project would not be prudent at this time.  Stor-
age would be provided at eight locations in the Terai where RECs operate,
and in Hetauda. The locations in the Terai have been selected on the basis
of present and projected grain procurement, availability of transportation
facilities, proximity to road and rail network, and existing milling capacity.
The design would be simple, provide for easy construction with locally avail-
able construction materials and equipment, permit easy operation without
sophisticated grain handling machinery, and would allow for proper stock
inspection and effective quality and pest control measures.
49.        At each of the nine storage locations, ancillary facilities would
be constructed comprising an office building, a simple laboratory and housing
for essential resident staff, together with a drying shed, a garage and a
store for gunny bags and materials. Quality control equipment would be pro-
vided. Installation of special equipment, initial operator training and prep-
aration of operating instructions would be the responsibility of the suppliers.
Storage sites would be improved. NFC would operate two fumigation squads to
service all NFC/RECs storage facilities in the Terai. All project works are
expected to be completed by mid-1983, and training by the end of the same
year.
Organization and Implementation
50.        Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
MFA. A Project Management and Coordination Committee (PMCC) would be estab-
lished under the chairmanship of the Secretary, MFA, and would comprise the
.Joint Secr-taries of MFA, the Ministry of Finance, and the National Planning
"nmiss>S; the Director General of FAMSD; the General Manager of NFC; the
Cnie. - -neer of the Project Engineering Unit (PEU); and a representative
of A)DBN.  A Deputy General Manager of NFC would serve as the secretary of the
PMCC \Scetion 3.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).  Administra-
tive suvpo'r    PMCC would be provided by NFC.
51.        PMC'C would meet as necessary, but at least quarterly, to formulate
policies, give directives for project implementation and review progress.
In particular, PMCC would (i) ensure timely flow of funds to MFA and NFC;
(ii) monitor physical implementation; (iii) review NFC and RECs performance
regarding quality control and storage loss reduction; (iv) monitor implemen-
tation of the plan to have NFC take over full control of ownership and func-
tions of RECs, and progress in NFC/RECs direct procurement from farmers and
through Sajhas; (v) ensure timely land acquisition of project sites; and



- 15 -
(vi) guide preparation of the two studies financed under the proposed credit
and upon their complet--;, make appropriate recommendations for further sector
development and for foodgrain marketing and price policy formulation. Estab-
lishment of PMCC would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b)
of the draft DCA).
52.       MFA would carry out the studies on foodgrain marketing and price
policy and on future needs for foodgrain storage and processing facilities.
NFC would establish two units to carry out its responsibilities under the
project: (a) a Project Engineering Unit (PEU) (Section 2.07 of the draft
Project Agreement (PA)) to be responsible for construction of grain storage
facilities and procurement of equipment; and (b) a Management Support Unit
(MSU) to be responsible for the technical assistance and training for NFC and
REC.
53.       PEU would be administratively self-contained and headed by an
internationaily recruited chief engineer who would report directly to NFC's
General Manager. PEU's main responsibilities would be the design of storage
modules and ancillary facilities, recommending storage sites, preparation of
site layout, prequalification of contractors, preparation of tender documents,
tendering for civil works construction and equipment, and construction super-
vision. The chief engineer would be assisted by two locally recruited senior
engineers (Section 2.02 of the draft PA). In addition, PEU staff would
include a construction supervisor for each construction site, two draftsmen
and adequate support staff. PEU would prepare quarterly progress reports.
Satisfactory arrangements for the appointment of the chief engineer would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the draft DCA).
54.       MSU would be headed by one of NFC's Deputy General Managers and
report directly to the General Manager. Responsibilities of MSU would include
(i) identification of consultants for organization and management, finance and
internal audit, and quality control, preparation of recommendations on con-
sultants engagement for NFC Board and IDA review, and submission of disburse-
ment requests for consultants expenses; (ii) development of a detailed schedule
for NFC to take over full control of the ownership and functions of RECs;
(iii) preparation of a program for increasing direct procurement by NFC/RECs
from farmers and through Sajhas; and (iv) preparation of quarterly progress
reports for PMCC and IDA. NFC would establish MSU, with responsibilities and
staffing acceptable to IDA, by October 31, 1980 (Section 2.10 of the draft
PA).
Reorganization of NFC and RECs
55.       Successful development of the post-harvest foodgrain sector depends
on NFC and RECs' ability to carry out the Government's foodgrain policies.
The existing organizational structure was developed during a period when food
deficits in the Hills and Mountains were small, Nepal's overall foodgrain
surplus was substantial, and India absorbed any excess rice production. The
present structure has not adjusted adequately to changes in recent years,
namely the increasing disparity between foodgrain production and consumption
requirements in Hill and Mountain districts, the dwindling Indian demand for
Nepalese rice, and higher quality standards required in other export markets.



- 16 -
Inefficiencies, duplication of functions, cash flow problems, and weaknesses
in coordination have increasingly reduced the ability of public sector insti-
tutions to carry out their functions effectively. To take account of the new
environment in which public sector procurement, distribution and exports are
taking place, considerable restructuring of the organizational arrangements
would be necessary.
56.       Since RECs' entire rice purchases come from private traders and
millers, and because paddy procured by RECs is milled almost exclusively by
privately owned mills, RECs' Board members from the private sector have been
in a serious conflict of interest, especially with regard to the Board's price
decisions. This conflict of interest has been considerably aggravated by the
recent Government decision to end RECs rice export monopoly. The Government,
therefore, has decided to appoint NFC as RECs' Managing Agent as a first step
towards giving NFC full control of the ownership and functions of RECs (para
57). In this role, NFC would assume the responsibility of RECs Boards,
including the establishment of procurement and export programs and prices, and
the development of strategies for effective competition with the private
sector in paddy procurement and rice exports. The appointment of NFC as REC's
Managing Agent would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section of
5.01(a) of the draft DCA).
57.       In addition, due to reduced exports, NFC's levy procurement has been
decreasing, while RECs have become increasingly dependent on NFC for selling
excess grain. However, since profit margins on such sales are slim, RECs are
not keen on selling to NFC, and NFC cannot fully rely on RECs to meet its
foodgrain requirements. Consequently, NFC has to make separate procurement
arrangements, duplicating procurement efforts. There is also duplication of
quality control and accounting functions at RECs' and at NFC's regional and
branch offices, leading to waste of scarce resources. On the other hand, the
decline in exports has resulted in excessive overhead cost at several RECs
and impaired their financial viability. Therefore, the Government has decided
to have NFC acquire 100% of all RECs' shares. This will enable NFC to carry
out more effectively the foodgrain price support program by procuring grains
directly from the farmers, develop assured sources of supply for foodgrains
required for domestic distribution and help reduce the overhead costs of the
public sector foodgrain operations. This acquisiton would enable the Govern-
ment to implement major decisions regarding procurement, export and domestic
distribution in support of its policies for the development of the agricultural
sector. It would also enable a more rational organization of grain procurement
staff, reduced overhead costs, higher technical standards of grain procurement
and of quality control and export/distribution operations, and would obviate
REC's conflict of interest, and ensure the rational use of the proposed
storage facilities. The government would complete a plan providing details
and timing for administrative, legal and financial actions to be taken for NFC
to take over full control of the ownership and functions of the RECs and
present it for IDA's review by October 31, 1980 and thereafter, effect such
plan by June 30, 1982 (Section 3.05(b) of the draft DCA). With the assistance
of the management and organization consultant a reorganization plan for NFC
and the RECs would be completed by June 30, 1981 (Section 2.08(a) of the draft
PA). A plan for expanding NFC/REC's direct procurement from farmers and
through Sajhas would be furnished to the Association for commment by June 30,
1981 (Section 2.08(b) of the draft PA).



- 17 -
NFC Deficits
58.       Given the Government's distribution pricing policies, NFC cannot
be financially viable without Government support for deficit financing.
Beginning fisc-'l year 1982, the Government would provide NFC annually with
funds to cover losses attributable to the Government's distribution policies
and make adequate budget appropriations for this purpose (Section 3.06 of the
draft DCA).
Land Acquisition
59.       Taking account of implementation capabilities of the executing agen-
cies construction of godowns would be carried out in three phases of approxi-
mately twelve months each. Acquisition of Phase I storage sites would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01(d) of the
draft DCA), and remaining sites would be acquired by August 31, 1981 (Section
2.09 of the draft PA).
Technical Assistance
60.       NFC's organizational structure, inadequate delegation of authority,
shortage of trained and experienced staff and the inadequacy of accounting,
financial and auditing systems are constraints on effective management. The
organizational structure needs to be revised and management procedures and
management information systems developed. Technical assistance would be
required to develop NFC's management in these respects and in strengthening
quality control practices. By December 31, 1980, NFC would engage: (a) an
expert for approximately two years to strengthen NFC's organization and
management capabilities; (b) a financial management and auditing specialist
for about 30 months, to strengthen NFC's financial management capabilities;
and (c) a quality control specialist, for approximately two years, to assist
NFC/REC's in strengthening quality control and godown maintenance practices,
in training quality control staff, storekeepers and procurement staff, and to
help PEU in the preparation of specifications for quality control and drying
equipment (Section 2.03 of the draft PA). Technical assistance costs, at
US$7,500 per man month, are estimated at US$0.6 million equivalent.
61.       In addition to on-the-job training of NFC and RECs staff by project
consultants, study tours and short term training courses in neighboring
countries would be provided.  Foreign training and study tours satisfactory
to the Association would be arranged by June 30, 1981 (Section 2.11 of the
draft PA).
62.       By September 30, 1981, the Government would complete studies for:
(a) the formulation of proper foodgrain marketing and price policies; and
(b) the development of foodgrain storage and processing facilities; according
to terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02(a) of
the draft DCA). In order to carry out these studies the Government would
appoint experts and consultants, with qualifications and experience satisfac-
tory to the Association, by December 31, 1980 (Section 3.02(b) of the draft
DCA).



- 18 -
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
63.       PMCC would monitor project implementation on the basis of detailed
implementation plans which would be prepared by MFA and NFC for their respec-
tive sub-projects. PMCC would also review major implementation and coordina-
tion problems and assist in solving them to avoid unnecessary cost or slip-
page. Day-to-day monitoring would be conducted by the heads of PEU and of
MSU. Evaluation of the project would concentrate on NFC/RECs' operating
efficiency, including storage utilization; storage losses; turnover of stocks;
age of stocks; procurement arrangements; quality control at procurement,
during storage and at distribution; cost of godown operations; and transporta-
tion cost. Evaluation would also address organizational, managerial, financial,
and staff development aspects of the project. In addition, evaluation would
focus on changes in NFC/RECs procurement pattern, especially with regard to
primary market procurement directly from farmers or through Sajha. The
Evaluation and Project Analysis Division of MFA would carry out project
evaluation. This Division would also prepare a Project Completion Report and
furnish the report to IDA not later than six months after the Credit Closing
Date (Section 3.04(d) of the draft DCA).
Project Cost and Financing
64.       Total project costs, excluding US$0.79 million of duties and taxes,
are estimated at US$7.25 million equivalent, of which about US$3.95 million
equivalent is foreign exchange. The proposed credit of SDRs 4.8 million
(US$6.2 million equivalent as of the date of negotiations) would finance the
entire foreign exchange cost of civil works, equipment and consulting services
plus US$2.25 million equivalent of local cost, or about 85% of total costs net
of duties and taxes. Local cost financing is recommended in view of the
country's very limited capacity to generate resources (para 17 above). The
Government would pass on US$5.9 million equivalent out of the proceeds of the
credit to NFC and finance US$1.8 million equivalent of the local cost, includ-
ing duties and taxes, as equity contribution. NFC would contribute US$0.04
million for land acquisition. This is justified on account of NFC's role in
carrying out Government foodgrain policies as well as on account of NFC's weak
financial position.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Civil works contracts for the construction of godowns and ancillary
facilities and for site improvements would be let on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines. Since contracts
are small, only Indian contractors near the Nepalese border would be expected
to bid on the contracts, in addition to local contractors. A 7-1/2% margin of
preference would be given to eligible local civil works contractors. PEU
would pre-qualify all domestic and foreign bidders for civil works. Construc-
tion would take place in three phases. To the extent practical, contracts
for each phase would be bulked. A contract would include all civil works at
one site. Contractors would be able to bid for one contract, for a combination
of contracts or for the entire phase. Equipment items and vehicles would be
mostly imported and would be procured under ICB. Items which cannot be bulked
into contracts exceeding US$100,000 may be procured under local competitive
bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Minor items costing less



- 19 -
than US$10,000 each may be procured by prudent shopping with due regard to
efficiency and economy, to an aggregate limit of US$100,000. Technical
assistance services, staffing of PEU, and arrangements for foreign training
and for the studies would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
66.       Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures or 75% of local expenditures for civil works contracts; (b) 100% of
foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and vehicles or 75% of
local expenditure for locally procured items; (c) 100% of PEU staff cost;
and (d) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training and the
two studies. In order to permit commencement of the foodgrain marketing
and price policy study in April/May 1980, retroactive financing of up to
US$100,000 equivalent is proposed for expenditures incurred after November 1,
1979.
Benefits and Risks
67.       The main benefits of the proposed project would be the reduction
in grain storage losses, improvement of the quality of locally distributed
and exported foodgrains, savings in operating costs, strengthening of NFC and
assistance in effective implementation of the Government's foodgrain policy
including more efficient public food distribution. Reduction in annual food-
grain storage losses is estimated at 2,800 MT valued at US$850,000, which
would result in increased foreign exchange earnings to the Government of about
US$880,000. Annual savings in storage operating costs are estimated at about
US$140,000. Expansion of NFC/RECs direct procurement from the farmers and
through Sajhas would ensure that farmers receive at least the support price
and give them an incentive to increase production. In addition, the merger
of the functions of NFC and RECs would rationalize operations and reduce costs.
The project has no adverse environmental effects, and faces no special risk.
68.       The economic rate of return for the entire project has been esti-
mated at 18%; 16% for godowns and over 100% for improved pest control in
existing godowns.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) appointment of NFC as RECs' Managing Agent;
(b) establishment of PMCC;



- 20 -
(c) satisfactory arrangement for the employment of PEU's chief
engineer; and
(d) acquisition by NFC of land for phase I construction sites.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
August 6, 1980



- 21 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                    Page  1  of  5  pages
NEPAL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIkTE)GE
TOTAL            140.8                                MOST RECENT          LW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      40.1              1960 Lb    1970 b ESTIMATE Lb        ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  40.0        60.0      120.0              197.9                894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION t-SR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       5.0        15.0      11.0              166.0                842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      9.3        11.4      13.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 3.1          3.9       4.8                20.8                 39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        46.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       66.0        81.0      97.0               193.2                376.1
PER SQ. 1l. AGRICULTURAL LAND    243.0       286.0     339.0              409.6                2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.3        42.0      42.4               42.0                  40.4
15-64 YRS.                         57.0        55.0      54.6               55.0                 56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7         3.0       3.0                3.0                  3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.1         2.0       2.2                 2.2                  2.4
URBAN                              6.5         4.3       5.0                 3.9                  4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     46.0        45.0      45.0                37.4                 28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     29.0        23.0      21.0                14.6                  7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0         3.0       3.2                 2.6                  1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        37.4     138.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          0.7c      4.3/C              15.6                 39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         106.0       101.0      91.0              101.4                 116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRtMENTS)                   93.0        96.0      91.0               92.4                 108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        51.0      48.0               49.8                  60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        9.0         9.0       9.0                12.0                 18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     35.0        27.0      23.0                17.9     -            5.3
HFALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0        41.0      43.0               50.8                  63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..       152.01d      ..                 ..                  52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         2.0       9.0                30.2                 42.4
URBAN                               ..        53.0      81.0               66.0                  62.1
RURAL                               ..          ..       5.0               20.0                  29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         1.0       1.0                17.7                 52.8
URBAN                               ..        14.0      14.0               71.3                  71.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 ..                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         72000.0    49770.0/e 35207.0/e            6322.7                4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..     68320.0Oe 51222.0             9459.0                2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           8060.0      6750.0    6289.0             1758.4                 819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              502.9
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..            10524.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                 ..                  28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.5
URBAN                              5.4          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                              2.0          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                             30.2          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



- 22 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER
-  HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) rE
HOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  /b    1970 Ab ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 10.0         26.0       71.0               80.9                   98.6
MALE                  19.0        44.0      108.0                94.3                  99.2
FEMALE                 1.0         8.0       32.0                66.7                  97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  6.0          9.0      14.0                26.6                  55.5
MALE                  11.0        15.0       23.0                34.8                  60.7
FEMALE                 2.0         3.0        5.0                18.2                  49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   0.2           6.0      22.0/f                9.9                  13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0         22.0      31.0                41.1                  34.6
SECONDARY                          32.0         21.0      28.0                20.5                   28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9.0/R       14.3       19.2                40.9                  85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.2          0.4         ..                1.8                   9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          5.0      12.0                25.8                  118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..                2.4                  39.4
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GENERAL
INTLREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.8          2.0       8.0                13.4
CINEhA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                 ..                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4813.2       5566.2    6535.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.3         40.3      39.0                29.4                  36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              94.6         93.9      93.0                 70.5                  51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.0          2.1       2.0                11.6                  21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                50.0         48.7      48.3                 37.9                  39.1
MALE                                 59.8         58.3       58.1                51.3                  48.5
FEMALE                               40.2         39.2      38.5                23.7                   29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          0.9       0.9                  1.2                   1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      95.0               107.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      45.0                86.5                 192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..      41.0                  ..                 182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      55.0                46.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      61.0                51.7                  33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year becween 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Government programs only;  /d 1971-73;  /e Personnel in government services only;  /f Upper secondary
(grade 8-10) only; /A 1962.
April, 1980



-23-                                                               ANNEX I
Fage TTf 5 pages
D gITION OP SOIAL rAICATORS
Ictee:  Although the data  -r  dra   f-a source  gesesely J.udgd the set outhoritatie and relable, it ehoolA als  he netd that they sy ant he interns-
tioiniy coeorble b-cs  of the lak of standr-iiod definitions                 -  s -oc Vet. used by differet coutries In colecting the data. The data  r,nntees
osfol to decibe order  of   gitude, isdicscte Utieds, s.d chaateise certain  njor differene  betwenconris
Ths sdjusted grop ave&g- for 1ech.indicatorac  ppelatbon-wghted geostric sesn, enoluing the stres  cuscf the idicato- sad the sect populated
country in eah grop.  Dur to In    ofd dat, group a-erges of nil indicators for Capitsl Surplus Oil Roprters ad of indicators of Access to dater and Uocrts
Disp.sl  Houing, I-os  ldtr ibotio_ ad Po-tAy for other coutry gape ar  pnesltio-seighted gntrio  sea    ithout scoloie  of the  ntre-  -slues ad
th=satpojlated coutry.  Since the c-sen  of.coutries  m    the indicaWtor  dsd,o  aeallty ofdt   dis at -nifos.-ction set be exerised
-israti'g av     .g. of on  Iiator to soother. Thes.       vne   e  atrueu*s.rpsiboe  of  expcted"  alues whnoseingtecluno   e
indicator at a tine ins  the..  cuntr  andrfrnee            .
IAnS AMA (thousa .d sokn.)                                                              Access o yacrt, Disoa  preto   oelto)-t talobs. sdrua-
To T-tota  surfac- r. - o-prisig land urea s.d inland entere.                       hae  o eol   (total  ors,Uanfrrs    ered-    Ort   ipsla
AgricUlt-rl - Hot recot estiante of sgrlcoitol area ueed tq-iorriy                       percentages of their repective poslatione, Encreta disposal sq  Inciude
orper_etly for crops, postures, eskt snd kitchen garden  or to                       the co  -cissd disposal, with or withot trea.t-et, of btaa  ec-rta
lefallo.                                                                            end est-eater by eate-hone systs  or the u-  of pit privies and s,oilur
iNP PER CAPITA (USt) - INP per ospita estisates at curret sprhet prices,                                    slts    Pplaolivddlycobetf  rctcigphscin
os.Iolated by  an   ovrion nethod so World lank Atlas (19,76-78 basis);                                  a sedi calschooliat university lent f-          rt.gpyii
1960, 1970, end 1978 data.                                       Poa~ftlatin pe Nursing Person - Ppcsltion divided by co.e o-f praticing sale
ENERGY CC5UiP1iTION Pec CAPITA - A-.oal cn..s-ption of o.eoial  -nery                      en  ffini  grs,bsts. .une  prac tical nres*ad aoist_nt  uee
(coa  ad lignite, potroleo, ontoca  gao sd hydr--, ouclea  sod ge-                   Psaltios pe  Ho..pital Bed  -toa,rbs.. and roa  -Pplain(ttl  uh
thersal eIutricity) Ic kilogr-  of coal eqoilent Per capita; 1960)                       no  rurl) divided by their repetive nb-r of hospotol bedo avalni  in
1970, sod 1976 dato.                                                                     public and privatje-gneal and speclliced bcstpital and rchbiiitatico ceter.
Hospitals s_ estnblishsnts preesnetly staffed by at least on  phypici-n
PORUIATION ASiC cITAL STATISTICS                                                           Rtetblishe-to proiding principally custdia  car  arnt i-old.d.  uRal1
Total P     iaton  Midd-Ye-  Iilion) - A. of Co1y 1; i960, 1970, s.-optl,hwvr  nld    elhad sedi-aI center  not peset)y stafe
1977 dta                                                                              by n physician (hot by a e-di-a  assistant, curs, sidife, etc.) which offer
UrbanPop,sstion(percst oftotal  -Rhtic of orbs. to total popolation;           In-patient  --idatios s.d prvide a  alted rage of sedipal facilitie..
Uifferet dfiitce  of ors f        rt       qa otospchlt   fdt                        Adlsion  pe r Hospital ed- Total. nber of  dniosio-  to or disobhrges fron
ssn -cotrc; 1960, i970, and 1975 data                                           hospitl  divied by the ceb-r o  beds.
Poonlation in ce   2000 - Corront popuint-o  pr-jetiocs  -r bh..ed 00n            H)JOIUO
1975 total ppjsitio  by age and cosd thide setaity and fe-tilty                   A---n"e Sic of osohold (peron  per ho ho1i) - total, urba. andcol-
rae.ProJection puranto- for  _orta1ity ratesoers   f there                      A hoceod consits of a grop of indicidnlo who share living loader  and
is_ls s. sc  life ecop-t-ny  t1 birth i-ocssig withconrs                            their enin seal.  A hoarder or lodger sq  or oy not o  -incuded It the
Pee  aito icoce  1o-1i  ned f.fale life e-pe-tany stabilicing at                    h-uchold for  tatintloal purposes.
77.5 year.  The Parenter  for fertility rate also hav  three level                Averag  osb- of  -ers.. perr-             total. uris. sod coa  - Acerage sCuhe
sooing dcIne in fetilIty _acoding to ioos  lecc  and past                          of p-.on  p-r coon i  all urban, and coc-       ccpe   _oovetio...  d-elliogo,
fasily olninig pe-fr-o E. inh coutry In then assigned on  ofthese                   cepeotlely.  D-eliigc e-olde  on-peresoet  iot-rec sod u--opied partt.
oi-e o-tisti-  of setality nod fertility treods for projection                    Access to cctiolty (pocosstofiaduelings) - total. u-iss. nodcrl-Co
purpose.                                                                            _etional d_elliog  oith ele trit    in liig quat-r  as pe--ets o
Stationary populaot--I .  .c t ottiotay population tber  Is no growth                 total, orbs., and coral d-1ig.lig  repetio-ly.
nioce tthe birth rate ic etu  to the death rate, acd als  the age,
ct_oou_  cesin cnt_t. Tio ic ahieved   ly after fertility eaten                EDiCATI0S
dc-lloc to the rplacenet 17en  of unit oet repr-du-tico rate   he                 Adjusted Fnro1lnct Ration
enh genertio  of -oe  -epl-ceit-elfe-ctly.  The stationery pop-                     Priery sho  - total, sale und fonle-Gro.n total, onIr arc ftolo enrol-
lai_noI_swac-tixntcd on tho basic of the projected ohuateriotios                      set of all  gec at the yr-nsy leve  top-rctagco of ..copcti-c priery
oftho popultio In tie rear 2000  nod thic rtt  of decline of fertility              o-ho-age, "popultio...; tos_lly inciodes childre  ngrd 6-li y_ar  lot
rte  o  cya -motlc                                                                   dijuoted for dilffer.ot lengtho of P,,ia..r  edu-ntioc;  torouirvoith
Ton stationr  poplaio  is ro-hld - TOe year shoe ottio...ry popilatioc                  olecid stiooo-rlln-t mop eccod 100 percot ticecne pilo
ci-r bus been coahed.                                                                 or  beloc or aic  the offIcasholeo
1'pltintnity                                                                     lecdoyocol - total, sal  nod-feel  - Conptod ton.  cc,  coocr
Per s. he. - 1idy-ea  population Per squar  kilotec (120 h-ctaro) of                    eduction rvoire  ot 1-at four fenc  of approvd pric,iay i-iuto_tc
total  re                                                                             p-oide- goeca  c-oti... , or teacher t-oiag i.ttruti-ir  foe pup,lo
Per o. Can- agi-oitroI lud - Coeputed no abc- for agriculturl land                      usually of 12 to 17 pyar  of age; -crr-pood-coo-u-e  ore cg--riy
only,                                                                                 oclulded.
Popslstio  A.e it-otore (per--t) - Childrec (0-Ity                   9                   .. per)  okn-g  aIocal.. crlinoot (cer-et of seconday) - Vcc-t-.a cootititi-ooicrlde
(15 -66pr)  and retired (65 pya-  and ove) a   pecotg             fnyd-ea               techoloal, induotrial, or other pr-gr-n  didh operte ic,p-ortly o
popolanion; 1760, 1970, and 1977 into.                                                  dey-t-ets of a-cod-y i-atituiton..
Populilo  Ooti..'~     Onto (perot) - total - Acon ooehracof total ald-                 Pupil-t-ahor raStIo - orienr. and s-codoc  - Tctolotud-otc   -1rllc  i
yer  opltico    o   90-h, 1920704, nod 1970 77.                                     P,inc  no d c..odn_y level  dicided by cuotec  of t-h-bericviot crr
Popoatlo  Oroth Rato  creo -    ur,,ban - So-ul cr-th rote, of urban                      spending levels
populations. fcc 1950-_0, 10-0,od 1970-75.                                            Adl  irnyrt     cot)- Literte adolto  nble to r-n  sod  -ete)t
Crode Pirh Onto (P,  thoonad) - A.uv .Ice bcrtbc per tiooand of aid-                      ap-retagc of total adult pipoloti-c aged 15 penro and 0-r
yea Pp`imiotb_; 19 0, 1970, nod 1977 data.
crude Death Rote  p etbousad  - Aoousj d-tic p-r thound ci cod-yea                  CHONSUMPTION
Popultill; 1  0, 1970, ad1977 dton.                                                 PoonongeCu.(c  tho-ad popu1atio"') - Pacoecgo  euro o1pioplrcooor
iron, Oproduoton OsteOcorM, ocoib  of danghtr, a ocea  oiil lon                 octig       .o than eight p......o;  -c oo   nolcc,Icrcoadmltr
cher  --r1o  -produ-to- p-rod :f civ _op___oe   p__oet o--hoicie-
ope_cfi  fotuity eat; u-olly ficey-p            averges ending in i960,             Rndic Rc 'icr   PEr thocoan  population) -All typro if  ---ior  I.,  .dc..
1970, nod 1975.                                                                       Ocxrcot   eorlpbi   v  thocan  of population; coo ud- oil--od
Fanily Ploonin  - Accptors. Aons1 (th .c.a.ds) - A-1oc.nab-r of                         re--or  dci.  trio   and ic ye-r  hbecdrgi   tin- of raio  ci -tt in
-cptr  of birt--t-Irc  devi-o  oder  -up-c  of national 3 feuip lyff-t; dait for -ecet per                           .spct b.-c .. cotrhi  010c 5,-tc cr00 -
PlnIng- pr-gron.                                                                      nboliched li-enig.
PFeIly Plnnicg - Uc_ec (e-cot of maried s-a) - Percetage of se-clod                   TV R-e-ier  (poe thousno  population)   TV Iyreri..ro  fir Ironoonot t. geor: o
soe   f ehild-brurig age (15-il4 poa-) obo  -c  bictl-contrul docive              public Per tbo-ad populntion; coo loe,ocicnod Ti  -__oorcicooti_
to all seid come  ic co   c   ru.nd ic pea ch.. -gitotraico of TVl co Fso  icffct.
FOOD AND HOTRITION                                                                        of cdawy g..cr-  iotrco  c ppr,dfi-od nonprriodi-l pbli-tti-v
Indec of fo   rdcicpeCci  (1769-~71-100) - t,,do  of Per caPita.eoo   riaiyc  reorin  geea deo    ti   ocuoe ob                                                     ol
ancoal pr ductionof all fod cocanitiec  Poution  -o,odeo aced nod            If  t tPppa    ti le-t four tiero. F00c.
fee  an  i  oncalndr yar   dc   Coeodtooecor  ri,sc  godoCinc_    _Iuo  Atteod-co  pe  Capit cPr Yea  - B.-od  -i tii o-ir If tiskoto
f_g.cu _rancoten  oouuibitseeilanooocutinn                                        oddrng the yone, i-odiog oooi    to dric-ic  _lrcod c_-i I
(eg.  "ofo   no   cate       "lded).  Agg-egntc produoto-  of eah e-uay                 't
is bao-d on nnti-locg  producer price woighto.
Per caPito oupply of,clorco icoc-t of roleot - Cop,,ted f-eon                        C  FiP ORPCE
--ogy equivalent  -f  -tv find -uppiic  -ca1ibll  in cout ry per -apito    ~ Totalb-6rPro(boacc       E..oi-lily -tOice peooc..i..,,tre
per dyp.  A-nilallo cppli-n -upri-o  d-etic prdu-tion, inpcto Ioo                   for-e  nod  -neployed boo  -oidiog booe-icc, oted-000, etc .Dfi.i--c
-op-to, nod eheogesicto-k, Get cuppli-  coolde anian  fe-d, seeds,                  invaiou.c_-trie  arc c-t ocnparh.bl
tsartitioc u,d io food pr-cceig, and i.--e  on d:stribeti-. cetuie-              Fyp-ly,__pp          I - hol  lice- foee oc percentage of t. tcl labir force
i7toccc timnd by FAIb- od on phyo.lcgi-l  -rdc for coreal                                   .  ecti  -  btic  forc  ir f-riog, f-ctry  huctio  nod
activity nod hicath -oo,Cd-r,c   --oo  ortol t-eperttur, lodp -righto,              fiohing onpercetag  of otatl 11cr force.-
age nod00  dictriblci-t  of popolntocc, nod aloi 10 percet foe                  iciduatr (pecet) - Lani  fre-  on  -oig,oootu i-t aonocigcd
Perpcato supply o.fprlvia lgro   Per dsp)P - frto:oo-t-t , i pre                 P_i_ipatio  Rt (pren              . toto   male,no      e-et;paicr
eaPita con _oppip offod Pee day  Cet oPply of foo  1. dcic-u                        a-ticity  -tec are coputed no total, o-1e,tofotrlefrctoe-
nb-ee  Orqeiect  fcc, all coocteico cotbliolhed by 021S dp-oido foe a               cetagn o  total, 7le nod female Population-    al  ngrrePeoice
niii   looneo  0omno  oa  p,tri  per dsan  20 grn   f                           16,17,nd 197dOto.  Thc- ore IlD'-  p-rt-Poti- et-c reflecting
anes  nd poi1e protein, of chich~!  9-gre   hld be anima  p-oteic.                og--oeotr-tu-ecf ti  p.puatloc, nod l-oictret-i.  A id-etiate-
Ths   tandd   te -I--e thno thone if 7i gran  of total protein ad               ar  fr-  n-tion..b coerces
275 g_ec  f animal p_-ci  tc        -ergo foe nihe  -ord, propoced ty FCO         P---,ni leosedecY Ontic-  Rotico~f popuaci-i uc- 11 nod It nod ove  to
-ItemieOrd Food lucy                                                         h    iefrci' age droP of 15-64 y-c..
F_e comic. p_otvin uoel fr.o  _1ima  _co pulo_ _Provein, .epply of food
do fve   Penoicot ndplv   og oprcy                                        INioHi DISTORI20oN
Childagc-) dotait  Onl tpe I tl-cnd)-  nnun  d-otho p-e th-uad                        Percetage of Pricats Ic..o.e (bcthscoa  no,  d bood)    necdO   ibo
ic coo  -.tPI 1-0 ro, to child-e in thic- ccop  for  -ot levl-                        I p-r-et, richest 20 pee-et, poocco t 20 per-et, noe p--rvte40p--et
pino co-t-i- D,to d--ce  Cr-  life toilen                                             ofP lhoc-holdo.
HEA1T0                                                                                POVEYT TOpiRfE GlOltPS
Lifo   P ieetane  It Oirthlcat  -_iver-ge nuob- of y-ur  of isfe                       tiotlotd Aboolote P-oornyj;incerlee  iope   ait.)                 - uhncorurl1
romaiiag a  hiri; 197, 170, no  1977. cot                                      Olsoltn  Poverty inor eell  tint ioc-one            . lev l trcohicbociaion
1ofunt      AerayOt  crtisn) -  Ict     denthIn of infato coder one,,nitio..ally adetunte diet PI.. ecotial oot.fod rctuir__oteie-t
your of ag  poe thousad li-o birtho.                                                    ffordblle.
bo-c- to Sfe dater -(erett of Popolti-i   - tota.1  - , norrat-icotletd Rplei-nv  Poverty Ico-  Leeei (US$ per eadpita) - ohno- and ruro
HNhberofppl  (ttl         -ra,nd corl) ,hi reasonable    ccttoa  rc=iotio ",Po..ety inv-    -ecl is co-thid   fnraepee  -spln
so" oI',   sPply Icudd- t-eted  -ufa-  soto... or .treand hot                         peroa  inox     tofob  coctry. Urban 1-ce  i  d-eicd fe-  tic res  icon
inrotteanted sntr coot a  tit fro  protected tbreh -, opringo,                  ith adjootnoan for higher  -t of living en ubaar, 
and  anitey ollo   ep-r-ntage  of th-oreop-enice popolatio..  In              intianted Population helco Absolute ?.-cty 1oos  loo-(ore (          (..  "- urban nod
aneloasnplicCatl   rondpost, bote  co  acre thaorl-  Percet of populatico (urbn and rura   F et  se   abc_Iut   or 
Iiec   f that toh-ice -  In rualorn resc...atle  -r cud isply
ovt.th bcuoe_    fIC or-b-r  of ohe h--orhoid do cot bhce to  pead o                                                            nEi--  nd Sicia  lain Pi-i-t
dunp-p-rti-ctc I-nrc - f tIc dp in fetolhng tho fondly- cotee crdo                                                     ic--cc  doaly-i  nd eojeet..cc. avon
A,,gent 1979



- 24 -
ANNEX I
,Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1977.  US$110. /a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prives)
US$ Mln.      °h                           1965-75
GDP at Market Prices                         1,548      100.0                             2.0
Gross Domestic Investment                      155       10.0
Gross National Saving                           78        5.0
Current Account Balance                     -    3      - 0.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                          124        8.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                          201       13.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977                                                    Value Added
Value Added                Labor Force /b           Per Worker
US$ Mln.      %           Ml.       _                   US $
Agriculture                                    996       68.0         5.9        93.0                 169
Industry                                       132        9.0         0.1         2.0              3,320
Services                                       337       23.0         0.3         5.0              1,123
Total/Average                     1,465      100.0         6.3       100.0              232.2
GOVERNNENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT|
Ft. Min.                          ofDI
Ra  M1f.                Z~~~~ of CDP
1975/76       1976/77       1977/78       1978/79      1976/77
Current Receipts                    -1,097.2       1,302.         1,559.3      1,688.0          7.5
Current Expenditure                    654.1         784.1         815.0          991.5         4.5
Current Surplus                        443.1         518.1          744.3         696.5         3.0
Capital Expenditure                  1,224.6       1,486.4       1,792.9       2,049.7          8.6
External Assistance (net)              489.5         538.1          830.7      1,019.3          3.1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1975     1976      1977      1978    1979
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                                2,064    2,524    3,223    3,772   4,517
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           286      480       750       966   1,154
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                      569      567       511       869   1,108
Bank Credit to Project Sector                          783      716       864    1,072   1,304
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                     12.5     14.5      18.6
General Price Index (1973/74 - 100)                 116,8    115.9    119.0    132.3   136.8
Annual Percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                   16.8    - 0.7       2.7      11.2     3.5
Bank Credit to Government                           104.3      67.8      56.3      28.9    19.5
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                   341.1    - 0.4    - 9.9        70.1    27.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                         11.5    - 8.6      20.7      24.1    21.6
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/a World Development Renorts 1978 and 1979.
/b Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
.. not available



-25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PalYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAIMEITS                                                      M .ERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1977/78  a/
1915/76                                                                                USez2   1977   US$ Mln.    7,
(Millions US$)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                           98.3     93.9      b8.8     Foodstuff & ras materials                                  71.5       83.0
Imports, c.i.f. S/                          156.3    166.9    209.7      Manufactures                                               14.7       17.0
Trade Balance                          -58.0    -73.0   -120.9
Total                                                86.2      100.0
Services, net                                23.2     39.4      47.6
of which:  Tourism                         17.1     23.0      30.2
EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31,1978
Transfers, net                               27.7      30.8     25.1                                                              US$ Mln.
of which:  Private Remittances             18.7     21.5      18.3
Indian Excise Refund            7.9       9.3      8.1     Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                              87.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance                 -8.2    - 2.8    -48.2      Total outstanding & Disbursed                              87.7
Official Grants                              21.1      18.5     23.9
Official Capital, net                        12.1      16.3     22.7     DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 cl
Private Capital, het                          9.6    -10.3    -10.4
Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                                1.4
Change in Reserves (- Increase)        -34.6    -21.7      12.0
Gross Reserves (mid July)                   120.3    145.3    135.1
Net Reserves                                114.9    137.8    126.1
Fuel and Related Materials                                               IBRD/IDA IENDING. (February 1980) (Million US$)
Imports of which:  Petroleum               14.3     17.6      17.5                                                             IBRD        IDA
Exports of which:  Petroleum                --        --       --
Outstanding & Disbursed                                             05-7
Undisbursed                                                        -16,5 7
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                                              1.4
From October 1975 through                      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                                      201.4
Through October 1975   March 20, 1978                Since March 20. 1978
US$ 1.00 - NRs 10.56   US$ 1.00 - NRs 12.5           US$ 1.00 - NRs 12.00
NR  1.00 - US$ 0.095   NR  1.00 - Us$  0.08          NR  1.00 - US$  0.083
a/ Customs basis.
S/ Payments basis.
o/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not applicable                                                                                            South Asia Programs Department
March 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of June 30, 1980) /a
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
Credit                                                                      Undis-
No.      Year         Borrower                Purpose               IDA   bursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                         7.1
373        1973      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                   6.0       0.5
397         1973     Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications II    5.5           1.6
470         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Water Supply and
Sewerage                11.8       3.3
505        1974      Kingdom of Nepal    Settlement                   6.0      4.8
600        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Kulekhani
Hydroelectric           40.8      20.6
617        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Rural Development            8.0      6.0
654        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Groundwater                  9.0       2.7
659        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Assistance         3.0       1.6
704        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Water Supply
and Sewerage             8.0       6.7
705        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Industrial Development
Corporation              4.0       3.4
730        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Highway              17.0     11.8
772        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Education          5.7      5.6
799        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications III  14.5         14.5
812        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  30.0     28.5
856        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  14.0     13.7
939        1979      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Rural
Development            11.0      11.0
1008       1980      Kingdom of Nepal    Forestry /b                 17.0     17.0
1980     Kingdom of Nepal    Mahakali Irrigation /c  16.0          16.0
1980     Kingdom of Nepal    Third Water Supply /d   27.0         27.0
Total Outstanding /e                       261.4
Total Undisbursed                                    196.3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of June 30, 1980)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year        Obligor         Type of Business                Loan   Equity   Total
1975     Soaltee Hotel          Hotel                       2.70   0.43      3.13
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC               2.42   0.43      2.85
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b   Signed May 22, 1980; not yet effective.
7T   Approved June 26, 1980; not yet signed.
7T?  Approved July 29, 1980; not yet signed.
/e   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution I/
Credit No. 373 - Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily after
initial delays in appointing engineering consultants, in carrying out field
surveys and in procurement. Civil works in the surface irrigation blocks and
construction of tubewells is almost completed. Irrigation operations started
in 1976 from nine tubewells, and in 1977, in the first surface irrigation
block. The project is expected to be completed shortly. Water charges are
now being levied in a limited area, and farmers' acceptance is satisfactory.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior manage-
ment, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays in
procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good progress
is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants provided by
the United Kingdom and a new General Manager has been appointed. The project
is now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
the end of 1980.
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Revised-Closing Date: July 31, 1981
Design work is complete and all major contracts have been let.
Project implementation is over two years behind the original schedule,
primarily due to delays in letting the contracts. A management team provided
by the United Kingdom is assisting the Water Supply and Sewerage Board. Work
is now progressing satisfactorily. An EEC Special Action Credit was approved
in July 1979, to cover some of the Governments share of the local costs of
the project. During the negotiations for the EEC Special Action Credit, the
implementation schedule and dated covenants were revised, and the closing
date amended to July 31, 1981. All major contracts are expected to be com-
pleted by December, 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 15,
1982
Project implementation, though still about two years behind
schedule, has improved slightly over the last months and 1,550 families
have been settled. Forestry clearing remains a bottleneck and technical
assistance is being provided to speed up the operation. Stress has also been
laid on the need for employment of adequate and experienced staff and better
management and planning of operations. Because of doubts about land use
policy, we are discussing with the Government reduction of project area to
be newly settled from 17,600 ha to 11,100 ha.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
All civil works contracts have been awarded and construction work
started in December 1977. The revised estimate of project costs, excluding
taxes and duties, is now US$109 million which is some 60% higher than the
estimate of US$68 million at the time of appraisal. The increases in costs
are due to a number of factors, principally design changes as a result of
further geological investigations and the risk factors inherent in a major
project which is remotely located. These are reflected in higher prices and
implementation delays which are adding to costs. In addition, the apprec-
iation of the Japanese yen, in which substantial part of the costs of equipment
and engineering services are being paid, has increased the US dollar cost of
the project. Cofinanciers are providing additional funds to cover the foreign
exchange cost overrun. An IDA supplemental credit of US$14.8 million and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$3.0 million equivalent were approved by the
Executive Directors on May 10, 1979. Progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, with almost all planned
project actions being implemented ahead of schedule. Disbursements had been
lagging due to delay of project authority in submitting disbursement applica-
tions. Interministerial cooperation is good, and at the district level, sound
and practical development plans have been produced which are fully supported
and understood by project farmers. Adequate financing to carry out project
proposals has been made available in the budget by the Government and sites
and plans for most district construction projects have been completed and
construction started. Training of weavers and issuance of improved looms
under a credit scheme is proceeding well. Shortage of middle-level staff in
the project area for construction supervision and agricultural extension may
hinder project implementation. However, arrangements have been made for more



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
efficient deployment of existing staff and for special training of farmers
as part-time agricultural assistants. Under the associated Bank-executed
UNDP technical assistance project, the assistant to the Project Coordinator
and the Irrigation Advisor have nearly completed their assignments.
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date:  November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling of tubewells is in progress. Thirty-nine production wells
have been constructed. Construction of irrigation units is underway. Recent
supervision missions have discussed ways for expediting civil works contract-
ing with the Project Authority and the consultants, for ensuring that tubewells
can be energized from local power supplies, and for strengthening the agricul-
tural staff on the project. Construction of village link roads has started.
However, there is delay in implementation due to the weakness of contractors
in the project area and delay in construction of transmission lines.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date:  November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Studies for a national agricultural extension project, a silica-
lime brick factory, and the proposed grain storage project have been completed
while studies are in progress for river control for the Sunsari-Morang Irri-
gation Project, an airborne magnetometer survey and cottage industries.
Arrangements for initiating additional studies are being made.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering consultants have begun work, and feasibility studies,
master plan updating, and final designs have been completed. A tariff spe-
cialist has been recruited, and the first contract for water meters has
been awarded. Evaluation of the bids for major contracts is underway. An
EEC Special Action Credit was approved in July 1979 to assist in financing
a portion of the Government's share of the local cost of the project.
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The UNDP-financed policy advisor completed his assignment and the
accounting and information systems advisor took up his post in February 1980.
To date, subprojects for about $1.7 M have been approved by IDA. Progress in
implementation of the credit has deteriorated due to shortages of complementary
local currency resources. Accordingly disbursement have continued to lag.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is nearly two year behind schedule due
to delays in the award of contracts and the appointment of consultants.
Consultants (financed by CIDA) arrived in March to provide maintenance
technical assistance. The pre-feasibility study for the Bombasa-Kohalpur
Road was completed in July 1978, and a proposal for the Mechanics' Training
Program is under review by the Government and the Association. Seven of ten
contracts have been awarded for the construction of the Tulsipur Road and
three contracts have been awarded for the earthworks on the Thankot-Naubise
Road. Arrangements for consulting services for supervision of construction
have been finalized.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US$5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Good progress towards implementation has been made. Contracts have
been signed for all civil works packages, except external works, for which the
bids are being evaluated; however, equipment tendering is behind schedule.
The first batch of fellowship students have completed their programs and a
second batch have started their programs. A team of educational experts,
financed by ODA, have begun work in the field and a program of cooperation
with Paisley College of Technology, Scotland, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.5 million Credit
of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
ODA is financing the telex equipment and the satellite earth
station. Project consultants have been appointed. Procurement actions have
been initiated.
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The Project Board has been established and the Project Manager,
Senior Agricultural Officer, and consultants have been appointed. Studies
for major canal structural repairs, sediment control and river training are
under way. Contracts for priority works have been awarded and procurement
action for equipment and civil works for Chatra Main Canal is underway. An
EEC Special Action Credit of about US$4.0 million equivalent was approved
in June 1979 to help finance a portion of the Government's share of the
local cost.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 856 - Narayani Zone Irrigation Development - Stage II Project
US$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The contract for project consultants under Stage I (Nippon Koei)
has been extended to cover Stage II. Contracts for surface irrigation blocks
have been awarded. Procurement of the remaining civil works and for equipment
is being initiated. Satisfactory progress is being made.
Credit No. 939 - Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills
US$11.0 million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The Project Coordinator has been appointed.
Credit No. 1008 - Community Forestry Development and Training Project
US$17.0 million of May 22, 1980; Effective Date:
August 20, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Credit not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page I
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
12 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Food and Agriculture, with the assistance
of the Agricultural Projects Services Center.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
May 1978
October 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 19, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
May 19, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
October 31, 1980
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: -Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) appointment of NFC as RECs Managing Agent (para 56);
(b) establishment of PMCC (para 51);
(c) satisfactory arrangement for the appointment of PEU's
chief engineer (para 53); and
(d) acquisition by NFC of land for phase I construction
sites (para 59).
Other Conditions
(a) a Project Engineering Unit would be established
within NFC (para 51);
(b) by October 31, 1980 (i) a MSU, with composition
satisfactory to IDA would be established within NFC
(para 54); and (ii) the Government would prepare a
plan for NFC to take over control of RECs and complete
the acquisition by June 30, 1982 (para 57);
(c) beginning FY1982 the Government would provide NFC with
funds to cover losses attributable to the Government's
distribution policies (para 58);
(d) by December 31, 1980, NFC would appoint experts in
organization and management, financial management and
auditing, and quality control (para 60);
(e) by June 30, 1981, foreign training and study tours
satisfactory to IDA would be arranged for NFC and RECs
staff (para 61); and
(f)  by September 30, 1981, the Government would complete
(a) a study in foodgrain marketing and price policy,
and (b) a study of future needs for foodgrain storage
and processing according to terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA (para 62).



