Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2862-NEP
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
July 24, 1980
Agriculture D Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    Nepalese Rupee (NRs)
US$1.00            =    NRs 12.00
NRs 1.00           =    US$0.083
NRs 1,000,000      =    US$83,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                              = 2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (MT)                1,000 kg   = 0.98 long tons
1 millimeter (mm)                            = 0.039 inches
1 meter (m)       2         = 3.29 feet      = 1.09 yards
1 square meter (m  )                         = 1.19 square yards
1 kilometer (km)       2                     = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )                 2   = 0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)              -   10,000 m    = 2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m )                           = 35.31 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMC       -   Agricultural Marketing Corporation
APROSC    -   Agricultural Projects Services Center
DGM       -   Deputy General Manager
FAMSD     -   Food and Agricultural Marketing Services Department
FPCC      -   Food Policy Coordination Committee
HMG       -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
MFA       -   Ministry of Food and Agriculture
NFC       -   Nepal Food Corporation
PEU       -   Project Engineering Unit
PMCC      -   Project Management and Coordination Committee
REC       -   Rice Export Company
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    PROJECT BACKGROUND  ...................................                         1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL AND FOODGRAIN SECTORS  ....                    ...........     1
A.   The Agricultural  Sector  ..........................                      1
B.   The Foodgrain Sector  .............................                       2
Production ..........                                               2
Consumption and Exports  ......................                     3
Marketing  ....................................                     4
Transport  ....................................                     4
Post Harvest Operations  ......................                     5
Storage Practices  and Losses  ....                .............    6
Grain Storage Resources  ......................                     7
C.   Government Foodgrain Policies  and Practices  ......                      8
Policy Objectives  and Formulation  ....               ........     8
Foodgrain Distribution Policy  ....                ............     8
Foodgrain Export Policy  ......................                     9
Price Support Policy  .........................                    10
III.    PROJECT  INSTITUTIONS  .................................                       11
A.  Nepal Food Corporation  ...........................                       11
General  ......................................                    11
Organization and Management  ....                ..............    11
Operations  ...................................                    11
B.   Rice Export Companies  ............................                      14
Management  and Organization  ....                ..............   14
Operations  ...................................                    14
IV.    THE PROJECT  ..........................................                        15
Project Concept  and Objectives  .......................                      15
Major Features  .......................................                       16
Project Area  .........................................                       16
Detailed Features  ....................................                       17
Project Cost Estimates  ...............................                       22
Financing  ............................................                       24
Procurement  ..........................................                       24
Disbursement  .........................................                       25
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. W. Schwermer, K. Ohashi and Ms. A. Duersten (IDA), and
Messrs. Y. Takata and M. Yamada (Consultants), which visited Nepal in October/
November 1979.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii -
Page No.
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................   25
General  ...............................................  25
Reorganization of Nepal Food Corporation
and  Rice  Export  Companies  ...........................  26
Project Management and Coordination ....    ...............   27
Project Implementation ................................   27
Accounts  and  Audit   ....................................  30
Project Monitoring and Evaluation ....    .................   30
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   30
Benefits   ..............................................  30
Beneficiaries   .........................................  31
Economic  Rate  of  Return    ..............................  32
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks  ....  ...........   32
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS .33
ANNEXES
1.  Foodgrain Production Characteristics
2.  Project Institutions
3.  Storage Resources, Requirements and Storage Gap in Project Area
4.  Specifications and Cost of Storage Modules
5.  Project Cost
6.  Draft Terms of Reference for Project Consultants
7.  Draft Terms of Reference for Project Studies
8.  Disbursement Schedule
9.  Draft Terms of Reference for PEU Engineering Personnel
10.  Economic Analysis
11.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule                            21265
Nepal Food Corporation Organization Chart          21253
Proposed Organization Chart for Nepal Food
Corporation                                      21266
Far Western Rice Export Company Organization Chart   21267
Model Design for 1,000 Metric Ton Godown           21165
Model Design for 2,000 Metric Ton Godown           21166
MAP      Location and Capacity of NFC/RECs Grain Storage Facilities
(IBRD 14831R)



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.01      At the request of HMG, an IDA project identification mission visited
Nepal in October/November 1978 and prepared a detailed outline of the project
and terms of reference for project preparation. For this task HMG engaged
Agricultural Projects Services Center (APROSC) which began its assignment in
January 1979. Financing for project preparation was provided under the NEPAL
- Technical Assistance Project (IDA Credit 659-NEP). A second IDA mission
visited Nepal in May 1979 to assist APROSC in its project preparation work.
The consultants submitted their preparation report in October, 1979.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. W. Schwermer, K. Ohashi and Ms. A. Duersten (IDA), and
Messrs. Y. Takata, and M. Yamada (Consultants), which visited Nepal in October/
November 1979.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL AND FOODGRAIN SECTORS
A. The Agricultural Sector
2.01      The agricultural sector dominates the Nepalese economy, accounting
for more than 60% of GDP, providing employment to about 90% of the labor force,
and constituting about 75% of merchandise exports. Agricultural potential
and practices vary widely among the country's three distinct regions, which
are running parallel from east to west. Ihe northern belt accounts for 16%
of the country's total area of 141,000 km and comprises the Mountains, rising
above 2,700 meters. Crop cultivation in this area is extremely limited and
livestock is the main source of livelihood. The Hills, lying between 800 and
2,700 meters, amount to some 61% of total land area. While accounting for
only about one-third of arable land, the Hills must support nearly two-thirds
of Nepal's population of about 13 million. Cultivation is confined to the
valleys, plateaus and steep terraced slopes. Yields are low, and serious soil
erosion problems exist. The Terai region lies to the extreme south, and com-
prises 23% of surface area; it consists of a narrow strip of alluvial plain
and has traditionally produced a surplus which has been the basis for Nepalese
agricultural trade and exports.
2.02      Agriculture's performance in the 1970s has been disappointing.  The
sector grew at only about 2.2% annually, barely keeping pace with population
growth, and below targets set out in the Fourth and Fifth Plans of 2.8% and
3.5% per year, respectively. This unsatisfactory record is, in part, the
result of exogenous factors (see para 2.05), but the problems of the sector



-2 -
also reflect budgetary and institutional constraints in the Nepalese economy.
While overall public investment in the agricultural sector has greatly
increased, difficulties have been experienced, in providing sufficient
institutional support, especially trained staff and extension and credit
services, and in establishing an adequate level of recurrent cost financing.
B. The Foodgrain Sector
Production
2.03      Foodgrain production is by far the most important activity in the
agricultural sector, accounting for 90% of total cropped area and 80% of the
sector's value added. Cereals, particularly rice, constitite the major
portion of the Nepalese diet, and rice exports have averaged about 30% of
Nepal's merchandise exports over the last three years. The major foodgrains
are paddy, maize and wheat followed by millet and barley. Details of pro-
duction, cropped area, yields, and regional importance of the major foodgrains
are presented in Annex 1, Tables 1, 2 and 3. Paddy is Nepal's main crop
cultivated on about 57% of the total area under foodgrains. Production is
concentrated in the Terai, but cultivation also takes place in the Hill areas.
Use of modern inputs has remained low (fertilizer use was 5 kg nutrients/ha in
Nepal as compared to 24 kg nutrients/ha in India in 1976/77), and only about
10% of cropped area under paddy is irrigated. Production growth of paddy
averaged 1.8% per year over the period since 1966/67, reaching an average
level of 2.5 million MT annually in the last three years. This modest growth
was achieved mainly through extending the area under paddy cultivation, from
1.1 million ha to 1.26 million ha; average paddy yields increased by only
about 0.7% annually from 1.81 MT/ha during 1966/67 through 1968/69 to 1.92
MT/ha during 1975/76 through 1977/78.
2.04      Maize accounts for some 20% of total cropped area.  Some 61% of
maize production takes place in the Hills. The area under maize cultivation
has stagnated in recent years, and average yields declined from 1.81 MT/ha to
1.70 MT/ha resulting in a reduction of output from 824,000 MT in 1966/67 to
740,000 MT in 1977/78. Wheat is grown on 16% of total cultivated area. A
relatively new crop in Nepal, wheat has had the best production record of all
foodgrains, having increased by more than 150% from 159,000 MT in 1966/67 to
411,000 MT in 1977/78. Grown mainly in the Terai as a winter crop, on land
traditionally left fallow, it has become an additional source of income. But,
as with paddy, increased production has been mainly due to extending the area
under cultivation. Average yields have remained stagnant. Millet and barley
are minor grains in terms of overall production, but they make a significant
contribution to the diet in the Hill and Mountain areas, where cultivation of
these crops is concentrated. Production records for both crops have been
poor, with yields declining for millet and stagnating for barley.
2.05      Overall, the performance of the foodgrain sector has not been
encouraging, and per capita foodgrain production has declined since 1973.
Considerable agricultural investments have been made in the Terai, but food-
grain production gains in this region have not reached anticipated levels;
they have also not been sufficient to compensate for lagging production in



- 3 -
the Hills, where a growing human and animal population has entailed falling
agricultural productivity as cultivation is pushed to increasingly marginal
areas. Dependence on the monsoon remains high, and unfavorable weather con-
ditions have resulted in four poor harvests in the 1970s. The rapid increases
in fertilizer and transportation costs caused by the sharp increases in oil
prices have seriously hampered the expansion of supportive serviceb and the
use of modern inputs. The problems of modern inputs, particularly of fertil-
izer, have been exacerbated by transportation constraints, administrative and
organizational bottlenecks in the distribution network and weaknesses in the
extension system. In addition, a considerable part of the grain produced is
lost due to insufficient and poor storage facilities and practices. Farm-
gate foodgrain prices may not have been high enough to provide adequate
incentive to increase production (para 2.28).
Consumption and Exports
2.06      Cereal consumption is currently estimated to constitute some 80%
and 85% of the Hill and the Terai diet, respectively. With Nepal's population
having grown annually by about 2.2% during the 1970s, the increase in demand
for foodgrains has outstripped incremental production and created a growing
number of food deficit districts in the Hills. Eleven out of 18 Hill districts
in the east and 15 out of 35 Hill districts in the west are now reported to
have chronic foodgrain deficits. As a result, public sector distribution
of foodgrains has been increasing steadily from 21,900 MT in 1974/75 to an
estimated 40,000 MT in 1978/79, and grain exports, especially of rice, have
been on the decline. Rice exports which had reached 221,000 MT in 1975/76
fell to 39,200 MT in 1977/78 before recovering somewhat in 1978/79 to an
estimated 70,000 MT. Rice exports declined not only because of the dwindling
exportable surplus but also because of the reduced demand from the traditional
Indian market (para 3.11). Nepal has been actively seeking new export markets,
but the poor quality of Nepalese rice resulting in part from substandard stor-
age conditions, has severely hampered entry into new markets. For upgrading
Nepalese rice to improve its acceptability in international markets, construc-
tion of better storage facilities would be an important first step.
2.07      The poor agricultural record has led to doubts about whether Nepal
can still be regarded as a food surplus country. Cereal production in 1976
and 1977 appears to have been insufficient to meet national caloric require-
ments for normal subsistence 1/, and various forecasts indicate that Nepal's
internal food supply situation may continue to worsen 2/. Due to the important
role of rice as foreign exchange earner and because of balance of payment
needs, however, it appears unlikely that Nepal will discontinue rice exports
altogether in the foreseeable future. A reduction in the present, extensive
storage losses (para 2.19) would contribute to foodgrain availability for
1/   World Bank, Nepal-Agricultural Sector Review, April 1979, pp. 20-21.
2/   World Bank, Nepal-Development Performance and Prospects, December 1979,
p. 67; FAO, A Policy and Action Plan for Strengthening National Food
Security in Nepal (draft report), July 1978.



- 4 -
exports; but efforts in this respect are being severely hampered by a lack
of suitable storage facilities (paras 2.18 and 2.21).
Marketing
2.08      About 86% of paddy is marketed during the post-harvest months from
November to April. The large majority of farmers, due to a lack of storage
facilities and because of need for cash, sell their produce immediately after
harvest, when prices are usually lowest. Nepalese foodgrain markets can
be divided into primary, secondary and terminal markets. Most farmers sell
their produce in the primary or village markets which are dominated by private
traders who often are also money lenders, advancing famers cash against future
grain. Some farmers take their grain to secondary makets which consist of
small market centers where wholesalers, commission agents, rice millers and
Rice Export Companies (RECs) are the principal buyers. Only very few farmers
take their produce directly to terminal markets where millers, Nepal Food
Corporation (NFC), and RECs operate and from where surplus foodgrain is sent
either for internal distribution or for export.
2.09      Cooperatives, which are called Sajha in Nepal, are required under
present policies to procure any surplus grain, but play only a minor role in
foodgrain marketing. RECs have used Sajha as purchasing agents paying a 3.0%
to 3.5% commission on the foodgrain procured for RECs, and NFC on several
occasions purchased wheat through Sajha. These arrangements have been working
with a varying degree of success, largely depending on capability of the indiv-
idual Sajha and on coordination between Sajha and NFC/RECs. There is con-
siderable potential for additional involvement of Sajha in the procurement for
NFC and RECs; but coordination between these institutions would have to be
improved, and NFC/RECs would have to assist Sajha in developing necessary
procurement and storage management expertise.
Transport
2.10      Farmers transport their foodgrain, using mainly bullock carts in the
Terai and pack animals and porters in the Hills. Millers, merchants and RECs
in the eastern Terai transport the bagged grain by truck. In the western
Terai, all-weather roads are rare and transport depends on the weather con-
ditions. Tractors and bullock carts are used in addition to trucks. For
exports as well as east-west and west-east movement of grain, NFC and RECs
rely heavily on the Indian Railways. The grain is moved by truck across the
border to an Indian railhead from where it is transported either to export
markets via Calcutta or to another Indian railhead and back into Nepal. NFC
transports grain to Kathmandu in hired trucks of 10 MT carrying capacity which
can go as far as Hetauda where the Corporation owns and rents some trans-
shipment storage facilities. Onward transport from Hetauda is restricted to
trucks carrying a maximum weight of 7.5 MT. For grain transport to Hill
distribution areas other than Kathmandu Valley, NFC, because of the lack of
roads, depends mostly on porters and animals. Some Hill and Mountain areas,
especially in the Far-Western Region, are so inaccessible by traditional means
that foodgrain has to be flown in by small aircraft on a regular basis.



-5-
Post Harvest Operations
2.11      Threshing.  Traditional floor threshing with bullock teams is prac-
ticed in most of the Terai and in parts of the Hills.   Manual threshing with
sticks or beater bars is also common especially for wheat, barley and millet.
For paddy th.sshing in the Terai and in Kathmandu Valley, mechanized threshers
are now widely used which are either foot pedal-operated or power-driven.
Maize is stripped from the cob mostly by hand, but hand-operated cob-strippers
are on the increase.
2.12      Drying.  Sun-drying on woven mats, earth floors or road surfaces is
the only form of pre-storage drying carried out at the farm level. Most of
the paddy is harvested in the dry season and can be sun-dryed to moisture
levels which permit safe storage (13% to 14% moisture content). Wheat, maize
and early paddy on the other hand are often harvested under wet conditions,
so that, by and large, sun-drying is not possible for many weeks, resulting
in serious deterioration in grain quality and quantitative losses. At the
commercial level, sun-drying is the predominant practice. Only four rice
mills in the country are provided with mechanized drying facilities. The
lack of mechanized drying equipment is a serious problem in storage of wheat
and maize which rapidly deteriorate unless the generally high moisture content
of these crops at harvest is properly reduced before storage.
2.13      Milling.  At farm level, paddy is hulled in the traditional wooden
pestle either by hand pounding with a wooden peg or by the use of a foot-
operated pivoting pole. Wheat, maize, millet and barley are handground
between two stones. There are about 1,800 commercial rice mills, which are
heavily concentrated in the Terai, especially in the eastern Zones. Most rice
mills are Engleberg type disc hullers; only about 50 mills are of the modern
rubber-roller sheller type. With the exception of one rice mill operated by
the Seti & Mahakali Rice Export Company, all rice mills are operated by
private owners.
2.14      The rice mills rely almost exclusively on husk-fired boilers as
their power source. The husk, obtained as a byproduct from the milling
operation, is sufficient to meet the mills' energy needs. A survey carried
out by the Food Research Laboratory of the Food and Agricultural Marketing
Services Department (FAMSD) determined that much of the rice milling equipment
is dilapidated and various equipment items used in the same mill are often not
compatible. The average recovery rate in the mills surveyed has been 60% for
white rice and 66.5% for parboiled rice. It appears that recovery rates and
the quality of the rice could be significantly improved with the use of modern
equipment and with the introduction of better management practices. However,
more research needs to be done before a program to strengthen the rice milling
sector can be developed. Commercial milling of wheat is currently on the
increase with some 10 new flour mills under construction or planned. Fifteen
large mills with a total capacity of 260 MT/day have been licensed, but
only five are operational.



-6-
Storage Practices and Losses
2.15      On-farm storage is usually limited to grain for family consumption
and for seed. Grain to be sold is generally marketed shortly after harvest.
Following sun-drying, farmers in the Terai commonly store paddy in traditional
outdoor or indoor bamboo and mud bins which are built on raised platforms. In
the Hills, the standard storage container for paddy is a woven bamboo cylinder.
For maize, rack storage of cobs is practiced in all parts of Nepal and wheat
is generally stored in earthenware pots, woven baskets and wooden boxes.
There is a paucity of quantified information on on-farm storage losses, but
losses appear to be significant and have been quoted as high as 20% over a
storage season. Inadequate drying and poor storage facilities seem to cause
considerable losses from insect attack especially in the case of wheat and
maize, which often suffer initial infestation in the field. For late paddy,
harvested in October-December and dried to safe storage levels, insect
infestation is a lesser problem, but rodent damage appears to be high.
2.16      Off-farm foodgrain storage is maintained by Sajha cooperatives,
foodgrain merchants and millers, Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) and Rice Export
Companies (RECs). Grain is invariably stored in bags. Sajha's involvement
in foodgrain is mainly for procurement and storage of paddy on behalf of RECs,
and has been concentrated in the Far Western Region, where market infrastruc-
ture is lacking. Sajha storage facilities have been inadequate for this
purpose, particularly in the Far Western Region, and are being replaced by new
well-designed multi-purpose facilities, which are financed by the Agricultural
Development Bank. However, no serious attempt has yet been made to introduce
sound foodgrain storage practices. Quality is largely ignored in procuring
the grain from the farmer and pest control is limited to ineffective usage of
fumigants and the occasional dusting of infested stocks with malathion.
2.17      Grain merchants generally store foodgrains for short periods and
pay little attention to the quality of storage facilities or to good quality
control practices. Rice mill storage is usually of poor quality with in-
adequate protection against moisture and rodents. Fumigation is attempted
only in extreme cases, usually by sealing off the entire godown. Rice husk
is commonly used as dunnage to absorb moisture and this causes the rice in
the bottom layers of bags to discolor badly. Storage losses at Sajha and
trader/miller levels have not been studied, but are thought to be signi-
ficant.
2.18      NFC owns most of its storage facilities at procurement and trans-
shipment centers, but RECs rely almost exclusively on rented godowns which
rarely meet acceptable quality standards. Some of the NFC godowns, and most
of the godowns hired by RECs have damp mud floors and offer no protection
against rodents and birds; fumigation is often impracticable or ineffective
because of internal structures obstructing the use of fumigation sheets, or
is hampered by the proximity of many rented storage facilities to private
residences; protection against weather is frequently inadequate because of
leaking roofs and poor ventilation; and narrow doorways and insufficient
lighting prevent efficient grain movement. The poor quality of many godowns



- 7 -
coupled with the lack of essential quality control equipment such as fumiga-
tion sheets and spraying gear, has contributed to NFC/RECs' longtime neglect
of proper storage practices. NFC/RECs management is now giving increased
attention to this and has recently employed a number of quality control staff.
While some improvements in grain grading and storage practices appear to have
been made, the overall effect of this staff addition has been iimited by the
lack of equipment and good quality godowns and by inadequate experience of the
quality control personnel.
2.19      Information on NFC/RECs storage losses is scarce.  Storage losses
vary with the kind of grain, moisture content, duration of storage and quality
control management.   Grain lots investigated at NFC revealed weight losses of
20% over 18 months in a 400 ton lot of white rice; a 15% loss for maize over
one year; and even a case of 100% loss in wheat after 8 months storage.
Considerable storage losses are also evidenced by large rice quantities
earmarked for export having been rejected and by substantial rice sales at
reduced prices following infestation and deterioration of the grain. The
mission conducted a sample survey of losses, by weighing the grain and analyz-
ing its quality at eight procurement centers of RECs and NFC, and evaluating
the experience of these institutions. The analysis suggests that losses over
a six-month period under substandard storage conditions, with present manage-
ment practices, are 4.0% for parboiled rice, 5.0% for white rice, 7.5% for
wheat and 8.0% for maize. The principal reasons for the high loss in wheat
and maize are the poor quality of godown, the high moisture content of these
crops (15% to 18%) at the time of procurement and the absence of proper grain
drying equipment. In the Far Western Region, due to a lack of storage facil-
ities, paddy has to be stored frequently outdoors without any protection.
Paddy losses in open storage are estimated at 5% and 11% after 3 and 6 months
respectively.
Grain Storage Resources
2.20      Grain storage facilities are maintained by the private sector, Sajha
cooperatives and NFC/RECs. Information on private sector grain storage is
sketchy and unreliable. Sajha cooperatives own multi-purpose warehouses with
a combined capacity of 37,290 MT, with additional 5,600 MT being constructed
or proposed under ongoing HMG programs. NFC at present owns conventional bag
storage warehouses at 98 locations with a total capacity of 28,500 MT, of
which 11,200 MT are located in the Terai and 17,300 MT at trans-shipment and
distribution centers in the Hills and Mountains. By April 1979, NFC had
rented an additional capacity of 16,200 MT from private and institutional
sources, bringing NFC's total available storage capacity to 44,700 MT. Stor-
age under construction totals 23,300 MT including 10,000 MT and 12,750 MT
funded by UNDP and UK/ODA respectively. The construction programs will pri-
marily replace some of NFC's own dilapidated warehouses and rented facilities
which are not suitable for long-term grain storage.
2.21      The eight RECs own storage of 4,500 MT, all of which is located in
the Terai, and are presently constructing 3,000 MT, and, as of April 1979,
they hired 104 facilities with a capacity of 44,700 MT. The warehouses owned
by NFC and RECs have been built for grain storage and are mostly suitable for
this purpose, but most of the hired godowns are small (between 200 and 500 MT)
and not intended for long-term grain storage; some are rooms in residential



- 8 -
buildings. A large number of these rented godowns are widely scattered, badly
located and without easy access by truck. The distribution of the storage
facilities owned or being constructed by NFC/RECs in various districts is
shown in IBRD Map 14831R.
C. Government Foodgrain Policies and Practices
Policy Objectives and Formulation
2.22      The government foodgrain policy in Nepal has four stated objectives:
(i) to make foodgrains available to the poor in food
deficit areas at reasonable prices;
(ii)  to stabilize foodgrain prices;
(iii) to promote foodgrain exports; and
(iv)  to increase agricultural production by providing incen-
tive prices to producers.
The key institutions in implementing foodgrain policy are the Nepal Food Cor-
poration (NFC) and the eight Rice Export Companies (RECs).
2.23      Responsibility for policy decisions in the sector rests with the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA), although policy directives often
originate at more senior levels in HMG. On matters of policy formulation, the
Food and Agricultural Marketing Services Department (FAMSD) of the Ministry
plays a crucial role. It collects price information, analyzes trade patterns,
and prepares an annual Food Balance Sheet which presents the overall foodgrain
situation in the country, and assesses food surplus and deficit status by
district. On the basis of this analysis FAMSD prepares recommendations for
public sector grain procurement in the different Zones, for public distribu-
tion programs in the deficit districts, and for the amount of rice exports.
Subsequently, distribution quantities are agreed between MFA and NFC, and the
overall export target as well as quotas for individual RECs are set by the
Food Policy Coordination Committee (FPCC) which comprises the Ministers of
Food and Agriculture, Finance, and Industry and Commerce as members; the
Secretary, MFA as an observer; and the general manager of NFC as ex-officio
Executive Secretary of the Committee.
Foodgrain Distribution Policy
2.24      HMG's program for subsidized foodgrain distribution is implemented
by NFC. The volume of public sector distribution has been increasing steadily
to an estimated 40,000 MT in 1978/79 (para 3.06). NFC distribution prices are
determined by MFA which takes into account the remoteness of the deficit areas
and concomitant transportation cost, in addition to local market prices and
NFC's procurement and overhead expenses. For price determination the country
has been divided into three sectors: Sector A - Mountains and remote Hills;



- 9 -
Sector B - lower Hills and Terai; Sector C - Kathmandu Valley. Distribution
prices are heavily subsidized with the biggest subsidy being provided in
Sector A. For example, in the Eastern Development Region, the average cost of
transporting one kilogram of rice from the Terai to the Hills is NRs 1.65, the
average rice procurement price is NRs 2.40/kg, but NFC's average selling price
is only NRs 2.Q4/kg. Part of the subsidy is financed by the Rice Export
Companies (RECs) which have to sell under an export levy scheme 20% equivalent
of the quantity of rice exports to NFC at a concessionary price fixed annually
by MFA, which has been as low as 52% of RECs' procurement price. However,
with the decline in rice exports, the levy, which has been fluctuating between
20% and 30% of exports, has diminished, and, as a consequence, NFC has been
compelled to procure a growing amount of foodgrain directly at open market
prices (mostly from RECs). This development has led to widening financial
deficits at NFC (para 3.07) which have been compounded by losses resulting
from poor storage conditions and unsatisfactory storage practices (para
2.18).
2.25      To ensure adequate food supplies for the Hills, especially in
emergencies, and to stabilize prices during times of food shortages, HMG has
recently adopted a food security program under the auspices of the World Food
Program. Under this scheme, NFC is to maintain a foodgrain reserve stock of
5,000 MT at strategic locations in the Hills, and 10,000 MT in the Terai and
at trans-shipment centers such as Hetauda. Implementation of the program and
effective price stabilization through maintenance of adequate buffer stocks
are, however, constrained by a lack of storage facilities.
Foodgrain Export Policy
2.26      In 1974 HMG established eight quasi-Government Rice Export Companies
(RECs) and granted a rice export monopoly to these institutions. Earlier,
rice exports had been in the hands of private traders, and went almost
exclusively to India where Nepal enjoyed an easily accessible captive rice
market. Due to Nepal's long open border with India, a large portion of this
trade was transacted through informal channels, giving rise to substantial
H1MG revenue losses. In addition, foreign exchange earnings from this informal
trade were not made fully available to Nepal. The main objective of insti-
tutionalizing rice exports was to improve the rice market structure, which
before 1974 was characterized by the dominance of a few private traders,
and thereby (i) provide incentive prices to paddy farmers, (ii) increase
HMG revenue by preventing customs and income tax evasion, and (iii) increase
foreign exchange earnings. Another important objective was to provide food-
grains to NFC at low prices, through the levy system, to meet food requirements
in deficit areas.
2.27      During their first two years of operation, RECs were successful in
meeting the stated objectives, with rice exports reaching a high of 221,000 MT
in 1975/76. But, as India's steadily increasing foodgrain harvests sharply
reduced the demand of the Indian market for Nepalese rice and the rising
domestic foodgrain requirements greatly reduced the exportable surplus, RECs
became less able to meet expectations and in some instances incurred financial
losses. Part of RECs problems have been the result of the relatively low
quality of Nepalese rice. Substandard godown conditions and inadequate quality
control have led to discoloration and to difficulties in meeting with "free of



- 10 -
insects" specifications. To improve rice quality, RECs have increased their
quality control efforts, but due to the lack of proper storage facilities and
quality control equipment their endeavors have had little success so far. In
July 1979, HMG removed RECs export monopoly, permitting private traders to
resume rice exports, except government-to-government rice export which is
reserved for RECs. The private sector is expected to capture some of the
export market. The extent to which rice exports will be shifted from the
public to the private sector remains, however, to be seen. The policy change
is not expected to affect the informal trade across the border to India, nor
much of the trade with third countries which has been on a government-to-
government basis. Should internal food requirements continue to expand faster
than production, supply, not marketing constraints, would increasingly
determine Nepal's ability to export rice.
Price Support Policy
2.28      HMG price policy for foodgrains is dictated by the twin objectives
of assuring low and stable consumer prices while providing adequate incentives
to producers. The Government fixes each year a support price for paddy and
wheat. The objective of the support price is to provide the farmer with a
minimum incentive price, and public sector institutions are instructed not to
purchase foodgrain below this price. However, a number of factors have caused
the support price to be of questionable effectiveness in meeting the objective.
The price is not fixed until after planting, but only shortly before harvesting,
thereby reducing the potential impact on producer decisions. Secondly, while
the price is fixed, taking into account the Nepalese cost of production, the
proximity to India and the long open border limit independent price decisions
as any large differential would result in considerable grain movements across
the border. Thirdly, although market prices have tended to be above support
prices, profit margins for foodgrains have been below those for cash crops
and below what is justified when export prices for rice are considered, even
after allowing for trade and transport margins. Fourthly, the support price
for paddy has remained constant for three years, and public sector procurement
at the primary level has been limited; only in the western Regions have NFC/RECs
procured substantial quantities of paddy and wheat in primary markets, from
farmers or Sajha. Generally, public sector agencies have not been geared to
"defend" the Government support price. While complete data do not exist on
farmgate prices actually received by farmers, it appears that millers and
private traders are purchasing grain at below the support price in the west,
and above the support price in the east. NFC/RECs primary procurement in the
west, particularly for wheat, has helped to counteract such a trend and ensure
farmers a better price, but in the east, the RECs have been purchasing rice
mainly from millers and traders, thereby limiting any direct effect of their
operations on farmgate prices. Finally, for the price mechanism to be used as
a more effective instrument of production policy will require a better data
base on the costs and returns to agricultural crops, supplemented by a further
strengthening of public sector capability to implement Government price policy
objectives.
2.29      In recognition of the need for a better data base for determining
Government price policy, HMG is planning to engage consultants to carry out a
study to provide the basis for future policy decisions. Furthermore, to make



- 11 -
the support price system work more effectively, NFC and RECs are being instruc-
ted to increase their direct procurement from farmers and through Sajha. By
the end of the Sixth Plan in 1984/85, direct procurement by NFC/RECs is to
reach 50% of the foodgrain marketed annually by farmers. This may be difficult
to achieve, but the decision appears to be basically in the right direction.
Additional storage capacity for NFC/RECs would be crucial for meeting this
objective.
III. PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
A. Nepal Food Corporation (NFC)
General
3.01      Until mid-1972, HMG foodgrain distribution policy was mainly con-
cerned with the Kathmandu Valley, as most other Hill districts were able to
provide for themselves. In 1972, widespread food shortages compelled HMG to
expand distribution operations nationwide. To that end, the Agricultural
Marketing Corporation (AMC) was formed through the merger of the Food Manage-
ment Corporation, which had been responsible for food distribution in the
Kathmandu Valley, and the Agriculture Supply Corporation, which had been in
charge of input supply. It soon became clear that AMC was not able to handle
both foodgrains and inputs, and consequently, in 1974, AMC was divided into
the Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) responsible for implementing HMG food dis-
tribution policy, and the Agricultural Inputs Corporation for supplying inputs.
At the same time HMG established eight Rice Export Companies (RECs), and a
rice levy system was introduced under which RECs are required to provide NFC
with a source of low-priced rice for internal distribution. NFC also has been
making use of RECs to procure wheat and maize for internal distribution. In
recent years, NFC in addition to its foodgrain distribution responsibilities,
has taken up trading in mustard seed, pulses, sugar, and sheep and goats.
Organization and Management 1/
3.02      NFC has been incorporated under the Corporations Act of 1964 and
is governed by a seven member Board of Directors appointed by HMG. The Board
comprises representatives of the Ministries of Finance, Industry and Commerce,
and Works and Transport, and of the Nepal Rastra Bank and FAMSD. Chief Exec-
utive is the General Manager who is assisted by two Deputy General Managers
(DGMs), directing operations and administrative functions of six headquarter
divisions, four regional and 58 branch offices. Total staff strength is about
810. An organization plan is presented in Chart 21253.
3.03      NFC's organizational structure and management are in need of strength-
ening. The present organization does not adequately serve NFC's operational
requirements, and management is constrained by a lack of trained staff, inade-
quate management information systems, and weak financial and internal control
systems. Details are in paras 4.14 through 4.20.
1/   See also FAO Report:  Organizational and Management Review - Nepal Food
Corporation, 1979.



- 12 -
Operations
3.04      Procurement.  Until recently, the major portion of NFC's procurement
took place in the form of levy purchases from RECs. In 1975/76, NFC procured
49,900 MT of grains through levy purchases as compared to 16,300 MT in 1974/75.
However, after 1975/76 levy procurement declined to 29,900 MT in 1976/77, and
to 17,800 MT in 1977/78. While levy purchases decreased, NFC procurement from
RECs at prices covering RECs' cost rose from zero in 1975/76 to 15,100 MT in
1977/78. At the same time, NFC started to procure rice from traders and
millers, generally by calling tenders, and also commenced purchasing wheat and
maize, both as levy and in the open market, with part of the wheat being sup-
plied by Sajba. In 1977/78 wheat and maize procurement were 9,600 MT, almost
20% of NFC's total foodgrain procurement.
3.05      Quality Control.  NFC introduced quality standards in its procurement
operations, specifying limits for such characteristics as moisture content,
foreign matter, broken and damaged kernel (Annex 2, Table 1). The standards
are in part based on the voluntary "Paddy and Rice Grading Standards" prom-
ulgated by FAMSD in 1974 (Annex 2, Table 2) and have been designed to improve
grain quality at the procurement stage. NFC has also strengthened storage
quality control procedures under a project for which UK/ODA has provided
financial and technical assistance. A nucleus staff of Food Technologists and
Food Technology Assistants has been recruited and given some basic training.
Responsibility of this staff is to take and analyze grain samples at the
procurement stage, routinely inspect stocks and godowns, and organize and
supervise pest control measures. While introduction of grading standards and
recruitment of some quality control staff have been encouraging steps in
developing sound quality control practices, considerable improvements are
still required in this field. Due largely to the shortage of quality control
staff and their lack of practical experience, performance has not yet reached
desired levels.
3.06      Distribution.  NFC uses a national network of Sajha and private
dealers for distributing foodgrains. In remote Hill and Mountain areas, NFC
sells directly to the public through its own field offices. Although NFC
sells at subsidized prices, no formal rationing is in effect. It appears that
such factors as limits on quantities available and the lower quality of the
publicly distributed grain act as a form of rationing, with higher income
consumers going to open-market shops. Foodgrain distribution by NFC has
increased considerably over the recent years, from 21,900 MT in 1974/75 to
35,400 MT in 1977/78 and an estimated 40,000 MT in 1978/79. Forecasts for
NFC's future distribution requirements vary considerably. NFC's latest fore-
cast projects NFC distribution to reach 64,700 MT in 1984/85. A somewhat older
forecast estimates that by 1984/85 NFC will have to supply about 120,000 MT.
District-wise distribution quantities are agreed upon between MFA and NFC
on the basis of the Food Balance Sheet which presents distribution needs as
reported separately by the Chief District Officer, District Panchayat and
NFC depot officials. Most NFC grain is distributed in Kathmandu Valley, but
the share of the Mountain and Hill regions has been growing (see Annex 2,
Table 3) and is anticipated to expand further as food deficits increase in
these regions. Since transportation costs, especially to Hill and Mountain



- 13 -
districts, are very high (exceeding 500% of the grain procurement price in
case of some villages), proper inventory management and transportation plan-
ning will become increasingly important.
3.07      Deficit Financing.  When NFC and RECs were established, it was anti-
cipated thac the rice export levy and the low levy prices would enable NFC
to distribute foodgrains in food deficit areas at subsidized prices without
impairing NFC's financial viability. As rice exports dwindled and the level
of levy as a percentage of the export was lowered, the supply of levy rice
to NFC sharply declined in the face of increasing food distribution require-
ments, so that NFC has had to procure more and more of its foodgrains at market
prices. As HMG permitted NFC to increase its distribution prices only by a
fraction of the increased costs, NFC's financial position has seriously deter-
iorated. (Details about levy prices, distribution prices, and subsidies are
provided in Annex 2, Tables 4 and 5). With the exception of the first finan-
cial year, NFC's profit and loss statements indicate steadily increasing
annual deficits (Annex 2, Table 6). The unaudited balance sheet for Financial
Year 1977/78 (Annex 2, Table 7) shows an accumulated loss of NRs 24.3 million,
including an operating loss for 1977/78 of NRs 16.1 million (about US$1.3 mil-
lion equivalent). The accumulated loss is projected to have grown to about
NRs 65 million at the end of FY 1978/79. A five-year financial forecast
(Annex 2, Table 8) based on NFC's most recent conservative projections for
distribution requirements (46,400 MT in 1980/81 increasing to 64,700 MT in
1984/85) projects continuously growing annual deficits, reaching an estimated
NRs 71.2 million by 1984/85.
3.08      While NFC's financial deficits are partly due to inefficiencies,
such as poor financial management (paras 4.19 and 4.20) and excessive storage
losses (para 2.19), their main cause is HMG's subsidized foodgrain distribu-
tion policy which requires NFC to sell foodgrains at prices which do not
permit the Corporation to recover all costs incurred in its procurement and
distribution operations. HMG assistance in NFC deficit financing has been
negligible. HMG has made modest equity contributions to help NFC meet its
increasing working capital requirements, but NFC deficits so far have been
funded almost exclusively through bank borrowings. These borrowings together
with large loans for working capital financing in turn have aggravated NFC's
financial problems. Given HMG's distribution pricing policies, NFC cannot be
expected to operate profitably and needs HMG support for deficit financing.
Without such support NFC cannot be expected to become financially viable. At
negotiations an assurance was obtained from HMG that, beginning fiscal year
1982 and under arrangements satisfactory to IDA, HMG would provide NFC annually
with grant funds from budgetary sources sufficient to cover costs which are
necessarily incurred by NFC in carrying out HMG foodgrain distribution poli-
cies but are not recovered in the distribution prices fixed by HMG. Such
cost would include parts of transportation and interest cost and portions of
procurement cost where procurement prices exceed distribution prices. For
proper recording of these costs, NFC, with the assistance of a financial
specialist (para 4.21), would establish appropriate accounts and accounting
procedures. In addition, NFC would prepare and present to HMG annually five
year projections for distribution and HMG financing requirements. Copies of
such projections would be made available to IDA. Annual direct fiscal cost
to HMG are estimated to amount to less than 2% of HMG's annual expenditures.



- 14 -
B. Rice Export Companies (RECs)
Management and Organization
3.09      In 1974 HMG established eight RECs as joint ventures with the pri-
vate sector traditionally involved in rice trading and milling, and granted
a rice export monopoly to these institutions. RECs are located in the Terai
where they procure foodgrains in nine Zones: Mechi, Koshi, Sagarmatha,
Janakpur, Narayani, Lumbini, Bheri, Seti and Mahakali. Foodgrain procurement
of each REC is limited to one Zone, except for the Seti and Mahakali Rice Ex-
port Company which covers two Zones. RECs are incorporated under the Company
Act of 1964, with the majority of the shares being held by HMG and most of the
remainder owned by private traders and millers. Each REC is governed by a
Board of Directors consisting of nine members. The Board gernerally comprises
the General Manager, who is appointed by HMG; three traders and millers; a
farmers' representative; the Chief Customs and Chief Excise Officers; and
representatives of NFC and the Agricultural Development Bank. The Board is
chaired by one of the traders or millers. While the Board sets the policies
for RECs operations and determines procurement and export prices, the General
Manager is responsible for day-to-day activities. He is generally assisted by
a Deputy General Manager who supervises both line and staff functions. The
organization of the Far-Western REC is presented as an example in Chart 21267.
Operations
3.10      Procurement.  Procurement prices set by RECs' Boards vary with the
quality of the grain procured and differ from region to region. RECs procure
paddy, and small amounts of wheat and maize through Sajha and through their
own depots. Rice is procured from millers and traders. In 1978/79, RECs
operated 57 depots and made procurement arrangements with 44 Sajha (Details
are in Annex 2, Table 9). Total rice and paddy procurement has decreased from
236,800 MT in 1975/76 to 119,100 MT in 1977/78, with paddy amounting to less
than 15% of the total (Annex 2, Table 10). RECs in the past were not very keen
on paddy procurement since purchasing of rice was more convenient, and since
the lack of storage facilities in some Zones and cash flow problems at indivi-
dual RECs constrained purchasing of large quantities of paddy. With the
elimination of the rice export monopoly, rice exports are open to the private
sector, and RECs can no longer rely on millers and traders for their supply.
The Companies will therefore have to expand their paddy procurement program.
Additional storage facilities will be required for this purpose together with
training of procurement staff. It will also be necessary to develop a detailed
procurement program including staffing and location of procurement depots, and
procurement coordination with Sajha (para 5.12).
3.11      Exports.  Export targets are set annually for each REC by the Food
Policy Coordination Committee (FPCC). As the pattern of rice exports has
changed from the traditional dependence on the Indian market, FPCC has also
functioned as an important link with third country buyers, often negotiating
sales contracts on behalf of RECs. However, rice export to third countries
has not been very successful because of the low quality of Nepalese rice.



- 15 -
Insect infestation and discoloration have made it difficult to sell Nepalese
rice in third country markets. Nepal has had also to accept high price dis-
counts for its rice. Such discounts have ranged from 23% to 36% of the fob
Bangkok price for Thai rice (5% brokens) with the average amounting to 28%.
When there was Indian demand for Nepalese rice, RECs exports reached a high of
221,000 MT, but then declined to 39,200 MT in 1977/78. For 1978/79, rice
exports are estimated at 70,000 MT. Along with exports, levy sales to NFC
dropped from 49,900 MT in 1975/76 to 17,800 MT in 1977/78. On the other hand,
sales to NFC at prices covering RECs cost increased over the same period from
zero to 15,100 MT. (Details are in Annex 2, Table 11.)
3.12      The problems encountered in penetrating third country markets have
forced RECs to give increased attention to quality control. The Companies
have therefore adopted the same grading standards as NFC (Annex 2, Table 1)
and engaged quality control personnel called Graders, who are responsible for
inspecting grain at the time of procurement and during storage, and for super-
vising pest control operations. Efforts in improving quality control have,
however, been seriously hampered by the poor quality of most RECs godowns, the
lack of essential equipment such as fumigation sheets and spraying gear, and
by inadequate experience and training of the quality control staff. Construc-
tion of new godowns designed for long-term grain storage, and equipping RECs
with necessary quality control equipment would be essential prerequisites for
upgrading the quality of Nepalese rice. Furthermore, RECs quality control
procedures would need to be further strengthened, and additional training
would have to be given to procurement staff and Graders.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Concept and Objectives
4.01      Under HMG's program of providing minimum support prices to foodgrain
producers, NFC and RECs are being instructed to increase direct procurement
from farmers and through Sajha. Increased foodgrain procurement by NFC will
also be necessary to meet growing distribution needs in the Hills and Moun-
tains. To support a growing procurement program in the Terai, additional
storage facilities would be needed. Additional storage in the Terai would
also be required for the implementation of HMG's food security program under
which NFC would manage a 10,000 MT foodgrain reserve at strategic locations in
the Terai and at trans-shipment points such as Hetauda. Furthermore, addi-
tional and improved storage warehouses would be necessary for meeting HMG's
policy objective of promoting foodgrain exports. The new export markets,
which RECs are trying to penetrate, entail long storage periods in Nepal and
demand higher quality rice than Nepal had previously been able to ship to
India. RECs now have to store most of their rice in substandard godowns where
the grain suffers high quantitative losses and considerable quality deter-
ioration. As a result, the rice finds little acceptability in international
markets and has to be sold at low prices.
4.02      The major objective of the project would be to assist HMG in the
implementation of its foodgrain policy by providing good storage facilities



- 16 -
and strengthening the management and technical capabilities of NFC and RECs,
so that these institutions can meet foodgrain procurement, distribution and
export requirements and reduce quantitative and qualitative storage losses.
In addition, the project would be aimed at providing necessary information
for further development of the post-harvest sub-sector and for future HMG
foodgrain policy formulation.
Major Features
4.03      The project would consist of: (i) construction of 40,000 MT of
bagged grain storage warehouses comprising 37,000 MT storage capacity at eight
procurement centers in the Terai and a 3,000 MT trans-shipment storage facility
at Hetauda; (ii) technical assistance for NFC in management and organization,
and in finance and accounting, and for NFC and RECs in grain quality control
and godown maintenance;  (iii) training and study tours for NFC and RECs
managers; and (iv) studies on foodgrain marketing and price policy and on
future needs for foodgrain storage and processing facilities.
Project Area
4.04      The project area would comprise the nine Zones where the eight RECs
are located: Mechi, Koshi, Sagarmatha, Janakpur, Narayani, Lumbini, Bheri,
Seti and Mahakali, and Hetauda. NFC/RECs foodgrain procurement in the project
area decreased from 236,800 MT in 1975/76 to 116,800 MT in 1976/77 before
recovering slightly to 134,000 MT in 1977/78. Average annual procurement over
the three year period was 162,600 MT or 13.2% of net foodgrain production.
NFC/RECs procurement varies considerably among the different project area
Zones. As a percentage of net foodgrain production, procurement is lowest in
Lumbini (3.3%) and highest in Mechi (39.5%). (Details are in Annex 3, Tables 1
and 2.) Hetauda is important as trans-shipment center. During the years
1977/78 and 1978/79 about 22,000 MT have been transported annually from the
Terai via Hetauda to Kathmandu Valley and other Hill areas. Grain is trans-
ported by trucks which carry 10 MT each up to Hetauda; but then, due to poor
road conditions, the load needs to be lightened to 7.5 MT before continuing
onward transport to Kathmandu Valley. From Hetauda to other Hill areas, grain
is transported mostly by porters or by animals.
4.05      Storage facilities owned or rented by NFC/RECs in the Terai, together
with warehouses under construction or already planned, are summarized below.
(Details by Zone are in Annex 3, Table 7.)
NFC's AND RECs' STORAGE CAPACITY IN THE TERAI
(in '000 MT)
Suitable
NFC    RECs    Total    for Grain Storage /a
Owned                    11.2      4.5      15.7           10.7
Rented                   12.9    44.7       57.6            8.8
Under Construction        8.0      3.0      11.0           11.0
Total               32 .1    52.2     84.3           30.5
/a   Storage facilities suitable for medium and long-term storage
are characterized by damp-proof concrete floors, and they permit
proper fumigation and adequate ventilation. They also provide
effective protection against birds and rodents.



- 1 7 -
At Hetauda, NFC owns and rents storage capacity of 1,300 MT and 400 MT respec-
tively. Of the total, 500 MT are suitable for grain storage.
4.06      Storage requirements of NFC/RECs have been estimated on the basis
of projected foodgrain production (Annex 3, Tables 3 and 4) and the assumption
that the NFC,AECs procurement as a percentage of foodgrain production in the
Terai will decline as a result of the recent HMG decision to eliminate RECs'
rice export monopoly. Given the strength of the private sector in the various
project area Zones, reductions in the procurement percentage are estimated to
range from 40% in eastern Nepal to 10% in the west. (Details by Zone are in
Annex 3, Table 2.) NFC/RECs storage needs by 1985/86 have been projected
separately for each Zone and are estimated to total 104,900 MT (Annex 3, Table
7). Taking into account existing storage facilities suitable for storing
grain, the total storage gap of NFC/RECs in the Terai is projected to reach
74,400 MT by 1985/86 (Annex 3, Table 7). For Hetauda, the storage gap by
1985/86 is estimated at 5,100 MT including 2,500 MT for reserve stocks which
HMG intends to keep at Hetauda under its food security program. Thus, project
storage of 37,000 MT in the Terai and 3,000 MT in Hetauda would be only about
50% of total additional storage requirements in the project area and appear to
be justified for the immediate future. In view of local construction sector
constraints and land acquisition problems as have been encountered under the
UNDP and UK/ODA assisted storage projects, a larger construction program under
the project would not be prudent at this time. Assuming satisfactory imple-
mentation of this project, a repeater project could be initiated to meet the
balance of projected 1984/85 storage requirements.
4.07      Storage would be provided in each of the nine project Zones in the
Terai except in Narayani and Lumbini where existing capacity appears to be
adequate. A storage depot would be constructed at eight locations in the
Terai and in Hetauda. The locations in the Terai have been selected on the
basis of present and projected grain procurement, availability of transporta-
tion facilities, proximity to road and rail network, and existing milling
capacity.  Project storage locations and capacities would be as follows:
ZONE                 LOCATION              CAPACITY (in MT)
Mechi                Birtamod                    9,000
Koshi                Biratnagar                  7,000
Sagarmatha           Lahan                       5,000
Janakpur             Janakpur                    3,000
Bheri                Nepalgunj                   4,000
Bheri                Rajapur                     3,000
Seti                 Dhangarhi                   4,000
Mahakali             Mahendranagar               2,000
Narayani             Hetauda                     3,000
TOTAL                40,000
Detailed Features
4.08      Storage Warehouse Complexes.  Since grain would be handled in bags
in the foreseeable future, project storage facilities would be conventional



- 18 -
bag storage warehouses. The design would be simple, provide for easy con-
struction with locally available construction material and equipment, permit
easy operation without sophisticated grain handling machinery, and would allow
for proper stock inspection and effective quality control measures. The basic
warehouse module would have a capacity of 1,000 MT of milled rice in 100 kg
bags or of 750 MT, 900 MT and 950 MT of paddy, maize and wheat respectively.
A second warehouse module of 2,000 MT (rice weight) would consist essentially
of two 1,000 MT modules joined together gable to gable but separated by a
permanent cross partition wall. Designs for the two modules are presented
in Charts 21165 and 21166. The basic 1,000 MT module would be a rectangular
building with dimensions 63 ft. x 100 ft (19.2 m x 30.5 m) by 14 ft., 10 in.
(4.5 m) high; and with a gable roof sloped 20 degrees. Wall footings would
be of plain concrete. Solid brick piers would be raised on the footings to
support a prefabricated steel tubular roof truss system. Walls between the
piers would be brick, and roof covering would be corrugated galvanized iron
sheets.  The reinforced 5oncrete floor would be designed to support a distri-
buted load of 2,700 kg/m . Each warehouse would be provided with roof and
wall ventilators, double leaf metal sliding doors and a continuous, roofed
loading deck on one side of the building. Specifications for the 1,000 MT
module and cost estimates for both storage modules are in Annex 4. Detailed
designs of the two modules would be prepared by the Project Engineering Unit
(paras 4.11 and 5.06).
4.09      At each of the nine storage locations, ancillary facilities would
be constructed comprising an office building, a laboratory, and housing for
essential resident staff, together with a drying shed, a garage and a store
for gunny bags and materials. Storage sites would need to be improved. Site
improvements would be financed under the project and include an access road
and all weather roads inside the godown complex, a parking lot and boundary
walls. Other improvements would be land filling, land levelling, sanitation,
water and power supply, and drainage. Cost estimates for godown construction,
ancillary facilities and site improvements at each of the nine storage loca-
tions are detailed in Annex 5, Table 1.
4.10      Warehousing and Quality Control Equipment.  The project would
provide at each site a weighbridge and a simple husk fired batch dryer.
Installation, initial operator training and preparation of operating instruc-
tions would be the responsibility of the supplier. Other warehousing equipment
would consist of grain cleaners, platform scales, pallets and sack barrows and
would vary in number with the size of each godown complex. Quality control
equipment would include dust applicators, fumigation sheets, spraying gear,
moisture meters, and miscellaneous other equipment items, detailed in Annex 5,
Table 3. Cost details and estimated equipment cost at each storage site are
presented in Annex 5, Tables 1 and 2.
4.11      Project Engineering Unit (PEU).  A Project Engineering Unit would
be established in NFC. PEU's main responsibilities would be the design of
storage modules and ancillary facilities, preparation of site layout, tender-
ing for civil works construction and equipment, and construction supervision



- 19 -
(para 5.06). The project would provide funds for PEU operations, and, since
mobility of PEU staff would be essential for effective supervision, it would
also finance vehicles for PEU engineers and construction supervisors. (Cost
details are in Annex 5, Table 4.)
4.12      Mobile Fumigation Units.  Present pest control practices of NFC/RECs
are limited mainly to application of malathion at the time of intake into
storage and to usage of aluminum phosphide. For fumigation with aluminum
phosphide, NFC/RECs generally attempt to seal the entire godown, a practice
which given the types and poor quality of most existing godowns is usually
not effective. Treatment of infested grain with methyl bromide under gas
proof sheets is considerably more effective but requires trained personnel
and specialized equipment both of which are presently not available in Nepal.
The project would finance equipment for two fumigation squads which would be
operated by NFC and comprise one operator and two spraymen. Each squad would
be provided with fully protective clothing and a vehicle which would carry
methyl bromide cylinders, necessary piping with power sprayers, tanks and
pesticide concentrates. A quality control specialist who would train the
squad personnel would also be engaged under the project (para 4.22). One of
the units would cover all NFC/RECs storage facilities west of Butwal. The
other unit would be responsible for the remaining NFC/RECs warehouses in the
Terai and at Hetauda. Cost of the fumigation squads are in Annex 5, Table 5.
4.13      Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance would be provided to
(i) strengthen NFC's organization and management capabilities (paras 4.14
through 4.18), (ii) improve financial management and internal audit systems
at NFC (paras 4.19 through 4.21), and (iii) assist NFC and RECs in the imple-
mentation of proper quality control procedures; improve godown maintenance;
train quality control staff, storekeepers and procurement personnel; and help
PEU in tender preparation for quality control and drying equipment (para 4.22).
4.14      NFC's organization is in need of strengthening.  The organizational
structure (Chart 21253) is basically line-staff with some unusual variations:
(i)  The Finance Division is reporting to the Deputy General
Manager (DGM) Operations;
(ii)  the Construction and Maintenance Division is reporting to
the DGM Administration; and
(iii)  the unity of command principle is not being followed between
headquarters, regional offices and branch offices.
The absence of a clear chain of command between headquarters and field offices
coupled with inadequate delegation of responsibilities and authority to regional
and branch offices is causing long delays in decision making, and overburdening
of headquarters staff with trivial matters which could be solved more effec-
tively at lower levels.
4.15      To strengthen its operational effectiveness, NFC needs to revise its
organizational structure. All staff functions should be assumed by the DGM
for Administration who would provide the necessary line support for financial



- 20 -
management, personnel management, general services and planning. Support
should not be limited to irregular assistance on the basis of explicit manage-
ment requests, but include a structured management information system to pro-
vide necessary operational, financial and statistical data for planning and
decision making at the operational level, and a strong personnel management
system for recruiting qualified personnel and for planned in-service training.
The DGM Operations should be responsible for all line functions including
Trade which is now combined with Planning. Most importantly, the DGM Opera-
tions should have the direct authority over and responsibility for all field
offices which need to be structured along single lines of command. In addi-
tion, a program for decentralization of authority and responsibility at the
various field office levels needs to be developed together with a system of
control over field office operations. A revised organizational structure
is presented in Chart 21266.
4.16      NFC's management also is in need of strengthening.  Planning, organi-
zing, direction, control and coordination appear to be ad hoc managerial
functions rather than primary management responsibilities. There are several
apparent reasons for this, including shortage of trained, experienced staff,
especially at the professional level; temporary appointment of personnel for
long periods; a rather recent top management; frequent transfer of key division
heads; inadequate delegation of responsibility and authority; lack of manage-
ment information systems; and inadequate communication between field offices
and headquarters.
4.17      Improvement in management effectiveness will to some degree depend
on the availability of highly competent staff in key positions. However,
recruitment of new and additional staff is a factor which can be regulated by
NFC only to a limited degree because many important factors such as pay scale
and creation of positions are subject to ministerial decisions. On the other
hand, there are a number of steps that NFC can take to strengthen its manage-
ment capabilities: (i) reorganization and delegation of responsibility and
authority, as outlined above, would provide for a more manageable organization;
(ii) additional emphasis on training through appointment of a training officer
and development of training programs including in-service and foreign training
would permit valuable staff development within the existing personnel struc-
ture; (ii) establishment of a management information system including monthly
and quarterly reports on matters such as financial operations, cash flows,
inventory status and grain movements, personnel management and training
requirements, and comparisons of actual with budgeted results would consider-
ably improve day-to-day management by the General Manager and DGMs and make
quarterly Board meetings more meaningful; and (iv) monthly staff meetings of
the General Manager, DGMs and division heads, in addition to more frequent
visits by headquarters staff to field offices, would assist in alleviating
communication problems.
4.18      In view of the shortage of trained and experienced staff and the
unlikelihood of such staff becoming available in the near future, technical
assistance in the form of organization and management expertise would be re-
quired for approximately two years to strengthen NFC's organization and man-
agement capabilities. The project would finance such expertise (para 4.23).
In addition, for staff development, NFC would engage a training manager who
would, with the assistance of the organization and management expert, design
a staff training program. (Draft Terms of Reference for the consultant are
in Annex 6.)



- 21 -
4.19      NFC's accounting, financial reporting and auditing systems require
considerable improvements in systems design, operating procedures and staff
capability. Only then would the Finance and Internal Audit Divisions be able
to provide management and other concerned agencies with accurate and timely
financial information. At present, reconciliation of payment registers, sub-
sidiary ledg-.s and bank statements is not an established monthly procedure;
a general ledger is not maintained for final entry control and for the prep-
aration of financial statements; account titles are not sufficiently descrip-
tive; and accounts are not adequately segregated. As a result, financial
statements are late (for FY 1977/78 a tentative balance sheet and income
statement were only completed by October 1979) and not reliable. The audit
of accounting records and financial statements of FY 1976/77 indicated several
qualifications regarding the balance sheet and income statement, including the
auditors' inability to verify bank balances, accounts payable and receivable,
and ending inventories; and the tentative income statement for FY 1977/78 does
not balance.
4.20      NFC's internal controls are weak.  There are no pre-audit procedures,
expenditures are sometimes difficult to verify, field offices are irregular in
submitting financial reports, and comparisons of actual with budgeted expendi-
tures are not prepared on a regular basis. Cash management is also poor; an
audit program does not exist; and the Internal Audit Division as well as the
Finance Division lack trained and experienced staff. Actions required to
improve NFC's financial and internal control procedures include (i) updating
and effective implementation of NFC's accounting manual, (ii) in-service
training of finance and internal audit personnel in the principles and funda-
mentals of accounting, (iii) pre-auditing, (iv) daily recording of all trans-
actions, (v) preparation of annual budgets and monthly interim income state-
ments, (vi) monthly comparison of actual and budgeted expenditures, (vii)
monthly cash flow projections, (viii) introduction of accounting on an accrual
basis, (ix) development of an audit program, and (x) maintenance of inventory
control records at regional offices.
4.21      To strengthen NFC's financial management capabilities, and consider-
ing the scope of improvement required as well as the lack of expertise within
NFC, technical assistance in the form of expertise in the fields of financial
management and auditing would be necessary. The project would provide for a
specialist who would be engaged for about 30 months and work closely with
NFC's present external audit firm. (Draft Terms of Reference for the project
financed consultant are in Annex 6.)
4.22      Establishment of proper procurement and storage quality control pro-
cedures at NFC and RECs is in its infancy. Godown maintenance is poor. Given
the high storage losses (para 2.19), and quality problems experienced in rice
exporting (para 3.11), NFC and RECs are now giving increased attention to this
area. By engaging some quality control staff and by adopting grading standards
and a standard for quality control procedures, these institutions have taken the
first important steps in strengthening quality control practices. But staffing
is not yet adequate; existing staff have little experience and require additional
training; quality control practices and procedures need to be further developed;
and expertise for operating mechanical drying and fumigation equipment is not
available with NFC/RECs. To assist NFC/RECs in strengthening quality control



- 22 -
practices and godown maintenance, to train quality control and procurement
staff, and to help PEU in the preparation of specifications for quality con-
trol and drying equipment, the project would provide for a two-year engagement
of a quality control specialist. (Draft Terms of Reference are in Annex 6.)
4.23      Total cost for 78 man-months of technical assistance (paras 4.13
through 4.22) estimated at about US$600,000 have been calculated on the basis
of a man-month cost of US$7,500 including subsistence and allowances. (Details
are in Annex 5, Table 6.) An assurance was obtained from NFC at negotiations
that all technical assistance services would be engaged by December 31, 1980
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
4.24.     Training.  Training would be required tc develop the skills necessary
for effective management and storage quality control at NFC and RECs.  Much of
this would be on-the-job training provided by project consultants. However,
some formal management training would have to be given outside Nepal. NFC's
four regional and five of its branch managers would participate in storage
management courses which are, for example, offered at the Indian Grain Storage
Institute and last for about four weeks. Similar storage management training
would be made available to managers of RECs. In addition, the project would
finance training courses of about three months each for NFC's division heads.
These courses also could be arranged in India or other South Asian countries
and would cover specialized subjects related to the division heads' responsi-
bilities. Furthermore, the project would provide short-term study tours for
NFC's top management to become familiar with management practices and operat-
ing procedures of institutions similar to NFC in the region. Development of
a suitable training program for NFC and RECs managers would be the responsi-
bility of the training manager who would be engaged locally by NFC. An
assurance was obtained from NFC at negotiations that foreign training and
study tours satisfactory to IDA would be arranged by June 30, 1981. (Cost
details on training are in Annex 5, Table 6.)
4.25      Studies.  The project would provide funds for a foodgrain marketing
and price policy study and a foodgrain storage and processing study. The
former would be designed to assist HMG in the formulation of suitable market-
ing policies including procurement and distribution pricing to provide ade-
quate incentives to foodgrain producers for increasing production and improv-
ing grain quality, and to minimize the drain on the Government budget. The
latter would concentrate on further development needs in the post-harvest
foodgrain sector and (i) establish a comprehensive picture of storage and
processing facilities available in Nepal, (ii) project requirements in the
storage and processing sub-sectors, and (iii) prepare recommendations for
sub-sector development. On the basis of the latter study's findings further
programs and projects could be prepared. An assurance was obtained from HMG
at negotiations that engagement of consultants for the studies would be com-
pleted by December 31, 1980 on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. (Draft
Terms of Reference for the two studies are in Annex 7. Cost estimates are in
Annex 5, Table 7.)
Project Cost Estimates
4.26      Total project costs including taxes and duties, over the four year
development period, are estimated at NRs 96.39M (US$8.04M equivalent), of



- 23 -
which about US$3.95M is foreign exchange. Details of project costs,
summarized below, are in Annex 5.
4.27      Cost estimates are based on findings during appraisal updated to
December 1979. Physical contingencies have been added at 15% on all civil
works and equipment cost for storage warehouses. Price contlagencies amount-
ing to 24.5% of the sum of base cost and physical contingencies are also
included and represent expected price increases compounded annually on all
cost components. Inflation rates have been estimated at 10.5%, 9% and 8% for
1980, 1981 and 1982 respectively and at 7% for 1983 and 1984. Duties and
taxes included in the cost estimates total NRs 9.37M (US$0.78M).
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange
----- NRs million ---  ----- US$ million ---           %
1.  Storage Facilities
Land                0.49      -      0.49   0.04        -     0.04         0
Civil Works        26.30   17.64   43.94   2.19    1.47    3.66           40
Equipment           3.01    5.29    8.30   0.26    0.44    0.70           64
Sub-total       29.80   22.93   52.73   2.49    1.91    4.40           43
2.  PEU
Vehicles            0.29    0.38    0.67   0.03    0.03    0.06           57
Operations          1.21    2.45    3.66   0.09    0.21    0.30           67
Sub-total        1.50    2.83    4.33   0.12    0.24    0.36           65
3.  Fumigation Units   0.35    0.28    0.63   0.03    0.02    0.05            44
4.  Training and
Technical
Assistance       1.41    7.50    8.91   0.11    0.63    0.74           84
5.  Studies             2.14    1.00    3.14   0.18    0.08    0.26           32
BASE COST ESTIMATE    35.20   34.54   69.74   2.93    2.88    5.81            50
6. Contingencies
Physical            4.40    3.44    7.84   0.36    0.29    0.65           44
Price               9.41    9.40   18.81   0.80    0.78    1.58           50
Sub-total       13.81   12.84   26.65   1.16    1.07    2.23           48
TOTAL PROJECT COST    49.01   47.38   96.39   4.09    3.95    8.04            49
Project Cost Ex-
cluding Duties
and Taxes             39.64   47.38   87.02   3.30    3.95    7.25           54



- 24 -
Financing
4.28       The project financing plan would be:
-US----------- US$ M --------------
IDA
Total   HMG   NFC    Amount    %
Storage Complexes                        6.36   1.71  0.04    4.61        75
Project Engineering Unit                 0.44   0.06    -       0.38      86
Mobile Fumigation Units                  0.06   0.03    -       0.03      50
Technical Assistance and Training        0.88      -     -      0.88    100
Studies                                  0.30      -     -      0.30    100
TOTAL            8.04   1.80  0.04    6.20        77
Percent of Total             100%    22%    1%       77%
4.29      The proposed IDA Credit of SDRs 4.8M (equivalent to US$6.2M as
of the date of negotiations) would meet about 85% of project cost net of
duties and taxes. The Credit would cover all foreign exchange costs and about
55% of local costs. The Ministry of Finance would pass on US$5.9M of the
proceeds of the Credit to NFC as HMG equity contribution for financing con-
struction and equipping storage complexes (US$4.6M); procurement of vehicles
for the Project Engineering Unit (PEU) and of specially equipped vehicles for
the fumigation squads (US$0.1M); technical assistance and training (US$0.9M);
and PEU's staff cost (US$0.3M). The balance of IDA funds (US$0.3M) would
be passed on to the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA) to finance con-
sultancy services which would be engaged by MFA for carrying out the project
studies. In order to permit early commencement of the foodgrain marketing
and price policy study, retroactive financing up to US$100,000 is proposed
for cost appropriately incurred for the study after November 1, 1979.
4.30      HMG's contribution of NRs 21.6M (US$1.8M) would finance about 22%
of project cost. It would cover the government's contribution to new godown
construction, equipment and vehicles procurement and PEU operations. NFC's
contribution of NRs 0.48M (US$0.04M) would finance the purchase of land for
new godowns.
Procurement
4.31      Civil works contracts for the construction of godowns and ancillary
facilities and for site improvements (US$5.29M) would be let on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Since contracts are small, only Indian contractors near the Nepalese border
would be expected to bid on the contracts, in addition to local construction
companies. Domestic contractors would be awarded a margin of preference of
7.5%. The Project Engineering Unit would pre-qualify all domestic and
foreign bidders for civil works. Prequalification criteria are in Annex 4,
Appendix 1. Construction would take place in three phases. To the extent
practical, the contracts of one phase would be bulked. A contract would in-
clude all civil works at one site. Contractors would be able to bid for one
contract or for a combination of contracts or for the entire phase.



- 25 -
4.32      Equipment items and vehicles (US$1.14M) would be mostly imported
and would be procured under ICB contracts. Items which cannot be bulked into
contracts exceeding US$100,000 may be procured under NFC's local competitive
bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Minor items costing less
than US$10,000 each, for which bulking into contracts of at least US$10,000
is not prac.-Lcal, may be procured by prudent shopping with due regard to
efficiency and economy, up to a total of US$100,000. The procurement of
weighbridges and mechanical dryers would include initial operator training
and preparation of detailed operating procedures by the supplier (para 4.10).
Technical assistance services engaged, staffing of the Project Engineering
Unit (PEU), and arrangements for foreign training and for the studies
(US$1.52M) would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The balance
of project costs (US$0.09M) would cover PEU operating costs not involving
procurement, and land purchases. An assurance was obtained from NFC at nego-
tiations that for all contracts in excess of US$100,000 draft tender documents
and bid evaluation would be submitted for IDA review prior to contract award.
Disbursement
4.33      Disbursements under the proposed credit would cover:
(i) 100% of foreign expenditures or 75% of local expenditure
for civil works contracts awarded under ICB - SDRs 2.98M
(US$3.85M);
(ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment and vehicles or 75% of local expenditure
for locally procured items - SDRs 0.64M (US$0.83M);
(iii) 100% of PEU staff cost - SDRs 0.26M (US$0.34M); and
(iv) 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training
and the two studies - SDRs 0.92M (US$1.18M).
Disbursement for items (i), (ii) and (iv) would be made against full document-
ation submitted to IDA. Claims against civil works would be substantiated
by a copy of interim payment certificates or work completion certificates
approved by NFC's general manager and co-signed by the chief engineer heading
PEU. For expenditures in (iii), disbursements would be made against certified
statements of expenditure. Documents supporting the latter type of disburse-
ments would not be submitted to IDA for review but retained by NFC and made
available for inspection by IDA during supervision mission visits. A schedule
of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 8.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
5.01      Successful development of the post-harvest foodgrain sector depends
heavily on the organizational and managerial strength of the constituent
institutions. The existing organizational structure was developed during a



- 26 -
period when food deficits in the Hills and Mountains were small, Nepal's
overall foodgrain surplus was substantial, and India was absorbing any excess
rice production which was not required for Nepal's internal needs. The
present structure has not been able to adjust adequately to changes which have
occurred in recent years, namely the increasing disparity between foodgrain
production and consumption requirements in Hill and Mountain districts, the
disappearance of the Indian demand for Nepalese rice, and higher quality
standards in other export markets, and, as a consequence, inefficiencies,
duplication of functions, cash flow problems, and weaknesses in coordination
have increasingly reduced the ability of public sector institutions to meet
effectively demands on the post-harvest sector. To take account of the new
environment in which public sector procurement, distribution and exports are
taking place, considerable restructuring of the organizational arrangements
would be necessary.
Reorganization of Nepal Food Corporation and Rice Export Companies
5.02      Since RECs entire rice purchases come from private traders and
millers, and because paddy procured by RECs is milled almost exclusively by
privately owned mills, RECs' Board members from the private sector have been
in a serious conflict of interest, especially with regard to the Board's price
decisions. This conflict of interest has been considerably aggravated by the
recent Government decision to eliminate RECs rice export monopoly and to permit
private traders to resume rice exports. In recognizing this problem, HMG has
now decided to appoint NFC in accordance with the Company Act as RECs' Manag-
ing Agent. In this role, NFC would assume the responsibility of RECs Boards,
including the establishment of procurement and export programs and of prices,
and the development of strategies for effective competition with the private
sector in paddy procurement and rice exports. Completion of necessary arrange-
ments would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. NFC's responsibilities as
RECs' Managing Agent have been agreed upon during negotiations.
5.03      Further restructuring of the institutional setup would have to
follow to take account of the other fundamental changes in the sector. RECs,
due to reduced exports, have become increasingly dependent on NFC for selling
excess grain. However, since profit margins on such sales are slim, RECs are
not keen on selling to NFC, and NFC cannot fully rely on RECs to meet its food-
grain requirements. With the reduction in levy procurement, NFC had to make
separate procurement arrangements, and may have to develop its own procurement
r. twork further to ensure supplies.  As a result, procurement efforts are being
duplicai_ed. There is also considerable duplication of quality control and
accounting functions at RECs and at NFC's regional and branch offices. This has
led to wastage of scarce resources, especially since there is a serious short-
age of experienced and well trained accounting and quality control personnel.
Also, the decline in exports has resulted in excessive overhead cost at several
RECs; cash flow problems have emerged; and deficits at some RECs have impaired
their financial viability. In addition to the problem of keeping each REC
as a viable legally and financially independent organization in the context
of rising overhead costs, the task of coordinating transport, exports, and
domestic sales to NFC has become a complex one. To help NFC to carry out more
effectively the foodgrain price support program by procuring grains directly
from the farmers and to develop assured sources of supply for foodgrains



- 27 -
required for domestic distribution and to help reduce the overhead costs
of the public sector foodgrain operations, it appears highly desirable to
combine the functions of NFC and RECs and have NFC assume full control over
public sector foodgrain procurement, domestic distribution and export. This
would make it possible to take major decisions governing these activities in
a more purposive manner geared to supporting the government policies for the
development of the foodgrain sector. Added benefits of merging the respon-
sibilities of NFC and RECs would include a more rational organization of grain
procurement staff, reduced overhead costs, and higher technical standards of
grain procurement, quality control and export/distribution operations. HMG
has therefore decided that NFC should take over full control of ownership and
functions of RECs. An assurance was obtained from HMG at negotiations that
necessary actions, including acquisition by NFC of the outstanding shares
required for NFC to exercise such control, would be completed by June 30,
1982. NFC would prepare a program detailing the required actions, and a plan
for reorganizing NFC and RECs (para 5.09).
Project Management and Coordination
5.04      Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA). A Project Management and Coor-
dination Committee (PMCC) would be established under the chairmanship of the
Secretary, MFA, and would comprise the Joint Secretaries of MFA, the Ministry
of Finance, and the National Planning Commission; the Director General of
FAMSD; the General Manager of NFC; the chief engineer of the Project Engi-
neering Unit (PEU); and a member of the Agricultural Development Bank. A
Deputy General Manager of NFC would serve as the secretary of the Committee.
Administrative support to PMCC would be provided by NFC.
5.05      PMCC would meet as necessary, but at least quarterly, to review
project progress, formulate policies, and give directives for project imple-
mentation. In particular, PMCC would (i) ensure timely flow of funds to
NFC and MFA; (ii) monitor physical implementation; (iii) review NFC and RECs
performance regarding quality control and storage loss reduction; (iv) monitor
implementation of the programs for NFC to take over full control of ownership
and functions of RECs and for reorganizing NFC and RECs, and of the plan to
expand direct foodgrain procurement by NFC/RECs from farmers and through Sajha
(paras 5.09 and 5.10); (v) ensure timely land acquisition for the project; and
(vi) guide preparation of the two studies financed under the project and upon
completion of the studies make appropriate recommendations for further sector
development and for foodgrain marketing and price policy formulation. Com-
position and functions of PMCC were agreed upon during negotiations. Estab-
lishment of PMCC would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Project Implementation
5.06      Project Engineering Unit.  For executing the project construc-
tion program and procuring the equipment provided under the project, NFC
would establish a Project Engineering Unit (PEU) (para 4.11). Detailed
functions of PEU would include: (i) preparation of storage module designs
including structural drawnings, specifications and cost estimates; (ii)



- 28 -
designing ancillary facilities; (iii) preselection of construction sites,
arranging soil surveys at storage sites, and preparing site layouts;
(iv) prequalification of contractors; (v) preparing tender documents for
civil works, vehicles and equipment; (vi) evaluating bids, preparing bid
evaluation reports for NFC Board and IDA consideration; (vii) preparation
of documentation for civil works contracts and for equipment and vehicles
procurement, and award of contracts; (viii) supervising construction;
(ix) managing project funds for civil works construction, equipment and
vehicles procurement, and PEU operations; (x) maintaining project accounts;
(xi) submitting disbursement requests to IDA; and (xii) preparing quarterly
progress reports for PMCC discussion and IDA review. For design specification
of grain drying and quality control equipment, including specialized vehicles
for fumigation squads, PEU would consult with the quality control specialist
who would be engaged under the project (para 4.22).
5.07      To avoid overburdening NFC which presently finds it difficult to
carry out its routine responsibilities, PEU would be administratively self-
contained and provided with well qualified staff able to perform PEU's
functions with minimal demands on NFC managment. The Unit would be headed
by an internationally-recruited chief engineer reporting directly to NFC's
general manager, and include locally-recruited engineering consultants, com-
prising two senior engineers responsible for different construction phases,
construction supervisors responsible for individual construction sites, and
two draftsmen; and support staff. PEU's staffing plan and repsonsibilities
were agreed upon at negotiations. Engagement of the chief engineer and the
two senior engineers would be in accordance with terms of reference satis-
factory to IDA. Draft Terms of Reference for PEU's engineering personnel
are in Annex 9. Appointment of the chief engineer would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
5.08      Management Support Unit.  A Management Support Unit would be estab-
lished within NFC, reporting directly to the General Manager and headed by
one of NFC's Deputy General Managers. Responsibilities of the Unit would
include (i) identification of consultants for organization and management,
finance and internal audit, and quality control; (ii) preparation of recom-
mendations on consultants engagement for NFC Board consideration and IDA
review; (iii) submission of disbursement requests for consultants expenses;
(iv) development of a time-bound action plan for taking over full control by
NFC over RECs (para 5.09); (v) preparation of a program for increasing primary
market procurement by NFC/RECs from farmers and through Sajha (para 5.10); and
(vi) preparation of quarterly progress reports for PMCC and IDA.  An assurance
was obtained from NFC during negotiations that it would establish the Manage-
ment Support Unit with composition and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA,
by October 31, 1980.
5.09      A time-bound action program for NFC to assume full control of
ownership and functions of RECs would detail (i) administrative steps to be
taken; (ii) legal measures to be carried out; (iii) financial arrangements
to be made; and (iv) changes in responsibilities and in the organizational
structure to be implemented for smooth integration of RECs into NFC. A plan
providing details on administrative, legal and financial actions, including
timing of such actions, would be completed and presented for PMCC review and
IDA comments not later than October 31, 1980. The program, specifying changes



- 29 -
in organization, responsibilities and staff structure, would be prepared with
the assistance of the management and organization consultant provided under
the project (para 4.18), and would be examined by PMCC. Together with the
program a study would be prepared to determine whether RECs should retain
their legal identity as autonomous companies. Copies of the reorganization
program and 'he study would be made available to IDA for comments by June 30,
1981.   Appropriate assurances were obtained from NFC and HMG during negotia-
tions.
5.10      The plan for expanding NFC/RECs' primary market procurement would
be prepared in close cooperation with FAMSD, the Department of Cooperatives
and the consultants preparing the foodgrain marketing and price policy study
(para 4.25). The plan would provide a phased program for establishing neces-
sary infrastructure and institutional arrangements in the various Terai dis-
tricts in which procurement would be concentrated. It would specify the Sajha
cooperatives to be included in the program and present in detail procurement,
credit and transportation arrangements to be set up. In addition, Sajha staff-
ing requirements and training needs in procurement and quality control would be
determined. Training would be carried out by NFC/RECs, with the assistance of
the quality control specialist provided under the project (para 4.22). Where
Sajha are not able to organize procurement for NFC/RECs, the program would
outline alternative arrangements, including the establishment by NFC/RECs of
additional temporary and permanent procurement centers, staffing of the centers
and training to be provided. It would also detail the system of payments to
farmers and grading standards to be followed by Sajha and NFC/RECs procurement
personnel. The plan would be under continuous review by NFC and PMCC and would
be modified as necessary to reflect the experience gained during implementa-
tion. A first draft of the plan, which would be detailed for the initial
phase and provide a broad outline for later phases, would be presented to
IDA by June 30, 1981. An assurance to this effect was obtained from NFC
during negotiations.
5.11      Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a
period of about four years. The construction program would be divided into
three phases with a construction time of approximately twelve months for each
phase. Phase I would include the storage centers in Birtamod and Biratnagar
in the east (16,000 MT); phase II construction would cover three facilities
in Lahan, Janakpur and Hetauda in the central region (11,000 MT); and phase
III would comprise four sites in western Nepal: Nepalgunj, Rajapur, Dhangarhi
and Mahendranagar (13,000 MT). Construction would start in the east so that
PEU may gain initial experience in a region where construction and construc-
tion supervision are anticipated to be least difficult taking into considera-
tion the existing transportation network and the capacity of the local con-
struction industry. As the construction program would reach the Terai Zones
in the west, PEU would be expected to have gained sufficient experience to
cope effectively with the less developed infrastructure in this area. Land
has been acquired at five sites in the nine locations, but is adequate only
at three sites. Early land acquisition would be crucial for timely project
implementation. As is evidenced by the storage projects financed with UK/ODA
and UNDP assistance, slow land acquisition would result in considerable imple-
mentation delays. It would, therefore, be a condition of Credit effectiveness
that phase I storage sites had been acquired. For phases II and III, an
assurance has been obtained from NFC during negotiations that land aquisition



- 30 -
be completed by August 31, 1981. Sites to be acquired would be selected in
accordance with criteria detailed in Annex 9, Appendix 1. An assurance was
obtained from NFC during negotiations that all construction sites would be
agreed with IDA. Details on the status of site selection and land acquisition
are in Annex 9, Table 1. A project implementation schedule, which has been
agreed upon during negotiations, is presented in Chart 21265.
Accounts and Audit
5.12      NFC and MFA would establish and maintain separate accounts for the
project in accordance with sound accounting practices and ensure that these
accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Certified copies of the audited accounts and auditors' reports would be sent
to IDA within twelve months after the close of each financial year. The audit
report would be required to include a statement that funds disbursed against
statements of expenditures had been used for the purpose for which they were
provided. Assurances were obtained from NFC and HMG at negotiations that
these accounting, audit and reporting procedures would be adopted.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.13      PMCC would monitor project implementation on the basis of detailed
implementation plans which would be prepared by NFC and MFA for their
respective sub-projects. PMCC would also review major implementation and
coordination problems and assist in solving them to avoid uncessary cost
or slippage. Day-to-day monitoring would be conducted by the heads of PEU
and of the Management Support Unit.
5.14      Evaluation of the project would concentrate on NFC/RECs' operat-
ing efficiency, including storage utilization; storage losses; turnover of
stocks; age of stocks; procurement arrangements; quality control at procure-
ment, during storage and at distribution; cost of godown operations; and
transportation cost. Evaluation would also address organizational, managerial,
financial, and staff development aspects of the project. In addition, evalu-
ation would focus on changes in NFC/RECs procurement pattern, especially with
regard to primary market procurement directly from farmers or through Sajha.
The Evaluation and Project Analysis Division of MFA would be responsible for
project evaluation and would prepare written evaluation reports, at least
annually, evaluating (i) developments in the above areas and (ii) deviations
from appraisal estimates regarding benefits, cost and implementation schedul-
ing. Copies of the evaluation reports would be made available to IDA for
information.  The Division would also prepare a Project Completion Report and
furnish the report to IDA not later than six months after the Credit Closing
Date. An appropriate assurance was obtained from HMG during negotiations.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
6.01      The project would strengthen NFC/RECs' organization, management
and technical capabilities, and assist in implementing HMG foodgrain policy
more effectively. The principal economic benefits would be the reduction



- 31 -
in grain storage losses and savings in operating cost. At full development,
safe storage provided by new project godowns and improvements in NFC/RECs
quality control practices would reduce the present storage loss rate estimated
at 7.5% per annum (weighted average loss of grains actually stored by NFC/RECs
in recent years) to about 1.6% (the level to which storage losses are estimated
feasible to be reduced at the storage of quality the project is providing),
reducing annual storage losses from an estimated 3,600 MT of foodgrain at
present to about 800 MT. 2,800 MT of grain which would thus be saved annually
are valued at US$850,000. Of this, about 2,400 MT would be saved in new
godowns. About 400 MT would be saved through improved pest control in existing
storage facilities. Assuming that Nepal would continue to produce an overall
grain surplus, the reduction in storage losses would result in increased
annual foreign exchange earnings of about US$880,000. In addition, project
storage would be more economic to operate than the large number of scattered
small-size facilities now rented by NFC/RECs. Annual savings in operating
cost are estimated at about US$140,000 at full development (Annex 10, Table
4). Total annual cost savings thus would be almost US$1 million. Details
are in Annex 10, Table 5.
6.02      An important additional but unquantifiable benefit stemming from the
project would be HMG's ability to implement its support price and price stabil-
ization policies more effectively. Project storage would permit NFC/RECs to
expand primary market procurement directly from farmers and through Sajha.
Especially in the west, where farmgate prices appear to have been sometimes
lower than support prices, such increased public sector procurement would
ensure that farmers receive at least the support price and thereby encourage
them to increase foodgrain production. Benefits from training and technical
assistance in management, organization and finance are difficult to quantify.
However, these components are expected to produce appreciable savings through
improved inventory and financial management and reductions in transportation
cost. Benefits from merging the functions of NFC and RECs also have not been
quantified. In the present situation, characterized by high overhead cost,
duplication of functions and weak coordination among NFC and RECs, scarce
resources are wasted. The take over by NFC of full control over ownership
and functions of RECs would permit considerable rationalization of operations
and thus reduce costs.
Beneficiaries
6.03      Benefits would accrue primarily to the Government in the form of
reduced grain storage losses, resulting in additional foreign exchange earn-
ings, higher income from public sector export operations and/or reduced defi-
cits in subsidized foodgrain distribution. The project would also benefit
farmers and low income consumers. Additional storage and strengthened public
sector institutions would enable NFC/RECs to increase primary market procure-
ment in accordance with HMG policy. Expanded primary market procurement by the
public sector would provide greater assurance to farmers that they receive at
least minimum support prices and would increase competition for their produce.
As a result, farmgate prices would be expected to rise. Reduced storage losses
and improvements in NFC management and organization would result also in less
costly and more efficient public food distribution and would therefore contri-
bute to greater availability of foodgrains to low income consumers at reason-
able prices.



- 32 -
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
6.04      Economic cost and benefit values have been calculated at estimated
border prices. Prices of internationally traded goods have been converted at
the official exchange rate (US$1.00 = NRs 12.00). For calculating the econo-
mic value of non-traded goods including unskilled labor the Standard Conver-
sion Factor (0.9) has been applied. All costs and benefits are expressed
in 1979 constant Nepalese Rupees. Economic rates of return (ERR) have been
calculated separately for new godowns, improved pest control in existing
godowns, and for the entire project. Economic costs for the new godown compo-
nent include cost of land, civil works, storage equipment, PEU, a prorated
share of the cost of mobile fumigation units and of technical assistance per-
taining to pest control, and operating costs. Economic costs of the component
concerning improved pest control in existing godowns consist of the prorated
share of the costs of fumigation units and technical assistance. ERR for the
entire project is estimated at about 18%, with individual ERR of 16% for new
godowns and over 100% for improved pest control in existing godowns. Details
on assumptions used in ERR calculations are presented in Annex 10. ERR for
the project component involving improved pest control in existing storage is
high because the use of relatively low cost pesticide treatment would permit
the better utilization of substantial sunk costs in NFC/RECs' existing godowns.
Sensitivity Analysis and Project Risks
6.05      ERR is not very sensitive to a delay in benefits.  Even if benefit
streams are lagged by two full years, ERR is reduced only to 11% for the new
godown component and to 13% for the entire project. Switching values have
been calculated to determine the sensitivity of major cost and benefit compo-
nents. The following percentage changes in cost or benefits would have to
occur before ERR is reduced to 10%, which would still be satisfactory:
% Increase (Decrease) Required
to Reduce ERR to 10%
Pest Control
New        Component in
Godown        Existing         Entire
Cost or Benefit Component        Component      Godowns         Project
Cost
Civil Works Cost               54           N.A.            81
Equipment Cost                179           N.A.           267
Total Cost                     35          221              48
Benefits
Savings in Storage Losses   (31)           N.A.           (233)
Savings in Operating Cost  (157)           (69)            (38)
Total Benefits                (26)         (69)            (33)



- 33 -
The analysis shows that ERR is not very sensitive to changes in costs and in
savings in operating cost. Cost overruns by 35% for the entire project are
very unlikely. Costs have been estimated on fairly detailed storage designs
(see Charts 21165 and 21166), and a physical contingency of 15% has already
been added to all major cost components. Economic viability of the project
is most sensicive to benefits from reduced storage losses. There are three
potential reasons why savings from loss reductions could be lower than antici-
pated: (i) project storage may create excess capacity, due to low NFC/RECs
procurement; (ii) anticipated loss reductions from present levels may not
materialize because of poor construction of project godowns or inadequate
improvements in quality control; and (iii) ineffective management and organi-
zational weaknesses may prevent NFC/RECs to make effective use of project
storage facilities. As the project provides for only about 50% of total anti-
cipated NFC/RECs storage requirements in the project area, the chances of
under-utilizing project godowns are minimal. Moreover, in projecting storage
requirements, the intention expressed by MFA to increase substantially direct
procurement from farmers and Sajha has not been taken into consideration
because the feasibility of this needs to be further analyzed (para 5.12).
Furthermore, the estimated loading factor of 67% for project godowns has been
calculated on the assumption that all existing godowns of comparable quality
would first be loaded to 90% before any of the new godowns would be used;
and new capacity has been assumed to be utilized only to a maximum of 90%.
Even if the loading factor should turn out to be lower than projected, it
would have to fall to 46% before ERR is reduced to 10%. Regarding the risk
of poor godown construction and insufficient quality control improvements,
safeguards have been taken in the project by (i) limiting godown design to
two simple modules which would be easy to construct with locally available
material and equipment and (ii) providing a Project Engineering Unit which
would be staffed with well qualified engineers who would supervise all cri-
tical steps of construction. Adequate improvements in quality control would
be ensured by project provisions for technical assistance and training in
this field. Concerning management and organizational weaknesses of NFC/RECs,
appropriate technical assistance and training components have been included
in the project for strengthening NFC's management capabilities and organiza-
tional structure. In addition, a training manager would be engaged by NFC
to identify training needs and prepare suitable programs for staff develop-
ment. Moreover, care would be taken of a number of prevailing problems in
organization and coordination by NFC taking over full control of REC's owner-
ship and functions. Operations would be rationalized; quality control,
storage management and procurement procedures would be standardized; and
transportation would be arranged in a coordinated manner. In view of these
precautions taken in project design, the risks have been reduced to acceptable
levels and would not jeopardize project success.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from HMG and/or NFC on
the following:



- 34 -
(i)  annual NFC deficits resulting from HMG distribution
policy to be financed annually by HMG with the begin-
ning of the fiscal year 1982 (HMG) (para 3.08);
(ii)  consultants to be engaged by December 31, 1980 on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (HMG and NFC) (paras
4.23 and 4.25);
(iii) foreign training (including study tours) to be arranged
by June 30, 1981 on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (NFC) (para 4.24);
(iv)  necessary actions for NFC to take over full control of
ownership and functions of RECs to be completed by June 30,
1982, and a plan detailing such actions to be presented to
IDA by October 31, 1980 (HMG) (paras 5.06 and 5.09);
(v)  PEU's internationally-recruited chief engineer and two locally
recruited senior engineers to be engaged on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (NFC) (para 5.07);
(vi)  establishment of a Management Support Unit, with composition
and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA, to be completed by
October 31, 1980 (NFC) (para 5.08);
(vii)  a reorganization plan for NFC and RECs and a draft plan
detailing arrangements for increased primary market pro-
curement by NFC/RECs to be furnished to IDA by June 30,
1981 (NFC) (paras 5.09 and 5.10);
(viii) acquisition of all construction sites satisfactory to IDA
to be completed by August 31, 1981 (NFC) (para 5.11); and
(ix)  certified copies of audited accounts and auditors' reports
to be sent to IDA within twelve months after the close of
each financial year (HMG and NFC) (para 5.12);
7.02      Agreement has also been reached on the following conditions of
Credit effectiveness:
(i) appointment of NFC as RECs' Managing Agent (para 5.02);
(ii)  establishment of PMCC (para 5.05);
(iii) engagement of a chief engineer to head PEU (para 5.07);
and
(iv)  acquisition by NFC of land for phase I construction sites
(para 5.11).



- 35 -
7.03      It is recommended that retroactive financing up to a total of
US$100,000 be made available for expenditures after November 1, 1979, appro-
priately incurred on the foodgrain marketing and price policy study included
in the project (paras 4.25 and 4.29).
7.04      With the above conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDRs 4.8M (US$6.2M) to HMG on standard IDA
terms.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Gross Production of Foodgrains ('000 MT) l/
Other2/       Total           % Change
Year       Paddy   Maize   Wheat   Foodgrains   Foodgrains    From Past Year
1966/67       2,007    824      159        148          3,138
1967/68       2,027    735      204        136          3,102             -1.1
1968/69       2,178    765      233        143          3,319              7.0
1969/70       2,241    795      265        149          3,450              3.9
1970/71       2,304    833      193        150          3,480              0.9
1971/72       2,358    730      225        155          3,468             -0.3
1972/73       2,010    822      312        159          3,303             -4.8
1973/74       2,416    814      308        168          3,706             12.2
1974/75       2,452    827      331        169          3,779              2.0
1975/76       2,605    748      387        168          3,908              3.4
1976/77       2,386    797      362        159          3,704             -5.2
1977/78       2,282    740      411        152          3,585             -3.2
Average Annual
Growth Rate (%) 3/
1966/67 to
1977/78       1.8     -0.2      7.9        1.3          1.8
l/ Source: Economic Survey, Ministry of Finance, various issues.
2/ Barley and millet.
3/  The average of 1966/67, 1967/68, and 1968/69 is compared with the average
of 1975/76, 1976/77, and 1977/78.



ANNEX 1
- 37 -                       Table 2
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cultivated Area ('000 ha) and Yield (MT/ha) for Major Foodgrainsl/
Year               Paddy            Maize         Wheat         Total Foodgrains
Area    Yield   Area   Yield  Area   Yield            Area
1966/67           1,100   1.82    450    1.83   126    1.26             1,803
1967/68           1,154   1.75    412    1.78   192    1.07             1,883
1968/69           1,172   1.86    421    1.81   208    1.13             1,936
1969/70           1,173   1.91    433    1.83   226    1.17             1,970
1970/71           1,122   2.05    445    1.86   228    0.84             1,937
1971/72           1,204   1.95    435    1.67   247    0.91             2,029
1972/73           1,142   1.76    446    1.84   259    1.20             1,995
1973/74           1,227   1.97    453    1.80   274    1.24             2,107
1974/75           1,240   1.97    458    1.80   291    1.13             2,142
1975/76           1,256   2.07    452    1.66   329    1.17             2,189
1976/77           1,262   1.89    455    1.79   348    1.04             2,203
1977/78           1,264   1.81    445    1.66   366    1.12             2,222
Average Annual 2/
Growth Rate (%)-
1966/67 to
1977/78           1.1     0.7      0.6    -0.7   7.9    -0.4            1.8
1/ Source: Economic Survey, Ministry of Finance, various issues.
2/ The average of 1966/67, 1967/68, and 1968/69 is compared with the average of
1975/76, 1976/77, and 1977/78.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PR&SECT
Gross Production of Major Foodgrains by Reglon 1969/79-1977/78 ('000 MT)
Terai                  Hil3.                  Mountains
Year         Paddy  Maize  Wheat   Paddy  Maize  Wheat    Paddy  Maize  Wheat
1969/70        1,804   248    121       305    473    106        42     74      38
1970/71        1,842   260      83      418    495      81       44     78      29
1971/72        1,905   157    103       409    497      92       44     76      30
1972/73        1,564   271    194       402    475      93       44     76      25
1973/74        1,927   257    207       444    478      96       45     79      25                X
1974/75        1,966   267    211       444    482      98       42     78      22
1975/76        2,088   217    264       463    454    105        54     77      18
1976/77        1,873   240    241       455    470    110        57     77      11
1977/78        1,753   219    265       473    45?    134        56     69      12
Source:  Ministry of Food and Agriculture.                                                      1x



ANNEX 2
Table 1
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Nepal Food Corporation and Rice Exporting Companies
Grading Standards
Grading factor                     Maximum limit (%)
1. PADDY STANDARDS
Moisture content                         14.0
Foreign matter                            1.0
Damaged grains                            2.0
2. WHITE RICE STANDARDS   -
Moisture content                         13.0
Foreign matter                            0.5
Brokens                                  20.0
Red grains                                1.0
Discolored, damaged or                    4.0
chalky grains
3.  PARBOILED RICE STANDARDS         Premium quality  Normal quality  Levy quality
-export-        -export-       -domestic-
Moisture content       14.5            14.5            14.5
Brokens                14.0  /         14.0            18.0-
Foreign matter          1.0 -           0.5             0.5
Damaged grains              2/          3.0             4.0
Discolored and        t 2.0-
immature grains     J                  3.0             4.0
Red and ungelatinized  4.0              5.0             6.0 -
4 WHEAT STANDARDS
Moisture content                         14.0
Foreign matter                            1.0
Admixture                                 1.0
Damaged and broken grains                 3.0
Shriveled and immature grains             6.0
5. MAIZE STANDARDS
Moisture content                         14.0
Admixture                                 1.0
Shriveled and immature grains             5.0
Damaged and discolored grains             7.0
I/ Inclusive of immature and black grain.
2/ Damaged grain not to exceed 1.5%.
3/ Rice with a broken content above 18% and up to a maximum of 22% can be
accepted subject to a price reduction.
41 Ungelatinized grain not to exceed 1.5%.



- 40 -                         ANNEX 2
Table 2
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Food and Agricultural Marketing Services Department
Tentative Paddy and Rice Grading Standards
1. VARIETY CLASSIFICATION
Varieties                Length              Length/Breadth Ratio
Long                     6 mm or more        3 or more
Medium                   Less than 6 mm      2.5 - 2.9
Short                    Less than 6 mm      Less than 2.5
Special       Basmati and Chultha which are distinctively placed in a
special class in normal trading practices irrespective
of the length and shape of the kernel.
Mixed          Contain more than 25% of different varieties or variety
classes.
Maximum Limit (%)
Grading factor           Grade-i   Grade-2   Grade-3   Tolerable
2. PADDY STANDARDS
Moisture content          14.0       15.0       16.0       18.0
Foreign matter             0.5        1.0       2.0         3.0
Damaged grains             2.0        3.0       4.0         6.0
Admixture                  5.0       10.0      15.0        25.0
3. WHITE RICE STANDARDS
Moisture content          14.0       14.5      15.0        16.0
Foreign matter             0.2        0.3       0.4         0.5
Damaged grains             1.5        2.0        3.0        5.0
Admixture                 10.0       15.0       20.0       25.0
Brokens                   15.0       22.0      30.0        40.0
4. PARBOILED RICE STANDARDS
Moisture content          14.0       14.0       15.0       16.0
Foreign matter             0.2        0.3       0.4         0.5
Damaged grains             3.0        5.0        7.0       10.0
Admixture                 10.0       15.0       20.0       25.0
Brokens                    5.0       12.0      20.0        30.0



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Nepal Food Corporation
Foodgrain Distribution in Different Regions 1974/75-1977/78
1974/75                     1975/76                       1976/77                      1977/78
Foodgrain    % of Total    Foodgrain       Z of Total    Foodgrain    % of Total    Foodgrain    % of Total
Distributed  Distribution  Distributed   Distribution  Distributed  Distribution  Distributed  Distribution
Region             (MT)                        (MT)                          (MT)_(MT)
Region A 1/          347           1.6           790            3.1            982           4.2          2,105           5.9
Region B 2/       4,982          22.7          8,732           34.6         10,683          46.0         12,990          36.7
Region C 3/      16,574          75.7         15,742           62.3         11,575          49.8         20,347          57.4
Total             21,903        100.0         25,264          100.0         23,240         100.0         35,442         100.0
1/ Remote Hills and Mountains
2/ Lower Hills and Terai
3/  Kathmandu Valley
F'"
L x
LJ 



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Levy Prices, Open Market Prices and NFC Distribution Prices 1977/78 and 1978/79
(in NRs/MT)
Levy Procurement Price and Open Market Prices
1977/78                            1978/79
Average Open                       Average Open
Foodgrain                       Levy Price   Market Price           Levy Price   Market Price
Parboiled Rice (Coarse)           1,393         2,447                 1,393          2,454
Parboiled Rice (Fine)                 -          N.A.                     -           N.A.
White Rice (Coarse)                    -        2,454                     -           N.A.
White Rice (Fine)                      -        3,248                     -           N.A.
Wheat                                 -         1,750                     -          1,697
Maize                                 -         2,394                     -          1,870
NFC Distribution Prices
1977/78                                  1978/79
Mountains &    Lower    Kathmandu        Mountains &    Lower    Kathmandu
Foodgrain                    Remote Hills   Hills        Valley       Remote Hills   Hills       Valley
Parboiled Rice (Coarse)         3,020        2,250       2,250          3,020         2,250       2,250
Parboiled Rice (Fine)           3,100        2,330       2,760          3,100         2,330       2,760
White Rice (Coarse)             3,140        2,380       2,300           3,740        2,980        2,900
White Rice (Fine)               3,190        2,450       3,500           3,790         1,850           -
Wheat                           2,270        1,690           -          2,480         1,850
Maize                           2,270        1,690           -          2,270         1,690
CF,.



ANNEX 2
- 43 -                           Table 5
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Subsidies in Distribution of Parboiled Rice (Coarse) in Sample Districts
(in NRs/MT)
Bajura District   Gulmi District
(Remote Hills)     (Lower Hills)    Kathmandu Valley
1. Open Market Procurement
by NFC
NFC Selling Price (1)              3,020             2,250             2,250
Cost
Procurement Price                2,350 1/         2,350 2/           2,497 3/
Transport Cost                   3,963 1/         1,449 2/             198 3/
Administrative &
Other Cost                        360 4/            360 4/            360 4/
Total Cost (2)               6,673            4,159              3,055
Subsidy (2) - (1)                  3,653            1,909                805
2. Levy Procurement
by NFC
NFC Selling Price (3)              3,020             2,250             2,250
Cost
Levy Price                       1,393            1,393              1,393
Transport Cost                   3,963            1,449                396 5/
Administrative &
Other Cost                        295 6/            295 6/            295 6/
Total Cost (4)               5,651            3,137              2,084
Subsidy (4) - (3)                  2,631               887              (166)
1/  Based on 1978/79 average procurement price at Dhangarhi and transport cost
from Dhangarhi.
2/  Based on 1978/79 average procurement price at Bhairahawa and transport cost
from Bhairahawa.
3/  Based on 1978/79 average procurement price at Birgunj and transport cost from
Birgunj.
4/ Calculated on the basis of average Operating Cost for years 1975/76, 1976/77
from Table 6, excluding Transportation and Handling Cost, and assuming that
only 60% of the cost is related to foodgrain distribution.
5/ Levy procurement for distribution in Kathmandu Valley comes from various Zones;
average transport cost is estimated to be 200% of transport cost from Birgt j.
6/ Calculated as explained in Footnote 4/ but adjusted for lower interest cost.



- 44 -
ANNE 2
Table 6
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Nepal Food Corporation
Income Statements
(in NRa '000)
For Fiscal Years Endins July 15:
1975         1976          1977          1978 1/
(1) Sales                                                 41,548        73,225       164,913       194,978
Cost of Goods Sold
Beginning Inventory                                 32,699       27,548        43,223        51,315
Purchases                                           24,407       63,956       138,707       167,651
Less:  Ending Inventory                            (27,548)    (43,223)       (51,315)      (66,030)
(2) Total Cost of Goods Sold                              29,558       48,281       130,615        152,936
(3) Gross Profit (1) - (2)                                11,990       24,944         34,298        42,042
Operating Cost
Transportation and Handling Costs                    6,283       17,461        25,078        37,245
Administrative Cost                                  1,822        4,824         6,399         9,435
Interest Cost                                        2,759        7,822         7,024         7,954
Sales Commissions                                      183          480           908         1,635
Depreciation                                           195          350           681           690
Godown Rent                                              -          382           632         :,144
(4) Total Operating Cost                                  11,242       31,319        40,722         58,103
(5) Operating Income (Loss) (3) - (4)                        748       (6,375)        (6,424)      (16,061)
(6) Other Income (Loss)                                        38       2,049            248         2,263-/
Total Income (Loss) (5) + (6)                            786       (4,326)       (6,176)      (13,798)
1/ Unaudited.
2/  other Income has been arbitrarily increased by NRs 1.393 million to correspond with net loss
shown on Balance Sheet.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Table 7
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Nepal Food Corporation
Unaudited Balance Sheet for Fiscal Year Ending July 15, 1978
(in NRs '000)
Assets
Current Assets                                                             133,757
Cash in Bank and on Hand                                26,664
Cash in Transit                                         11,966
Receivables                             29,230
Less:  Provision for Bad Debts             (133)        29,097
Inventory                                               66,030
Fixed Assets                                                                28,122
Investments                                              9,591
Buildings, Machinery & Equipment        17,986
Less: Depreciation                         (690)        17,296
Work in Progress                                          1,235
Total                               161,879
Liabilities, Equity and Reserves
Liabilities                                                                122,062
Accounts Payable                                        40,968
Loans                                                   81,094
Reserves                                                                     6,016
Equity                                                                      58,102
Retained Earnings                                                          (24,301)
Loss carried forward                                    (10,503)
Loss 1977/78                                            (13,798)
Total                               161,879



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Table 8
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Projection of NFC Deficits for Years 1.980/81-1984/85
(in NRs '000)
1980/81       1981/82       1982/83       1983/84        1984/85
Sale of Foodgrain  I/
Mountains and Remote Hills                    11,100        13,300        18,200        20,400        26,300
Lower Hills                                  45,400         56,900        70,500        83,400       100,700
Kathmandu Valley                             66,000         75,600        83,800        91,300        98,400
Total Foodgrain Sales                    122,500        145,800       172,500       195,100       225,400
Cost of Foodgrain Sold
Grain valued at Levy Price 2/               31,800          34,200        36,600        39,000        41,800
Grain valued at3?pen Market Price -         74,200          95,100       118,800       137,900       164,500
Storage Losses -                             4,100           3,800         3,200         2,200          2,500
Total Cost of Foodgrain Sold            110,100        133,100        158,600       179,100       208,800
Gross Profit                                     12,400         12,700        13,900         16,000        16,600
Operating Cost
TransportS?nd Handling -                    32,400          39,100        47,600        54,200        64,400
Interest -                                   8,800          10,600        12,700        14,300        16,700
Administrative and Other 6                  10,300          11,300        12,500        13,700        15,100
Total Operating Cost                     51,500         61,000         72,800        82,200        96,200
Operating Income (Loss)                         (39,100)       (48,300)      (58,900)      (66,200)       (79,600)
Other Income -/                                   5,700          6,300         6,900          7,600         8,400
Total Income (Loss)                             (33,400)       (42,000)      (52,000)      (58,600)       (71,200)
1/  Sales are projected to increase from 46,400 MT in 1980/81 to 64,700 MT in 1984/85; over the same
period it is projected that the share of distribution among Mountains, Hills and Kathmandu Valley
will change from 77., 387. and 55% respectively in 1980/81 to 97., 46% and 457 respectively in 1984/85.
Distribution prices are estimated to increase from present levels by 77. annually.
2/  Levy procurement is estimated at constant 20,000 MT per annum.  The remainder of grain sold is valued
at open market'prices. Open market prices and levy prices are assumed to increase by 7%
annually.
3/  Storage losses are projected to decrease from an annual percentage rate of 4.57. in 1980/81 to 1.5%
in 1983/84 and thereafter. Losses have been calculated on the basis of an average storage period
of six,months and a minimum stock of 207. of annual procurement.
4/  Present cost estimated at NRs 1,800, NRs 700 and NRs 400 for transporting one MT to the Mountains,
Hills and Kathmandu Valley respectively. Unit cost is estimated to escalate by 72 annually.
5/  Calculated on the assumption that HMG will finance deficits and fixed assets.  Working
capital to be financed by bank borrowings is estimated to average each year 507. of Cost of
Sales. The interest rate is assumed to remain constant at 167. per annum.
6/  Based on 1977/78 operating cost (Table 6) excluding cost of transport and handling, and interest.
It has been estimated that 60% of the cost relate to foodgrain distribution and that the cost
will increase by 10% annually.
7/  Income from non-foodgrain operations,estimated at NRs 4.3 million in 1977/78,is anticipated to
increase by 107. per annum.



ANNEX 2
Table 9
- 47 -
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Rice Export Companies' Direct Procurement Sources - 1978/79
- ~~Company Depots
Rice Export                                                                 Grand
Company          Permanent  Temporary  Total       Sajha Cooperatives    Total
Mechi                4          11        15                   1              16
Koshi                -           9         9                   1              10
Sagarmatha           6           5        11                   2              13
Janakpur             5           -         5                 11               16
Narayani             4           -         4                  15              19
Lumbini              5           1         6                   -               6
Far West (Bheri)    1            1         2                   3               5
Seti & Mahakali      5           -         5                 11               16
Total          30          27       57                  44             101



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Rice and Paddy Procurement by Rice Export Companies 1974/75 - 1977/78
(in metric tons)
1974/75               1975/76                1976/77               1977/78
Rice Export Company          Rice    Paddyl1        Rice    Paddy2i       Rice    Paddy11        Rice    Paddy!T
Mechi                     27,585      432        48,434       684      32,865       95        31,343      368
Koshi                     26,695      251        58,544    2,560       26,757      617        22,412      530
Sagarmatha                23,613   2,212         29,058    1,510       18,058        1        13,145      139
Janakpur                   7,000   1,751          9,365    6,979        3,567   1,622          5,043   3,364
Narayani                  11,406      428        15,473    1,196        5,745      243         4,480      626
Lumbini                   19,173      875        12,624       763       6,290      721         2,308       62
Far West (Bheri)           4,522   2,757         12,166   12,170        4,419   5,431         11,980   9,792          X
Seti & Mahakali                -        -         9,058   16,228          727   8,619          8,023   5,461
Total                      119,994   8,706        194,722   42,090       98,428  17,349         98,734  20,342
1/  Paddy weight has been converted to rice weight assuming a milling recovery rate of 60%
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t X



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Sales by RECs 1974/75 - 1977/78
(in metric tons)
1974/75                              1975/76                                  1976/77                                 1977/78
Levy   Other                          Levy   Other                            Levy   Other                            Levy   Other
Rice Export Company    Export  to NFC  Sales 1/  Total   Export   to NFC  Sales 1/  Total              Export  to NFC  Sales 1/  Total         Export  to NFC  Sales 1/  Total
Mechi                  5,287   1,355    -         6,642    54,732  12,146   14           66,892    28,614   8,778         7       37,399   15,361   1,055   5,811    22,227
Koshi                 10,300   3,122    -        13,422    54,373  12,318    -           66,691    21,537   5,520    300          27,357   12,862       852   1,868    15,582
Sagarmatha            13,090   3,865    -        16,955    28,540   7,148    -           35,688    13,486   4,559         -       18,045    7,675       870      323      8,868
Janakpur               2,871   1,525    -         4,396    15,312   2,455    -           17,767      6,291   2,009        -        8,300         -      713        -        713
Narayani               5,500   1,770    -         7,270    22,708   4,289    -           26,997      7,347      633    526         8,506    1,154   6,224   2,731    10,109
Lumbini               12,474   3,826    -        16,300    12,404   2,978    -           15,382      5,374   1,172        -        6,546       192   3,938         -      4,130
Far West (Bheri)       7,217      838    -        8,055    17,674   3,372    -           21,046    11,041   2,883    125          14,049    1,935   1,540   4,153         7,628
Seti & Mahakali                                        -  _5_2_    5,220   73            20,508      5,107   4,324    613         10,044         -   2,636   7,002    9.638
Total                    56,739  16,301    -         73,040   220,958  49,926   87         270.971    98,797  29,878  1,571         123,700   39,179  17,828  21,888    78,895
1/ Consists mainly of sales to NFC at prices covering RECs' cost.
,- ,



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Net FoQdgrain Production Available for Human Consuptlon in Pro1ect Area - . 1967/68 - 1977/78- /
(in metric tons)
Zone           District           1967/68        1968/69       1969/70      1970171       1971/72       1972/73       1973/74        1974/75      1975/76     1976177        1977/78
Mechi          Jhapa                76,557        79.525        82,098        81,996       87,804        68.579        87,734        89.528       107,669      101,167         93,529
Koshi          Morang              80,212         82,520        85,180        85,967       86,038        73,161        69,962        94,603       103,426       90,516         98,920
Koalit         Sunsari             45,705         46,525        48,114        48.482        53.569       43,597        53,048        54,523        63,628       54,445         61,001
Sagarmatha     Saptari             60,097         62,659        63,010       63,081        62.264        54,410        67,606        71,875        81,529       70,686        67,509
Sagarmatha     Siraha              58,433         59,616        62,178       63,814        65,405        58,137        70,241        74,546        81,786       75,519         66,139
Janakpur       Dhanusha            63,682         64,862        66,163        67,264       66,317        66,706        75,399        79,321        80,537       64,278         70,041
Janakpur       Hehottari           61,660         63,160        67,744        68,039        68,544       59.916        72,088        74,318        77,392       67,452         67,102
Janakpur       Sarlahi             46,064         47,218        49,521        50,270       53,606        43,874        55,705        57,351        53,437       46,808         42,73L
Narayani       Rautahat            71,503         74,361        78,715        78,656       81,447        81,914        86,549        88,157        83,154       71,514         63,524
U'
iarayanl       Bara                67,189         70,266        72,886        69,731        71,514       61,840        73,099        75,253        85,779       75,451         66,425.     0
Nar-yani       Pars&               36,030         38,261        41,912       40,606        43,686        40,492        56,948        57,577        62,519       60,356         50,791
LmibinL        Kapilba.tu          72,427         74,318        77,548        75,373        79,934       77,322        79,965        82,068        86,524       87,033         76,980
Lumbini        Kupandehi           68,025         71,905        78,607        75,550       77,193        86,030        84,369        89,663        90,275      88,615          77,823
Lumbini        Nawalparasi         48,286         50,407        53,174        53,2?1       54,357        53,776        61,571        64,248        66,836       65,047        62,372
Bherl          banke               40,882         42,208        44,558       45,130        47,312        48,585        49,409        50,462        43,924      40,991         41,620
Bliheri        Bardiya             47,796         48,828        51,177       51,801        52,340        52,780        58,540       60,497         57,822      57,451         49,584
Seti           Kallall             48,294         48,672        51,110       50,921        55,397        55,977        60,210       63,336        66,270       60,602         65,102
Maahdkali      Kanct.anpur         21,909         23,1          23,544        24,143       26,082        22,792        28,958        29,981        35,050       32,192        32,828
Total          1,014,751      1,048,415    1,097,239    1,094,045    1,132,809    1,049,888    1,211,401         1,257,301    1,327,557   1,210,123        1,154,032
1/  Source: Agricultural Statistic, of Nepal, Food and Agricultural Harketing Services Departm.ent, Ministry of Food and Agriculture, 1972 and 1977.  Net production to
calculated from gross figures as follows:  (1) deduct from gross production seed requirements of 55 kgPha for paddy, 30 kg/ha for maize, 66 kg/ha for wheat, 25 kg/ha
for millet and 40 kg/ha for barley; (it) from the remainder, deduct willing losses estimated at 401 for paddy and 31 for other foodgrains; (fi1) from the remainder,
deduct animal feed requirements and- losse due to pests estimated at 101.
2/  Based on Nepalese calendar year commencing In oid-April.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Foodgrain Procurement by NFC/RECs in Project Area
(in metric tons)
Average
Average Annual       Annual Net           Average      Estimated Reduction  Projected
Procurement                Procurement        Production 1/    Procurement        in Procurement   Procurement
Zone            1975/76   1976/77   1977/78    1975/76-1977/78    1975/76-1977/78  Percentage 2/            Percentage 3/   Percentage 4/
Mechi            49,118    32,960    37,504            39,861            100,788            39.5%               40%              24%
Koshi            61,104    27,374    24,291            37,590            157,312            23.9%               40%              14%
Sagarmatha       30,568    18,059    13,284            20,637            147,723            14.0%              40%                8%
Janakpur         16,344      5,189     8,407            9,980            189,928             5.3%               25%               4%7
Narayani         16,669      7,045      7,152          10,289            206,506             5.0%               25%               4%
Lumbini          13,387      7,011     2,924            7,774            233,835             3.3%               25%               2%
Bheri            24,336      9,850    24,725           19,637             97,131            20.2%               10%              18%,
Seti and                                                                                                                                LA
Mahakali       25,286      9,346    15,736           16,789             97,348            17.3%              10%               16%
Total      236,812   116,834   134,023           162,556           1,230,571            13.2%
1/  Net production figures from Table 1.
2/  Average Annual Procurement as percentage of Average Annual Net Production over 1975/76-1977/78.
3/  Reduction in procurement percentage has been estimated on the basis of the strength of the private sector  n the
various Zones.  A reduction is anticipated because since July 1979 the private sector can compete with NFC/RECs
in thle rice export market.
4/  Plast Procurement Percentage reduced by Estimated Reduction in Procurement Percentage.  Rounded to the
nearest full Percent.
I. 
cr
H



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Projected Net Foodgrain Production Available for Human
Consumption in Project Area I/, 1981/82-1985/86
(in '000 metric tons)
Zone                   District          1981/82         1982/83         1983/84         1984/85         1985/86
Mechi                  Jhapa               108.5           110.8           113.2            115.6           118.0
Koshi                  Morang              104.7           106.5           108.4           110.2            112.0
Koshi                  Sunsari              65.7            67.2            68.7             70.2            71.7
Sagarmatha             Saptari              78.0            79.3            80.7            82.0             83.3
Sagarmatha             Siraha               82.2            83.9            85.6            87.3             89.0
Janakpur               Dhanusha             78.2            79.1            80.1            81.0             82.0
Janakpur               Mahottari            75.3            76.1            76.9             77.7            78.5
Janakpur               Sarlahi              50.5            50.6            50.7             50.8            50.8
Narayani               Rautahat             77.0            76.9            76.8             76.6            76.5
Narayani               Bara                 77.3            78.0             78.6            79.2            79.8
Narayani               Parsa                70.3            72.8            75.2             77.7            80.2
Lumbini                Kapilbastu           88.4            89.4            90.4             91.5            92.5
Lumbini                Rupandehi            96.0             97.7            99.4           101.0           102.7
Lumbini                Nawalparasi          73.9             75.7            77.5            79.3            81.1
Bheri                  Banke                45.8            45.9            46.0             46.1            46.2
Bheri                  Bardiya              60.6            61.4             62.2            63.0            63.8
Seti                   Kailali              73.8            75.7            77.6             79.5            81.3
Mahakali               Kanchanpur           38.8             40.1            41.3            42.6            43.9
Total                     1,345.0         1,367.1         1,389.3         1,411.3          1,433.3
m X
1/  Projected on the basis of linear extrapolation of the past foodgrain production figures
(See Table 1 ). The projections exclude incremental production expected from ongoing
irrigation projects in the project area, which are presented separately (See Table 4 ).
Numbers are rounded to the nearest 10OMT.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Incremental Foodgrain Production-/ from Ongoing Irrigation Projects in the Pro:ject Area
Projected Incremental             Estimated Incremental Net
Year of Project Expected       Net Foodgrain Produc   on    Foodgrain Production 1981/82-1985/86-
Irrigation            Districts  Implementation   Year of  2   at Full Development-                    (in '000 metric tons)
Project      Zone     Covered         Start       Completion-/ (in '000 metric tons)    19l81/82  19Z/83 1983184 J9tJL/5 1985/86
Kankai
Irrigation   Mechi      Jhapa          1972/73        1981/82-/                5.4               2.2      2.7      3.2      3.8      4.3
Morang -
Sunsari                 Morang
Irrigation   Koshi      Sunsari        1978/79        1983/84                 28.9                 0         0       0      2.9      5.8
Kamala                  Dhanusha
Irrigation   Janakpur  Sarla4i         1973/74        1979/80                 18.6              5.6       7.4      9.3    11.2    13.0
Mahottari
Bagmati                 Bara, Parsa,
Irrigation   Narayani  Rautahat        1978/79        1984/85                100.9                 0         0       0    10.1    20.2
Narayani
Irrigation              Bara,                                                                                                                     sn
Stage I      Narayani  Parsa           1973/74        1979/80                 40.5             12.2      16.2    20.3    24.3    28.4
Narayani
Irrigation              Bara                                  6/
Stage II     Narayani  Parsa           1978/79        1981/82-                16.5                 0         0     i.7      3.3      5.0
Bhairahawa-
Lumbini
Ground-Water
Irrigation   Lumbini   Rupandehi       1976/77        1980/81A/               22.7                 0       2,3     4.5      6.8      9.1
Mahakali      Seti and  Kailali
Irrigation   Mahakali  Kanchanpur    1971/72          1979/80                  3.7              1.1       1.5      1.9      2.2      2.6
1/  Net of estimated seed requirements, milling losses, and foodgrains needed for animal feed.  Gross production is converted to
net at the rate of 0.54 for paddy, 0.87 for other grains. All the production figures rounded to the nearest 100 MT.
2/ At the time of appraisal.
3/ It is conservatively assumed that full development of each project takes 10 years from the beginning of the year when
physical structures are completed and the increase in production is spread evenly over the 10 years.
4/  Coupleted in 1978/79.
5/ 1 year delay expected.
6/ 2 years delay expected.
.c'



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Flow Model for NFC/REC in Mechi - 1985/86
(in metric tons)
Estimated Infrow 1/                              Outflow
Month          Wheat-   Early Paddy -    Late Paddy         Rice       Export       Distributioa   5    Inventory
5,900 (Beginning Inventory)
November                                     2,200                      1,175            295              6,630
December                                     7,900                      1,175            295            13,060
January                                      1,100           2,800      1,175            295            15,490
February                                                     4,200      1,175            590            17,925
March                                                        5,500      1,175            885             21,365
April            400                                         1,400      1,175            885             21,105
May              700                                                    1,175            590             20,040
June             400                                                    1,175            885            18,380
July                                                                    3,525            295             14,560
August                        300                                       4,700            295              9,865
September                   1,700                                       3,525            295              7,745
October                       800                                       2.350            295              5,900                                        1
Total       1,500        2,800            11,200          13,900    23,500           5,900
1/  Total foodgrain procurement in Mechi during 1985/86 is estimated at 29,400 MT (see Table 7).  The total is estimated to
consist of 5% wheat and 95% rice.  Of the rice it is anticipated that 50% would be procured as rice from millers ox traders
whereas 10% would be procured as early paddy and 40% as late paddy before milling and storing the milled rice. All paddy/rice
weight is expressed in terms of milled rice.
2/ Foodgrain inflow into storage has been calculated on the basis of past procurement patterns, anticipated changes, and
seasonality of harvests, and is estimated as follows:
Foodgrain                       Month when entering store (percentage of crop)
Wheat                           April (25%), May (50%), June (25%)
Early Paddy                     August (10%), September (60%), October (30%)
Late Paddy                      November (20%), December (70%), January (10%)
Rice                            January (20%), February (30%), March (40%), April (10%)
3/  For Mechi it has been asaumed that about 85% of the rice/paddy procured will be exported and the remaining foodgraina will
be distributed internally.
4/  Distribution of exports over the various months have been estimated on the basis of the export pattern in previous years.  It
is anticipated that monthly exports during each of the months from November until July would be 5% of total exports.  Percentages
for subsequent months are estimated at 15%, 20%, 15% and 10% respectively.
5/  Percentage of internal distribution taking place in the various months is estimated in accordance with the distri-
bution pattern of previous years:  10% in February and May; 15% in March, April and June; and 5% in the remaining months.
6/ Estimated at 20% of annual procurement.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Flow Model for NFC/REC in Seti and Mahakali - 1985/86
(in metric tons)
Estimated Inflow                                    Outflow -/
-                2/          2/             4/    ~~~~~~~~~~~Internal     Ending
Month           Maize  /      Wheat 2/      Late Paddy         Rice -       Export -      Distribution 5/        Inventory
4,100 (Beginning Inventory)-/
November                                        2,800                          205             815                5,880
December                                       9,600                           205             815               14,460
January                                        1,400            300            205             815               15,140
February                                                        500            205           1,630               13,805
March                                                           600            205           2,445               11,755
April                          500                              100            205           2,445                9,705
May                          1,000                                              205          1,630                8,870
June                           500                                             205           2,445                6,720
July               600                                                         615             815                5,890
August           1,900                                                         820             815                6,155
September          600                                                         615             815                5,325
October            _            _                                              410             815                4,100
Total          3,100       2,000            13,800          1,500          4,100         16,300
1/  Total foodgrain procurement in Seti and Mahakali during 1985/86 is estimated at 20,400 MT (see Table 7).  The total
is estimated to consist of 15% maize, 10% wheat and 75% rice. Of the rice, it is anticipated that 10% would be procured
as rice from millers and traders whereas 90% would be procured as late paddy before milling and storing the milled rice.
All paddy/rice weight is expressed in terms of milled rice.
2/ Foodgrain inflow into storage has been calculated on the basis of past procurement pattern, anticipated changes and
seasonality of harvests, and is estimated as follows:
Foodgrain           Month when entering store (percentage of crop)
Maize               July (20%), August (60%), September (20%)
Wheat               April (25%), May (50%), June (25%)
Late Paddy          November (20%), December (70%), January (10%)
Rice                January (20%), February (30%), March (40%), April (10%)
3/  For Seti and Mahakali it has been assumed that 25% of the rice/paddy procured will be exported and the remaining foodgrains
will be distributed internally.
4/  Distribution of exports over the various months have been estimated on the basis of the export pattern in previous years.  It
is anticipated that monthly exports during each of the months from November until July would be 5% of total exports.  Percentages
for subsequent months are estimated at 15%, 20%, 15% and 10% respectively.                                                                          X.
5/  Percentage of internal distribution taking place in the various months is estimated in accordance with the distri-
bution pattern of previous years: 10% in February and May; 15% in March, April and June; and 5% in the remaining months.
6/ Estimated at 20% of annual procurement.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Estimated Storage Requirements and Storage Gap of NFC/KECs In Project Area 1905/86
(in  000 metric tonae
Hired
NFC/RECa Owned Storage Capacity         Storage Capacttyj/
Total Capacity                         Proposed
Foodgrain       Procurement by  Peak Storage                                 Suitable for           Suitable for   Suitable for           Estimated          Project
Productioni 1/  NFC/RECs 2/      Requirement 3/                 Under        Long-term              Long-term        Long-term Storage  Storage Gap 6/   Storage
Zone             19o5/86        1985/86            1985/86       Existing  Construction  Storage 4/    Total   Storage4/                 1985/86 4         1985/86          Capacity
Mechli            122. 3           29.4              23.8           3.5          1.0            4.0         15.2       1.6                5.6                 18.2            9.0
Koslil            189.5            26.5             20.2            4.0          1.0            5.0          8.3       1.4               6.4                 13.8             7.0
Sagarmatlia       172. 3           13.8              10.6           1.0            -            1.0          5.5       0.5                1.5                 9.1             5.0
Janakpur          224.3             9.0               5.8           0.5            -              -          4.2         -                  -                 5.8             3.0
Narayarti         290.1            11.6               7.4           0.5          3.0            3.0         13.0       3.5               6.5                  0.9               -
LtnbIitI          285.4             5.7              4.1            1.0          1.0            1.0          4.3       1.8               2.8                   1.3              -
Rheri            110.0            19.8             16.2            2.0          1.0            2.5          3.4         -                2.5                 13.7            7.0   0%
Seti and
Mahakali        127.8            20.4              16.8           3.2          4.0            5.2          3.7         -                5.2                11.6             6.0
Total         1,521.7           136.2             104.9          15.7         11.0           21.7         57.6       8.8               30.5                 74.4           37.0
1/  Sum of production projections in Tables 3 and 4.
2/  Projected niet foodgrain production 1985/86 multiplied by the projected procurement percentage in Table 2.
3/  Calculated on the basis of estimated grain flows for each zone (examples are In Tables 5 and 6).  It in assumed that for operating reasons, storage facilities
can unly be loaded up to 90. of nominal capacity.
4/  Storage facilities suitable for medium and long-term storage are characterized by damp-proof concrete floors, and they permtt proper fumigation and adequate
ventilation.  They also provide effective protection againat birds and rodents.
5/  fi April, 1979.
6/  Difference between the estimated peak storage requirement (1985/86) and the total available capacity suitable for long-term storage (1985-86).
ln



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Specification for 1,000 MT Godown Module
1.        Size, Capacity and Stacking.  Capacity of the 1,000 MT (rice weight)
godown module has been calculated on the basis of the following warehouse
dimensions: length - 100 ft. (30.5m), width - 63 ft. (19.2m), and height
from floor to eaves - 14 ft., 10 in. (4.5m). The floor area could be divided
into three equal stacks of 54 ft. x 27 ft., each, or into twelve equal stacks
of 12 ft. x 27 ft. each (see Charts 21165 and 21166). Different stacking
arrangements could be made provided that the main alleyways in front of the
doors would be at least 5 ft. wide and space left open for sideways between
stacks and between stacks and walls would not be less than 3 ft. Standardized
wooden pallets (3 ft. x 6 ft.; 6 in. high) would be used which would suitably
match the dimensions of standard 100 kg bags. Bags would be stacked 14
layers high. The number of bags in a stack would be 3,402 and 756 in the
above three stack and 12 stack arrangement respectively.
2.        Construction Details
(i)  Footing.  Footings for walls are of plain concrete (1:2:4 mix)
with a thickness of 9 inches. The soil condition of the con-
struction sites is not known and would be determined by a soil
survey at each site.  The specificatiins in this2Annex assume
a soil bearing capacity of 0.75 Mt/ft (8.0 MT/m );
(ii)  Piers.  On the concrete footings solid brick piers would
be raised to support the truss system. Depending on site
conditions, piers could be of reinforced concrete;
(iii)  Floor.  Thl floor, designed to support a distributed load of
2,700 kg/m , would be of 8 inches reinforced concrete slabs
(1:2:4 mix) cast in sections with expansion joints between
each section on top of 2 inches plain concrete (1:4:8 mix)
which would be laid on a solid bed of a mechanically
compacted hard core. Layers to be compacted would not
exceed 6 inches. The hard core would be 2 feet, 9 inches
thick including a top layer of 8 inches of sand. A
moisture barrier (bitumen paint or a 1.5 mm layer of
polyethylene sheet) would be placed between the 8 inches
of reinforced concrete and the 2 inches of plain concrete
to prevent moisture transfer through the floor. Expansion
joints would be filled with a flexible mastic. A curved
floor-to-wall intersection is recommended to facilitate
the cleaning of floors;
(iv) Walls. Walls would be made of brick in cement mortar (1:6
MI 7



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(v) Beams. Grade beams, tie beams, lintels and canopies would
be of reinforced concrete (1:2:4 mix);
(vi) Loading Decks. A continuous roofed loading deck would be
constructed on one side of the building while two roofed
loading decks (21 ft. x 6 ft.) would be built in front of
the doors on the other side. The loading decks would be
raised to a height compatible with the height of truck
beds (about 3 ft.).  The loading decks would be sloping
to permit quick run-off of rain water;
(vii) Roof. Godowns would have a gable roof with a 20 degree
slope. The roof would be supported by steel tubular
trusses. Principal steel tubular truss components would
be prefabricated at the factory and ready for assembly at
the site. The components would be secured in place by
bolts. Roof covering would be of corrugated galvanized
iron sheets (24 B.G.) with suitable corrugation dimensions,
and good quality transluscent corrugated sheets in suitable
places to provide adequate interior lighting. The roof
would be overlapping at the ends and have a side overlap
of two corrugations. The corrugated iron sheets would be
painted with reflective color paint;
(viii) Doors. Manually operated double-leaf sliding doors would
be fitted on mild steel angle frames. For ventilation,
bird-guard screen doors would be installed behind the
metal sliding doors;
(ix) Ventilation. Wall ventilators and screened windows would
be installed in side wall panel between brick piers. Four
screen ventilators would be fitted on the ridge at loca-
tions which would permit convenient operation from the
floor. Windows and ventilators would be easy to operate
and permit airtight closing;
(x) Cement/Sand Rendering. Two coats of cement/sand rendering
(1:4 mix) of 0.5 inches thickness would be applied to both
external and internal wall surfaces and painted with
reflective waterproofing cement paint.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Prequalification Criteria for Contractors
1.        Construction under the project would be carried out in three phases
by prequalified contractors. For each phase invitation for prequalification
would be published in at least 3 widely circulated newspapers in Nepal and
in at least 3 Indian newspapers with wide circulation in northern India.
Notification would also be given to other countries in accordance with IDA
procurement guidelines. Prequalification documents would include a brief
description of works, time schedule, broad conditions of contract, a question-
naire of information required and proposed method of evaluation of information
received.
2.        The information provided by each interested contractor should include:
(a) Volume and location of construction business done in the past
five years; and experience of similar projects.
(b) Name and address of the four largest customers in the last three
years and evidence of satisfactory performance.
(c) Contracts to which presently committed.
(d) List of equipment and vehicles available.
(e) List of key personnel to be placed in charge of the construction
with details on experience and background.
(f) Credit lines at financial institutions, evidenced by letters
from these institutions.
(g) Statement of financial position and Income Tax Return certificate.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
NEPAL
GRA IN STORAGE PROJECT
Detailed Civil Works Cost Estimate for 1.000 Metric Ton Godown
Unit Cost        Nu ber           Total Cost        Foreign Exchange
Coat Item                                                                          Unit         (Nis)           of Units            MN)                  (lRs)
1.  Foundation Excsvation - Earthwork for lift up to 5 ft and lead up to 100 ft                            100 ft3      24.01/              70            1,680
2. Plain Cement Concrete (1:2:4) for Wall Foundation and Brick Tier gaeee (9 inches thick)
Cement                                                                                            kg3           1.6 2/        12,620           20,192                  16,154
Sand                                                                                               ft3          1.5              620               930
Stone                                                                                              ft3          2.5            1,240             3,100
3. Solid Brick Work (in 1:6 Cement Mortar) for Foundation and Superstructure
Cement                                                                                             kg3          1.6           13,980           22,368                  17,894
Slnd                                                                                               ft           1.5            2,470            3,705
Brick                                                                                             No.          0.3          111,000            33,300
4. Plain Cement Concrete (1:4:8) for Floor on Hard Core (2 inches thIck)
Cement                                                                                            kg            1.6 -         10,500           16,800                  13,440
Sand                                                                                               ft3         1.5             1,030            1,545
Stone                                                                                             ft           2.5             2,060            5,150
5.  Hard Corn (2 fast 9 inches thick)
Boulder                                                                                           ft3          1.1           22,940            25,234
Sand                     3/                                                                       ft3          1.5             5,730            8,595
Mechanical Compacting -                                                                           ft3          0.8            19,110           15,288
6.  Reinforced Cement Concrete Work for Floor and for Beas, Lintel and Canopy -
Cement                                                                                            kg3           1.6          57,790            92,464                  73,971
Sand                                                                                              ft            1.5            2,830            4,245
Stone                                                                                             ft3          2.5 21          5,660           14,150
Reinforcing Mild Steel Rod -                                                                      kg2          8.5 -         208000           170,000                 136,000
Timber for Form  Work                                                                             ft           2.9             4,280           12,412
7   Cement/Sand Rendering (1:4 Mix) for Internal and External Wall Surface 6
Cement                                                                                            kg3          1.6 -           4,020            6,432                   5,146
Sand                                                                                              f9t           1.5              400               600
8.  Waterproofing C-ment Paint (2 coats) on Internal and External Walls                                     ft           O.5            7,180             3,590
9.  Angle Iron Frames for Windows and Ventilators                                                           ft2          7.0              270             1,890
10.  Shutters with Steel Angle Free                                                                          ft          18.0              200             3,600
11.  Double Leaf Metal Sliding Door                                                                          No.        4,600                 4          18,400
12.  SWoden Baffle -/                                                                                        ft          75.0              144           10,800
13.  Roof Sheeting -                                                                                         ft2        10.0 Z           7,310            73,100                 58,480
14.  Steel Tubular True _9'                                                                                 No.         14,000               9          126,000                  75,600
15.  Miscellaneous Materials -                                                                               Lump Sum  20,000                 -          20,000                  10,000
16.  Unkilled Conetruction Labor                                                                             Mn-day       8.0            4,100           32,800
Subtotal                                                                                                                             748.370                406,685
17.  Contractor's Overhead Cost (estimated at 157. of subtotal)                                                                                         112,256
Total Cost                                                                                                                           860,626                406,685
1/  Estimated at 3 man-days per 100 ft  soil excavation 3 NRs 8/man-day.
2/  Includes duties and taxes amounting to 18. of unit cost.
I/ Layers to be compacted would not exceed 6 inches.
4/  Concrete Mi  1:2:4; Reinforced Cement Concrete in floor would be 8 Inche  thick over 2 inches Plain Cement Concrete.
T/  Fifteen lba/ft3 of Plain Cement Concrere in be,  lintel etc  and 6 lbs/ft3 of Plain Cement Concrete in floor.
T/  Finished thickness 0.5 inches.
7/  Siae:  6 inches x 9 inches.
8/  Corrugated galvanized iron sheets with reflective color.
9/  Including purline, upper and lower wind bracing and longitudinal runners.  Cost includes  rection also.  Each truse  in estimated to require 475 ft of tubular pipe.
10/  Includes mnisture barrier between concrete layers in floor; ventilators; and metal paint.



ANNEX 4
-   61   -                                                                         Table 2
NEPAL
GRAIN STORLAGE PROJECT
Detailed Civil Works Cost Estimate for 2,000 Metric Too Godotn
Unit Cost      SKb.er           Total Coat        Foreign Exchange
Cost Item                                                                                              Unit         MsR.)         of Unite           (KR.)               (NRs)
1.  Foundation Excavation - Eartowork for lift up to 5 ft and lead up to 100 ft                        100 ft      24.0-/            140            1,360
2.  Plan Cae,en  Concrete (1:2:4) for Wall Foundatton and Brick Pier Bases (9 inches
thick)
Cement                                                                                         kg          1.6 V         22,800           36,4a0               29,184
Sand                                                                                           ft3         1.5            1,220            1,830
Stone                                                                                          ft          2.5            2,440            6, 100
3.  Solid Brick Work (In 1:6 Cement Mortar) for Foundation med Supmr-tructurm
Cament                                                                                         kg3         1.6 2/        24,500           39,200               31,360
Sand                                                                                           ft          1.5            4,320            6,480
Brick                                                                                          No.         0.3          194,600           58,380
4. Platn Cement Concrete (1:4:8) for Floor on Hard Core (2 inches thick)
Camnt                                                                                          kg3         1.6 2/        21,010           33,616               26,893
Sand                                                                                           ft3         1. 5           2,060            3,090
Stone                                                                                          ft          2.5            4,120           10,300
5.  Hard Core (2 feet  9 inches thick)
B..ld.r                                                                                        ft3         1.1           45,870          50,457
Sand                                                                                           ft          1.5           11,470           17,205
Mechanical Compacting -/                                                                       ft         058            38,230           30,584
6.  Reinforced C-nnt Concrete Work for Floor and for Bems Lintel and Canopy 4
Cannot                                                                                         kg3         1.6          113,990          182,394              145,907
Sand                                                                                           ft3         1.5            5,590            0,385
Stone                        5/                                                                ft          2 5 2         11,180           27,950
Retnfnrced Mild Steel Rod -                                                                    kg ,        9S5 -         38,860         330,310               264,248
Tinier for Form Work                                                                           ft -        2.9            9,560           24,824
7.  CmenntISatd Rendering (1:4 Mix) for Internal and External Wall Surface-/
Conent                                                                                         kg3         1.6 2/         6,740           10,784                8,627
Sand                                                                                           ft          1.5              660              990
8.  Waterproofing Conr-t Paint (2 coats) on Internal and External Wals.                                 ft2         0.5           14,370            7,185
9.  Angle Iron Frames for Windows and Ventilators                                                       ft2         7.0              540            3,780
10.  Shutter with Steel Angle Frame                                                                      ft2        18.0              400            7,200
11.  Dnuble Leaf Metal Sliding Door                                                                      No.        4,600               a           36,900
12.  Wooden Baffle 7/                                                                                    ft         75.0              288          21,600
13.  Roof Sheeting                                                                                       ft2        10.0 D-        14,620         146,200              116,960
14.  Steel Tobular Truss -                                                                               No.        14,000 -           18         252,000              151,200
15.  Miecllaneous Materials 10/                                                                         Lmp San  30,000                _          30,000               15,000
16.  Unskilled Construction Labor                                                                        Man-day    a.0             7,500          60,000
Subtotal                                                                                                                  1,447,474              789,379
17.  Contractorts   verhead Cost (estimated at 157 of subtotal)                                                                                   217,121
Total Cost                                                                                                                1,664,595              789,379
1,  Estinaced at 3 nan-days per 100 ft  soil excavation 7 NRs 8/man-day.
2: Includes duties and taxes ameunting to 187 of unit cost.
3/ Layers to be conpacted -uld not exceed 6 inches.
4/  Concrete Mi. 1:2:4; Reinforced Cement Concrete in floor w-,Id be 8 inches tfick over 2 inches Plain Cement Concrete.
5/ Fifteen lhs:ft3 of Plain Cement Concrete In beams, lintel etc. and 6 lbs(ft of Platn Canent Concrete in floor.
ht Finished thickness 0.5 inches.
7:  Slie:  6 inches n    Inches.
8) Corrugated gel-aniced iron sheets with reflective color.
9:  Including prli-s, upper and lower wind bracing and longitudinal runners.  COst includes erection also.  Each truss is estimated to require 475 ft of tubular pipe.
- S,  Inclodes snisntue barrier between concrete layers in floor; nentilators; and metal paint.



NtPAl.
IQIIiN Sl}lNA(;E IN)LIECT
Lllrcaaod      Biratnagar         lahan       J..aakpur       Hersaida       Nep18.sl_j       Rajapur        Dh-ng-rhi       Mahahr.-agar         Total        Foreign
-t It-,                         (19,000 N)    (7,000 M,71         (5,0()0 H7) (3,0t)0  3PM)    (              (4,000 MT)      (3,00 MT)r)Q                     (2,000 H          (40,t0  MT)  lichanye
'.  tai,d !                                         225              0                 55           75             75              30               30             0                  0              490            -
2.  CIvll Works
Stte Clearance 2/                             188            146                105          63             63              83               63            83                 42               836
Site Improvemnfts -                         1,128           878                 629         379            379             499              379           499                249            5,019
Soil Surwyy                                    20             20                 20          20             20              20               20            20                 20               Io            -
Codowns -              5/                   7,519         5,855              4.190        2,525          2,525           3,329            2,525        3,329               1,665           33,462       15.860
An-illhry  DWidIng,-  61                     196            196                196         196            196             196              196           196                196            1,764          441
Sanitation snd Dra oage -                     225            175                126          76             76             100               76           100                 SO            1,004          S02
Subtotal                            9,276         7,270              5,266        3,259          3,259           4,227            3.259        4,227               2,222           42.265       16 13
3.  ElIctricala and Equipment
Electricals -/          8/                    316           293                 210         126            126             166              126           166                 83            1,672          836    1
Worehoosing Equipment -   81                  822            752                682         611            611             646              611           646                576            5,957        3 615
Qualiry Concrol Equipment -                   447            374                303          198           198             233              198           233                 163           2,347        1600
Subtotal                            1,645         1,619               1,195         935            935           1,045              985         1,045                822            9,976        6,121
4.  Base Coat                                    11,146          8,689              6,516        4,269         4,269           5,302            4,224         5,272               3,044           52,731       22,924
5.  Physical Contingencies                         1,672         1,303                977          640            640             795              634           791                457            7,909        3,439
(15% of 8.se Cost)                                                                                           -
6.  TOTAL INVESTMENT COST                         12,818         9,992              7,493        4,909         4,909           6,097            4,858         6,063               3,501           60,640       26,363
L/  Land  -st h-s b-eno  alcul-ted on the bEast  of I ha land requtreents per 4,000 Ml storage capacity and an esti.Lted price of Nt. tO0,000/ha.   In B1r-tn-agr. Dh-ngrhi and
H-hendragar NFC/REC* already  -,n sufficient land; in Labsta and Nepalgunj NFCIRECa own 0.7 ha at each of the two propoed site..
2/ EstimLted at 2.57, of the godown citvil works coat.
3/  1-Icud.s construclton of gravel roads, parking lot, boundary vall and land filling               estimated at 152 of godown civil wrks cost.
4/  Construction cost detailp for 1,000 KT and 2.000  f modules are in Annex 4, Tables I and 2.  Storage cplol ..ea wo.ld generally consist of 2   d000 H  unit.   It h.. haeen ae-and
that only six storage units of 1,000 KT each would be constructed.  These would be located at birtayod, Diratnagar. Lahan, Janakpur. Netmud  and Ralpur.                                           2
5/  Compr-ses (I) office, guard quarLers, lavatory and laboratory whtlh occupy a floor area of 2.200 fL  estimated to cost NRS 75/ft; (it) a garage and a storeroo with 600 ft
floor apace fur which co.struction coat is estimated  t NMR  50/ft
6/  Estleated at 31 of godown civil works cost.
7/  Estimated at 5X of godow. and ancillatry  butidilgta civil works cost.
8/  Details In Tables 2 and 3.                                                                                                                                                                                           ru



- 63 -                                       ANNEX 5
- 63 -                           ~~~~~~~~Table 2
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE. PROJECT
Equipment Cost
Unit 6Cost/Y  -                 Foreign
Unit Cost -/  Number of   Total Cost    Exchange
Cost Item                       (NRs)         Units 7/       (NRs)         (NRs)
WAREHOUSING
1.  Grain Dryer (lMT/hr)                  81,250           9         731,250        585,000
2.  Platform Scale (555 kg)                9,450          40        378,000         302,400
3.  Sack Barrow   1/                         790          80          63,200         50,400
4.  Wooden Pallet -      2/                  100      9,600         960,000               -
5.  Weighbridge (20 MT) -               425,000            9      3,825,000      2,677,500
Subtotal                                                   5,957,450      3,615,300
QUALITY CONTROL
1. Dust Applicator                       31,500            9        283,500         226,800
2.  Automatic Bag Weigher                11,810            9        106,290          85,050
3.  Power Sprayer (10 Lit.)                5,510          12         66,120          52,920
4.  Hand Sprayer (5 Lit.)                  2,500          25          62,500         50,000
5.  Fumigation Sheet 3/                  12,500           80      1,000,000        800,000
6.  Sheet Clip                                35      4,000         140,000        100,000
7.  Sand Snake 1/                             60      4,000         240,000               -
8.  Moisture Meter                       11,880           12        142,560        114,000
9.  Grain Cleaner/Grader 4/              11,880           12        142,560        114,000
10.  Sample Spear                             125          50           6,250          5,000
11.  Balance (Triple Beam)                  2,750           9          24,750         19,800
12.  Broken Separator                       3,150           9          28,350         22,680
13.  Sieve Set                                790           9           7,110          5,670
14.  Sample Divider (2 kg)                  2,380           9          21,420         17,100
15.  Sample Bottle                             35      1,160          40,600          29,000
16.  Tray                                      85          80           6,800          5,200
17.  Misc. Lab Material (Set)               3,130           9         28,170          22,500
Subtotal                                                   2,346,980      1,669,720
MOBILE FUMIGATION UNIT -/                315,600           2        631,200        284,040
TOTAL COST                                                 8,935,630      5,569,060
1/  Locally manufactured.
2/ Includes civil works for foundation, installation and transportation cost. Duties
and taxes are 15% of the unit cost.
3/  Wavelock specification PTA/52 18m x 12m.
4/ Semi-mechanical of 3 MT/hr capacity.
5/ Designed for carrying power sprayer, protective clothes, and 8 bombs of Methyl Bromide
(2 each of 60 pounds and 120 pounds and 4 of 20 pounds). Unit price includes duties
and taxes of 50%.
6/  Includes duties and taxes of 18% except for pallets, weighbridges, sand snakes and
fumigation units.
7/  The number of units required in storage complexes of different capacity is detailed
in Table 3. The project would include (i) one storage complex each of 2,000 MT,
5,000 MT, 7,000 MT and 9,000 MT capacity; (ii) 3 complexes of 3,000 MT capacity; and
(iii) 2 complexes of 4,000 MT capacity.



ANNEX 5
- 64 -                                     Table 3
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Equipment Requirements for Storage Complexes with Different Capacity
2,000 MT  3,000 MT  4,000 MT  5,000 MT  7,000 MT  9,000 MT
Cost Item                Capacity  Capacity  Capacity  Capacity  Capacity  Capacity
WAREHOUSING
1.  Grain Dryer (1 MT/hr)           1          1          1          1          1           1
2.  Platform Scale (555 kg)         2          3          4          5           7          9
3.  Sack Barrow                     4          6          8         10         14          18
4.  Wooden Pallet                 480        720        960      1,200      1,680      2,160
5.  Weighbridge (20 MT)             1          1          1          1          1           1
QUALITY CONTROL
1.  Dust Applicator                 1          1          1          1          1           1
2.  Automatic Bag Weigher           1          1          1          1          1           1
3.  Power Sprayer (10 Lit.)         1          1          1          2          2           2
4.  Hand Sprayer (5 Lit.)           2          2          2          4          4           5
5.  Fumigation Sheet                4          6          8         10         14         18
6.  Sheet Clip                    200        300        400        500        700        900
7.  Sand Snake                    200        300        400        500        700        900
8.  Moisture Meter                  1          1          1          2          2           2
9.  Grain Cleaner/Grader            1          1          1          2          2           2
10.  Sample Spear                    4          4          6          6           8          8
11.  Balance (Triple Beam)           1          1          1          1          1           1
12.  Broken Separator                1          1          1          1           1          1
13.  Sieve Set                       1          1          1          1           1          1
14.  Sample Divider (2 kg)           1          1          1          1           1          1
15.  Sample Bottle                  80        100        120        140        180        220
16.  Tray                            4          6          8         10         14          18
17.  Misc. Lab Material (Set)        1          1          1           1          1          1



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cost of Project EngineerinR Unit
Unit Cost      Number            Phasing (NRs '000)                Total Cost    Foreign Exchange
Cost Item                            Units        (NRs '000)    of Units    Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4    (NRs '000)              (NRs '000)
lnve,trmont Cost
1.  'ehicles
Jeep 1/                                         No.           181.8            3         363.6    181.8          -         -       545.4              307.5
Motorcycle 1/                                   No.            17.5            7          35.0      87.5         _                  122.5              69.3
Tetal Investment Cost                                 .                                    398.6    269.3          -         -       667.9              376.8
0, oraCino P.sts
1.  Saliries and Wages
InLurnationally Recruited Engineer           man-month        60.0            36        696.0-/  720.0    720.0        96.o2/   2,232.0             2,232.0
S-nior Engineer Phases 1 6 III               man-month          6.0           35          60.0      72.0      72.0      6.0        210.0                  -
->nior Engineer Phase II                     man-month          6.0           14             -     42.0      42.0                   84.0                  -o
Draftsaman                                   man-month          2.5           12          30.0         -         -         -         30.0                 _          l
Cornstruction Supervisor Phase I             man-month          2.0           24             -      48.0                   -        48.0                  -
Construction Supervisor Phase II             man-month          2.0           36             -      36.0      36.0         -         72.0                  -
Construction Supervisor Phase III            man-month          2.0           48             -         -     96.0          -        96.0                   -
Accourntant                                  man-month          1.5           36          16.5      18.0      18,0       1.5         54.0                  _
Typist                                       man-month          0.8           36           8.8       9.6      9.6       0.8          28.8                  -
Office Assistant                             man-month          1.0           36          11.0      12.0      12.0       1.0         36.0                  -
Driver                                       man-month          0.4           96           8.8      14.4      14.4      0.8          38.4                  _
Peon                                         man-month         0.3            72           6.6       7.2       7.2      0.6          21.6                _
Subtotal                                                                                   837.7    979.2  1,027.2    106.7         2,950.8           2,232.0
2.  Travelling Allowances and Other Office
Expenses (157 of Salaries & Wages)           lump sum        431.8             -         120.2    146.9    154.1        10.6       431.8                   _
3. Vehiicle Operation and Maintenance
Jeep                                         1,000 km           1.0          194          44.0      72.0      72.0       6.0        194.0             155.2
Motorcycle                                   1,000 km           0.4          216             -      33.6      52.8         -         86.4               69.1
Total Operating Cost                                                                     1,001.9  1,231.7  1,306.1    123.3         3,663.0           2,456.3
Total Cost                                                                                   1,400.5  1,501.0  1,306.1    123.3         4,330.9            2,833.1
I/  Includes duties and taxes of 42%..                                                                                                                               cr
2/  Inclules NRs 36,000 for travel expenses to and from Nepal.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cost of Mobile Fumigation Units
Unit Cost    Number          Phasing (NRa '000)          Total Cost  Foreign Exchange
Cost Item                     Unit    (NRs '000)  of Units  Year 1  Year 2 Year 3 Year 4  (NRs '000)            (NRa '000)
Investment Cost
1.  Specially Equipped Vehicle               No.       315.6          2      631.2        -       -        -      631.2          284.0
Operating Cost
1.  Salaries and Wages I/                                                                                                                          I
Operator                              man-year      12.5          2 2/       -    12.5    25.0    25.0         62.5               -           0%
Sprayman                              man-year      10.8          4 2/       -    21.6    43.2    43.2        108.0              -            0C
2.  Chemical                              lump sum    705.0 3/        -          -   305.0   520.0   705.0    1,530.0          1,530.0             a
3.  Vehicle Operation and Maintenance    1,000 km        1.0         70 2/       -    35.0    55.0    70.0        160.0          128.0
Subtotal                                                             -   374.1   643.2   843.2    1.860.5          1.658.0
Tntal                                                                        631.2   374.1   643.2   843.2    2,491.7          1,942.0
1/ Include 25% out-station allowances.
2/  Annual requirement at full development.
3/ Estimated at NRs 10/MT godown capacity. At full development total godown capacity would be 70,500 MT comprising
40,000 MT of new godowns and 30,500 MT of existing (or under construction) godowns.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cost of Technical Assistance and Training
No. of          Phasing (NRs '000)         Total    Foreign Exchange
Man-months    Year 1  Year 2  Year 3    (NRs '000)    (NRs '000)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Management and Organization
Travel at NRs 72,000                                                36        -       36         72             72
Fee and Expenses of NRs 90,000/man-month             24            810   1,080       270     2,160           1,728
2. Finance and Internal Audit
Travel at NRs 72,000                                                36        -       36         72             72
Fee and Expenses at NRs 90,000/man-month             30            810   1,080       810     2,700           2,160
3.  Quality Control
Travel at NRs 72,000                                                36        -       36         72             72
Fee and Expenses at NRs 90,000/man-month             24            810   1,080       270     2,160           1,728
TRAINING
1.  Storage Management
NFC Regional and Branch Managers (9)                      9
RECs Managers (8)                                        8
Travel and Tuition at NRs 25,000 each                               150      150      125       425             425
Expenses at NRs 600/day                                             108      108       90        306            306
2. NFC Divisional Management
NFC Division Managers (6)                               18
Travel and Tuition at NRs 60,000 each                               180      180        -        360            360
Expenses at NRs 600/day                                             162      162        -        324            324
3. Study Tours
NFC General Manager & DGMs (3)                            9
Travel at NRs 30,000 each                                            60       30        -         90             90
Expenses at NRs 600/day                                             108       54        -        162            162
Total Cost                                                        3,306   3,924   1,673       8,903           7,499



- 68 -                                          ANNEX 5
Table 7
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Cost of Studies
Cost per                    Foreign
Number of    Man-Mcnth    Total Cost    Exchange
Man-Months   (NRs '000)   (NRs '000)   (NRs '000)
MARKETING AND PRICE POLICY STUDY
Co-ordinator                                     18            6.0           108
Int'l Agricultural Price Specialist               8           70.0           560           464
Marketing Economists (2)                         14            5.0             70
Agricultural Economists (2)                      14            5.0            70
Agriculturalists (2)                             14            5.0            70
Transport Specialist                              6            5.0            30
Food Technologist                                 6            5.0            30
Nutritionist                                      6            5.0            30
Statistician                                     12            5.0            60
Field Enumerators                                40            2.5           100
Support Staff                                    60            2.0           120
Sub-total (1)                                                          1,248           464
Travel-Foreign Consultant                                                     30             30
Local Travel and Miscellaneous                                               312            115
[25% of sub-total (1)]                                                  -
Sub-total (2)                                                          1,590           609
Overhead - 20% of sub-total (2)                                              318             -
TOTAL COST OF MARKETING AND PRICE POLICY STUDY                         1,908           609
FOODGRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING STUDY
Co-ordinator                                     12            6.0            72
Int'l Grain Storage and Processing                5           70.0           350           290
Specialist
Marketing Economist                               9            5.0            45
Agricultural Economist                            9            5.0            45
Food Technologist                                 4            5.0            20
Storage Technologist                              4            5.0            20
Processing Technologist                           4            5.0            20
Entomologist                                      4            5.0            20
Transport Specialist                              4            5.0            20
Economist                                         8            5.0            40
Statistician                                      6            5.0            30
Support Staff                                    58            2.0           116
Sub-total (1)                                                            798           290
Travel-Foreign Consultant                                                     30             30
Locan Travel and Miscellaneous                                               200             71
(25% of sub-total (1)]                                                       
Sub-total (2)                                                          1,028           391
Overhead - 20% of sub-total (2)                                              206             -
TOTAL COST OF FOODGRAIN STCRAGE AND PROCESSING STLDY                   1,234           391
TOTAL COST OF STLDIES                                                        3&142          1000



- 69 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
1.   Draft Terms of Reference for Organization and Management Consultant
General
1.01      Nepal Food Corporation's (NFC) organizational structure needs to
be streamlined so that operational effectiveness can be improved. In
addition, to provide for NFC's appointment as Managing Agent of the eight
Rice Exporting Companies (RECs), and to prepare for the upcoming take over
by NFC of full control over REC's ownership and functions, the Company's and
RECs' organization has to be suitably restructured. NFC's management requires
strengthening in the areas of planning, coordination, control and personnel
development. To assist NFC in strengthening its organization and management
and to develop an organization structure which would accommodate the merger
of NFC and RECs functions, two years of management and organization expertise
would be engaged by NFC.
Qualifications of the Firm
1.02      The firm should have available adequate personnel with required
qualifications (para 1.03), and have previous experience in providing organi-
zation and management expertise to developing countries. Previous experience
in South Asia and in the foodgrain sector would be a definite advantage.
Qualifications of the Consultant
1.03      The consultant should have
(i)  training in business administration, organization and
management and own a degree in this field from a reput-
able management institute or university;
(ii)  a minimum of three years experience in consulting on
corporation organization and management, preferably in
developing countries;
(iii)  at least seven years practical management experience
in agribusiness, and practical knowledge of management
information systems design. Operational experience in
grain procurement, distribution, inventory management
and planning would be a plus.
Job Description
1.04      The consultant would:
(i) analyze NFC's present organizational arrangements, develop
a plan for improving the organization, and assist in the
implementation of the improved organizational structure;



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(ii) establish suitable modifications to NFC's organization to
provide for NFC's responsibilities as Managing Agent of
RECs;
(iii)  develop a new organizational structure for the time after
NFC has assumed full control of RECs' responsibilities;
(iv) review present arrangements for delegating responsibilities
and authority and make appropriate recommendations for
regional decentralization;
(v) analyze the present management information system and
develop an improved system for operational and statistical
data collection and for reporting. This would include the
design of reports layout, frequency of reporting and
distribution of the reports;
(vi) review communication problems between headquarters and
field offices and make appropriate recommendations to
overcome present difficulties;
(vii)  assist the Deputy General Manager, Operations in the
development of a suitable planning methodology for main-
taining optimal inventory levels at various procurement
and distribution stores and for minimizing transportation
cost; and
(viii) assist NFC's Training Manager in determining staff train-
ing needs and in developing a comprehensive training
program.
2. Draft Terms of Reference for Finance and Internal Audit Consultant
General
2.01      Nepal Food Corporation's (NFC) accounting, financial reporting and
internal audit systems require improvements in systems design, operating pro-
cedures and staff capability. Financial information is not readily available;
timely comparison of actual with budgeted expenditures is not possible; field
office are irregular in submitting financial data; internal controls are weak;
and the internal audit system is rudimentary. For strengthening its financial
management and its internal audit operations, NFC would engage a financial
and auditing expert for about 30 months.
Qualifications of the Firm
2.02      The firm should have available adequate personnel with necessary
qualifications (para 2.03) and have previous experience in providing financial
and auditing expertise to corporations in developing countries. Previous ex-
perience in South Asia and the foodgrain sector would be a definite advantage.



- 71 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
Qualifications of the Consultant
2.03      The consultant should have
(i) training in finance, accounting and auditing and have a
degree in this field from a reputable management institute
or university;
(ii)  a minimum of five years experience in providing consultancy
to corporations on finance, accounting and internal audit
matters, preferable in developing countries;
(iii) substantial practical experience in the design of financial
reporting systems, accounting manuals, internal controls and
audit programs.
Operational experience as financial manager, controller or internal audit
manager of a corporation, especially if in a developing country, would be an
added qualification.
Job Description
2.04      The consultant would:
(i) with the assistance of NFC's external audit firm, update
NFC's present accounting manual to include (a) a more
representative classification of accounts, (b) a more
meaningful format for balance sheet, income statement and
changes in retained earnings statement, and (c) procedures
for recording recurring transactions;
(ii)  establish procedures for pre-auditing all transaction
documents to determine propriety of the transaction,
accuracy and correct account numbers prior to recording;
(iii) review accounting records at regional offices and make
appropriate recommendations to improve maintenance of
records such as inventory control accounts at the regional
level;
(iv)  organize a financial reporting system which would provide
monthly interim income statements and cash flow projections
of operating receipts and disbursements for the year;
(v) prepare a detailed outline of budget preparation procedures
and a system for monthly comparison of actual and budgeted
expenditures and receipts;
(vi)  develop suitable internal financial controls and an
internal audit program which would also include management
type audits for determining program accomplishment compared
to program targets; and



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
(vii) provide intensive in-service training in the principles
and fundamentals of accounting and in practical application
of accounting and internal audit procedures.
3. Draft Terms of Reference for Quality Control Consultant
General
3.01      Nepal Food Corporation (NFC) and Rice Exporting Companies (RECs)
have engaged a nucleus of quality control staff; NFC has developed a "Technical
Code of Practice" detailing procedures on sampling, analysis, godown inspection
and fumigation; and grading standards have been introduced at NFC and RECs.
However, additional quality control staff is required and needs to be trained;
existing staff needs additional training; godown maintenance and pest control
practices require further strengthening; and training needs to be provided for
operating the fumigation squads and the drying equipment financed under the
project. To assist NFC/RECs in improving quality control and storage prac-
tices, NFC would engage a consultant for about two years.
Qualifications
3.02      The consultant should have at least:
(i)  three years experience in consulting on grain storage
management and quality control in tropical countries;
and
(ii)  ten years experience in post-harvest technology including
practical aspects of pest control as proposed under the
project, grading systems, storage maintenance, grain
handling, and mechanical grain drying.
Individuals with actual field operating experience with bag storage of paddy
and rice would be preferred.
Job Description
3.03      The consultant would:
(i)  assist the Project Engineering Unit in preparing speci-
fication for godown quality control equipment, mechanical
drying equipment and specially equipped vehicles for
fumigation squads and, if possible, in godown design;
(ii) determine the most practical and suitable method for
storing grain in the project godowns, for grading and
testing, and for pest and rodent control;



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
(iii) develop a suitable godown maintenance program and assist
in program implementation;
(iv)  train NFC's and RECs' quality control staff (including fumi-
gation squads) storekeepers and procurement personnel, as
well as procurement staff of Sajha which are procuring
grain for NFC/RECs. A training program would be finalized
by the consultant in conjunction with NFC's General Manager,
the Deputy General Manager - Operations, and the training
manager. The program would include:
(a) principles and practices of pest and rodent control;
(b) use and maintenance of quality control equipment;
(c) quality analysis and grading system;
(d) storage management and maintenance;
(e) grain drying; and
(f) grain handling and transport.



- 74 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
1.   Marketing and Price Policy Study - Draft Terms of Reference
Objective
1.01      The Government faces important decisions about the respective roles
of NFC/RECs and of the private sector in the procurement and marketing of food-
grains, and the operation of food security stocks. These decisions include
questions relating to effective support of farmgate prices, the role of NFC/
RECs in the pricing and distribution of foodgrains to traders and consumers,
the guidelines for accumulation and release of security stocks, and the ex-
tent to which the Government will use budget resources either to subsidize
distribution to Hill and Mountain regions or to increase food production with-
in those areas. Objective of the study would be to provide HMG with a compre-
hensive analysis of the existing foodgrain marketing and price structure to
assist the Government in the formulation of procurement, price and distribu-
tion policies, and of investment decisions to strengthen the post-harvest
sub-sector.
Components
1.02      While all aspects of this study are interrelated, they consists of
several major components which can be prepared, if necessary, sequentially in
order to provide some results fairly quickly and to avoid trying to do too
much at once. These components are:
(i) Government Procurement Prices as Foodgrain Production Incentives
This component would comprise three main parts:
(a)  in selected sample districts in the Terai and the
Hills a survey would be undertaken to collect data
on both costs and actual returns to farmers in the
production of major foodgrains and of cash crops.
The survey would include all relevant costs and
consider regional and seasonal differences in pro-
duction conditions and in farmgate prices and in
primary market structure. It would also cover
transportation cost to different markets, foodgrain
processing and handling costs, prices and margins
at wholesale, retail and export markets. As a
second step, the relative competitiveness of food-
grain and cash crops would be assessed together with
the impact of existing government price and marketing
policies and effectiveness of policy implementation.



- 75 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
In addition, farmers' margins would be compared with
processing and trading margins. Third, a simple work-
able methodology for future data collection and analysis
would be developed to provide the basis for periodic
information updating and thus enable HMG to keep food-
grain procurement price policy under constant review;
(b) an analysis would be undertaken of the relationship
between the North Indian and Terai markets for paddy,
rice and wheat in order to assess the sensitivity of
border trade to price differences between the two
regions. The analysis would include historical price
differences, transportation cost, and marketing channels
and constraints; and
(c) recommendations would be developed for future procure-
ment price policy formulation, including price differen-
tiation to account for differences in foodgrain quality.
(ii) Structure and Efficiency of Existing Foodgrain Marketing Channels
This component would include an analysis of the quantities of
grain procured and sold by the various participants in the
grain marketing/export chain taking into account seasonal
variations. It would also evaluate credit and other arrange-
ments which characterize the existing marketing structure.
Combined with information from study component (i)(a) on
"transportation costs to different markets, foodgrain pro-
cessing and handling costs, and prices and margins at wholesale
and retail markets" (supplemented if necessary by additional
data collection), the data would permit analysis of both the
structure and efficiency of the present marketing system and
thus provide important information about potential for cor-
rective actions to increase the efficiency of existing struc-
tures by administrative, policy or investment measures (e.g.
dissemination of market information, standardization of grading
and measures, investment in storage, transport and marketing
facilities).
(iii) Food Security and Price Stabilization
Now that food surplus are dwindling and deficits in Hill and
Mountain region are growing, the Government is necessarily
increasing its role in assuring adequate food supplies. This
required adoption of policies concerning the mechanisms through
which to procure and release stocks, and the price levels and
times at which procurement and releases will take place. For
this purpose, production and consumption trends, including
population growth trends, would be analyzed by geographical
area (if not by district), and foodgrain supply and demand



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
would be forecasted for the next 10 years. The analysis
would take into consideration the FAO-Policy and Action
Plan for strengthening National Food Security in Nepal.
The data will be used to estimate requirements for
national and regional working and security stocks. Ex-
cept for times of dire emergencies, such decisions will
mostly determine at what market price levels does the
Government add to its stocks (a procurement price and
policy issue) and at what level of market prices does the
Government release stocks to hold down prices to consumers.
This information, in conjunction with information from
components (i) and (ii) on market structure, efficiencies
and price relationships, can also lead to better informed
judgements about the most efficient ways to assure adequate
food supplies at reasonable prices to consumers.
(iv) Subsidization and Distribution of Foodgrains
The present system of sales of foodgrains at less than cost
by the Government raises several difficult questions that
need to be analyzed separately for: (i) the Terai and lower
Hills, (ii) Kathmandu Valley; and (iii) upper Hills and
Mountains. There is no effective rationing or other con-
trols on distribution, except administrative decisions
concerning the quantities to be made available. Within
the limits of availability and willingness of sellers, any-
one from any income class can buy as much as he wants.
This system does not, therefore, adequately focus on meet-
ing the needs of the poor. It is also open to abuse by
traders, including purchase and resale at higher than the
NFC selling price. To estimate the costs of this or alter-
native marketing-distribution choices, estimates should be
made of:
(a) projected subsidy levels and cost if the present HMG
distribution program and subsidy ratios continue; and
(b) returns that could be expected from investment of the
projected cost of subsidy into increasing food produc-
tion (research, extension, land improvement and irriga-
tion, etc.) or reducing transport cost between the food-
grain surplus and foodgrain deficit areas.
In Kathmandu Valley and other deficit areas with easy access
by traditional means, it would be analyzed whether public
sector foodgrain distribution cannot be reduced without serious
consequences to the food supply in these areas. NFC distribu-
tion prices would be analyzed to determine possibilities of
price increases in the various regions.



- 77 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
For remote districts, the study will require analysis of
present local food production and consumption patterns, the
potential for increasing local food production, and the
returns that could be expected from investment of addi-
tional resources in either (i) increasing local food
productions, or (ii) resettling people in jobs in less
remote areas.
1.03      The study would commence in April/May 1980 at the beginning of the
coming crop year. Initial priority would be given to component (i) of the
study (plans for which are in a fairly advanced stage) and to planning the
other components of the overall study. Component (i) will require approxi-
mately 10 months to complete. Other components will require some months to
plan, but generally less time to execute. The entire planning, data gather-
ing and analysis for all four components of the study would be expected to
be completed within about 18 months. It would be carried out by a multi-
disciplinary team, including marketing and agricultural economists, agricul-
turalists, statisticians/programmers, and an internationally recruited agri-
cultural pricing specialist. The pricing specialist would assist at the
beginning of the study in preparing the overall study design including
determination of the sample of component (i), and procedures for information
collection and analysis for all components. At completion, he would assist
in the final review of data analysis and report preparation. Cost details
are in Annex 5, Table 7.
2.   Foodgrain Storage and Processing Study - Draft Terms of Reference
2.01      Objective of the study would be to determine future foodgrain
storage and processing needs in Nepal and thereby assist HMG in the prepara-
tion of further sector development programs. The study would comprise a
storage and a processing component.
Storage Component
2.02      A survey would be made of existing grain storage facilities of the
private sector, Sajha cooperatives, and public sector institutions would be
analyzed to determine:
(a)  total available storage capacity;
(b)  obsolescence of available facilities;
(c)  location of the facilities;
(d)  type of facilities (godown, bin, etc.)
(e)  present storage requirements for operational purposes.
Included in the study would be an analysis of grain losses during storage
and handling of grain. The analysis would include:



- 78 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5
(a) amount of quantitative losses and quality deterioration
at the various market participants and in various types
of storage (godown, bin, etc.). Losses would be differen-
tiated by cause (such as insects, birds, rodents, and
water damage) and by length and type of storage and would
be analyzed for each stage of the procurement, storage,
transport and distribution chain; and
(b) a review of measures underway to control these losses.
2.03      The consultants would maintain close coordination with ongoing on-
farm storage programs such as the HMG/FAO Save Grain campaign.
2.04      Storage coordination problems among various public sector agencies
involved in grain storage, and between these agencies and the cooperative
and private sectors would be analyzed. Possibilities of multi-purpose use
of storage facilities would be investigated, and problems in primary market
procurement by Sajha and public sector institutions would be studied. The
survey of existing foodgrain marketing channels conducted for the marketing
and pricing study, including analysis of the quantities of grain procured
and sold by the various participants in the grain marketing/export chain,
would be an important input into the analysis.
2.05      Recommendations would be made for improving effective utilization
of existing storage. In particular, attention would be paid to:
(a) strengthening of coordination and communication between
institutions now operating storage facilities;
(b) possibilities of multi-purpose use of existing storage
capacity;
(c) improvements in inventory management and grain handling
practices; and
(d) strengthening of quality control procedures including
insect and rodent control.
2.06      Recommendations would be made for rehabilitation of available stor-
age capacity including the degree and type of rehabilitation. Furthermore,
an investment program would be drawn up for (i) replacement of existing
facilities and (ii) construction of new facilities for the public and private
sectors covering the next 10 years to meet projected future storage require-
ments by each of the sectors. Foodgrain production and consumption projections
from the marketing and price policy study would be a key input for program
formulation. The program would include rehabilitation cost, construction cost
of projected new facilities (specifying type and location) and cost of improv-
ing current quality control practices. The program would also address train-
ing and technical assistance needs. Finally, the consultants would prepare



- 79 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6
recommendations for strengthening primary market foodgrain procurement by the
public and cooperative sectors and for improving procurement coordination
between these sectors.
Processing Component
2.07      A survey of existing rice and grain mills would be carried out to
determine:
(a)  total available milling capacity;
(b)  location of mills;
(c)  degree of capacity utilization;
(d)  investment and operating cost of the mills;
(e)  obsolescence of existing facilities;
(f)  milling capacity in relation to storage capacity;
(g)  milling equipment used;
(h)  milling recovery rates; and
(i)  percentage of brokens (rice).
The consultants would also review and analyze present milling, and drying
practices, and advise on the adequacy of existing facilities and operating
procedures.
2.09      A program would be drawn up with recommendations for:
(a)  improvements of existing facilities and operations;
(b)  technical assistance and training;
(c)  replacement of facilities; and
(d)  construction of new facilities to meet projected
milling requirements over the next 10 years.
The program would detail the cost of the various components and provide
cost/benefit analyses for different types of equipment. The program would
also specify what type of new facilities should be constructed, what new
capacities should be established, and where new facilities should be located.
2.10      The study would be carried out by a multi-disciplinary team including
(i) a marketing and/or agricultural economist, (ii) a transport specialist,
(iii) food, storage and processing technologists, (iv) an entomologist,
(v) three economists, and (vi) a statistician/programmer. The team would be
assisted by internationally recruited specialists in grain storage and in
foodgrain processing. The study would take about one year to complete. Cost
details are in Annex 5, Table 7.



- 80 .
ANNEX 8
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(uS$ '000)
IDA Fiscal Year                      Disbursement
and Quarter               In Quarter          Cumulative
1981
2nd /a                     50                  50
3rd                        50                 100
4th                         -                 100
1982
Ist                       220                 320
2nd                       360                 680
3rd                       550               1,230
4th                       780               2,010
1983
1st                       810               2,820
2nd                       620               3,440
3rd                       530               3,970
4th                       710               4,680
1984
1st                       630               5,310
2nd                       440               5,750
3rd                       320               6,070
4th /b                    130               6,200
/a   Estimated date of effectiveness:  August 15, 1980
/b   Estimated closing date:  September 30, 1984



- 81 -
ANNEX 9
Page
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for
PEU's Engineering Personnel
1. Internationally Recruited Engineer
General
1.01      In order to ensure effective implementation of the project by
PEU, an engineering consultant would be recruited internationally from a
well-established engineering firm. The appointment would be for about three
years. The consultant would be in charge of PEU and report directly to NEC's
general manager.
Qualifications of the Firm
1.02      The firm should have available adequate personnel with required
qualifications (para 1.03), and previous experience in construction supervision,
and contractor selection in developing countries. The firm should also have
previous experience in the design of grain storage facilities of the conven-
tional warehouse type.
Qualification of the Engineer
1.03      The engineer should have:
(i)  training in civil engineering with a degree in this field
from a reputable institute or university;
(ii) a minimum of three years experience in organizing, manag-
ing, and supervising construction projects, preferably in
developing countries;
(iii)  no less than 5 years experience in all aspects of conven-
tional grain warehouse design and construction;
(iv) no less than ten years experience in all aspects
of structural, surveying and general engineering;
(v) adequate experience with practical aspects of con-
struction methods used in developing countries; and
(vi) adequate experience in contract administration.



- 82 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
Job Description
1.04      The consultant would be in charge of PEU and carry out respon-
sibilities including the following:
(i)  assist in the recruitment of local consultants;
(ii)  prepare detailed designs for each godown module, work-
ing and structural drawings, and cost estimates;
(iii) prepare tender documents and prequalification standards;
(iv)  develop procedures for prequalifying contractors;
(v)  evaluate bids, make recommendations for contract award,
draft conditions of contract and award contract;
(vi)  coordinate PEU's technical operations and supervise its
staff;
(vii) preselect sites and inspect each construction site at least
once a month and make surprise inspections;
(viii) be present at each site at critical stages of construc-
tion such as compacting of hard core and casting of
concrete floor;
(ix)  be responsible for finding and examining materials to be
used and workmanship to be employed in connection with the
work;
(x)  be responsible for contract administration; and
(xi)  co-sign certificates of interim payments and completion
certificates when the works are completed to his satis-
faction.
2. Locally Recruited Engineering Consultants
General
2.01      The PEU would be provided with:
(i)  two senior engineers (one would work for about 35 months
taking responsibilities for Phases I and III, and the other
would work for approximately 14 months taking responsibili-
ties for Phase II.);
(ii)  one construction supervisor for each construction site for
the expected construction period of 12 months at each
storage complex; and



- 83 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3
(iii) two draftsmen each for about 6 months.
They would be recruited from a local engineering firm.
Qualifications of the Firm
2.02      The firm should have available adequate personnel with the required
qualifications (paras 2.03-2.05) and preferably have previous experience in
warehouse design and construction. It should also be thoroughly familiar with
the construction industry and local conditions pertaining to construction in
all project districts.
Qualification of the Individuals
2.03      The senior engineers should have:
(i)  a civil engineering degree from a reputable school; and
(ii)  at least 5 years of experience in design, construction,
and supervision, preferably in warehouse construction.
2.04      The construction supervisors should have:
(i)  a civil engineering degree from a reputable school; and
(ii)  at least 3 years of experience in building construction
supervision.
2.05      The draftsmen should have:
(i)  a degree in civil architecture or draftsmanship from a
reputable school; and
(ii)  at least 2 years experience in producing building drawings.
Job Description
2.06      The senior engineers would:
(i)  report to and assist the internationally-recruited
engineering consultant in all aspects of implementating
the project's warehouse component;
(ii)  during construction be stationed in the area in which
construction is in progress and visit each construction
site regularly for supervision, at least once a week;
(iii) submit weekly progress reports and maintain close com-
munication with the internationally-recruited engineering
consultant, keep him well informed of construction progress
and advise him on quality of the works and materials, and
on payment claims submitted by contractors; and



- 84 -
ANNEX 9
Page 4
(iv) supervise the construction supervisors in the respective
phase.
2.07      The construction supervisors would:
(i) be stationed at construction sites;
(ii)  supervise construction on a daily basis; and
(iii)  keep close communication with and report to the senior
engineer for the respective phase.
2.08      The draftsmen would:
assist the internationally-recruited engineering consultant
in preparation of detailed design and construction drawings.



- 85 -
ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Site Selection Criteria
Project sites would be:
(i) free from flood, inundation of seepage water problems;
(ii)  level or have only a minor slope with no problems for
levelling;
(iii) raised or require only minor land filling;
(iv)  well drained;
(v) close to a main all-weather road;
(vi)  easy to guard;
(vii) adequately distant from residential areas;
(viii) away from dirty areas or areas where toxic materials are
handled or stored; and
(ix)  free from acquisition problems and present no difficulties to
future expansion.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Status of Site Selection and Land Acquisition
Site                                Land Already
Construction                                               Agreed              Land               Acquired by
Phase             Location          Capacity (MT)        Upon        Requirements (ha)        NFC/RECs (ha)
I            Birtamod                9,000             Yes                2.3                      0
Biratnagar             7,000             Yes                1.8                     2.2
II            Lahan                   5,000             Yes                1.3                     0.7
Janakpur               3,000             Yes                0.8                      0
Hetauda                3,000             No                 0.8                      0
III           Nepalgunj               4,000             Yes                1.0                    0.7
Rajapur                3,000             No                 0.8                      0
Dhangarhi              4,000             Yes                1.0                     1.0
Mahendranagar          2,000             Yes                0.5                     2.2
m X



- 87 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Basic of Economic Analysis
1.        Base Year.  Investment and operating cost of the project and project
benefits are expressed in December 1979 constant Nepalese Rupees (NRs).
2.        Exchange Rate.  The official exchange rate of US$1.00=NRs 12.00 is
used for converting border prices.
3.        Standard Conversion Factor (SCF).  Tariff and trade restrictions
introduce a distortion in the price relationship between traded goods (valued
at the border prices) and non-traded goods (valued at local prices). In order
to evaluate the non-traded components of project costs and benefits correctly,
SCF is applied to make them compatible with the traded components expressed
in NRs. SCF is estimated by the ratio between the value of all traded goods
in border prices and their value in local prices, and is calculated as follows:
X + M
SCF =
X + Sx + M + Tm - Tx
where X = export (fob), M = import (cif), Sx = export subsidy,
Tm = import duties, Tx = export taxes.
Trade data from 1975/76, 1976/77, and 1977/78 1/ yield an estimate for SCF
of 0.91. Since this estimation ignores non-tariff restrictions, the true
value is likely to be lower. A value of 0.9 is being used as an approximation.
4.        Storage Period and Capacity Utilization.  Based on the grain flow
models (Examples are in Annex 3, Tables 5 and 6), it is estimated that grain
would be stored for an average period of 6 months with the exception of paddy
which is stored only for about 3 months. The average utilization rate of the
project godowns is estimated conservatively at 67% assuming that the existing
godowns of comparable quality would be loaded up to the operational maximum
of 90% before any of the project godowns would be used.
5.        Composition of Stored Foodgrains.  Based on the past record, it
is assumed that foodgrains stored in project godowns consist on the average
of 63% parboiled rice, 13% white rice, 10% paddy, 9% wheat, and 5% maize.
6.        Storage Losses.  Estimated losses from 6-month storage of various
grains and from 3-month storage of paddy are shown for "with project" and
"without project" situations in Table 1.
1/ See the IBRD report: Nepal Development Performance and Prospects,
December 1979, pages 88 and 101.



- 88 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2
7.        Economic Value of Rice and Paddy.  The economic value of rice and
paddy that would be saved by the project is estimated on the basis of the
IBRD projected export price of rice in 1990. The estimated values of par-
boiled rice, white rice, and paddy are NRs 4,023/MT, NRs 4,262/MT, and NRs
2,332/MT, respectively expressed in 1979 constant NRs. Details of estimation
are presented in Table 2.
8.        Economic Value of Wheat and Maize.  Wheat and maize are not exported.
For each metric ton of wheat (or maize) saved, NFC/RECs would substitute the
additional wheat (maize) for 1 MT of parboiled rice. This would contribute to
an increase in exportable rice by 1 MT and result in a decrease in internal
rice consumption by the like amount. However, since the local rice price is
higher than the local wheat price, this switch in consumption leaves extra
cash in consumers' hands which would be in all likelihood spent on various
consumption goods. Thus, to enable one additional ton of rice export, the
economy must increase the supply of consumption goods by the amount equal
to the local price difference between 1 MT of rice and 1 MT of wheat (maize).
The economic value of 1 MT of wheat (maize) is, therefore, the export value
of 1 MT rice less the economic value of additional consumption goods to be
provided. The estimated value is NRs 3,653/MT for wheat and NRs 3,417/MT for
maize in 1979 constant NRs. Details of estimation are shown in Table 3.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Estimated Storage Losses Over a Six-month Period 1/
(%)
Paddy     White Rice      Parboiled Rice      Wheat      Maize
Open Air Storage                                          10.0 2!      N.A.               N.A.           N.A.      N.A.
NFC/RECs Substandard Godowns 3/                            4.0          5.0               4.0            7.5        8.0
Project Storage and Good Quality NFC/RECs Godowns -/    1.75           1.75               1.75           2.25       2.5
Project Storage and Good Quality               4/
NFC/RECs Godowns with Effective Pest Control -             0.75        0.75               0.75           1.0        1.25
oo
1/ Average storage period is estimated to be about six months except for paddy, which would be stored only for
three months on the average.
2/ Calculated by doubling the estimated three-month storage loss of 5%. (See footnote 1.)
3/ Mostly rented facilities.
4/  Project storage is built to enable effective pest control.  The loss estimates for project storage without
effective pest control are presented only to indicate benefit from improved pest control in existing godowns.
IA R
o



- 90                                 ANNEX 10
Table 2
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Value of Rice and Paddy
I. Parboiled Rice
Projected 1990 price of Thai5% broken, fob
Bangkok in 1977 constant dollars 1/                         $  380.00lMT
Multiplied by the international price
index for 1979 (base - 1977) 1/                               X  1.308
Price of Thai5% brokens in 1979
constant dollars                                            $  497.04/MT
Less 28% price discount 2/                                  $  139.17/MT
Price of Nepalese parboiled fob Calcutta                    $  357.87/MT
Less forwarding and handling to Calcutta                    $   22.61/MT
Price of Nepalese parboiled at godown                       $  335.26/MT
Price of Nepalese parboiled in NRs ($1-NRs 12)          NRS   4,023/MT
II.  White Rice
Price of Thai5% brokens in 1979 constant dollars            $  497.04/MT
Less 24% price discount 2/                                  $  119.29/MT
Price of Nepalese white rice, fob Calcutta                  $  377.75/MT
Less forwarding and handling to Calcutta                    $   22.61/MT
Price of Nepalese white rice at godown                      $  355.14/MT
Price of Nepalese white rice in NRs ($1=NRs 12)         NRs   4,262/MT
III. Paddy
Price of Nepalese parboiled rice at godown              NRs   4,023/MT
Less milling cost (NRs 105/MT) and transport
cost (NRs 30/MT)                                        NRs      135/MT
Price of 1.667 MT of paddy (which yield 1 MT
of parboiled rice at the milling recovery rate
of 60%)                                                 NRs   3,888/MT
Price of 1 MT of paddy                                  NRs   2,332/MT
1/ Source: Economic Analysis and Projections Department, IBRD.
2/ Average discount for Nepalese rice over period from 1974/75
through 1978/79.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Value of Wheat and Maize
1.  Value of Incremental Consumption                                 Wheat               Maize
Local price of 1 MT of parboiled rice                         NRs 3,000            NRs 3,000
Less local price of 1 MT of wheat or maize 1/                 NRs 2,610            NRs 2,360
Incremental consumption due to substitution of
wheat or maize for rice                                       NRs   390            NRs   640
Consumption conversion factor 2/                                X  0.95              X  0.95
Economic value of incremental consumption                     NRs   370            NRs   608
2.  Economic Value of Wheat and Maize                                s
Export value of 1 MT of parboiled rice 3/                     NRs 4,023            NRs 4,023
Less value of incremental consumption                         NRs   370           NRs   608
Economic value of 1 MT of wheat or maize                      NRs 3,653           NRs 3,417
1/ National average for 1978/79.
2/  Based on assumption that the incremental consumption consists of 50% traded goods  and 50%
non-traded goods. The standard conversion factor of 0.9 applies to non-traded goods.
3/ From Table 2.
PJ I-
0 



StIPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Annual Operating Coat of Storage Complexes with Different Capac'ty in "11ith Project" and "Without Preiect" Situations
2,000 F1T C.pa,ty      3.000 MT Cavacity       4,000 M4T Capacity      5,000 Mi  Capacity      7,000 MT Capacity      1,000 Mlr Capacity
With      Witthout     With       Without      Uith       Without      Wtth      Without      With       WithuUt      WiLh       Without
Cost Item                                     Project   Project      ProiecL   Proiect       Protect   Protect       Protect   Project       Prolect   Project       Pro1ect   Protect
1.  Rent                                                           -    79,200             -   118,800            -   158,400             -   198,000             -   277,200             -   356,400
2.  Solacics and wages 2-
Manager (NRs. 13,200/year)                             13,200    13,200        13,ZO0     13,200       13,200    13,200       13,200     13,200       13,200    13,200        13,200    13,200
Operatiorl Superintendent (NlOs. 8,400/year)            8,400      8,400        8,400    16,800         8,400    16,800        8,400    16,800         8,400    25,200        16,800    33,600
Storekeeper (NRl. 7,200/year)                           7,200      7,200        7,200    14,400        14,400    21,600       14,400    21,600        14,400    28,800        21.600    36,000
Iecord Clerk (NRi. 6,000/year)                          6,000      6,000        6,000      6,000        6,00     12,000        6,0D0    12,000         6,001    12,000        12,000    18,00p
Food Tcchr,ology  asiatant (NRs. 8,400/year)           8,400      8,400        8,400      8,400        8,400     8,400        8,400      8,400        8,400      8,400       16,800    25,200
Full-time Stocker (NRs. 3,000/year)                    18,000    24,000        24,000    30,000        30,000    39,000       30,000    45,000        45,000    60,000        60,000    75,000
Part-time Stocker (NRs. 1,800/year)                     7,200    23,400        10,800    27,000        12,600    30,600       16,200    36,000        21,600    45,000        27,000    54,00p
Watchma  (NRes. 2,400/year)                                       2,400        _2,400      7.200        4,800     9 6M         4,800    12,000         4,800    16,B00          L,200    21,600
Subtotal                                               70,800    93,000        80,400   123,000        9t,300   151,200      101,400   165,000       121,800   209,400       174,600   276,600
257. Out-station Allowance                             17,700    23.250        20Q100    30.750        Z4.450    37.800       25,350    41,250        30.450    52,350        43,650    69,150
Subtotal                                               88,500   tl6,250       100,500   153,750       1Z2,250   189,000      126,750   206,250       152,250   261,750       218,250   345,750
3.  Electricity -                                             10,800    10,800       12,000    12,000        13,200    13,200        14,400    14,400        16,800    16,800        19,200    19,200
4.  Cleaning a.d Office Maintenance -I                         3,000      3,000       3,000      3,000        4,000      4,000        4,D00      4,000        4,000      4,D00        4,000      4,000
5.  Equipme,,t             5/ir,tennce                       16,400      6,000       18,700      9,000       20,900    t2,000       23,900    15,000        28,400    21,000         32,900    27,000
6.  Orourld and Godowi,  6a1itenance                         33,300    11,900        48,900    17,800        63,400    23,800        79,000    29,700      109,000    41,600       139,100    53,500
7.  Storage Quality ControL-/'                                9,600    14,400        14,400    21,600        19,200    28,800       24,000    36,000        33,600    50,400        43,200    64,800
8. Wear and Tear of Gunny Rags 81                             3,000      9,000        4,500    13,500         6,000    18,000        7,500    22,500         10,500    31,500        13,500    40,500
9.  Grain Drying                                               B b            -        8,800                  8,800          -        800            -        8,800          -        8,800          -
Total                                                173,400   250,550       210,800   349,450    257,750    447,200        288,350   525,850       363,350   704,250       478,950   911,150
1/  Average rental cost paid by NlCtRECs is estimated at NiRs. 3.31monthtl NT capacity as of April 1979.
2!  Owing to the small capacity and scattered locations of the existing hired godowns, more staff and labor are required in the "without project" *ituation.
31 Comprises a fixed electricity charge of NRs. 700/month and a variable charge of NR9. l00/month/l,000 MT storage capacity.
4/  Estimated at Nice. 3,000/year for 2,000 KIr and 3,000 KT capactity  and NRa. 6,000/year for larger capacity up to 9,000 MT.
5!  Estrimatcd at 2% of Electricals and Equipment coat From Annex 5, Table I tn "with project" situation; at NRe 250/1moth/1,000 NT capacity in "without project" situation.
6 E istinaLed at 1.5% of civil works cost from Asnex 5, Table I In "with project" situation; at 157. of rental cost in "without project" situation.                                                    a
7I  Eatriated at NRe. 400/montLh/1,00 MI for "with project" situation and NRa. 600M/onth/l,000 MT for "without ptoject" situation.  The scattered locations and smaller capacity
oP eYtSting hired godowoC requtre a larger number of fumigators and sprayings than in the "with project" situation,
8/  Estimated at l/ atd 35 of the coat of gunny bags tn "with projecL" and "without project" aituation,  respectively.  The difference is due to higher wear and tear in the
existing substandard godowns. Price of a gunny bag is NRs. 10.
9/  As.umieng annuat throughput at 800 MiT,  NRa 6,000 for one operator and NRa 1,800 for cau.at Ilbor.  ootler operating cost est-mated at NY. 1,000 per aunnm.



((44IN 4141MAU6 44444IECT
-Ido,o    ,o-14-  I)                          ,-  I       7.-   2       year 3       Y.-,  4      0*e.* 5     Year        0..odr*. 7 -9 0.   10       Year II    Ye,r,, 12.15   Y.,ar 46          Y,,w I)             ido 48   f-o  19      Toer 20       Year 21    fvmcn  22-24    Y,.   25
8*4  44.,44M1 c104448444
4.  44,* ~
Sool.40' 1,4 04,n404101  Co.~~ 2/  -    -             928         1,695       4 6952I
44.doo4,d C.ro1, 4.onn.,4  3/        -                         5855        81585)  C4l444
0o64o4,,I              -           -            5,543      ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~10,280  10ii,280 i         02804      10,210        40,0            10, 280      T0,280         10,280       120,20        10T   0       1,8            028               (~l        iii
41,440n4  4/                  ~~~~      ~~9 72  25,869  24, 725         -           -            214          -         2, 306        5,803              .            211         1.0l7         3,932        5,612            -241                                       OM9447
44U5/                          ~~~~~~        ~~~~~1,207  1,34.5  1,257        5         -                         -            -----------
44,,,I,1014o=  6/                ~~~~~413      6403          472           --                      7-                         ---------.-
5n44o4,.I                     ~~~~~~     ~~2,652  .T17T   61/               5                      21                     2,306         5,883              -             24          ,07          337           562-211 
7.  l,~,,4o4ol (4o,ro4441C-ol I/             -                          263           476         476         476           4764         647     46                    4 76         476           46476                       476           4 76          476          __476            4744
4.  8.L llo-44l 4(A)2,52                                      (27,117)   (20,814)          9,799        9,804       9,593         9,104        7,490        3,924           9,104         9,593         8,717         5,867         4,132        9.8K04        9,593            9J.404       10,704
E.--.04  K44.4  f4 44. ..-, 16%.
4.8,o14  , I ...,,.d G-.*
tonorn  7/                     -           4~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~          ~~~~,611  1,611  C,*.n
4.4~~~~4~~.*n4 0/  459  -          -              -          -            459          -            -             159             -            459           -             -             -             -             159             -             -~~~~~~~~~~~~19  15
T-oI  i-Io  A-nl.I.-,  it                     757          455           129                       -            -.                        -----------
5o4404,,4                      ~~~~          ~~~~516  455   429                       -           159           -                         19-19                                       -             -             -             -             i59             --
2.  ---,.  I4444.44p . . 4   Coot it                            370           37             35 V9      359         359           i59          359          3547            359           959           359           359           3519          359           359             3594          35*8
4.  0-  . -It444   444)                             (516)          206        I,1m           4,252      1,252       4,4093        4,252        l,2"?         401 4) ,252                   4,09)        4,72?         1,252         4,252         4,252         4,093           1,25          4,252
*4444444, 4044 ILl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h",IA
4.   8   -.4 44444  (A) * 4)(3,468)    (27,Q314    (49,764)                              44,055    44,056        10,606        44,056       8 070         5,044          44,056        10,4044        9,964         7,119        5, 304       41,056        10,686          44 .,06        11,9564
Ih,4. 44-4,4-d4 Coor.-    l-  F-t..0  of 0.9 h-4 b,4 4*4  p4p44144d L.4 044 440,4-d44144  I4 . (4.,p.-.  3).
I44o., I -7 o  ,444 -o4     p-.,-.o4*4404'4I4402 -j 3.
4/   Iool.o4..onlof  404,44  .1*44  oo.6o    onooo   o..4o44.o0n4, -d,4  *qo4p-t .*4 0t fo.  t-44o,-40-  -4,44, i,,.444n .d4.7404    0n4.oOnO,4o4     .0   04440"    444744    .044404040)444400                                        --t4d.4.40  inco4.   o
21    o,oo.o   44.44044   4  "'ll,44  40-,4-04-440444     (S... An4,o  5, To44o4.                      I,,o.44,. ..o44, oo044.440                     lh44   -440 -.4004  W044.      -i,4.4014000704
0)   14. 4444,4.4.444.04   -f04o4,.l4 4004                    -it-004.44     T444 .   I4,  .4044,44   -p4.44-44   --y4 5704



- 94 -
ANNEX 11
NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.   Agricultural Projects Services Center - Grain Storage Project,
Preparation Report, Three Volumes, October 1979.
2.   IDA - Report of the May 1979 Preparation Mission, dated August
23, 1979.
3.   IDA - Report of the October/November 1978 Identification Mission,
dated January 9, 1979.
4.   National Food Security Committee - Food Security Program,
Implementation Plan, Revised Draft, April 1979.
5.   J. A. Conway - Foodgrains in Nepal, An Overview of the Post-
Harvest Sector, April 1978.
6.   FAO - A Policy and Action Plan for Strengthening Food Security
in Nepal, Draft Report, July 1978.
7.   FAO - Organizational and Management Review, Nepal Food Corporation,
1979.
8.   FAO - Storage Development Pilot Project, Nepal, by Young S. Song,
1978.
9.   Nepal Food Corporation - Foodgrain Distribution System in Nepal,
by G. R. Shrestha, November 1978.
10.   Nepal Company Act, 1964.
11.   Nepal Corporations Act, 1964.
12.   Articles and Memoranda of Rice Exporting Companies and
Financial Statements.
13.   Engineering Designs for 1,000 MT and 2,000 MT godown modules.
14.   Site Plans for Project Sites.



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1980                       1981                        1982                        1983
1      2      3     4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4      1      2      3      4
Staffing of PR)
1. Internationally Recruited Engineer
2. Senior Engineer  Phases I & III                                   _
Senior Engineer  Phase II  1
3. Construction Supervisor  Phase I                                                              -      -
Phase II                                                                    -      -      _
Phase IlI l                                                                                      -_
4. Support Staff                                               _            -      -      - _                                -      -      - _
Godown Complexes
1. Land Acquisition        Phase I
Phase II & IlI l
2. Design and Tender Preparation
3. Prequalification and Tender Award   Phase I
Phase II
Phase Ill
4. Construction                      Phase I                                            a               -
Phase l1 l
Phase Ill                                                                                      -
s-n
Storage Equipment
1. Tendering                Phase I & II
Phase 111
2. Installation             Phase I & II
Phase III
Fumigation Squads
1. Tendering and Award
Technical Assistance
1. Engagement of Consultants                                         _             _
Training
1. Appointment of Training Officer
2. Development of Training Program
3. Execution of Program                                                     -      -      -      _             -      -      -      -                    _
Studies
1. Price Policy Study                                  _      _
2. Subsector Study                                     =       =                   _      _      -                                         _
World Bank -21265



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
NEPAL FOOD CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL MANAGER                  |
DEPUTY R  ENERAL  ANAGER IDEPUTY NENERAL NANAGER 
LDANNNG G  OREIGI  | DSINITRATIN1    1ONSTRUCTION R MAINIT41NIANC                                           RS                        |             NTRA  AUDIT  SO
TRADE  IVISIN  I  IDMINiSTAiON  I    I             IVSIN                                               I      OIISONI                                                              N
Iiiso                              D .  _   I                                                                1-IN
|REOIONAL OFFICE  1ANCR           |E60L OFFICE KATHMANDU i|E1NLOFC   HIAAA [REGIONAL OFFICE                                                                                 HNAI|
MAfINNCA  OFFICE   |MAIN BRANCH OFFICE    MIN BRANCH OFFICE        MAIN BRANCH OFFICE                                    MAIN BRANCH OFFICE|
|   ".. DAUR    II RAJI IRAJ          I          IFGANJ      I IJANAKPUR                                                       4  EPAFLGANJ I
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAC 0 --I                                              C _E] 
WBRAC  OFFICE |BRRANCH OFFICE   |BRANCN OFFICF|                 B RANCH OFFI CE IIBRANCH OFFIC    BRNC  OFF;;IC  BRANCH OFFICE  |BRANCH of FCE|       BRN   OF FICE|   BRANCH OFrICE| BRANCH OFFICEI
I A               DHANI(UTA II HETAUDA  |I    SYANJA    II                       DAMAULI II   POKHARA IL          DA;G    II SURKNET I          I     SATTI   II        DOTI     IMANEARA NAGAR
,4A, |  _   j r i'  - VAI-L 2   ji C z X                       Xi;jz                            0 4
x   z                                       40   0        o                                                                                        -                       - 
0   ci             O. 0O  00 0                                                                                                   
ATTACHED TO  DISTRICT OFFICE,
UDAYAPUR
S.B.O  SUB-BRANCH OFFICE                                                                                                                                                           World Bank - 21253



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Proposed Organization Chart for Nepal Food Corporation
f  Board of Directors
I   General Manager
Quality C
Deputy General Manager                                                      Deputy General Manager
Administration                                                                Operation
Administrative             Finance                  Plning               Internal & Foreign         Construction &          Rei          1
Division                Division          [nision                       Trade Division        Maintenance Division       R         Ofc
IBranch Offices
I Sub-branch Offices
World Bank - 21266



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Far Western Rice Export Company Orgnai7atAtn CiMUt
Board of Directors
General Manager
Quality Control            I                        |LItenaAu           dit
Deputy General Managerl
Headquarters
Divisions                                                                                                                                                                      o
Procurement         Administrative      Finance & Accounting        Sales & Store
Division             Division                Division               D  ivision
Branch Office
Rajapur
Field
Off ices
Procurement           Procurement           Procu rement           Procurement           Procurement
Depot                 Depot                 Depot                  Depot                 Depot
Nepalgunj              Manpur                Rajapur               Dhanaura                Jaipur
World Bank - 21267



3    ''      't !~~~1~  2,   'tl' ,  R-  04  tlS      3 85   T    3o~    NlS   I
9      p
+~~~~~~~~31   __            aIl    -           3i1
STACK
X-1T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
BRICK WALL
L-----------  --------------_  _ --------------------  +   I  -------------                                                                                   MORTAR   FINISRH
LOADING AND UNLOADING DECK
SIDE ELEVATION
_____________________ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ,    3 b  3    32'      3 3,5
FLOOR PLAN
ROOF VENTILATOR 8000e
COISHEETROOF           _     I                                                  NEPAL
I ~lI!l!UIi~  I~Il   24 GUOE  I~,I,LI'I~L LIII IIIIII'IIIGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
oI1ii [~Iti1i1~I~}     _____        f~Ii1iI1Jiiii                                 MODEL DESIGN FOR 1,000 METRIC TON GODOGIN
- METAL SLIDING DOOR
FRONT ELEVATION                         W 3000 H 3000
W.old Ba-k -21100



NEPAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
MODEL DESIGN FOR 2,000 METRIC TON GODOWN
30. 52                               _ _                                                 3C 52L
T 85     .:5    ff3315_         1.8,5 T - _ 38l       3.85        3315 3. 3.81$ 815     51$15      3.5 -1  - 3.81$        335 615               35         39!          3915--i
,1  2-, NTO,M  05fitd U ..... _C: 212 5t350 3||5<X15UUt1.109tilOO_500 15p~: 3 S n 1500 11t103 1300 12121215 ISlO,) Iz O I100    0 1200 t25  -Tooo  130 530  151$ T  5  3S5 2.5  %50e. UU.I.C, 59 0   1ZS5
STACK                                                                             STAr   ;rCK    
AIAJ lNC, al 1 UNLOADING DEit t
f~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~= ,. -                                                                                                                                        ..                               I-
FLOOR PLAN                                                                                                                ROOF VENTILATOR 8
BRICK WALL
8~~~~~~~~I ~~~~~~~MORTAR FINISH
METAL SLIDING DOOR
FRONT ELEVATION                                   ,                                     3.OC H 30090
MORTAR FINISH
SIDE ELEVATION                                                             SECTION
World Bank - 21186
B                                                                                         I            8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I BRD 14831 R
.  810.                                                       azU                                                              814                                                                 WAZ                                                                  11        MARCH  1980
N E PDAL
GRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Nepal Food Corporation and Rice Exporting Companies
Location and Capacity of Grain Storage Facilities
0   Proposeo  Procurement Storage Locations                                     Mountoin Region
=       Proposed Transshpmenrt Storage Location                                      Wi I Reg on
1000o    Proposed Storage Capocity                                                   Inj   rTea
- gA ^> AEtN.A:< \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per Projecl Location (metric tons)                                                                                  jTer.,
1-..: bInd;  ptRdt8~tIt aT f  g   /    E                                     Exshng     struto Per Dittrict rner c tons)L                                             Voll
ExistiSTNO      ng Higwa
I.s>, X soo A,lcuDa=  lr                                                                                                                                  > M Foodgramn Procurement Areas                                          Highway Under Construction
~~'~~>  I'   /                                                                                                     "'~~~~~'~~               'i          ne~~~-I-                                it_
8 X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RKP                                                                                                                                                                                         DeVelopm e,t Region Boeunccr GS
5.  _s ,                              :   ;,.t   ' : =
tORMA    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                  I            P~~~~~~~~~~Dsrc  Boundarie
Arabian  *eapot                 t>~~~~~                                itILOM/tERt                                        I          N           D\ A~50                       H      /                                Rvr
0  20  0  nO        O         1005rssn snasn nnass~,dn, ws,ea ,sier,sc,s n,a~s <.s. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VRS
28,                                                                                                                                                                                          8848~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  sis  sss,an  tmt   n s,tss~   S,55
MOOtns,0sss,sinss   ,ssnsssassssss,sar  ss sssp'si  5s5~TAN-HUnks'dOH
L~ ~ ~~~~~>i9-                                                                                                                                                                                                      a5'isysys~s
-------- ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     82                                                                      84 L -1r"s's''~   's's'''



