                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00003275



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                 (IBRD-75380 IBRD-75390 IBRD-80150)

                                       ON

                   US$330 MILLION AND €182.7 MILLION
                  (US$600 MILLION EQUIVALENT) LOANS

                                      TO

               TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI (TSKB)

                                     AND

                   A US$150 MILLION AND €94.9 MILLION
                   (US$300 MILLION EQUIVALENT) LOAN

                                      TO

             TURKIYE IHRACAT KREDI BANKASI (EXIMBANK)

                                     WITH

              THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                      FOR

        THE FOURTH EXPORT FINANCE INTERMEDIATION PROJECT

                                  June 23, 2015



Finance and Markets
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective June 8, 2015)

              Currency Unit= New Turkish Lira (TRY)
                       TRY 1.00 = US$ 0.36
                       US$ 1.00 = TRY 2.77

                          FISCAL YEAR


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF         Additional Financing
BRSA       Bankacılık Düzenleme ve Denetleme Kurumu, Banking Regulation and
           Supervision Agency
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBRT       Central Bank Republic of Turkey
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
D/E        Debt-to-equity ratio
DSCR       Debt service coverage ratio
EFIL       Export Finance Intermediation Loan
EIB        European Investment Bank
Eximbank   Turkiye Ihracat Kredi Bankasi A.S.
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
IBRD       International Bank For Reconstruction And Development
ICR        Implementation Completion and Results Report
IFI        International Financial Institution
IEG        Independent Evaluation Group
IL         Investment Loan
ISR        Implementation Status And Results
IT         Information Technology
M&E        Monitoring And Evaluation
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective
PFI        Participating Financial Institution
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
SME        Small And Medium Enterprise
TL         Turkish lira
TSKB       Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi
TUIK       Türkiye İstatistik Kurumu, Turkish Statistical Institute
WCL        Working capital loan

                    Vice President: Laura Tuck
                 Country Director: Martin Raiser
                 Practice Manager: Aurora Ferrari
             Project Team Leader: Ilias Skamnelos
                ICR Team Leader: Samuel Munzele Maimbo


                                  2
                                          TURKEY
                     Fourth Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL IV)



                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph



  1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1 
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7 
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 19 
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 27 
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 27 
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 30 
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 32 
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 33 
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 34 
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 42 
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 43 
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 44 
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 45 
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 46 
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 54 
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 55 
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 56 




                                                                 3
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Fourth Export Finance
Country:                Turkey                  Project Name:             Intermediation Loan
                                                                          (EFIL IV)
                                                                          IBRD-75380,IBRD-
Project ID:             P096858                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          75390,IBRD-80150
ICR Date:               06/23/2015              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          TSKB AND TURK
Lending Instrument:     FIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          EXIM BANK
Original Total
                        USD 600.00M             Disbursed Amount:         USD 855.71M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 900.00M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB)
 Turkiye Ihracat Kredi Bankasi (Turk Eximbank)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/08/2008     Effectiveness:             06/19/2008        06/19/2008
                                                                                  03/17/2011
                                                                                  06/13/2011
Appraisal:            03/31/2008     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  10/10/2012
                                                                                  05/17/2013
Approval:             05/22/2008     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2013        12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory




                                                4
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Highly Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                         QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                          Rating
      Performance                                  any)
 Potential Problem Project at                   Quality at Entry
                              No                                           None
any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                    Quality of Supervision
                             No                                        None
(Yes/No):                                       (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                            15                 15
General finance sector                                             20                 20
General industry and trade sector                                  50                 50
SME Finance                                                        15                 15


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                             40                 40
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                         20                 20
Other Financial Sector Development                                 20                 20
Other Private Sector Development                                   20                 20

E. Bank Staff
           Positions                        At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:               Laura Tuck                     Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:             Martin Raiser                  Ulrich Zachau
Practice Manager/Manager:     Aurora Ferrari                 Lalit Raina
Project Team Leader:          Ilias Skamnelos                Steen Byskov
ICR Team Leader:              Samuel Munzele Maimbo
ICR Primary Author:           Aminata Ndiaye


                                                5
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
  (i) Support exports by providing medium- and long-term working capital and investment
finance to exporting firms; and
  (ii) Improve the ability of the financial sector to provide financial resources to firms
through development of financial intermediaries.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                                                  Actual Value
                                         Original Target      Formally
                           Baseline                                               Achieved at
      Indicator                       Values (from approval    Revised
                            Value                                                Completion or
                                           documents)       Target Values
                                                                                  Target Years
                       Export growth by participating firms relative to sector export growth
Indicator 1 :
                       (median)
Value (Quantitative or
                       n/a           >0                                      5.96
Qualitative)
Date achieved          05/22/2008 12/31/2014                                 12/31/2014
Comments (incl. %
                       Fully achieved.
achievement)
                       Non-performing loans/total loan:(a) by amount and
Indicator 2 :
                       (b) by number of loans, all measured among loans included in the project
                                     (a) lower than sector
                                     weighted NPL ratio in                   (a) 3.0 percent
Value
                                     the economy (4 percent                  (US$25.2 million)
quantitative or        n/a
                                     in June 2014)                           (b) 2.7 percent (10
Qualitative)
                                     (b) less than 5 % of all                NPLs)
                                     loans in the project
Date achieved          05/22/2008 12/31/2014                                 12/31/2014
Comments (incl. %
                       Fully achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                     Original Target                             Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                           Baseline    Values (from                               Achieved at
      Indicator                                         Revised Target
                            Value        approval                                Completion or
                                                            Values
                                        documents)                               Target Years
Indicator 1 :          Amount provided to exporters under the project
Value (Quantitative
                       0              US$596.3 million       US$896 million US$856 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          05/22/2008     06/30/2013             12/31/2014        12/31/2014
Comments (incl. %
                       Fully disbursed - difference due to exchange rate differential.
achievement)

                                                6
Indicator 2 :         Number of banks and leasing companies included in the project
Value (Quantitative
                      0               12                                    13
or Qualitative)
Date achieved         05/22/2008      12/31/2014                            12/31/2014
Comments (incl. %
                      Fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :         Amount of investments in projects supported by investment loans
                                                         greater than
                                                         amounts
Value (Quantitative
                      0            US$328.5 million      disbursed for    US$328.5 million
or Qualitative)
                                                         investment loans
                                                         and leases
Date achieved         05/22/2008   06/30/2013            12/31/2014       12/31/2014
Comments (incl. %
achievement)
                      Share of medium term financing (more than 12 months) in total PFI
Indicator 4 :
                      loan portfolio
Value (Quantitative
                      55%             59%                                   50%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved         06/30/2008     12/31/2014                              12/31/2014
Comments (incl. %     The value of this indicator dropped from 63 percent in June 2014 to 50
achievement)          percent in end-2014.
Indicator 5 :         Number of beneficiary enterprises
Value (Quantitative
                      0               320                                   304
or Qualitative)
Date achieved         05/22/2008      12/31/2014                            12/31/2014
Comments (incl. %
                      95% achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                         IP               Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     09/26/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   60.47
  2     10/15/2008          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   60.47
  3     06/26/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  176.37
  4     12/16/2009          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  290.06
  5     09/25/2010          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  350.64
  6     11/29/2010          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  359.37
  7     07/17/2011          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  388.07
  8     09/10/2011          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  392.32
  9     05/15/2012          Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory              681.60
 10     12/26/2012          Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory              787.67
 11     10/21/2013          Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory              848.77
 12     06/22/2014          Satisfactory           Highly Satisfactory              853.46
 13     12/24/2014          Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  853.46

                                              7
H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                 Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
 Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
                Approved                Restructuring
    Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
               PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                          millions
                                                      18-month extension of project
  03/17/2011       N       S       S         383.15   closing date, with additional
                                                      financing
                                                      Eximbank’s request to lift
  06/13/2011               S       S         386.62   sector restrictions due to an
                                                      unanticipated lack of demand
                                                      One-time waiver for TSKB
  10/10/2012               S      HS         767.74   related to procurement
                                                      thresholds
                                                      US$1.5 million were reallocated
                                                      from Eximbank’s institutional
  05/17/2013               S      HS         799.93
                                                      development component to its
                                                      credit line

The Project was restructured four times in response to market demand. First, the project closing
date was extended by 18 months at the time of the additional financing. Second, Eximbank’s
request to lift sector restrictions due to an unanticipated lack of demand eventually led to a second
restructuring in June 2011. The project’s environmental framework was concomitantly revised. In
October 2012, the third project restructuring consisted of granting a one-time waiver for TSKB
related to procurement thresholds. Finally, in May 2013, US$1.5 million were reallocated from
Eximbank’s institutional development component to its credit line, justified by cost savings and the
use of Eximbank’s own resources.

I. Disbursement Profile




                                                 8
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

The Fourth Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL IV) Project, complemented
with additional financing once, totaled US$900 million equivalent. The original project
approved by the World Bank in May 2008 comprised two loans: (1) a credit line of US$300
million equivalent for Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi (TSKB) and (2) a credit line of
US$296.3 million equivalent for Turkiye Ihracat Kredi Bankasi A.S. (Eximbank),
accompanied by US$3.7 million equivalent for Eximbank’s institutional development.
Both loans were guaranteed by the government of Turkey and entailed two currencies
(euros and U.S. dollars). TSKB fully disbursed its original credit line by end-2010 and
obtained additional financing ofUS$300 million equivalent in March 2011.
At the closing of the project in December 2014, the project had fully disbursed the
loan amount for TSKB and Eximbank. Eximbank actually disbursed fully in end-June
2013. By end-November 2014, a total of US$8461 million was disbursed to 304 distinct
exporters in Turkey. Overall, Eximbank and TSKB granted 369 subloans for investment
and working capital purposes between 2008 and 2014.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country and Sector Background.
Turkey sustained strong economic growth after the 2001 crisis but also a large current
account deficit. Economic growth averaged 6.8 percent and stayed above 4.5 percent
during the period 2002–07. Investment levels remained modest, however, and growth was
increasingly driven by domestic demand. The strong growth performance was
accompanied by a widening current account deficit, which increased to about 6 percent of
gross domestic product (GDP) in 2006 before slightly narrowing to 5.7 percent in 2007.
Over the past decade, as Turkey emerged as an important player in international
trade, trade imbalances have become more pronounced. Turkey is the EU’s fifth largest
export partner and seventh largest import partner. Between 2002 and 2008, trade volumes
have significantly and continuously increased. Trade accounted for almost 45 percent of
GDP in 2008, up from 38 percent in 2002. The Turkish economy’s openness to
international trade is relatively higher than that of comparable economies, such as Brazil
and India (23 and 42 percent of GDP respectively in 2008). As imports have outgrown
exports, however, the trade balance deficit has constantly widened over the period. The
trade deficit increased from US$15 million in 2002 (6.7 percent of GDP) to US$70 million
in 2008 (i.e., 9.4 percent of GDP).
At project appraisal, the Turkish economy was facing considerable uncertainties in
the domestic and international markets. The larger current account deficit (8.2 percent),
high inflation, depreciating lira, and challenging domestic political environment started to


1
  Due to exchange rate differentials, the total amount of the EFIL loan portfolio as reported by banks and
leasing companies (US$846 million) is lower than the amount reported in our system (US$856 million). In
the remainder of this report, we will refer to US$846 million as this corresponds to the sum of individual loan
amounts reported by TSKB and Eximbank at the time of the ICR. This is also to be consistent with our use
of individual loan data to assess the project’s performance.

                                                      1
threaten the achievements of the previous decade. These conditions were exacerbated by
the enhanced turmoil in global financial markets due to the U.S. subprime mortgage crisis.
With uncertainty surrounding domestic demand, exports were recognized as a driver of
growth. At the time of appraisal, the looming global economic slowdown was seen as likely
to slow export growth but not significantly affect the demand for medium-term credit. The
Turkish financial sector, however, was still recovering from the 2001 crisis, and continuing
macroeconomic volatility led to difficulties for exporting companies in accessing
investment finance.
Turkey, like other emerging markets, began experiencing increased market volatility.
Between end-2007 and March 2008, Turkish bond spreads had widened by only about 30
basis points more than the overall EMBI+ index, while the Turkish lira had depreciated by
about 11 percent against the U.S. dollar. These factors led to a weakening of the risk
appetite and capital outflows, which in turn precipitated financial system fragilities.
Within the first six months of EFIL IV, Turkey felt the first impact of the global
economic downturn. Between May and October 2008, the Istanbul Stock Exchange fell
35 percent, and the Turkish lira depreciated by 21 percent against the U.S. dollar. Also,
while total exports overall grew by 31 percent between January and October, compared to
the previous year, a 2 percent decline in October is noteworthy, 2 led by a 22 percent
decrease in exports of motor vehicles and related-industry products, which represented
about a fifth of total exports.
Rationale for Bank Assistance.
During Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) discussions in November 2007, the
Turkish authorities requested the World Bank to provide additional medium- to long-
term financing for exporters. The ongoing EFIL III project was expected to close in June
2008, two years ahead of schedule. Authorities requested additional resources for exporters
in the form of credit lines to be intermediated through the ongoing EFIL III borrower
(TSKB) and a potential new borrower, Eximbank, which had been engaged in the first
EFIL operation. Demand for affordable longer-term foreign currency funds was still strong,
given the prohibitively high interest rates (policy rates of more than 16 percent) and the
very short loan maturities (70 percent of corporate loans had a maturity of three years or
less). The follow-up operation would largely maintain the design of its successful
predecessors—EFIL I (1999), II (2004), and III (2005) projects—which had provided a
timely and focused response to the demand from banks and exporting companies for
medium- and long-term funding, both at pre- and post-crisis periods.
Additionally, the project was designed to encourage longer-term investment finance
to boost private sector development. In a context of very short maturity for domestic
deposits, Turkish banks relied on syndicated loans of 1-2 year maturity to extend credit to
the private sector. Given the increased refinancing risk in the international markets and the
worsening global conditions, Turkish banks were hesitant to provide credit with a maturity


2
 The central bank identifies October 2008 as the time when the impact of the global financial crisis on
domestic and external demand became apparent. Putting an end to a six-year growth streak, trade volumes
contracted for the first time in October 2008 and continued to decline in line with international trade trends.

                                                      2
beyond 1-2 years. By providing banks with longer tem funding, the project was designed
to help overcome this constraint to investment finance. Moreover, the project would help
the financial sector further develop its investment lending business by demonstrating that
term lending can be a viable business proposition while building the necessarily skills at
participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) to appraise term loans.
The project is consistent with the FY04–07 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at time
of appraisal and remained fully consistent with the subsequent Country Partnership
Strategies. The top priorities of the FY04–07 CAS for the medium term included
completing the banking and financial sector reforms and filling the current gap in accessing
credit facilities, which is supported by this project. Subsequently, the CPS FY08–11 aimed
at improving the business climate and identified export growth and stability of financial
markets as key outcomes. Then, under the first objective (para. v) of the FY12–16 CPS,
“Enhanced Competitiveness and Employment,” planned CPS activities include the
provision of medium- and long-term funding to exporters. Finally, the Turkish Government
in its Ninth Development Plan (2007–13) included competitiveness in export markets as
one of the main objectives, with the improvement of the financial system as a way to
achieve this.
The credit line operation complemented a comprehensive package of Bank analytical,
advisory, and financial support to Turkey’s financial sector policy efforts. Reform
options aimed at improved financing conditions for firms were discussed in the 2007
Investment Climate Assessment and the 2008 Financial Sector Assessment produced under
the Financial Sector Assessment Program. Financial sector reforms related to capital
market development and credit information, among others, were also included in
Development Policy Lending discussions.
The credit line also complemented existing credit facilities provided by international
organizations. TSKB managed several credit lines that provided financing to small and
medium Turkish enterprises (not exclusively exporters). Eximbank received two credit
lines from the European Investment Bank (EIB) — €100 million in 2008 and €75 million
in 2012. This credit line financed mid-cap exporters, given the EIB’s objective of financing
small and medium enterprises (SMEs).

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project specified the following PDO:
    Support exports by providing medium- and long-term working capital and
      investment finance to exporting firms
    Improve the ability of the financial sector to provide financial resources to firms
      through development of financial intermediaries
To measure progress toward the achievement of the PDO, the following performance
indicators were approved:
    Private investment as a percentage of GDP
    Export growth
    Credit to the private sector as a percentage of GDP

                                             3
          Assets of nonbank financial institutions as a percentage of GDP

Key indicators for measuring project outcomes were:
    The increased volume of exports by participating exporters
    The amount of investments by participating exporters supported by the project
    The increased scope of financial intermediation as measured by the number of PFIs
      (banks and leasing companies) that participate in EFIL IV
    The increased medium- and long-term lending extended to participating exporters
    The payment performance of subborrowers
    The improved risk management capacity at Eximbank

The project was also designed to monitor a broader indicator—employment impact3—
which would feed into the development objective of the country and of the CPS. In addition,
the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) specified that TSKB would collect information on:
(1) financial performance of PFIs and itself; and (2) loan distribution by PFIs, firm size,
sector, and geographical location. These additional monitoring efforts aimed to provide
sufficient information for a comprehensive assessment of the project’s contributions
beyond its core objectives.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO did not change during project implementation; key indicators were
however revised at the time of the additional financing. In 2011, the results framework
was amended to facilitate the measurement of project-specific contributions. 4 Changes
were introduced to allow the results framework to adjust not only for the general economic
environment but also for sector-specific circumstances. Table 1 summarizes amendments
to project indicators along with their justification, as published in the Additional Financing
(AF) project paper.
In the course of the results framework’s revision, two indicators were dropped. After
the restructuring in 2011, the project’s employment impact was no longer monitored as a
key indicator. In addition, the indicator related to component 3 was dropped from the
results framework. These changes may have been undertaken, on grounds that these
indicators did not best reflect the core PDOs or that performance on these indicators could
be influenced by other factors (such as economy-wide developments). The team, while
having clear rationales for dropping the indicators, did not properly reflect these in the
formal restructuring documentation. The team continued to report extensively on progress
toward successful implementation of component 3 in aide-memoires.




3
    TSKB would collect planned employment data, at the time of the subloan application.
4
    Each participating exporter’s performance would be measured against its sub-sector's performance

                                                       4
                Table 1: Amendments to the Original Results Framework
 Original indicator            Change                    Rationale for change
 PDO
 Export multiplier:            Revised: Export           Revision of existing results indicator to make it
 incremental export growth     growth by                 more project specific by comparing it to the
 by participating              participating firms       sectors in which each enterprise operates,
 exporters/disbursed loan      relative to sector        thereby controlling for general developments in
 amounts                       export growth             the economy.
                               (median)
 Nonperforming loans/total     Revised:                  Revision of existing results indicator to make it
 loan to be measured in        Nonperforming             more project specific by comparing it to sector
 numbers as well as            loans/total loan (1) by   weighted nonperforming loan ratios, thereby
 amounts                       amount and (2) by         controlling for general developments in the
                               number of loans, all      economy.
                               measured among loans
                               included in the project
 Export growth                 Dropped                   The indicators measure the whole economy, and
 Private investments/GDP                                 the project is unlikely to have any significant
 Nonbank financial                                       impact at this scale. The new indicators are
 institution assets/GDP                                  designed to better measure the project’s
 Credit to the private                                   contribution.
 sector/GDP
 Intermediate outcomes
 Amount provided to            Continued
 exporters under the project
 Number of banks and           Continued
 leasing companies included
 in the project
 Amount of investments in      Continued
 projects supported by
 investment loans
 Share of medium-term          New                       The indicator is measured for the total portfolio
 financing (more than 12                                 of the PFIs, not just for the loans in the project.
 months) in total PFI loan                               This is to assess whether the PFIs increase the
 portfolio                                               share of medium-term finance in their portfolio
                                                         or whether they use the credit line as a substitute
                                                         for other medium-term loans they would have
                                                         given under any circumstances.
 Number of beneficiary         New                       Included as an additional measure of the impact
 enterprises                                             of the project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The beneficiaries for this project were not discussed in the PAD or in the AF project paper.
However, based on the project’s components, the beneficiaries of EFIL IV are: (1)
exporters; and (2) TSKB, Eximbank, and PFIs (banks and leasing companies).
The primary beneficiaries for this project are exporters and Eximbank (through
component 3).Through components 1 and 2, exporters would benefit from the provision
of medium- and long-term finance to make productive investments at a time of (1) reduced
international funding due to the financial crisis; (2) increasing demand for longer term
credit; and (3) inability of the financial sector to support these trends at a reasonable cost.


                                                    5
Eximbank would benefit from improved risk management capacity. The institutional
strengthening of Eximbank is an integral part of EFIL IV, under component 3.
The secondary beneficiaries were the PFIs, Eximbank (through component 2), and
TSKB. PFIs and Eximbank, as retail lenders, would benefit from access to medium- and
long-term funding to help them expand their medium- and long-term lending and leasing
activities, while reducing maturity mismatches that lead to both interest rate risk and
refinancing risk. In addition, the project’s requirements for compliance with
banking/leasing regulations and financial covenants would help ensure that the PFIs remain
financially sound. With regard to TSKB, the project would increase its long-term funding
and intermediation capacity in the financial sector. The ultimate objective was to strengthen
and improve the ability of the Turkish financial sector to provide medium- and long-term
financial resources to the enterprise sector.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project substantially maintained the design of the predecessor EFIL III project
but added an additional borrower.
Component 1 (US$197.4 million and €65 million) was a quasi-replication of EFIL III,
which consisted of a credit line to TSKB, as borrower and an implementing agency. TSKB
passed on funds to PFIs for further on-lending to eligible exporters. TSKB operated as a
wholesaler, and entered into subsidiary loan agreements with both banks and leasing
companies. There were no pre-allocations between PFIs and no sector restrictions. The
definition of exporters was expanded to include service exports such as tourism.
Component 2 (US$l50 million and €94.9 million) was designed as a credit line for
exporters through Eximbank. Eximbank operated as a retail lender, lending directly to
exporters in the shipbuilding and machine-building sectors only. The restrictions were
justified by (1) these sectors’ promising export and growth potentials; and (2) Eximbank’s
established relations with these sectors.

Component 3 (US$3.7 million) was a loan to Eximbank to improve risk management
capacity. In addition to building backup capacity for Eximbank’s critical information
technology (IT) system to better manage operational risk and upgrading the existing IT
systems, the component would support Basel II implementation that started January l, 2008.
Loans to TSKB and Eximbank were provided by the World Bank, with a government of
Turkey guarantee.

1.6 Revised Components

Component 1 was scaled up once. In March 2011, the Board approved an additional loan
in the amount of US$180 million and €87.8 million (US$300 million equivalent) for TSKB.




                                             6
Component 2 was revised in June 2011 to lift the initial restrictions on eligible sectors5.
With the global financial crisis, demand from the originally approved sectors—ship
building, shipyard building, and machine building—slumped. At Eximbank’s request, the
project was revised to extend medium- and long-term financing to other sectors. Going
forward, the World Bank would approve subloans to exporters in other sectors, on a “no
objection” basis.

1.7 Other significant changes

With regard to component 1, TSKB proceeded with several reallocations among PFIs
throughout the life of the project. At the beginning of the project, 42 percent of loan
proceeds were allocated toward leasing companies. At the end of the project, including
reallocations and additional financing, leasing companies accounted for 41 percent of total
funds (see table A2.2 in annex 2). TSKB efficiently allocated project funds to match
demand and performance, thereby avoiding implementation delays.
In May 2013, a reallocation of US$1.5 million from component 3 to component 2
(credit line) was undertaken at Eximbank’s request. The initial US$3.7 million
allocation of component 3 was underutilized, due to lower procurement costs, and
utilization of in-house capacity and resources in some instances instead of loan proceeds.
Table A2.5 in annex 2 summarizes planned and actual activities financed.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Although presented as a repeater project, EFIL IV is different in some ways from the
previous EFIL operations. During the identification mission, the Turkish Treasury
expressed a preference for a single operation for the two borrowers, either as additional
financing to EFIL III or a new project, in a relatively short time frame. The Regional
Operations Committee (ROC) decided to prepare EFIL IV as a repeater project, given the
added complexity of the project:

        Size: all previous EFIL projects consisted of a credit of US$300 million. EFIL IV
         scaled up resources, by doubling the amount to be intermediated to exporters.
        Borrower and intermediation: Previous EFILs were implemented as a single
         component with one bank acting as a wholesaler. This time, two banks were
         involved with different approaches: one wholesaler and one retail lender.
        Institutional development: EFIL I was the only predecessor operation that
         included an institutional development component, which consisted of IT
         equipment, related services, and training. EFIL IV specifically targeted risk


5
  The restructuring was undertaken because, although sector restrictions were not specified per se in the loan
agreement, the loan agreement specifically referred to the 2008 operations manual which set these restrictions.
During the restructuring, the text in the loan agreement was amended to refer to the revised 2011 operations
manual for sector eligibility.

                                                      7
        management and banking regulation. In addition, 10 percent of funds available in
        the third component were originally earmarked for capacity building at Eximbank
        related to project implementation (recruitment of consultants for loan appraisal).

Given the similarities with earlier projects, however, the ROC agreed to move forward with
streamlined procedures.
The project’s preparation, design, and quality at entry were mostly in line with
lessons learned from previous EFIL operations and other credit lines:
(i) Consistency with Bank and government priorities. The project supported the
government’s strategic priorities and was aligned with the FY04–07 CAS and the FY08–
11 CPS during preparation and design.
(ii) Simple and somewhat flexible design, with a minimum of statutory requirements.
      Currency and interest rate: The World Bank’s loan included the option for both
        borrowers to convert loans into an “approved currency,” or from variable to fixed
        interest rate (and vice versa). To be consistent with the project’s target beneficiaries
        (exporters), lending in local currency was not allowed.
       Eligibility criteria: the definition of exporters was expanded to include service
        exports (i.e. tourism) for the first time in EFILs, in line with the national definition.
        The revision was introduced to respond to TSKB’s demand from the tourism sector.
        Concomitantly, sector restrictions were introduced in response to Eximbank’s
        original intention of serving the ship-building primarily6, and to some extent the
        machine building sector. The decision was reversed with the 2011 restructuring,
        after which eligibility was granted on a no-objection basis, after justification. The
        EFIL I Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) recommended that
        sector restrictions in these types of operations should be avoided.
       Sublending: There were no rigid pre-allocations per PFIs (for TSKB) nor per sector
        (for Eximbank). Sublending was hence demand driven, in line with EFIL II ICR
        recommendations that quotas were not desirable. Moreover, exporters were eligible
        to receive financing for both working capital and investments, and subloans could
        be denominated in any currency. This flexibility was especially relevant in response
        to the global financial crisis. Nevertheless, the World Bank continued to monitor
        the share of subloans that were related to investments.
(iii) Inclusion of leasing in credit lines. The inclusion of leasing companies as financial
intermediaries was continued from the successful experience under EFIL II and III. This
helped: (1) reach smaller exporters who do not necessarily have access to bank loans but
do have access to leases; and (2) assist development of the leasing sector and thereby
deepen the financial sector.




6
  The EU requirement for double-hull tankers starting in 2003 created a strong demand for the Turkish
shipbuilding sector, which had been a major provider of such ships in EU markets. Eximbank also targeted
this sector to consolidate its experience in large-value project finance.

                                                   8
(iv) Quality of participating financial institutions: Both TSKB and Eximbank were
selected on the basis of sound bank analysis and audited financial performance data. The
World Bank preparation team conducted detailed assessments of both banks. Both
borrowers were deemed well capitalized and profitable, with a sound loan portfolio. TSKB,
a private development bank, was rated by both Fitch Ratings and Moody’s and received
ratings in line with the largest and best-run banks in the country. Eximbank, state-owned,
is the export bank. Both borrowers had previous experience with World Bank’s EFIL
operations, as a wholesale or retail lender.
(v) Lower transaction costs for PFIs, through simplification of the application process.
EFIL IV simplified the application forms and reduced the eligibility and reporting
requirements for PFIs, closely aligning these with business practices, in order to reduce the
transaction costs. Earlier ICRs had indeed highlighted that onerous environmental,
procurement, and other project requirements tend to lead to a more restrictive allocation of
funds, to larger transactions, and to firms with a better access to finance.
(vi) Decentralized decision making and sound incentive structure for wholesale
lending. With TSKB carrying the credit risk of and selecting PFIs and PFIs carrying the
credit risk of and selecting exporters, the selection of project participants rested on the
entities that are best capable of identifying good financial intermediaries and exporting
firms. Qualitative criteria set out in the project and monitored during supervision helped
ensure that these choices were made on a sound basis.
(vii) Incorporation of other lessons learned in previous EFIL projects. Important
lessons were: (1) use of established market practices for the selection of both the PFIs and
the exporters/subprojects; (2) use of procurement requirements that are suitable for private
sector borrowers to make the project more client friendly and ensure its expeditious
implementation; (3) combine the borrower and implementing agency functions in one and
the same entity for higher quality and expeditious project implementation; and (4) engaging
with potential subborrowers to ascertain the potential uptake of the credit line.
(viii) Identification of risks and associated mitigation measures. Risks included (1)
macroeconomic risks due to the global economic slowdown expected in 2008 with ensuing
lower demand for the credit line; (2) risk of systemic liquidity contraction due to substantial
capital outflows; and (3) implementation risks, including Eximbank’s first operation as a
retail lender. Mitigating factors included the economy’s demonstrated resilience to
negative shocks and exporters’ track record of resilience to macroeconomic instability. At
the project level, the Bank team had strong confidence in TSKB’s and Eximbank’s
institutional, financial, and technical capacity, given their successful prior experience in
managing foreign credit lines (including the World Bank’s EFILs). The lack of demand
from Eximbank’s core sectors, although raised in the ROC meeting, was not addressed in
the project’s risk matrix. Design flexibility would have been an appropriate mitigating
measure.

2.2 Implementation
The project was effective in June 2008, just a month after board approval. Eximbank’s
credit line disbursed within the original project closing date; and TSKB, including the
additional financing disbursed fully by the amended closing date (the initial credit line was
                                              9
fully disbursed almost three years ahead of schedule). Factors that affected implementation
outcomes can be organized into four categories.

A. The effect of the global financial crisis

        Significant volatility in the Turkish economy: after a recession in 2009, the
         Turkish economy recovered in 2010 and settled at a more modest growth level of
         3 percent in 2014, compared to the previous decade. Between May 2013 and
         January 2014, the lira depreciated by almost 15 percent as a result of the Fed’s
         tapering message and domestic political tensions. The Turkish central bank
         (CBRT) responded with strong monetary policy tightening and significant
         increases in interest rates. Since May 2014, the CBRT has cut interest rates in
         several steps. However, high inflation and renewed depreciation of the lira leave
         little room for the central bank to support economic growth.

        Depressed demand for exports: In 2008, total exports reached US$130 billion, 18
         percent of GDP. Turkish exports were down by 23 percent in 2009, then gradually
         recovering to return in 2011 to their 2008 level. Exports in the manufacturing
         industry followed a similar trend. The manufacturing of transport equipment
         (excluding motor vehicles, but including ships) was hardest hit, and still has not
         fully recovered. This sector can serve as a proxy for the shipbuilding sector. The
         machine-building sector fared slightly better during the crisis.

        Overall, demand from export markets declined, in particular in the EU which
         represented 50 percent of Turkish exports. Eximbank was the most affected because
         its target sectors were very sensitive to the global economy. TSKB was affected to
         a lesser extent, given the largely unmet demand for export finance across all sectors.
                                  Figure 2: Evolution of exports, 2008-12
                                             (Base year: 2008)
                     Exports      Exports/GDP                     2009    2010     2011     2012     2013
        140                                                 140

        120                                                 120

        100                                                 100
                                                        %
    %




         80                                                 80

         60                                                 60

         40                                                 40
              2009    2010     2011   2012      2013                  Transport     Machinery and Total
                                                                     equipment       equipment Manufacturing
                                                                   (excl. vehicles)


        Contraction of private investment and leasing activities: Real private
         investment dramatically dropped from 30 percent per year until 2004, to reach 2.6
         percent in 2007 and minus 22.5 percent in 2009, before slowly returning to its
         normal levels in 2011. Due to the investment finance nature of leasing as well as



                                                       10
         regulatory change7 introduced in 2007, the leasing business was severely hit by the
         financial crisis: total transaction volumes sharply fell from US$8.3 billion in 2007
         to under US$2.2 billion in 2009. The industry is traditionally focusing on the SME
         segment, where credit risk has been increasing and demand has been weakening
         more than among larger firms.

        Larger transaction size:8 The average amount of subloans and leases was higher
         over the 2008–10 period (EFIL IV) at US$1.8 million compared to US$1.5 million
         in 2006–09 (EFIL III). Although the average size of bank loans decreased slightly
         to US$2.4 million from US$2.6 million, the transaction size of leasing companies
         increased to US$1.5 million, up from US$1.2 million. In addition, 42 percent of
         subloans (by number and 13 percent by amount) were below US$1 million,
         compared with 51 percent (by number) and 22 percent (by amount) in EFIL III.
         Furthermore, the smallest loan was US$110,243 in EFIL IV twice as high as in
         EFIL III (US$50,293). Given the similar conditions in EFIL III and IV, the trend
         can be attributed to the leasing companies’ response to the crisis, highlighting the
         shift away from SMEs. This is confirmed by individual loan data from the
         additional financing. During the 2011–14 period, the average size of leasing
         transactions decreased to US$1.1 million, below EFIL III levels. Over the same
         period, the size of bank loans increased to US$3.1 million.

        Lower investment financing than expected:
         o TSKB: 50 percent of the credit was used for investment purposes between 2008
           and 2010. Although high, this is lower than in EFIL III, during which 67 percent
           of the total amount was used for investment purposes. During the period of the
           additional financing (2011–14), the ratio of investment loans to working capital
           loans was still lower, 51:49. This reflects the overall low demand for investment
           financing in the economy: while the volume of corporate loans steadily
           increased in the overall banking sector between 2008 and 2013, the ratio of
           investment loans to working capital loans decreased from 41:59 to 34:66 over
           the same period. The project thus helped sustain investments.
         o Eximbank: During project implementation, in response to market demand,
           Eximbank’s focus has explicitly shifted from lending for increased capacity (to
           satisfy the projected demand) and investment financing to funding working
           capital (to allow companies to continue operating). By end-2014, 7 percent of




7
  As of year-end 2007, the Turkish Finance Ministry increased the VAT rate from 1 percent to 18 percent. In
December 2011, the VAT rate returned to 1 percent, for machinery and equipment. This reversal has
supported the leasing activity.
8
  The comparison is possible for TSKB, which was only a wholesaler in previous operations, with an
equivalent amount of US$300 million for exporters. For Eximbank, this discussion would not be relevant
because of the sector restrictions, the switch from wholesale to retail lending and more generally the type of
exporters that received financing.


                                                     11
             dollar-denominated loans and a third of euro-denominated loans financed
             investments. In total, 14 percent of Eximbank’s credit line funded investments.

       Lending pipeline: further data analysis on TSKB’s credit line shows that the
        debt/equity ratio (D/E) and debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of firms that
        received financing during the crisis were different from those financed post-crisis.
        79 subloans did not meet at least one of the financial requirements‒i.e. a minimum
        DSCR ratio of 1.1 and a maximum D/E ratio of 85:159. Greater flexibility and
        relaxing financial conditions for borrowers are consistent with market practices in
        response to crises. With regard to PFIs’ response to the crisis, the data suggest that
        beneficiaries in 2008–10 had lower D/E ratios and DSCR compared with those in
        2011–14 (figure 3). Beneficiaries were less aggressive but riskier (could less afford
        the loans). The average DSCR stood at 1.5 in 2008–10 and 2.3 in 2011–14, which
        entails that PFIs were willing to finance subborrowers who faced either lower
        incomes or higher debt service during the crisis. With regard to the D/E ratio, the
        average leverage of subborrowers was lower during the crisis. This suggests that
        PFIs were willing to lend to exporters with higher levels of debt after the crisis, to
        support their growth. Annex 2 provides more information on subborrowers.
                      Figure 3: Lending requirements: Firms’ characteristics




       Tightened funding conditions: Turkish banks found it more difficult or expensive
        to obtain funds from international credit markets. For example, in 2009, TSKB
        decided not to roll over its expiring syndicated loans. The increasing cost of new
        financing for the banks made the EFIL IV funds relatively more attractive and
        resulted in increased demand from TSKB, Eximbank, and PFIs for the credit line.

B. Take up of Eximbank’s credit line

       Sector restrictions: As mentioned above, Eximbank focus on the shipbuilding and
        machine-building sectors was motivated by an anticipated surge in demand
        following new EU regulation. This increased demand did not materialize with the
        crisis and exporters, who had expressed interest in Eximbank’s financing at
        appraisal, became more cautious. Eximbank’s first disbursements occurred in June
        2009, one year after effectiveness. Given the experience of other PFIs (through the


9
  As per TSKB, all subborrowers met financial covenants at the time of application, and ad projected based
on cash flow forecasts. Financial covenants were no longer met, possibly due to market conditions, during
the pay-back period of their loan.

                                                   12
       TSKB credit line), the lower demand at the beginning of the project can be
       attributed to the specific, large negative effect of the crisis on the targeted sectors.
       By end-2010, demand from the machine-building sector was quasi-nonexistent
       (two subloans of €1.4 million and US$4.5 million in 2009; one subloan of US$1.1
       million in 2010); and demand from the ship-building sector consisted of working-
       capital loans. Between April and September 2010, Eximbank did not receive any
       new applications. Eximbank later decided to limit its exposure to the ship-building
       sector. As of end-April 2011, three years after project approval, about a third of
       funds were committed, close to 90 percent of which were for shipbuilders. After
       restrictions were relaxed with the project restructuring, Eximbank financed demand
       from the electric and electronics, the automotive supplier (auto parts), and the
       metalware industries. Eximbank accelerated its marketing efforts through branches,
       liaison offices, and sector meetings and built a large pipeline portfolio. As a result,
       Eximbank’s disbursements accelerated: an additional 60 percent of loan funds were
       disbursed between October 2011 and 2012.

      Credit risk: In line with its existing procedures and market practices, Eximbank
       still required EFIL IV subborrowers to present a bank guarantee. During project
       implementation, and is response to the difficulty for its clients to provide sufficient
       collateral, Eximbank expanded the range of collateral to include guarantees from
       the national credit guarantee fund. Considering the cost of obtaining bank
       guarantees, Eximbank also decided to adjust its pricing to remain competitive.
C. Revision of the environmental framework

      In the course of the 2011 additional financing and restructuring, the
       environmental frameworks applicable to subloans of TSKB and Eximbank
       were revised. This revision follows a broader World Bank review of safeguards
       practices undertaken in FY11. The revision aimed to clarify the environmental
       assistance process and eliminate redundancies. Modifications included: (1)
       eliminating a redundant screening category and using only Turkish and World Bank
       environmental assessment screening classifications; (2) clarifying the separation of
       environmental due diligence of current enterprise performance from environmental
       risk assessment of the subprojects; (3) clarifying the application of World Bank
       environmental assessment screening categories to all investment subprojects; (4)
       identifying explicit environmental risk factors to be considered for both enterprises
       and subprojects through the introduction of a negative list of ineligible enterprises
       and through the introduction of distinct criteria for subprojects involving either
       physical construction, process improvement, or working capital; (5) providing
       specific guidance for determining whether subprojects would trigger World Bank
       policies on International Waterways and Safety of Dams, with such projects not
       being eligible for financing; and (6) outlining procedures necessary for compliance
       with World Bank Cultural Properties safeguards policy both for known historic
       sites and for "chance finds" during excavation activities.




                                             13
D. Other developments

      Underserved regions: The World Bank’s SME 1 Project (approved in June 2006
       and closed in April 2012) was the precursor to several projects in Turkey, financed
       by the World Bank and other development partners that explicitly targeted
       underserved regions. While the EFIL IV project was neither designed nor expected
       to channel funds to subborrowers in underserved regions, 17 subloans of US$34
       million (4 percent by amount and 4.6 percent by number) were disbursed in
       “priority development regions” such as Çorum, Kahramanmaraş, or Karaman.
       None of these became nonperforming by end-2014. Overall, 35 percent of EFIL IV
       funds financed exporters outside of the “developed regions” (i.e., Istanbul, Kocaeli,
       Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, Adana, and Antalya.). A more detailed analysis of lending in
       underserved regions is presented in annex 2.
                       Table 2: EFIL IV loan portfolio by region
                          Amount                   Number               Avg.          Max.
 Region
                         disbursed        %           of       %      maturity      maturity
                           (US$)                   subloans           (months)      (months)
 Developed              550,073,314      65%         236      64%        49            96
 Other (“Tigers”)       261,668,284      31%         116      31%        50            84
 Underserved             34,267,174       4%          17       5%        48            72
 Total                  846,008,773     100%         369      100%       49            96

      Eximbank’s institutional development component: component 3 was included
       in the project to help Eximbank upgrade its risk-management capacity and prepare
       for the implementation of Basel II requirements. With regard to risk management
       capacity, the project aimed to upgrade the IT infrastructure, through the supply and
       installation of disaster recovery IT System, and the installation of risk management
       software. The former was financed from project funds, while the latter ended up
       being financed from Eximbank’s own resources. With regard to Basel II
       implementation, the Turkish Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency (BRSA)
       had decided, at the time of project appraisal, that Basel II rules related to credit risk
       management would be implemented starting in January 2009. As a result, the
       project had earmarked US$350,000 for the implementation of a rating-based credit
       appraisal and monitoring system at Eximbank, as required under Basel II. Although
       loan proceeds were intend to establish a credit scoring system, Eximbank ended up
       using its own resources instead for activities related to Basel II (see Annex 2). In
       the end, Eximbank started reporting its capital adequacy ratio under Basel II to the
       BRSA in July 1, 2012 and US$1.5 million were reallocated from component 3 to
       component 2.

      Crowding-in: TSKB participated in the previous EFIL II and III operations and
       benefited from its strong relationship with the World Bank to strengthen its
       credibility with other international financial institutions. Between 2009 and 2013,
       TSKB has signed multilateral funding agreements totaling US$2.9 billion.
       Outstanding long-term funding amounted to US4.1 billion in 2014Q1 (91 percent
       of total funding) and had an average maturity of 12 years. With regard to wholesale
       funding, TSKB has developed a strong relationship and experience with financial

                                              14
       institutions in Turkey. Eximbank launched a follow-up export credit program in
       end-2012 that aims to provide medium- to long-term financing for working capital
       and investments. Since its launch, Eximbank has disbursed TL1billion and reported
       strong interest. The program builds upon its experience with World Bank and EIB
       loans.

           Figure 4: Outstanding funding                             Figure 5: Sources of long-term funding
           LT funding (>1yr)                           US$ mln          IBRD                       44%
           ST funding(<1yr)
                                                                         EIB                29%
                                               4,030    4,062
                                      3,769                              KfW         8%
                           3,351
         2,848   3,016
                                                                         CEB         8%
                                                                         IFC    4%
                                                                         IDB    3%
            94       258        296      175      267      247
                                                                         AFD    3%
          2009    2010        2011     2012     2013    2014Q1          EBRD   2%

                                                        Source: TSKB

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

The results framework was revised in 2011 to better reflect the PDO. The original
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework designed PDO indicators that, although
effectively monitored during project supervision, did not measure the project’s
contribution but rather measured the overall performance of the Turkish economy. This
was common practice at the time the project’s M&E framework was designed. These
macro indicators were dropped during the preparation of the Additional Financing. Two
indicators, previously designed as intermediate outcome indicators, were amended and
then upgraded as PDO indicators. As such, since 2011, the PDO indicators were adequately
measuring the project’s impact.
The 2011 revision also aimed to manage expectations of the project’s outcomes.
Revisions were made to intermediate outcome indicators to improve the ability to attribute
any observed results directly to the project. The performance of exporters would be
compared with that of nonparticipating exporters within their subsectors for greater
comparability. In addition, the Bank team attempted to monitor the impact on the maturity
structure of the balance sheet of participating PFIs beyond the direct impact of the bridge
loan.
The M&E arrangements were not fully described in the PAD. TSKB’s M&E capacity
based on EFIL III’s experience was discussed. However, the PAD did not provide details
on Eximbank’s M&E arrangements. Moreover, M&E arrangements were not mentioned in
either operational manual, where the results framework and M&E responsibilities were
omitted. For example, D/E and DSCR information could not be retrieved for Eximbank’s
subborrowers. Finally, the PAD did not define baseline benchmarks and targets for several
indicators. Targets were, however, set in the first aide-memoire and Implementation Status
and Results Report (ISR).

                                                                15
Despite initials shortcoming in the design of the M&E framework, performance was
monitored by the team during implementation. Project performance was consistently
reported in supervision reports (ISRs and AMs) throughout the project life, except for
component 3— institutional development of Eximbank. After 2011, there were no indicator
to monitor to progress toward the implementation of Basel II risk management
requirements.10 As a result, component 3 was removed from the results framework.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Procurement, financial management, and environmental safeguards requirements
were detailed in the project operational manual. Eximbank and TSKB had different
roles during project implementation, given the different financing models. The project
operational manual provided guidance to Eximbank, TSKB, and PFIs. TSKB’s and
Eximbank’s manuals were revised during the life of the project to update the environmental
procedures. Eximbank and TSKB established project implementation units that effectively
undertook all project arrangements. TSKB’s engineering department, which was
responsible for the supervision of procurement and environmental practices, had extensive
experience with World Bank procedures. The operating systems of Eximbank and TSKB
were fully aligned with the project’s accounting, supervision, and reporting requirements.
In addition, no disruption was experienced when Eximbank’s headquarters moved to
Istanbul from Ankara.
Implementation of fiduciary and environmental safeguards procedures was
satisfactory during project implementation. The well-developed operational manual
along with the experience and proactivity of TSKB, contributed to effective safeguards and
fiduciary compliance. TSKB upgraded the existing environmental and social risk
assessment tool within the application forms to help PFIs screen and assess subprojects
easily and more efficiently. TSKB transferred its environmental safeguard knowledge to
PFIs and also conducted before and after reviews. In addition, TSKB continued to use an
in-house loan application, approval, and monitoring system, which was shared with PFIs.
This tool was also used for financial management purposes, as PFIs could submit
withdrawal applications directly to TSKB through this web-based platform. Since 2010, in
addition to information provided by PFIs, PFI visits and subborrowers visits, TSKB has
voluntarily prepared audit reports related to the Project's environmental and procurement
related aspects. With regard to Eximbank, the availability of the World Bank’s specialists
in the Ankara office provided timely support to ensure compliance with World Bank
procedures, when necessary. Eximbank also designated staff responsible for environmental
safeguard issues, which resulted in the full compliance with environmental safeguard
procedures. Finally, the World Bank specialists provided several trainings to TSKB and
Eximbank on fiduciary and environmental safeguards procedures
PFIs and exporters reported implementation challenges related to:



10
  At the time of the ICR, the Bank team offered the use of Eximbank’s own resources to comply with the
BRSA’s Basel II requirements for risk management practice, as an explanation for why the indicator was
dropped.

                                                 16
          Procurement: The systematic requirement to provide invoices for small amounts
           was perceived as an undue burden. PFIs were required to keep records of working-
           capital expenditures to justify their eligibility during the World Bank’s annual post-
           reviews on a spot-check basis. Eligible working-capital expenditures included
           utility costs, which are generally small in amount. PFIs would rather have
           subborrowers keep their own records and rely on audit reports to verify the
           eligibility of expenditures. In comparison, for non-EFIL working-capital loans,
           PFIs request only a procurement plan (or spreadsheet of planned transactions) at
           the time of the loan application. Procurement requirements were otherwise found
           to be generally in line with commercial practices.

          Safeguards: The project’s environmental safeguards requirements were found to
           be unnecessarily demanding, given the similarities between the World Bank
           environmental safeguard policies and the national legislation. In practice, however,
           the project’s environmental requirements were limited mainly to due-diligence
           document collection (i.e. proof of compliance) because the majority of subloans
           financed working-capital or equipment leasing. World Bank procedures require
           proper documentation showing environmental compliance for all projects financed
           from Bank funds.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

In EFIL IV, PFIs (including TSKB and Eximbank) have again successfully
demonstrated that medium- and long-term lending remains a viable business
proposition, even in periods of economic downturn. According to the project’s closing
data, NPLs represented 2.7 percent of subloans by number and 3.0 percent by amount. As
of June 2014, the NPL ratio was 2.8 percent in the banking sector and 7.1 percent in the
leasing sector. Based on a 72:28 distribution of the EFIL IV loan portfolio between banks
and leasing companies, the project’s NPL ratio is much lower than the sector-weighted
average of 4 percent. In addition, the project’s average loan maturity was 49 months, up
from 43 months for EFIL III. Also, in EFIL IV, two-third of subloans had a maturity of
four years or more, compared to around half the loans in EFIL II. In comparison, the share
of bank loans to corporates with a maturity of more than 3 years increased from 24 percent
in 2003 (EFIL II) to 41 percent in 2013 (EFIL IV). Over the same period, the share of
corporate loans with a maturity of less than a year decreased from 42 to 34 percent.
The EFIL IV project reached 13 PFIs, of which 3 were newcomers, compared to
previous EFIL operations. The project helped, on the one hand, to strengthen credit
appraisal procedures among PFIs and, on the other hand, to ensure their compliance with
strict prudential standards (prudential ratios were monitored throughout the project). In
EFIL IV, there were three EFIL newcomers and six PFIs that had participated in prior EFIL
operations (excluding EFIL III). While the EFIL program covered a total of 24 PFIs,11
slightly over half (13)—six banks and seven leasing companies—participated in EFIL IV.



11
     There are actually 26 PFIs, 2 of which merged with others during the EFIL series.

                                                      17
Throughout the EFIL series, the World Bank has provided US$1.8 billion to provide
over 900 subloans to Turkish exporters, intermediated through 24 PFIs. The
successive credit lines have provided almost US$800 million for investment purposes (44
percent). Since EFIL III, both dollar-denominated and euro-denominated loans have been
provided to satisfy foreign-currency needs. Exporters have built credit history with PFIs
and improved the financial records and documentation required for bank loans, thus
improving their ability to gain access to credit. Unfortunately, data constraints have
prevented an assessment of the financial profile of repeat EFIL subborrowers over time.
             Table 3: Participating financial institutions in EFIL operations
                (amounts in millions)                EFIL 1          EFIL 2         EFIL 3     EFIL 4
      BANKS                                           (7)             (5)            (5)         (7)
      Is Bank                                       $60                                       $74/€13
      TSKB                                          $30             **            **          **
      Garanti Bank                                  $10
      Koç Bank (later Yapi)                         $54
      YapiKredi Bank                                $62            $73                        $52/€13
      Dis Bank/Fortis Bank                          $28            $28
      TEB                                                          $42                        $35/€13
      Oyakbank                                                     $44
      Finansbank                                                                  $40/€10
      Alternatifbank                                                              $25/€10     $20/€27.8
      Tekstilbank                                                                 $13
      Denizbank                                                                   $10
      ING Bank                                                                                $32/€30
      Exim Bank                                     **                                        $150/€95
      LEASING COMPANIES                                  (0)         (6)             (6)        (7)
      Garanti Leasing                                              $37            $13/€5      $71/€7
       TEB leasing                                                 $20                        $10/€10
      Fortis Leasing                                               $19
      FFK Fon Leasing                                              $18            $40/€10
      YapiKredi Leasing                                            $13            $20/€20     $25/€12
      Halk Leasing                                                 $6                         $10
      Is Leasing                                                                  $25/€10     $30/€12
      Alternatif Leasing                                                          $10         €7.8
      Finans Leasing                                                              $4/€15
      Ak Leasing                                                                              $18/€7
                        ** indicates that the bank was as wholesale lender for the project.


It is the first time that an EFIL project is closing without a successor EFIL project in
the pipeline or approved. There is currently no project that exclusively supports
exporters. However, the Innovative Finance Project, which was approved in July 2014,
aims to improve access to longer-term Islamic finance and to factoring for SMEs and
export-oriented enterprises. In addition, two other lines of credit for SMEs are ongoing.
Table 4 below summarizes credit lines aiming to finance Turkish companies.12




12
  Lines of credit that provide financing for energy efficiency have been excluded, because they serve a
different purpose.

                                                         18
The aggregate long-term development impact of all EFIL operations is outside of the
scope of this EFIL IV ICR but deserves further attention. To date, the development
impact of previous EFIL operations has been individually rated satisfactory, highly
satisfactory, and highly satisfactory, respectively, taking each of these projects as
standalone operations. With the closing of this last EFIL operation, the country team could
take the opportunity to review the EFIL series as part of a larger effort to provide support
to exporters in Turkey and holistically analyzing the impact achieved over time on
borrowers, PFIs and exporters. Such an assessment would help draw overall lessons to be
learned, which can be shared across the Bank. For example, an analysis of repeat EFIL
subborrowers may provide additional insights into the longer-term impact of Bank
financing and yield lessons for future lines of credit. Moreover, such a study would lead to
a better understanding of the additionality of the EFIL program. Two evaluations of EFIL
operations undertaken in 2011 actually reported that more than two-thirds of exporters
would have been able to at least partially finance their investment and working-capital
needs in the absence of the EFIL program. These preliminary findings deserve to be further
investigated.
                         Table 4: Financial sector lines of credit
 Project                  Amount
                Year               Closing    Borrower
 Name                     ($M)
 EFIL I         7/1999    252.5    8/2003     EXIMBANK (whole sale)
 EFIL II        1/2004    303.1    9/2009     TSKB (whole sale)
 EFIL III       5/2005    305.0    6/2010     TSKB (whole sale)
 SME I          6/2006    150.0    4/2012     TSKB (retail) Halkbank (retail)
 SME I (AF1)    6/2007    50.0     4/2012     Halkbank (retail)
 EFIL IV        5/2008    600.0    12/2014    TSKB (whole sale) EXIMBANK (retail)
 SME I (AF2)    12/2008   200.0    4/2012     Halkbank (retail)
 SME I (AF3)    12/2009   250.0    4/2012     Halkbank (retail)
 SME II         6/2010    500.0    3/2015     Ziraat (retail), Vakif (retail), Kalkinma (wholesale)
 EFIL IV (AF)   5/2011    300.0    12/2014    TSKB (whole sale)
 SME III        6/2013    300.0    12/2017    Ziraat (wholesale)
 Innovative
                7/2014    250      12/2018    TSKB (wholesale)
 Finance

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project remains highly relevant to Turkey’s development priorities. The project
was fully in line with the CAS/CPS priorities at preparation and during implementation, as
well as the 2007–13 Government’s Development Plan. The project is also fully consistent
with the FY12–16 CPS, as well as the Tenth National Development Plan (NDP) (2014–18)
and the 2023 Turkish Exports Strategy. The latter strategy, which was initiated by the
Ministry of Economy and the Turkish Exporters Assembly, aims to reach US$500 billion
worth of exports by 2023, while the NDP provides an intermediate target of US$277
million by 2018.


                                             19
The project design reflected the identified financing constraints facing exporters. As
attested by the 2011 survey of EFIL beneficiaries, the project, through the provision of
financing through PFIs, was able to contribute to the alleviation of financing constraints
for beneficiaries. As the Turkish economy started to recover, the availability of financing
to exporters was still affected by the weak economic performance in the EU countries and
by exchange rate volatility.
The project and the additional financing for TSKB provided essential funding during
the crisis. In the context of an unprecedented international liquidity crisis, the project
provided for a quick disbursement instrument and countercyclical term funding, at
reasonable cost. As a wholesale, TSKB quickly allocated funds to PFIs. For the original
project in 2008, TSKB allocated 63 percent of the credit line within two months of
effectiveness. For the AF, all subsidiary loan agreements were signed within six months of
effectiveness. Demand from PFIs can only attest to demand in the real economy. For
exporters, funding through EFIL IV was provided at competitive rates.
The project relied on multiple delivery models: wholesale versus retail, banks versus
leasing companies. These coexisting models had two potential benefits: greater reach and
comparison of performance, in what could have been considered a quasi-experiment.
Wholesale lenders are able to reach several financial intermediaries with the end-goal of
exposing a potentially larger number of exporters to the project’s benefits, thanks to an
extended branch network, clientele, and product offering. Leasing companies, however,
are effective relays for investment finance.
The project also provided a learning opportunity for PFIs and Turkish exporters.
Three new PFIs participated in EFIL IV and benefited from TSKB’s experience in
procurement, safeguards, and overall IFI requirements. Two PFIs indicated that they
updated their loan documentation to some extent after their first exposure to EFIL
requirements. Also, PFIs said that they sometimes used EFIL to build relationships with
new clients, as a “training tool” or test for their commitment and capabilities. In addition,
the choice of TSKB as a continuous apex structure in the last EFIL operations (following
its first participation as a PFI) established a knowledge-exchange platform: TSKB
delivered regular training sessions on key project requirements.
Three factors contributed to TSKB’s good disbursement performance, which
ultimately justified the unprecedented scaling up of its credit line: (1) experience as a
wholesale lender in Turkey; (2) familiarity with World Bank credit line operations and
processes; and (3) multiplicity and diversity of PFIs, along with TSKB’s support and
monitoring of PFIs.
Due to its timeliness, the project, as a whole, disbursed above estimates. By end-
September 2010, two year into implementation, almost 60 percent of funds had been
disbursed to exporters. TSKB had disbursed 96 percent of its credit line. Eximbank
experienced a slower take-up with the crisis. The two sectors that were targeted by
Eximbank, although quite strategic given their high export potential, were severely affected
by the global crisis through the ensuing slump in international demand. After the project
was restructured in June 2011 and Eximbank invested additional marketing efforts (greater
use of regional branches, liaison offices and sector representatives, and exporters

                                             20
association), disbursements surged from 30 to more than 90 percent in 12 months. Finally,
the rationale for approving Eximbank’s request to act as retail lender is best explained, in
hindsight, by the desire to target two strategic sectors.
In practice, there were missed opportunities. First, the project could not reach smaller
exporters as originally intended as they, during a period of crisis, were more sensitive to
the project’s requirements. Second, most often the project’s funds went to finance existing
clients rather than attracting new clientele. These two arguments naturally suggest that the
project could not by design reach the more financially constrained exporters. Third, the
project provided both more competitively-priced and longer maturities for beneficiaries. It
is hence difficult to disentangle the impact of either on (1) the attractiveness of the funding
and (2) the performance of project beneficiaries. Fourth, the project stops short of being
able to make any recommendation on the most efficient model in this quasi-experiment,
given the lack of direct competition between PFIs (they cater to different clientele).
Nonetheless, the project was still able to provide insights into the different financing needs
of exporters, depending on their profile (sector, location, and size) and the type of financial
intermediary. Annex 2 presents an analysis of loan data by PFI type and by regions, which
suggests that leasing companies may be an effective vehicle for financing the investment
needs of smaller exporters and banks in reaching out to firms in less developed regions13.
Component 3 was not strongly connected to the project’s development objectives. The
US$3 million component was designed to ensure Eximbank’s compliance with Basel II
requirements, US$350,000 of which had been earmarked to increase its credit appraisal
capacity. Unfortunately, the implementation of the component was partial: 60 percent of
the component’s funds have been used, the rest was reallocated to component 2. While IT
upgrades and disaster risk management systems were financed from project funds,
Eximbank decided to use its own resources to fund activities related to Basel II
implementation and the risk management software. Furthermore, technical assistance for
credit appraisal was canceled with less than 5 percent of funds utilized. Over the project
implementation period, Eximbank started reporting to the BRSA under Basel II standards
in mid-2012. This component, as originally planned, built upon the “Roadmap for Basel
II” that was developed by Eximbank in October 2005 but became less attractive by the time
the project was being implemented. In hindsight, this component did not have an optimal
design for either the World Bank or Eximbank, and several activities financed did not relate
to credit risk management or Basel II.
Weak monitoring and evaluation arrangements affected the quality of data collected.
The quality of data provided for the ICR is heterogeneous, and varies across indicators and
PFIs. Key data (such as investments generated, employment or financial health of
borrowers) are unavailable for several subborrowers.
EFIL operations, although successively implemented in a short time frame, are
considered standalone projects. There are several implications to this: (1) PFIs do not


13
   These observations may not be generalizable to the overall financial sector, as this project specifically
target exporters meeting certain eligibility criteria.


                                                    21
see their participation in an EFIL project as a long-term commitment to the project’s long-
term and development objectives; (2) as a corollary, EFIL funds were used only once to
extend longer-term loans to exporters; reflows were not required14 and (3) data collection
efforts were sustained only until funds are disbursed; once PFIs had fully used their
allocation, it is difficult to obtain information on beneficiaries15.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDOs, in the way they had been stated and measured at the time of the ICR, were
fully achieved. The revised PDO indicators measure the project’s impact more adequately
than the original indicators.

Support exports by providing medium- and long-term working capital and investment
finance to exporting firms.
        Exports: The project contributed to export growth and helped increase the amount
         of medium-term financing for exporters at a time of growing global credit
         constraints. Total exports of participating firms grew by six percentage points more
         than exports in their relative sectors.16 Further analysis shows that the project’s
         impact was stronger during the crisis (2008–10), as the export growth of
         participating firms was 10 percentage points higher than that of their relative sector.
         Even more important, during this period, the median export growth rate of
         participating firms was 50 percent, while Turkish exports contracted by 13 percent.
         Overall, the performance of participating firms would be even stronger, if 2013 had
         not been a difficult year for Turkish exports. The indicator has been significantly
         reduced from 14 percentage points (based on 2012 exports) to 6 percentage points
         (based on 2013 exports), due to a substantial fall of exports in the metalware sector
         in 2013. Exports in this sector fell by 31% in 2013, compared to 2012 and 21% of
         the EFIL IV loan portfolio is comprised of loans to exporters in this sector.  

        Volumes: The credit line provided US$846 million equivalent of medium- and
         long-term (maturity of more than 12 months) financing to 309 exporters through
         Eximbank and 12 PFIs (leasing companies and banks through TSKB). US$609


14
   Actually, for the first time in EFIL operations, EFIL IV loan agreements all included some language to
provide for the future use of subloans’ proceeds to finance additional export development projects (optional
for Eximbank) or finance projects for “the development of Turkish export sector” (required for PFIs unless
otherwise agreed; no requirement for TSKB).
15
   PFIs were not able to obtain such information from subborrowers, especially when the subloan was already
fully repaid.
16
  The median relative growth differential between participating firms and their corresponding sector (per
TUIK classification) was 5.96. In other words, for any given sector, the median export growth rate of
participating firms was almost 6 percentage points higher than the sector’s growth rate. Some caveats need
to be considered in the calculation of this PDO indicator: (1) the calculation is based on the latest available
figures, with the latest exports data not always available (2013 at best); (2) for firms received a loan 2008
and 2009, export data start only in 2009; as a result, these firms’ exports before taking the loan are unknown;



                                                     22
         million was provided through six banks, including Eximbank, and US$237 million
         through seven leasing companies. These amounts respectively represent 0.2 percent
         of total non-consumer bank loans as of end-December 2014 and 3.4 percent of
         leasing volumes in 2013, as reported by the Turkish Banking Regulation and
         Supervision Agency (BRSA).

        Maturity: The maturity of subloans and leases was 49 months on average. The
         average maturity was 43 months early in the project (2008–10), reflecting the
         difficult financial conditions during the crisis17 and then increased to 53 months
         between 2011 and 2014. Sixty-three percent of loans with a maturity of two years
         or less were approved before 2011. All EFIL IV loans had a maturity of over one
         year, compared with 66 percent in the banking sector (as of June 2014).These
         results also confirm a trend in the overall banking sector to provide longer-term
         financing: 59 percent of corporate loans in 2008 had a maturity of over one year.
         These results are also in line with the findings of an external evaluation of EFIL
         operations undertaken in 2011, in which exporters surveyed ranked longer
         maturities as the main benefit of the program.
             Figure 6: Loan distribution by maturity (number and volumes)

                                          % total amount                % loans (number)
                                   30%
                                   25%
                                   20%
                         % total




                                   15%
                                   10%
                                   5%
                                   0%
                                         <12   12-24   24-36    36-48    48-60   60-72   72+

                                                               months


        Regions and Sectors: Loans were concentrated in the Marmara region (58 percent
         in amount), although the share of loans in this region is decreasing compared to
         previous EFIL operations: EFIL II (74 percent) and EFIL III (60 percent).18 In terms
         of sectors, over half of EFIL IV funds financed exporters in the metalware sector
         (21 percent), textile sector (19 percent), and ship-building sector (14 percent).
Based on the original outcome indicator assessing the direct impact of the project on
exports, the project also exceeded its target. The export multiplier (measuring
incremental exports of firms divided by total loan amount) was 3.8, compared to a target
of 1. In other words, for every US$1 disbursed in loans, participating firms increased their
exports by US$3.8. Aggregate exports of participating firms almost doubled over the


17
   The distribution between working capital and investment loan was stable during the life of the project at
61:39. The different maturity structure is thus not a result of increased demand for working capital during the
crisis, but rather the willingness of financial intermediaries to provider long-term financing.
18
   Unfortunately, the EFIL I ICR did not provide information on the geographical distribution of loans.

                                                               23
period, while total Turkish exports grew by 19 percent. During the 2008-10 period (prior
to project restructuring), the target was also achieved, with an export multiplier of 4.5.
The project exceeded all but one of the original PDO indicators. Total Turkish exports
increased from US$107.3 billion in 2013 to US$157.6 billion in 2014. Between 2007 and
2013 (latest published data), credit to the private sector as percentage of GDP grew from
28 to 70 percent. The share of non-bank financial assets as percentage of GDP also
increased from 3.1 percent to 4.2 percent. However private investments declined from 18
percent of GDP to 16 percent in 2013. These indicators are however irrelevant, because
they were not linked to the project. Also, it is not possible to conclude evaluate the project’s
performance because no target had been assigned.
Improve the ability of the financial sector to provide financial resources to firms through
the development of financial intermediaries. The project provided financing to exporters
through banks and leasing companies, thereby contributing to the development of financial
intermediaries. As the leasing industry underwent a difficult period during the first years
of the project due to the new regulation affecting the industry,19 the project has contributed
to an increased ability of leasing companies to provide financing. Moreover, there was a
record number of participating financial intermediaries in EFIL IV compared to previous
operations. Three new PFIs also participated for the first time in an EFIL operation, which
increases the impact of the project in the financial sector. Notwithstanding an increased
reach of the project and the global crisis, the credit risk of the project was actually lower
than the sector weighted averages. The project NPL ratio was 2.7 percent in number (below
the 5 percent target) and 3.0 percent in volume (below the 4 percent target).20 Finally, the
project has contributed to a healthy financial sector since all project participants were
required to maintain strong financial health throughout the life of the project. TSKB,
Eximbank, and the PFIs have all fully complied with the project’s financial covenants.
Employment at participating exporters. Although not a core indicator in the project M&E
framework, the employment impact of EFIL IV loans has been monitored by Eximbank
and inconsistently by a few PFIs. Exporters who have been financed by Eximbank achieved
3.3 percent employment growth between 2009 and 2013. In total, based on 164 responding
exporters financed by Eximbank and other PFIs, EFIL IV loans helped 60 percent of firms
create a few additional jobs and 34 percent of subborrowers sustain existing jobs, at a time
when most companies were laying off employees. The employment data are however not
exhaustive, as more than 40 percent of firms did not provide employment data.
Two intermediate outcome indicators, added at the time of the additional financing, were
not fully achieved. First, the number of beneficiary exporters was lower than planned by 5
percent (304 enterprises compared with 320 planned). This is explained by the number of
repeat borrowers (US$116 million loans disbursed to 54 enterprises that had already


19
   Leasing volumes sharply decreased from US$8.2 billion in 2007 to US$2.2 billion in 2009, before gradually
increasing to US$7 billion in 2013.
20
   The NPL ratio was 2.9 percent in the banking sector and 7.1 percent in the leasing sector. Based on the
72:28 EFIL IV loan portfolio distribution, the weighted NPL ratio against which we are comparing project
performance is 4 percent.

                                                    24
received EFIL IV loans). Second, the share of medium and long-term financing (MLT
financing defined as having a maturity over 12 months) in the total loan portfolio of PFIs
fell from 55 percent at the time of additional financing to 50 percent at project closing,
below the target of 59 percent. In the additional financing paper, this new indicator had
been introduced to “assess whether PFIs [would] increase the share of medium-term
finance in their portfolio or […] use the credit line as a substitute for other medium-term
loans they would have given under any circumstances”. Given the low levels of funding
provided by EFIL IV compared to the size of PFIs involved, it is highly unlikely that EFIL
IV funds were used as mere substitute for overall MLT lending. In addition, the target was
exceeded in June 2014, when the share was 63 percent (suggesting renewed difficulty
thereafter in accessing longer-term financing due to market volatility).

3.3 Efficiency

The project was highly efficient in generating exports. For every dollar of loan disbursed,
participating firms grew their exports by 3.8 dollars.
In addition, based on data received for 164 firms (54 percent of total subborrowers), 40
percent of loans were used to sustain the firms’ activities during difficult times (i.e. no
employment generation). The final employment impact of the project is uncertain because
a large number of firms did not respond: it is not possible to accurately estimate the number
of jobs created per US$100,000 loan granted. Furthermore, causality cannot be established,
in the absence of rigorous project evaluation.
Finally, the project fully disbursed the original loan amount by the original closing date
(TSKB and Eximbank), and the additional financing by the revise project closing date
(TSKB).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: ― Satisfactory
The project development objectives continue to be highly relevant for Turkey and the
World Bank’s strategy. Despite important design challenges, including the choice of PDO
indicators at project approval, the project exceeded its development objectives on time,
despite a crisis context. Moreover, successful project restructurings have addressed the
design challenges identified above.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project’s has an indirect impact on poverty through the beneficiaries. The project
helped exporters mitigate the impact of the crisis (working capital) and sustain their
activities, in order to grow and generate (preserve) employment. The majority of borrowers
actually financed investments, despite the difficult economic conditions. The project thus
helped maintain Turkish private sector investments. At the macroeconomic level, the
project supported the development of exports, which contribute to economic growth,
employment, and social development. Furthermore, for the first time in the EFIL series,

                                              25
EFIL IV authorized lending to the tourism sector, which is one of the largest foreign-
exchange earning sectors of the Turkish economy. EFIL IV provided US$37 million in
investment finance to the tourism sector (11 percent of total investment loans). Finally, the
project disbursed US$31 million in the four regions, whose share of the population living
below the US$5 PPP poverty line is greater than the national average.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

On the one hand, the project helped strengthen credit appraisal procedures among PFIs and,
on the other hand, it helped ensure PFIs’ compliance with strict prudential standards
(prudential ratios were monitored throughout the project). In EFIL IV, there were three
EFIL newcomers and six PFIs that had participated in prior EFIL operations but not EFIL
III. Out of the 24 PFIs across all EFIL operations, slightly over half—six banks and seven
leasing companies—participated in EFIL IV and directly provided financing to Turkish
exports, both in euros and dollars. Furthermore, all PFIs (including TSKB and Eximbank)
have successfully demonstrated that medium- and long-term lending is a viable business
proposition, even in periods of economic downturn. Finally, PFIs have built capacity to
assess the environmental risks and impacts of borrowing firms.
TSKB has been a wholesale lender since EFIL II, when it developed a web-based IT system
to process applications from PFIs. For EFIL III, TSKB further enhanced the system for an
expeditious interaction with PFIs and reduced the scope for errors. In EFIL IV, TSKB
upgraded the existing environmental and social risk assessment tool within the application
forms to help PFIS screen and assess subprojects easily and more efficiently. Furthermore,
capitalizing on its experience with EFIL loans, TSKB signed multilateral funding
agreements totaling US$2.9 billion between 2009 and 2013.
Following the approval of EFIL IV, Eximbank signed two loans with the European
Investment Bank totaling €175 million (2008 and 2012). In addition, Eximbank launched
in end-2012 a program, based on its EFIL IV experience. The program is designed to
provide medium and long-term finance to exporters and had disbursed TL 1 billion
(US$431 million equivalent 21 ) as of end-December 2014. Finally, in a narrower sense
through the technical assistance component, the loan contributed to increasing Eximbank's
IT and risk management capacity.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
PFIs, through their participation in EFIL loans, built the infrastructure and capacity to work
with other IFIs and have a greater awareness of available sources of funding. TSKB and
Eximbank insisted were able to leverage their World Bank experience to obtain additional
funding from other IFIs or the market.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A




21
     US$1= 2.32 TL as of 12/31/2014

                                             26
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Risks to development outcomes are related to the general country and financial sector risks
and export performance, in addition to the project-specific risks. Country risks include the
geopolitical context and turbulence in the financial markets. In October 2014, the
International Monetary Fund and Fitch warned against foreign funding dependence and
foreign exchange lending in the Turkish banking sector. Central bank data show that the
short-term foreign debt of banks (i.e., maturing in less than two years) has more than
doubled over the past four years to US$94 billion, representing 40 percent of the total
foreign debt of banks. These trends may affect the provision of medium- to long-term
foreign exchange loans to exporters. Nonperforming loans in the banking sector have
however remained low despite the sharp depreciation of the lira since 2013, but are
expected to rise in a context of decelerated credit growth.

Project-specific risks are related to the future performance of TSKB, Eximbank, other PFIs,
and end-beneficiaries. The financial performance of TSKB, Eximbank, and other PFIs has
been monitored during supervision missions. Even during challenging times, all PFIs
complied with project requirements.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The project design was highly relevant to strategic priorities and to requests of the Turkish
government and responded to a request for fast assistance to the financial sector. The
project ensured that project beneficiaries reflected the national definition of exporters to
include the tourism sector. The project was designed to support the government’s export
growth and diversification strategy, by providing much-needed medium and long-term
finance to exporters through different channels during the global financial crisis. The
decision to allow Eximbank to exclusively lend to heavy financing sectors, such as ship
building and machine building, was carefully considered and relied on a demand
assessment from potential subborrowers22. This is confirmed, for example, by the US$169
million loan applications for which Eximbank had already received non-objection from the
World Bank as of end-September 2009. Some of these commitments did not materialize
due to the crisis, and Eximbank’s performance lagged because of the project’s restrictions
to two sectors. It would have been useful if the PAD and legal agreements provided the


22
   While project preparation documents offered information on the high demand for financing from the two
sectors, the rationale for having any type of sector restrictions in this credit line was not discussed.


                                                  27
necessary flexibility to respond more effectively to the developing economic context,23 for
example including a language that would provide for the inclusion of other sectors as
needed to facilitate implementation. In addition, component 3 is a weak element in the
projects’ design, given the type of activities that were ultimately financed by the projects.
The M&E framework for EFIL IV however marked some improvement from previous
operations with regard to end-project targets: previous ICRs had repeatedly pointed to the
complete absence of baseline and targets. However, there were shortcomings in the M&E
framework and arrangements. First, the original PDO indicators measured financial sector
development at a macro level and were disconnected from the project’s activities. These
indicators did not appear in previous EFIL operations, but are in line with the Bank’s M&E
practices at the time of approval. Second, M&E arrangements were incomplete in the PAD,
and not discussed in the operational manual, which did not also include the project’s results
framework. A direct consequence was that the level of investments made by beneficiaries
was not tracked by most financial institutions, although it was a specified outcome
indicator. Third, one of the end-year targets, the targeted number of PFIs, was
underambitious: the target was set at 6, whereas EFIL III achieved 10 PFIs and EFIL II
through a US$300 million loan. Overall, the weakness of the M&E framework and
arrangements at entry did not allow for a proper assessment of the project’s impact.

Overall, given the project’s full disbursement, especially during the global crisis and the
satisfactory outcomes described above, the rating of the Bank’s quality at entry issues
ought to give in this ICR more weight to the project’s technical design (i.e. ensuring that
the loan amount is disbursed to exporters that are viable) relative to the project’s M&E
framework. On the one hand, the project’s satisfactory outcomes can be directly attributed
to the strong technical design, which includes the selection of strong financial institutions,
the inclusion of leasing companies and builds on previous EFIL operations. On the other
hand, the original M&E weaknesses had an impact on how the project’s outcomes were
monitored, rather than the outcomes themselves. The discussion above aims to highlight
how the M&E framework would have enabled the Bank to better capture the project
outcomes. The main hindrance on project performance were rather the (i) limited flexibility
highlighted by the global crisis, and its impact on the sectors which Eximbank had focused
on, and (ii) component 3’s design.
The Bank’s quality at entry is thus rated moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory
Project supervision was undertaken regularly and entailed field visits to borrowers, PFIs,
and end-beneficiaries. TSKB and Eximbank praised the World Bank’s effective


23
   The legal agreements specifically referred to the operational manual approved in 2008, as opposed to “the
latest operational manual approved by the World Bank”, for example. This explains the need to fully
restructure the project, as opposed to only revising the operational manual.

                                                    28
collaboration. Aide-memoires and ISRs following implementation support mission were
submitted on time and provided updated information on economic developments in Turkey
and their impact on EFIL IV. The field-based presence of a financial sector specialist and
the fiduciary and safeguards team was well appreciated by TSKB and Eximbank. ISR
ratings for TSKB’s component were fully in line with project performance. The Bank also
revised the M&E framework to address design issues, and indicators were consistently
tracked. In addition, the scope of monitoring was expanded to include geographical, size,
and sectoral distribution of subloans.

Regional quality guidelines—including those related to the size of the project—required a
full-fledged project restructuring for the necessary design adjustments early in the project.
The Bank was slow to undertake a project restructuring on Eximbank’s component (request
sent in August 2010 and project restructuring effective in June 2011). The Bank’s lateness
in restructuring following Eximbank’s first concerns in 2009 was due to the team’s desire
to fully accommodate the declining yet still in place demand, while assessing the sectors’
future trends. It is only when the demand and disbursements fully stalled that the
restructuring was undertaken to return to a flexible design. Finally, the ISR performance
ratings of component 2 and 3 failed to show sufficient candor, and issues raised in previous
ISRs were not followed up in subsequent ones.

The satisfactory Supervision rating is justified by the successful completion of a large-scale
project with two borrowers, the additional financing in response to strong market demand,
the successful project restructurings and the considerable efforts extended by the Bank
between 2011 and 2014 in addressing implementation bottlenecks.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the above, the overall rating for Bank performance is Satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The performance of the government of Turkey as a guarantor was highly satisfactory. The
government demonstrated strong ownership of the project and commitment to its
objectives. In addition, the government supported the development of the leasing industry
with the adoption in November 2012 of a specific law that recognizes the activity and made
available new products, such as operational leasing, sales, and lease backs. Furthermore,
in December 2011, the government reduced from 18 percent to 1 percent the value-added
tax for machinery and equipment leases.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

                                             29
The performance of TSKB was highly satisfactory, given its proactive support to PFIs, its
upgraded IT infrastructure for project implementation and interaction with PFIs, its
monitoring of PFI compliance with the project’s environmental framework, and its swift
reaction to market conditions (change of pricing, maturity, and reallocation of funds
between PFIs, as necessary). Also, TSKB complied with all project requirements.

The performance of Eximbank was satisfactory. Eximbank complied with all requirements
throughout project implementation and proactively monitored developments related to its
initial target sectors. Also, despite all implementation delays, Eximbank fully disbursed the
loan within 18 months of closing date. This was the first time that Eximbank had acted a
retail lender in an EFIL operation; after initial adjustments to the World Bank’s fiduciary
requirements, Eximbank demonstrated its ability to effectively provide subloans.
Eximbank also adjusted rapidly to market conditions, as it shifted its focus from investment
loans to working-capital loans and engaged in discussions with the Bank about lifting
sector restrictions be lifted as early as 2009. However, Eximbank did not propose new
sectors for inclusion and a related demand assessment, as requested by the World Bank,
until mid-2010.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the satisfactory ratings of the government performance and of the implementing
agencies, the overall rating for borrower performance is satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned
Key lessons for ongoing and future operations are:

      Flexibility of project design and responsiveness to market conditions reduce
       implementation delays. For any project, the design context is inevitably different
       from the implementation context. Market conditions evolve during implementation,
       and adjustments are necessary to minimize implementation delays and maximize
       the project’s developmental impact. Eligibility restrictions of any kind are thus
       counterproductive, especially during times of hardship. Sector, geographical and
       gender-based restrictions although motivated by strong development objectives,
       often fail to account for a possible over-sensitivity of the specific target
       beneficiaries to adverse market conditions. The project’s design is most often
       unable to provide the necessary flexibility in IBRD/IDA operations to ensure that
       project development objectives remain within reach. Rather than restricting the
       scope of benefits, the project should seek to achieve supplemental developmental
       outcomes through incentives. Both the World Bank and borrowers need to have the
       ability to quickly change activities, increase resources, or amend project
       arrangements, as needed, in response to deteriorating economic conditions. In the
       same vein, legal documents should provide for the inevitable small adjustments that
       enable the project to perform better during implementation.


                                             30
   Sector and regional targets/quotas are unnecessary and counterproductive. The
    performance of the EFIL IV project would have been unequivocally lower, if
    specific lending targets and quotas had been imposed on financial intermediaries.
    Eximbank had the flexibility to lend more to the ship-building sector, while it
    awaited the machine-building to eventually pick up (which never happened).
    Similarly, the project was able to disburse US$34 million to exporters in the
    underserved regions in the absence of such a target. Project data show that the
    financial profile and loan terms of subborrowers may vary by region and sector.
    The allocation of project funds to firms is better left to financial intermediaries for
    the selection of sound subborrowers. Incentives, however, be necessary to increase
    efforts to lend in sectors and regions that are traditionally less attractive to financial
    intermediaries.

   There is an inherent trade-off between the World Bank’s project requirements
    and objectives to reach the smaller, financially underserved firms. Project
    requirements increase the transaction costs for PFIs who find it more attractive to
    lend to larger firms and in larger amounts. PFIs themselves indicated that there were
    built-in disincentives to lend to small, first-time subborrowers. This is also true for
    leasing companies, which have been included since EFIL II as eligible PFIs in order
    to expand the project reach to smaller subborrowers. Even within the beneficiary
    group of Turkish exporters, which are larger and more sophisticated than the
    average Turkish SMEs, the project’s fiduciary and environmental requirements had
    an impact on the project’s outreach. In addition, the credit eligibility criteria
    (requirements on firm leverage and debt service coverage) had to be relaxed during
    the implementation of the project to avoid excluding exporters, who would
    otherwise not be eligible to receive this longer-term financing. It is only fair to
    assume that all these project requirements will necessarily have a larger and
    negative impact on the outcomes of credit line operations targeting smaller firms.
    PFIs, however, recognize that project requirements contribute to capacity building
    not only for themselves (i.e., familiarity with IFI procedures) but also for
    subborrowers. For example, PFIs sometimes select subborrowers for financing
    through EFIL funds to groom them for future relationships (stricter requirements
    from the beginning help ensure better financial relationships). In summary, while
    project requirements are essential for fiduciary, safeguards, and capacity-building
    purposes, careful project design should try to minimize transaction costs to reach
    the target markets.

   The World Bank’s experience with LoCs in Turkey suggest that a wholesale
    model is preferable to a retail lending model. A wholesale design increases the
    project’s overall impact. First, a wider range of financial intermediaries increases
    the number and diversity of potential project beneficiaries and may ultimately lead
    to funding of underserved firms. Second, the wholesale design enables new
    financial intermediaries to gain experience in working with international
    organizations, which will help them develop other sources of funding. Third,
    wholesale lending encourages a healthy competition and causes less market
    distortion than retail lending, as the benefits are spread over a large share of the
    financial sector. However, in crisis times (which requires quick disbursement) and

                                           31
       for projects with specific targets (sectors, regions), direct lending may offer
       advantages, given higher margins. In such specific cases, flexibility is essential to
       be able to adjust to the developing economic context in a timely manner, as the
       experience of EFIL shows.

      Alignment with business practices increases the project’s attractiveness. In
       Turkey, commercial practices have been assessed as acceptable with regard to
       World Bank procurement requirements. As a result, project procurement
       requirements should be similar to existing practices of PFIs for subloan preparation
       and record-keeping requirements. Given the recurrent complaints of PFIs and
       subborrowers, a clear definition of working-capital expenditures and distinctions
       between procurement and non-procurement working-capital expenditures is
       warranted. The Innovative Finance Project is already following this approach,
       which should be widespread among all credit line operations.

      Strong M&E design and effective arrangements are necessary for a better
       assessment of outcomes. The impact of a project extends beyond the loan amount
       extended to firms and employment generation. First, it is often more interesting to
       analyze the loan purposes, the nature of investments, and productivity over time.
       Second, employment data do not capture the firm’s activities and life cycle.
       Investments may lead to employment substitution, stagnation, and even reduction,
       as confirmed by beneficiary site visits. Furthermore, the operational manual and the
       subsidiary loan agreements should have a section on monitoring and evaluation
       requirements for the project similar to those related to safeguards and fiduciary
       responsibilities. Overall, project documents should clearly document M&E
       arrangements and all project components should be monitored. The weakness of
       EFIL IV’s M&E framework has produced incomplete data that are at best
       inconclusive on the project’s indirect impact. Furthermore, based on the M&E
       experience of the EFIL series, it is advisable to seek stronger, longer-term
       commitments to monitoring project beneficiaries, well beyond the disbursement of
       project funds up to project closing. Return borrowers from previous similar
       operations should also be identified at the time of application as they may offer
       additional insights on the overall program’s impact. Finally, efforts to improve
       World Bank projects’ M&E framework to strengthen accountability and outcomes
       measurement should be pursued. Current M&E frameworks with weak
       performance indicators, such as the original PDO indicators for this project, should
       be revised accordingly.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
See Annex 7

(b) Co-financiers
N/A
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A

                                            32
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                           Appraisal
                                                       millions)

            Total Baseline Cost            600.00            900.00           150%
Physical Contingencies
                                             0.00              0.00
Price Contingencies
                                             0.00              0.00
             Total Project Costs           598.50            898.05           150%
Front-end fee PPF                            0.00              0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                           1.50              1.95           130%
     Total Financing Required              600.00            900.00




(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of      Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                        Cofinancing     (USD         (USD     Appraisal
                                                       millions)    millions)
 Borrower                                           0.00         0.00
International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                    600.00      900.00       150%
and Development




                                              33
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Table A2.1: Results framework
                                      Baseline      End-2014                 Target
 PDOs
 Export growth by participating
 firms relative to sector export      n/a           5.96(*)                  >0
 growth (median)

                                                    (1) 3.0 percent          (1) lower than sector weighted NPL
 Nonperforming loans/total loan (1)
                                                    (US$25.2mln)             ratio in the economy (4 percent in
 by amount and (2) by number of
                                      n/a                                    June 2014)
 loans, all measured among loans                    (2) 2.7 percent (10      (2) less than 5 % of all loans in the
 included in the project                            NPLs)                    project
 Intermediate outcomes
                                                    Fully disbursed.
                                                    US$86 million
 Amount provided to exporters                                                US$896 million
                                      0             (residual amounts only
 under the project
                                                    due to exchange rate
                                                    differentials).
 Number of banks and leasing
                                      0             13                       12
 companies included in the project
                                                                             Greater than amounts disbursed for
 Amount of investments in projects
                                      0             US$328.5mln              investment loans and leases
 supported by investment loans (**)
                                                                             (US$328.5, end-2014)
 Share of medium-term financing
                                      55%
 (more than 12 months) in total PFI                 50% (***)                59%
                                      (June 2008)
 loan portfolio
 Number of beneficiary enterprises    0             304                      320
 Dropped indicators
                                      US$107bn
 Total exports in Turkey                            US$158bn                 Increase
                                      (2007)
                                      18.8%
 Private investments/GDP (%)                        16%                      Increase
                                      (2007)
 Nonbank financial institution        2.2%
                                                    4.2%                     Increase
 assets/GDP (%)                       (2007Q3)
 Credit to the private sector/GDP     29.5%         70%
                                                                             Increase
 (%)                                  (2007)
 Number of jobs created in the
                                      n/a           1,718 (****)             Increase
 firms financed by the project
                                                                             Eximbank has effectively
                                                    Achieved with
 Progress toward Basel II                                                    implemented Basel II-related
                                      n/a           Eximbank’s own
 implementation for Turk Eximbank                                            requirements for risk management
                                                    resources
                                                                             as required by regulatory authorities.
Notes:
(*) Some caveats need to be considered in the calculation of this PDO: (1) the calculation is based on the
latest available figures, with the latest exports data not always available (2013 at best); (2) for firms that
participated in EFIL IV in 2008 and 2009, export data start only in 2009; as a result, for these firms, the
calculation involves only their relative export growth rate since 2009.
(**) Before the AF, a target of 100% of the amount disbursed to exporters was set for this indicator. The
target was later revised. Moreover, the data currently provided for this indicator are not accurate because
most PFIs did not provide end-project data for the actual (or planned) investments (to be) financed from loan
proceeds. Data provided by TSKB and Eximbank show investments of US104 million.
(***) The value of this indicator dropped from 63 percent in June 2014 to 50 percent in end-2014.
(****) Only a few PFIs provided information on this indicator. This end-project value is hence partial.

                                                         34
A detailed analysis of the project’s results requires going beyond the original results
framework and reviewing individual subloan data through the lenses of the project’s
objectives.
    Support exports by providing medium- and long-term working capital and
       investment finance to exporting firms.
    Improve the ability of the financial sector to provide financial resources to firms
       through development of financial intermediaries.


1. TSKB (component 1)

TSKB received US$600 million equivalent and signed subsidiary loan agreements
with 12 PFIs. Reallocations were undertaken regularly to speed project disbursements.
By end-2014, US$237 million equivalent (41 percent of TSKB’s credit line) were on-lent
by leasing companies.

                    Table A2.2: Allocation of TSKB credit line (2008-2014)

                                     TSKB I                            TSKB II                    Total
                      Initial                             Initial
 (in millions)                           Reallocations                     Reallocations
                      allocation                          allocation
 Banks                US$      €          US$    €        US$ €             US$    €       US$       €
 İs Bank                                  40              34      13                       74        13
 YapıKredi            35                  -10             34      13        -7             52        13
 TEB                  30      10          -15    -9.5     20      13               -0.2    35        13.3
 Alternatif Bank      20      10                 17.8                                      20        27.8
 ING Bank             10      20                 -8.3     20     13         2      4.9     32        29.6
 Bank –sub total      95      40          15              108    52         -5     4.8     213       96.8
 Leasing
                      US$     €           US$    €        US$    €          US$    €       US$       €
 Companies
 Is Leasing           26.9    4.8         -15             18     7                         29.9      11.8
 YapıKredi
                      25      10                          18     7          -18    -4.8    25        12.2
 Leasing
 Halk Leasing         10                                                                   10
 Garanti Leasing      30                                  18     7          23             71        7
 TEB Leasing          10      10                                                           10        10
 Ak Leasing                                               18     7                         18        7
 Alternatif
                                                                 7.8                                 7.8
 Leasing
 Leasing subtotal     101.9   24.8        -15             72     35.8       5      -4.8    163.9     65.4
 Total                196.9   64.8                        180    87.8                      376.9     152.6


316 loans (six of which non-performing) were provided for a total amount of US$577
million. The average loan size was US$1.8 million. Exporters in the textile and metalware
sectors were dominant.


                                                     35
   Table A2.3: Breakdown of Subloans by Sector, Region, Size, and Beneficiary
                                  (TSKB)
                                                                            Number of
                                                        Amount
Sector                                                                       Subloans
                                                      US$         (%)     Count     (%)
Basic metals and fabricated metal products           90,492,630   15.7%        47 14.9%
Chemicals and chemical products                      14,587,929    2.5%         6    1.9%
Construction                                         36,367,352    6.3%        20    6.3%
Electrical, electronic and optical equipment         13,289,745    2.3%         7    2.2%
Food products and beverages                          61,726,854   10.7%        37 11.7%
Furniture                                             8,085,676    1.4%         4    1.3%
Hotels and restaurants                               47,933,857    8.3%        18    5.7%
Machinery and equipment N.E.C.                       54,931,974    9.5%        38 12.0%
Other transport equipment and logistics              20,883,280    3.6%        12    3.8%
Paper and paper products                             18,521,384    3.2%        10    3.2%
Rubber and plastic products                          35,102,856    6.1%        27    8.5%
Textiles and textile products                       164,010,663   28.4%        87 27.5%
Wood and cork products                               10,907,613    1.9%         3    0.9%
TOTAL                                               576,841,813   100%        316   100%

Region                                                US$         (%)     Count     (%)
Marmara                                             344,659,178   59.7%      187    59.2%
Mediterranean                                        74,506,369   12.9%       35    11.1%
Central Anatolia                                     58,471,819   10.1%       29     9.2%
Aegean                                               33,384,069    5.8%       24     7.6%
East Anatolia                                           936,487    0.2%         1    0.3%
Black Sea                                             1,500,000    0.3%         2    0.6%
South East Anatolia                                  63,383,891   11.0%       38    12.0%
TOTAL                                               576,841,813   100%       316    100%

Loan Size                                             US$         (%)     Count     (%)
< $250,000                                            3,407,481    0.6%       19       6%
$250,000 - $500,000                                  13,119,422    2.3%       37    11.7%
$500,000 - $1,000,000                                60,221,920   10.4%       76    24.1%
$1,000,000 - $2,500,000                             174,523,232   30.3%      110    34.8%
$2,500,000 - $5,000,000                             238,080,110   41.3%       61    19.3%
> $5,000,000                                         87,489,648   15.2%       13     4.1%
TOTAL                                               576,841,813   100%       316    100%

Beneficiary size (latest export amounts)              US$         (%)     Count     (%)
< $5,000,000                                        100,406,907   17.4%       91    28.8%
$5,000,000 - $20,000,000                            141,648,699   24.6%       85    26.9%
$20,000,000 - $50,000,000                           165,363,598   28.6%       77    24.4%
$50,000,000 - $100,000,000                           95,570,494   16.6%       44    13.9%
> $100,000,000                                       73,852,115   12.8%       19       6%
TOTAL                                               576,841,813   100%       316    100%




                                               36
Figure A2.1 Financial profile of TSKB subborrowers




              Table A2.4: Lending characteristics by PFI type (TSKB)

                                                                       Averag   Average
               Total                             Average    Average
                         Average                                       e firm     size of
              amount                 I/L   W/C   maturity   firm D/E
                         loan size                                     DSCR       firms
             disbursed                           (months)      ratio
                                                                        ratio   (exports)
                         US$2.7                                                 US$64.7
   Bank        59%                   16%   84%     39         61.5      1.6
                         million                                                 million
  Leasing                US$1.3      100                                        US$22.5
               41%                         0%      50         65.8      2.2
 companies               million      %                                          million




                                           37
2: Eximbank (Components 2 and 3)

Eximbank disbursed fully in July 2013 under the original finance US$298 million
equivalent credit line and US$2 million for institutional development. Fifty-three loans
(four of which nonperforming) were approved for a total of US$269 million, predominantly
in the ship-building and metalware sectors. The average loan size was US$5 million.

A US$1.5 million reallocation of proceeds was undertaken in May 2013 from Eximbank’s
institutional development component to its credit line, given lower procurement costs and
Eximbank’s decision to complete some activities under its own resources (table A2.6).

Table A2.5: Breakdown of Subloans by Sector, Region, Loan Size, and Beneficiary
(Eximbank)

                                                                              Number of
                                                         Amount
Sector                                                                         Subloans
                                                       US$        (%)      Count     (%)
Basic metals and fabricated metal products           86,351,288   32.1%        20      37.7%
Electrical, electronic and optical equipment         29,685,680   11.0%         4       7.5%
Machinery and equipment N.E.C.                       25,643,210    9.5%        12      22.6%
Other transport equipment and logistics              31,796,120   11.8%         4       7.5%
Ship building                                        95,690,662   35.6%        13      24.5%
TOTAL                                               269,166,960   100%         53      100%

Region                                                 US$        (%)      Count     (%)
Marmara                                             144,376,282   53.6%        24     45.3%
Mediterranean                                        10,000,000    3.7%         1      1.9%
Central Anatolia                                     81,838,589   30.4%        22     41.5%
Aegean                                               32,952,089   12.2%         6     11.3%
Grand Total                                         269,166,960   100%         53     100%

Loan Size                                             US$         (%)      Count     (%)
< $250,000                                                    -        -        -          -
$250,000 - $500,000                                     297,833    0.1%         1      1.9%
$500,000 - $1,000,000                                 2,846,529    1.1%         4      7.5%
$1,000,000 - $2,500,000                              20,139,298    7.5%        12     22.6%
$2,500,000 - $5,000,000                              67,042,688   24.9%        18       34%
> $5,000,000                                        178,840,612   66.4%        18       34%
TOTAL                                               269,166,960   100%         53     100%

Beneficiary Size                                       US$        (%)      Count     (%)
< $5,000,000                                         36,649,686   13.6%        14     26.4%
$5,000,000 - $20,000,000                             92,087,789   34.2%        21     39.6%
$20,000,000 - $50,000,000                            50,064,360   18.6%         9       17%
$50,000,000 - $100,000,000                           48,365,125     18%         5      9.4%
> $100,000,000                                       42,000,000   15.6%         4      7.5%
TOTAL                                               269,166,960   100%         53     100%



                                               38
Table A2.6: Breakdown of activities planned and realized under component 3
(Eximbank)

    Objective                        Activity                       Planned      Actual     Savings
 Upgrade          Procurement of PC, printer and scanner            200,000     216,208      -16,208
 existing IT
 infrastructure   Database identity management & security           350,000     288,229      61,771
                  software from Oracle including training
                  Log management, database application              175,000     130,265      44,735
                  development, decision support
                  Personnel tracking system                          40,000      78,719      -38,719
                  Microsoft Office 2007, Documentum                 185,000     209,820      -24,820
                  applications, reporting tools
                  Internet banking                                  200,000     Eximbank    200,000
                  COBIT training and consultancy                    150,000     171,161      -21,161
                  TOTAL                                             1,300,000   1,094,402   205,598
 Upgrade It for   Supply and installation of disaster recovery IT   1,300,000   1,082,881   217,119
 risk-            System
 management       Risk management software                          400,000     Eximbank    400,000
 purpose
                  TOTAL                                             1,700,000   1,082,881   617,119
 TA for credit    Consultancy firm for technical/financial          150,000       12,106    137,894
 appraisal        support for export development ship-building                    Partly
 (credit line -   expert                                                        used, due
 related)         Consultancy firm for technical/financial          150,000     to lower    150,000
 Provision of     support for export development machine-                        demand
 consultants'     building expert                                                in these
 services for     Technical support for export development;          50,000      sectors.    50,000
 strengthening    individual experts                                            Appraisal
 credit risk                                                                    was then
 management                                                                     in-house
                                                                                   only.
                  TOTAL                                             350,000       12,106    337,894
 Support Basel    Consulting services for BASEL II training of      200,000     Eximbank    200,000
 II               the personnel
 implementation   Consulting Services for Credit Risk Scoring       150,000     Eximbank    150,000
                  System
                                                       TOTAL        350,000         -       350,000
                  COMPONENT 3 TOTAL                                 3,700,000               1,510,611




                                                 39
3. Lending in underserved regions

Given the saliency of the issue, we will review the EFIL IV portfolio in the underserved
regions, primarily with the objective of profiling subborrowers in these regions. The
findings here may not be relevant for all projects in Turkey, given that EFIL IV targeted
exporters that are generally larger than the average Turkish firms.
Seventeen loans of US$34 million were provided to exporters in underserved regions (4
percent of total amount disbursed). On average, exporters in these regions increased their
exports by 21 percent after they have received an EFIL loan24. The average and median
export growth for these firms were 21 and 27 percent respectively, within two years after
they have received the loan. The export differential, as calculated in the PDO, for these
firms only was 15.2 (compared with 5.96 for the overall EFIL IV sample). Loans were
concentrated geographically in Kahramanmaraş (54 percent) and the textile sector (74
percent). The average loan size was US$2 million. Loans were mostly denominated in U.S.
dollars, which suggests that the primary export destination is not the EU. Loans in priority
regions were also exclusively provided by PFIs through TSKB’s credit line, which
reinforces the argument for a wholesale lending approach.
Caution must be exercised in designing projects that aim to lend to these regions, because,
as the table below suggest, the financial position of these firms may be different from those
in more developed regions. It is, however, apparent that these firms are less leveraged and
rely less on debt financing for their growth. Financial intermediaries may need to design
specific products to address the financial needs of firms in these regions.
                                  Table A2.7a: Lending by region
                                              PFI               Loan type                   DSCR
                                                                                 Average
                                                                                              Average loan
                                       bank         leasing    IL      WCL       maturity
                                                                                                amount
                                                                                 (months)
                                                                                                 US$2.33
             Developed                 73%           27%      41%      59%          49
                                                                                                 million
                                                                                                 US$2.25
     Other (“Anatolian Tigers”)        68%           32%      37%      63%          50
                                                                                                 million
                                                                                                 US$2.02
           Underserved                 84%           16%      20%      80%          48
                                                                                                 million




24
  We do not try to attribute these results to the EFIL IV project, but rather try to compare with the overall
project’s performance.

                                                      40
                           Table A2.7b: Firms’ characteristics by region

                                                 D/E ratio                          DSCR
                                      Min      Average        Max            Min   Average   Max
 Developed                            10.0      63.6          99.4           1.0     2.2     82.9
                              25
 Other (“Anatolian Tigers ”)          18.0       65.9         91.2           1.0     1.6     13.9
 Underserved                          30.9       59.6         87.0           1.0     1.4     3.1



The main conclusion that can be drawn from the analysis of data collected is that
beneficiaries in less developed regions have a different profile from the average EFIL
borrower. Reaching firms in the underserved regions will require some flexibility in
eligibility requirements.




25
     See Turkey’s Transitions (2014) for a discussion of Anatolian Tigers.

                                                        41
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

A traditional economic/financial analysis cannot be undertaken for this project, given that
project costs cannot be determined. Project outcomes for the beneficiaries have been
measured and discussed in other sections of the ICR.




                                            42
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                             Responsibility/
          Names                            Title                     Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Halil Agah               Senior Rural Development Specialist      ECSAR - HIS
Ayse Seda Aroymak        Senior Financial Management Specialist     GGODR
Nasreen Chudry Bhuller   Program Assistant                          GFMDR
FuruzanBilir             Operations Officer                         ECCU6
Steen Byskov             Senior Financial Economist                 GFMDR TTL until 06/2012
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu     Senior Procurement Specialist              GGODR
Isfandyar Zaman Khan     Program Leader                             ECCU5
Irina L. Kichigina       Chief Counsel                              LEGLE
Hannah M. Koilpillai     Senior Finance Officer                    CTRFC-His
Ahmet GurhanOzdora       Senior Operations Officer                ECSEG - HIS
Supervision/ICR
Halil Agah               Senior Rural Development Specialist      ECSAR - HIS
Esra Arikan              Environmental Specialist                   GENDR
Ayse Seda Aroymak        Senior Financial Management Specialist     GGODR
Nasreen Chudry Bhuller   Program Assistant                          GFMDR
Furuzan Bilir            Operations Officer                         ECCU6
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu     Senior Procurement Specialist              GGODR
Selma Karaman            Program Assistant                          ECCU6
Isfandyar Zaman Khan     Program Leader                             ECCU5 TTL 06-10/2012
Zeynep Lalik             Senior Financial Management Specialist     GGODR
Samuel Munzele Maimbo    Lead Financial Sector Specialist           GFMDR ICR TTL
Aminata Ndiaye           ET Consultant                              GFMDR ICR author
Alper Ahmet Oguz         Senior Financial Sector Specialist         GFMDR
Ahmet Gurhan Ozdora      Senior Operations Officer                ECSEG - HIS
Ilias Skamnelos          Senior Financial Sector Specialist         GFMDR TTL 10/2012-end

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                           US$ Thousands (including
                                          No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                                                       21.54
  FY08                                              40.96                   196.12
                              Total:                                        217.66
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                              36.10                   150.37
  FY10                                              33.48                   141.91
  FY11                                              19.14                   116.38
  FY12                                              26.49                    80.98
  FY13                                              16.75                   108.20
  FY14                                              15.57                    67.23
  FY15                                              33.12                   133.5
               Total:                                                       798.57


                                               43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      44
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                   45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

TSKB

 1. Assessment of the Project’s objective, design, implementation and operational
experience
1.1 Project’s objective
Primary objective of the EFIL IV Project was to support exports by providing medium and
long-term investment finance and working capital to private exporting enterprises
(Beneficiary Enterprises). The secondary objective of the loan was the further
improvement of the ability of the Turkish financial sector to provide financial resources to
enterprises through further development of financial intermediaries, including banks and
leasing companies. Evaluation of the results shows that the objectives of the Project were
achieved.
1.2 Project’s design
The proceeds of the original loan and the additional financing under the EFIL IV Project
were re-lent to five private banks and seven leasing companies (PFIs) in aggregate
throughout the loan utilization period. The banks and the leasing companies that took part
in the lending operations were selected pursuant to the eligibility criteria agreed between
the Bank and TSKB. TSKB took the risk of the PFIs selected for participation. The terms
and conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements entered into between the Borrower and
each PFI were approved by the Bank. The PFIs extended sub-loans to eligible private
exporters for the financing of raw materials, spare parts, plant and equipment, and works,
both for investment purposes as well as working capital. The PFIs assumed the credit risks
of the Beneficiary Enterprises. As of the closure of the Project, the breakdown of funds
allocated and utilized by each PFI under the Project is presented in the below tables.




                                            46
Under the Original Loan of the EFIL IV Project, five banks and five leasing companies
acted as PFIs in on-lending the facility to eligible sub-borrowers. The breakdown of
allocations from the original facility between banks and leasing companies was 58%-42%
at the completion. Several reallocations throughout the loan utilization were made among
the PFIs (mostly among banks) to ensure timely implementation of the Project. The loan
which was signed for in 2008 was fully disbursed by 2010 year-end, about two and a half
years ahead of the determined completion date.
The Loan Agreement of the Additional Financing to the EFIL IV project was signed in
April 2011 in the amount of $300 million equivalent. The proceeds of the EFIL IV
Additional Financing (EFIL IV AF) were re-lent to four banks and five leasing companies.
By the closing of the Additional Financing, 60% of the funds have been utilized by the
banks and 40% by the leasing companies. In line with the monitoring of sub-commitments
TSKB made reallocations among the PFIs under EFIL IV AF as well. The Project was
completed by the scheduled closing date; end of 2014.
1.3 Project’s implementation
The implementation of the loan scheme was successfully carried out by TSKB. The PFIs
were chosen according to the agreed criteria and and their compliance with regulations and
financial covenants were reported semi-annually to the Bank. 10 PFIs signed Subsidiary
Loan Agreements with TSKB under the Original Loan and 9 under the Additional
Financing.
The user-friendly web-based platform designed by TKSB’s IT department under EFIL II
has been in use (with further modifications) under the following EFIL operations
implemented by TSKB. All stages of sub-loan processing including the submission and
approval of the original sub-loan applications, disbursement requests and disbursements to
PFIs, including authorizations and transactions were performed through this system. The
electronic system expedited the overall sub-loan processing cycle. TSKB gave trainings to
the PFIs on the system, the environmental requirements of the loan, project appraisal, cash
flow forecasts and disbursement process. The system was very much appreciated by the
PFIs throughout the loan utilization period. In addition to the computerized record, TSKB
also maintained backup paper files for those sub-loans where procurement and
disbursements had taken place. During the implementation period, TSKB PIU remained
providing consultancy services to the PFIs both on-line and via phone.

                                            47
1.4 Operational experience
During the preparation phase, a designated Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was
established within TSKB in parallel with the Bank’s requirements under the supervision of
an Executive Vice President to oversee the implementation of the project. TSKB’s PIU
team worked closely with the Bank staff. As the primary project counterpart for the Bank,
the PIU team was entrusted the overall administration of all aspects of both credit lines and
the required reporting (FMRs) to the Bank. The interaction between TSKB and PFIs, and
TSKB and the Bank was timely and efficient thoughout the Project.
The trainings given to the new PFIs regarding environmental issues and procurement, as
well as project appraisal including cashflow projections improved the PFIs institutional
capacity. Finally, TSKB’s wholesale lending function, became even more sophisticated
and effective to the benefit of the overall Turkish private sector.
In EFIL IV, TSKB upgraded the existing environmental and social risk assessment tool
embedded in the Application Forms to help the PFIs screen and evaluate sub-projects easily
and more efficiently. Beginning with 2010, in addition to the PFI visits, the PFI provided
information and project site visits, TSKB voluntarily prepared and submitted audit reports
of the Project’s environmental and procurement related aspects.
2. Assessment of the outcomes of the Project against the agreed objectives
The Primary objective of the EFIL IV Project was to provide medium and long-term
investment finance as well as working capital to private exporting enterprises. Under the
Project, USD 600 million equivalent of funds were on-lent through 316 loans to eligible
sub-borrowers. The primary objective has been well achieved.
The secondary objective of the loan was the further improvement in the ability of the
Turkish financial sector to provide financial resources to the enterprise sector, through
further development of intermediation by private financial institutions, including banks and
leasing companies. 10 PFIs signed Subsidiary Loan Agreements with TSKB under the
Original Loan and 9 under the Additional Financing. There was one newcomer bank PFI
and one newcomer leasing company in the Project. Of the 5 banks who participated in the
Original Loan, İşbank, TEB, Yapı Kredi Bank and ING Bank continued to on-lend under
the Additional Financing as well. 3 of the 5 leasing companies from the Original Loan,
namely İş Leasing, Yapı Kredi Leasing and Garanti Leasing also acted as PFIs under the
Additional Financing and were joined by two more leasing companies, Ak Leasing (a
newcomer) and Alternatif Leasing (who was present in EFIL III). Smaller exporting
companies typically not serviced by the banking system were financed with the proceeds
of the loan through the intermediation of the leasing companies.
Of the USD 300 million Original Loan, the equivalent of USD 173.6 million was on-lent
as sub-loans and USD 126.4 million as lease financing. The loan amounts disbursed by
banks and leasing companies under the Additional Financing of USD 300 million were
USD 180.6 million and USD 119.4 million, respectively. For the overall Project, the
breakdown between sub-loans and lease finance on-lent under the Original Loan and the
Additional Financing in aggregate was 59% to 41%.

                                             48
The possibility of extending working capital loans as well as investment loans has enabled
to compensate to a certain extent the negative effect of the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009
and when the demand for investment loans slowed down. Inclusion of service exports and
the tourism sector, one of the main foreign exchange generating sectors, has also
contributed to extending the Project’s reach. In line with demand and the pace of the
disbursement of the facility TSKB made reallocations among the PFIs during the utilization
period and ensured to avoid implementation delays.
Only a negligible amount was classified as non-performing loans. The operation’s main
objective above all was to intensify the export volumes of Turkish companies through the
well structured financial intermediation scheme. This objective has also been achieved.
The additional loan scaled-up the Project’s reach and its impact on both PFIs and the
exporters. The achievements of the Project are not limited to only the implementation
period of the Additional Financing (2011-2014), but also beyond that period, as the PFIs
are required to use the reflows from initial sub-borrowers to exlusively finance new
development projects to further the development of the export sector.
3. Evaluation of the borrower’s own performance during the preparation and
implementation of the Project, and lessons learned that may be helpful in the future
As TSKB was one of the sub borrowers in EFIL I intermediated by Eximbank and acted
as an APEX Bank and had the Borrower and the Implementing Agency functions in EFIL
II and EFIL III operation, there weren’t any problems regarding the adaptation of the EFIL
IV project. The ongoing cooperation between TSKB and the Bank in Apex banking has
also resulted in the effective launch and implementation of the facility as expected.
The lessons learnt support the argument that credit lines need to be designed as flexible as
possible and take into consideration local commercial practices. The documentation and
paperwork involved and reporting requirements should be kept to a minimum, especially
those pertaining to smaller loan amounts. Absence of caps both in terms of sub-financing
allocations and reallocations also ensure timely response to performance and market
conditions.
The sub-loans under the original loan have been mostly repaid by the Beneficiary
Enterprises at the time of the ICR data collection. Therefore although the monitoring
scheme of the Project has not experienced any major problems within the separate lines,
collection of data pertaining to the Original Loan was a challenge especially in cases where
the sub-borrowers were no longer in the PFI’s loan portfolio.
4. Evaluation of the performance of the Bank, any co financers, or of other partners
during the preparation and implementation of the operation, including the
effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on lessons learned

The Bank’s performance during the preparation and implementation stages was very
satisfactory. During the preparation and implementation of the Original Loan and the
Additional Financing parties (Bank staff in Washington, IBRD Ankara Office and TSKB
PIU) had a very cordial relationship. The Borrower appreciated the prompt feedback of the

                                             49
Bank staff on issues that were brought up and actions relating to the implementation of the
project were taken swiftly.

5. Information on the economic, financial, social, institutional, and environmental
conditions.
What has changed over the last thirteen years? A lot has changed. Nevertheless, from a
simple trade-off viewpoint public & domestic debt has been swapped with private &
external debt. Consumption increased and savings fell drastically. Hence, a rather large
CAD popped up in the 2000s. In the 1990s, fiscal deficits and a soaring public debt were
the main culprits behind the high & chronic inflation. In the 2000s, budget discipline
ensured that both the public debt-to-GDP ratio and the inflation rate fell drastically. In
return, the current account deficit became the main problem.




By 2011–end: the current account-to-GDP ratio hit 10%. Results: (a) Need for rebalancing (b)
Need for soft landing. Both developments occurred in 2012; in fact, GDP growth fell down to
2.2%, implying harder than “soft landing”. However, in 2013 the economy was back to the old
path. The current account-to-GDP ratio hit 8%, suggesting the need for a renewed rebalancing
drive.




In 2014, domestic demand slowed down anew. Exports grew by 12.5% per annum between
1980 and 2014. Last year’s export growth rate is a mere 3.6%. However, the import bill
fell,and net exports contributed significantly to GDP growth. The last quarters’ print
implies a 2.82% momentum. That is, growth is likely to recede further in 2015, but only
gradually. In 2014, contributions to growth read as: Household consumption 0.895 bps;
public consumption 0.51 bps; net exports 1.784 bps; fixed capital formation (-) 0.26 bps.
Had it not been for Q4 2014, contribution of net exports would have been even higher.



                                            50
In Q1 2015, domestic demand has been rather weak. 2015 sources of growth might echo
those of 2014. There are at least two caveats here: (i) GDP growth itself is lower (ii) Oil
prices + gold imports have both receded, causing the import bill to drop. A real shift
between sources of growth –rebalancing-can be only be possible along a growth ray that
either closely follows the potential growth rate or exceeds it. The potential GDP growth
rate is about 4.2%, but the actual average of 2012-15 should be 3%. Net exports seem to
be contributing more only because domestic demand and the growth rate itself fall.
The Lira appreciated both in real and in nominal terms for about 7 years after the 2001
crisis. The “wealth effect” –we felt richer than we really were due to overvalued currency-
was partly felt because the exchange rate had become an argument of the production
function. This claim is now a remnant of the past. TL has depreciated more than inflation
in the last 6.5 years.




                                                                           
After Lehman the whole episode of appreciation has ended. The Lira stabilized against
both the USD and the basket from time to time, but as trend, it depreciated. The CAGR of
CPI stands at 7.58% whereas the depreciation CAGR of the Lira against the basket is 9.72%
in the last 6.5 years that elapsed after Lehman. This trend will continue. As TL loses
strength, its volatility also goes up. In turn, this translates into CPI and interest rate cycles,
and further reduces visibility. Investments are on hold and the growth rate is now lower
than before. A game changer is warranted at this stage.
Pass-through is about 12-15% for the headline CPI. Core inflation and the exchange rate
hand in hand. FX volatility has also a bearing on inflation, but much less than the level of
the exchange rate. CPI will go down a bit in 2015, but not as much as envisioned after the
initial fall in oil prices. TL depreciation has already offset for the oil price bonus. We expect
7-7.5% CPI in 2015.




                                               51
Total loans increased at breakneck speed between 2003 and 2006. After the May-June 2006
turmoil their annual rate of increase dropped from 70% to 20% and equilibrated at around
35% until 2008. After Lehman there is another sharp decrease, and equilibration in the
vicinity of 30%. Recently, the authorities talk about 15% as the new balanced path.
Consumer loans started from scratch in 2003, and house & car loans jump-diffused
between 2003 and 2006. Annual rates of increase reached 300-400% at that time; a
phenomenon that will never occur again.




CAD (current account deficit) is cyclical. Trend CAD is about 6-6.5% of GDP, excluding
the recent drastic change in oil prices. Non-energy CAD is not high: only in 2010-11 has
it become important, i.e. 4%. 2002-13 average is 7.5% of GDP. Our2015 estimate is about
37 billion USD, i.e. 4.6-4.8 of GDP.
We may end 2015 with 7.5% CPI, 4.6% CAD, 2.8% GDP growth, 15% loan growth, with
banking sector profitability declining by about one percentage point. The banking sector is
financially healthy but increasing reliance on wholesale funding (syndication,
securitization, Eurobond issuances, foreign currency deposits in overseas branches, sub
loans) could bring the sector to a growth/profitability trade-off. As savings continue to
decline, the local deposit base could not grow on a par with loan and asset growth; the
share of foreign resources jumped from 4.9% in 2008 to 22% in 2015.




                                            52
    Eximbank

   The Export Finance Intermediary Loan (EFIL-IV) has been put into effect by the agreement
    between Türk Eximbank and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
    (World Bank) in 2008.

   At the beginning, two sectors that were targeted by Eximbank, although quite strategic
    given their high export potential, were severely affected by the global crisis through the
    ensuing slump in international demand.

   The utilization was limited for the shipbuilding and machine building industries in the
    beginning, but in July 2011 electric-electronic industry, automotive supplier industry and
    metal ware industry are included upon our sector expansion request.

   As a result of difficulties in providing letter of guarantees, some ship building firms did
    not use their limits. In order to satisfy new demands, unused limits of shipbuilding firms
    cancelled.

   After administrative restructuring in 2011, Turk Eximbank adopted new marketing
    strategy. With the inclusion of new sectors, Turk Eximbank held meetings with sector
    representatives, exporter associations; our regional offices, and representatives of our
    liaison offices in order to accelerate the implementation process of EFIL IV. Turk
    Eximbank also conducted follow-up visits with sector representatives and exporter
    associations.

   As a result of these effective marketing efforts, TE has provided a huge increase in the loan
    utilization and almost completed all applications from the large pipeline.

   We, as Turk Eximbank aim to carry on strong progress in the implementation of the project.
    Investment projects have been given priority as the recovery of the global economy
    continues and investment appetite increases in Turkey.

   The operating systems of Eximbank were fully aligned with the project’s accounting,
    supervision, and reporting requirements. In addition, no disruption was experienced when
    Turk Eximbank’s headquarters moved to Istanbul from Ankara.

   Turk Eximbank launched in end-2012 a new program, based on its EFIL IV experience.
    The program is designed to provide medium and long-term finance to exporters and had
    disbursed reached from USD 252.7 million in 2012 to USD 1,027.2 million as of 31.12.
    2014.

   Flexibility of project design and responsiveness to market conditions reduce
    implementation delays. For any project, the design context is inevitably different from the
    implementation context. Sector and regional targets/quotas are unnecessary and
    counterproductive.




                                                 53
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                    54
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Documents, Implementation Completion Report and IEG ICR
    reviews: First, Second and Third Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL I, II and
    III)
2. Fourth Export Finance Intermediation Loan (EFIL IV):
                    i. Project Appraisal Document
                   ii. ROC meeting: Paper, Decision, comments
                 iii. Loan agreements, Guarantee agreement and Supplemental Letters
                  iv. Operational Manual
                   v. Additional Financing and Restructuring papers – and amended
                       agreements
                  vi. Project Aide memoires, ISRs, Financial Management and
                       Procurement Reports
   3. Turkey: EFIL and SME Credit Line Projects- An Assessment of Outcomes (2011)
   4. Turkey: Improving Conditions for SME Growth - Finance and Innovation (2011)
   5. Turkey’s Transitions: Integration, Inclusion, Institutions Flagship Report (2014)
   6. Turkey: Trade Finance Note (2014)
   7. Country Partnership strategies




                                         55
MAP
