                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank


                                                         Report No: ICR00002082




             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-48500 IDA-42620)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 15.3 MILLION
                         (US$20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        AND A

                                        CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.4 MILLION
                          (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO

                                       ALBANIA

                                        FOR A

                              TRANSPORT PROJECT




                                December 28, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2011)

                           Currency Unit = Albanian Lek (ALL)
                                  1.00 ALL = US$ 0.01
                                 US$ 1.00 = 97.68 ALL

                                      FISCAL YEAR

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALL    Albanian Lek                            IMO          International Maritime Organization
ANTP   Albania National Transport Plan         IRI          International Roughness Index
ARA    Albania Road Authority                  IRSC         Inter-ministerial Road Safety Council
AMA    Albania Maritime Administration         ISR          Implementation Status and Results Report
Bank   The World Bank                          MA           Maritime Administration
BOQ    Bill of Quantity                        MEFWA        Ministry of Environment, Forests and Water
                                                            Administration
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy             MI           Ministry of Interior
CD     Country Director                        MPWTT        Ministry of Public Works, Transport and
                                                            Telecommunication
CMU    Country Management Unit                 MPWT         Ministry of Public Works and Transport (now)
CPS    Country Partnership Strategy            NSDI         National Strategy for Development and
                                                            Integration
CRE    Chief Resident Engineer                 NSSED        National Strategy for Social and Economic
                                                            Development
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment         OPBM         Output and Performance-based Maintenance
                                                            contract
EIB    European Investment Bank                OPEC         Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Return        PAD          Project Appraisal Document
EMP    Environmental Management Plan           Para         Paragraph
ERRP   Emergency Road Repair Project           PDO          Project Development Objective
EU     European Union                          PIT          Project Implementation Team
FA     Financing Agreement                     PRSP         Preparation Status Report
GDP    Gross domestic product                  RAP          Resettlement Action Plan
GoA    Government of Albania                   RIT          Reform Implementation Team
GRD    General Roads Directorate               RMP          Road Maintenance Project
HDM    Highway Development and Management      SWAp         Sector Wide Approach
       Model
ICR    Implementation Completion Report        TA           Technical Assistance
IDB    Islamic Development Bank                TP           Transport Project
IFIs   International Financing Institutions

                              Vice President: Philippe LeHouerou
                            Country Director: Jane Armitage
                             Sector Manager: Henry Kerali
                        Project Team Leader: Artan Guxho
                           ICR Team Leader: George Banjo
                        ICR Primary Author: George Banjo and Natalya Stankevich
                                                        ALBANIA
                                                   Transport Project

                                                      CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 8
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 21
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 23
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 24
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 26
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 28
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 43
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 49
MAP IBRD No.35035 ...................................................................................................... 50
                           INSERT

                       DATA SHEET

                             HERE



        AFTER APPROVAL BY COUNTRY DIRECTOR

    AN UPDATED DATA SHEET SHOULD BE INSERTED

                 MANUALLY IN HARD COPY

   BEFORE SENDING A FINAL ICR TO THE PRINT SHOP.



        NOTE: The Data Sheet is generated by the system

       using the information entered in the Operations Portal

each time you use ―Send Draft‖, ―Print‖ or ―Submit Final‖ functions.
A. Basic Information
                                                                          TRANSPORT
Country:                Albania                 Project Name:
                                                                          PROJECT
                                                                          IBRD-48500,IDA-
Project ID:             P078949                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                          42620
ICR Date:               12/29/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          ALBANIA
Original Total
                        USD 25.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 26.13M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 24.11M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 General Roads Directorate
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 OFID (OPEC Fund for International Development)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/18/2003     Effectiveness:             08/22/2007       08/22/2007
                                                                                 05/05/2010
Appraisal:            11/27/2006     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 10/13/2010
Approval:             02/22/2007     Mid-term Review:           09/09/2009       09/09/2009
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2011       06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     13                  13
Roads and highways                                                    87                  87


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                               14                  14
Infrastructure services for private sector development                29                  29
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                29                  29
Legal institutions for a market economy                               14                  14
Rural services and infrastructure                                     14                  14

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Jane Armitage                        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Henry G. R. Kerali                   Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader:       Artan Guxho                          Richard Martin Humphreys
ICR Team Leader:           George A. Banjo
ICR Primary Author:        George A. Banjo
                           Natalya Stankevich


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objective is to reduce user costs on the Milot - Rreshen section
of the Durres - Milot - Morine corridor and improve access for the hinterland population,
to introduce innovation in road maintenance on a pilot basis, and to contribute to the


                                                ii
development of the institutional framework and implementation of road safety activities
throughout Albania.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)           Values       Target Years
                  Vehicle journey time from Rreshen to Milot in free flowing conditions reduced
Indicator 1 :
                  by 25 percent
Value
quantitative or   43 min                    10 min             20 min         18-20 min
Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/22/2007                 10/23/2007          09/09/2009     04/15/2011
Comments          The target was exceeded, with reduction by 53-58% against the original target of
(incl. %          25%. Original target reflected a decrease in trip time and was corrected at mid-
achievement)      term review to reflect actual trip time.
Indicator 2 :     Percentage increase in population living within 20 minute isochrone of Milot
Value
quantitative or   38,657                    TBC                TBC            50 percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved   02/22/2007                  10/23/2007         03/31/2011      04/15/2011
                Population within 20-min isochrone of Milot increased by almost 50%. (2007-
Comments
                2009 annual pop. growth rates in project districts were less than 1 percent). Even
(incl. %
                though no target was set, the 50% achievement would have likely exceeded any
achievement)
                reasonable target.
Indicator 3 : Road Safety Audit and Action Plan prepared for Tirana-Durres Expressway.
                                                                               Road Safety Audit
Value
                                            Audit and plan     Audit and plan and Plan was
quantitative or Not prepared
                                            prepared           prepared        prepared in
Qualitative)
                                                                               November 2009
Date achieved 02/22/2007                    10/23/2007         06/30/2011      04/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
                Satisfactory piloting of output and performance based road maintenance in the
Indicator 4 :
                two regions
Value
                No experience with          Solid experience                   Solid experience
quantitative or
                approach                    with approach                      with approach
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/22/2007                    10/23/2007                         04/15/2011
Comments        Achieved, through development of the Bidding Documents, training for
(incl. %        contractors, actual implementation of four OPBM contracts, and incorporation
achievement) of lessons learned from the pilot



                                                 iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                             Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                              Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                             Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of km of road constructed between Milot and Rreshen
Value
                                                                                 26 km of road is
(quantitative     0                          26 km               26 km
                                                                                 open to traffic
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/22/2007                 10/23/2007          03/31/2011      04/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. All three lots of total length 26 km are complete and open to traffic.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Contracts issued to private contractors in two pilot regions
Value
(quantitative     0                          2                   2               2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/22/2007                 10/23/2007          03/31/2011      04/15/2011
Comments
                  Achieved. Four contracts in two regions were signed in November 2009, and are
(incl. %
                  now 25 months into the three year period of implementation.
achievement)
                  Cumulative improvement in average road condition in pilot regions (measured in
Indicator 3 :
                  percent improvement from original IRI reading - Baseline 10).
Value
(quantitative     0                          10                  10              4.5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/22/2007                 10/23/2007          03/31/2011      04/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Partially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Length of road in lane km covered by road safety audit
Value
(quantitative     0                          120 lane km         120 lane km     178 lane km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/22/2007                 10/23/2007          03/31/2011      04/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. The target was exceeded by 48%.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number of pieces of road safety equipment procured and introduced into service
Value
(quantitative     0                          20                  Cancelled       Cancelled
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/22/2007                 10/23/2007          05/05/2010      04/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator was cancelled during May 2010 Level-2 Restructuring
achievement)


                                                  iv
Indicator 6 :     Establishment of Maritime Administration
Value
(quantitative     Not established             Established                        Established
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/22/2007                  10/23/2007                     04/15/2011
Comments          Achieved. The Maritime Code was approved in September 2010. Following the
(incl. %          approval of the Law, the Maritime Administration was established and started
achievement)      functioning.
Indicator 7 :     Traffic counters/classifiers procured and operational
Value
(quantitative     0                           6                   Cancelled      Cancelled
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/22/2007                  10/23/2007          10/13/2010     04/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Indicator was cancelled during October 2010 Level-2 Restructuring
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                           IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
 1      06/29/2007             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
 2      11/19/2007             Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               5.11
 3      05/30/2008             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    12.17
 4      01/05/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    15.52
 5      05/30/2009             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    19.84
 6      10/21/2009             Satisfactory             Highly Satisfactory                23.85
 7      03/05/2010             Satisfactory             Highly Satisfactory                25.37
 8      06/24/2010             Satisfactory             Highly Satisfactory                25.53
 9      01/16/2011             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    26.37
 10     05/11/2011             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    26.47


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Approved by CD; No revision
                                                     of PDO. The reason was a delay
                                                     in the reform of the GRD which
 05/05/2010       N       S      HS          25.44
                                                     resulted in a need to continue to
                                                     pay the salaries and
                                                     administrative costs of the PIT


                                                   v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     in GRD for a further period of
                                                     12 months. Funds were
                                                     available for reallocation from
                                                     other categories of goods which
                                                     were not needed or had been
                                                     procured from other sources.
                                                     Approved by CD; no revision of
                                                     PDO. The reason was to
                                                     reallocate savings from certain
                                                     services and goods which were
 10/13/2010               S      HS          25.85   either cancelled or procured
                                                     from other sources to pay for an
                                                     extension to the road safety
                                                     consultant technical assistant to
                                                     support additional activities.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.1.1 At the time of appraisal of the Transport Project (TP), in early 2007, Albania was
successfully transitioning from a closed to a market-based economy, and growth in gross
domestic product (GDP) was averaging about 7 percent. Nevertheless, the country remained one
of the poorest in Europe, with poverty widespread with regional disparities and mostly
concentrated in the mountain regions, and unemployment at an estimated 14.4 per cent. The
Government‘s National Strategy for Social and Economic Development (NSSED; Albania‘s
PRSP) was adopted in 2001. It had a focus on pro-poor growth, aimed at bringing Albania‘s
living standards and income levels closer to the levels of its neighboring European countries, and
at addressing the country‘s governance shortcomings. It placed considerable emphasis on the
importance of infrastructure to address key non-income dimensions of poverty.
1.1.2 The Bank‘s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2006-2009 noted that future growth
of Albania would be increasingly reliant on higher investment levels in infrastructure to reduce
the cost of doing business; and it was explicit in its support for the provision and maintenance of
efficient transport infrastructure. It also required all new Bank-funded projects from FY05 to be
implemented through existing Government structures, and included a governance filter as a
means of tackling governance challenges. The TP included indicators for monitoring the
influence of the project on governance.
1.1.3 In the early 2000s, Albania‘s transport system was dominated by road transport. The
quality of its road transport network was considered to be worse than its regional comparators. In
2002, only 10 percent of its network was in good condition—with an additional 22 percent in fair
condition. Insufficient maintenance was a major factor accounting for the poor state of the
network—maintenance was about 40 percent below the level required to sustain the network.
Despite the poor road infrastructure, traffic demand was growing (at about 10.1 percent in 2004),
accompanied by increasing road traffic accidents. Road safety was becoming a significant social
and economic issue. In 2000, the fatality rate per million vehicle-km was 7.8—the highest in
Central and Eastern Europe. The situation along the Tirana-Durres Corridor was particularly bad,
as a result of the increase in economic activities linked to the Port of Durres.
1.1.4 Regarding maritime transport, the Port of Durres was in the process of being privatized
on a landlord basis. The Maritime Administration (MA) was created in 2004. At the time of the
TP appraisal, the MA was not yet operational—its secondary legislation/regulations had not yet
been defined and passed into law. There was a need to increase the role of the private sector—to
build on recent successes in privatizing and deregulating road transport. There was a need to use
private contractors to undertake capital investments and maintenance in the road sector—in
particular, to carry out routine and winter maintenance, which then was only being carried out by
the private sector under the Bank-supported Road Maintenance Project (RMP).
1.1.5 In response to that situation, the Government in 2005 merged the two transport sector
ministries into one (Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Telecommunication—MPWTT).
The General Roads Directorate (GRD) was responsible for national and regional roads. The
Government of Albania (GoA)—with the agreement of its development partners—declared its
intention to transform the GRD into a small, centralized, contracting unit, and to consolidate the
various PIUs of individual donors into a single Project Implementation Team (PIT) that would be
responsible for developing increased capacity to plan and implement investment projects. In 2006,
the GoA approved the Albania National Transport Plan (ANTP), which was developed with the
assistance of the European Union (EU). The ANTP emphasized the Government‘s stated road


                                                1
investment priority: the improvement of the Durres-Milot-Morine road corridor, which was
considered the worst major road corridor in the country. This corridor served the part of the
country with the lowest per capita income, and it is a key strategic link to Kosovo and Corridor X
(10) in Serbia, one of the main transport corridors in South Eastern Europe. It improves the
connectivity to, and the attractiveness of, the Port of Durres. It also provides an immeasurable
level of improved access for a hinterland population approaching 110,000 in one of the poorest
regions in Albania.
1.1.6 The main rationale stated in the PAD for Bank involvement in the Albanian transport
sector was the comparative advantage it could provide in helping the Government to deal with the
substantive capacity-building necessary to ensure the sustainability of the investments. The
Bank‘s current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)—covering the period of FY11 to 14—
considers Albania to be a continuing development success story, with annual growth rates of
about 6% accompanied by rapid reductions in poverty. The CPS has three strategic objectives.
The strategic objective most relevant to the transport sector is ‗to support Albania‘s growth rates
through improved competiveness‘. A key instrument for achievement of that objective is ‗to
affordably address infrastructure bottlenecks‘. The CPS has identified as a risk the relatively low
level of IBRD lending (US$275 million), which could potentially decrease the Bank‘s leverage in
policy dialogue—and thus, in advancing institutional reforms. During the period of
implementation of the TP, Albania improved its performance on governance indicators 1
Nevertheless, corruption in Albania remains higher than in South Eastern Europe in general.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Project Development Objectives
1.2.1 The PDO as stated in the PAD was ―to reduce user costs on the Milot-Rreshen section of
the Durres –Milot-Morine corridor and improve access for the hinterland population, to introduce
innovation in road maintenance on a pilot basis, and to contribute to the development of the
institutional framework and implementation of road safety activities throughout Albania.‖ The
PDO was expected to be achieved through: (i) the construction of the 26 kilometer section of the
Milot to Rreshen road, thereby contributing to a reduction in journey time for road users and an
improvement in access to one of the poorest parts of Albania; (ii) the introduction of innovation
in road maintenance on a pilot basis through the testing of output and performance based road
maintenance contracts in two pilot regions; and (iii) institutional development and support to
improving road safety in Albania. The definition of the PDO is slightly broader in the PAD than
in the Loan Agreement. Following Bank practices, the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
uses the PAD definition (also the broader one) for evaluation of the Project achievements.
1.2.2   The main text of the PAD lists five priority indicators:
        (i)   Vehicle journey time from Rreshen to Milot in free flowing conditions reduced by
              25 percent;
        (ii) Improved access measured by the increase in population within defined isochrone
              of Milot;
        (iii) Satisfactory piloting of output and performance based contracts in the two defined
              pilot regions of Albania;
        (iv) Length of road in lane kilometers subject to road safety audit;


1
  Rontoyanni, C. (September 13, 2011). Albania‘s governance profile: trends and directions. Presentation at
the Governance Day Conference in Tirana, Albania. World Bank. Europe and Central Asia Region.



                                                    2
        (v)   Purchase and operational use of a defined number of essential road safety
              equipment.
1.2.3 In the Results Framework Annex of the PAD, the first four indicators are identified as
project outcome indicators, and the fifth as an intermediate outcome indicator. The Results
Framework is comprised of six intermediate outcome indicators. The Arrangements for Results
Monitoring Matrix is comprised of seven intermediate outcome indicators. The definitions of
intermediate indicators are slightly different in the Results Framework than in the Matrix below.
There was also some inconsistency between the indicators in the PAD and those reported in the
ISR (see Implementation and Utilization in Section 2.3).

No.   Results Framework                           Arrangements for Results Monitoring
                                                  Matrix
1     Number of km of road constructed between Number of km of highway constructed
      Milot and Rreshen                           between the towns of Milot and Rreshen
2     Procurement of hybrid output and Contracts issued to private contractors in
      performance based contracts in two pilot two pilot regions
      regions
3     Evidence of satisfactory regime in the two Cumulative improvement in average road
      pilot regions by cumulative improvement in conditions in pilot areas (measured in %
      road roughness                              improvement from original roughness
                                                  reading on the IRI scale)
4     Length in lane km of road subjected to road Length of road in lane km covered by road
      safety audit and action plan produced       safety audit

5     Number of pieces of essential equipment        Number of pieces of road safety equipment
      procured according to Procurement Plan and     procured and introduced into operation
      introduced into operation
6     Technical Assistance, goods, and services      Traffic counters/classifiers procured and
      procured according to Procurement Plan and     operational
      introduced into operation
7                                                    Establishment of Maritime Administration

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
1.3.1 The PDO was not revised. During the level 2 restructuring in May 2010, the following
intermediate results indicator was dropped: ―number of pieces of road safety and equipment
procured and introduced into service‖. It was decided that the GRD would not finance
procurement of breathalyzers and speed guns, because the traffic police had been unable to
provide maintenance for similar equipment procured under the previous Bank-supported project,
In the October 2010 level 2 restructuring, new activities were added to enhance the road safety
component (see Paras 1.6.3 and 3.1.3). The cancellation of this intermediate indicator did not
affect achievement of the Project outcome indicator related to road safety.
1.3.2 During the Level 2 Restructuring in October 2010, the following intermediate results
indicator was deleted from the Results Framework: ―traffic counters/classifiers procured and
operational‖. It was decided that the GRD would no longer procure traffic counters/classifiers
under the project, because data collection service was to be outsourced to the private sector under
the proposed reform of GRD. There was no project outcome indicator linked to this intermediate
indicator—thus, the cancellation of this intermediate indicator did not affect the achievement of
the PDO.


                                                3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 There was no specific mention of the ‗primary target groups‘ or ‗beneficiaries‘ in the
PAD because it was not a specific requirement for the PAD at that time. However, the Project
objectives and key indicators implied that the main beneficiaries of the TP would be: (i) users and
providers of transport services along the Milot-Rreshen road section and the other sections of the
Milot-Morine Road Corridor improved by GoA and other IFIs through reduced and more
predictable travel times and improved road safety; (ii) persons living along the road corridor—
through access to the improved road which increases their access to economic and social
opportunities; (iii) port users from improved and more predictable regulation of the maritime
sector resulting from the establishment of the MA and enactment of laws and regulations
developed under the Project and seafarers from an improved working environment; (iv) persons
living within the vicinity of the River Mati flood plain, particularly along the village of Fushe-
Milot—through improved flooding protection structures that led to a safer and more secure living
environment; (v) users of inland waterways in Albania, as a result of the enactment of new
regulations for transport services on inland waters in response to the 2009 ferry disaster in
Macedonia on Lake Ohrid; and (vi) at a higher level, the general public—through more efficient
and effective use of public resources arising from improved capacity for service delivery in the
road sector and implementation of reforms.
1.4.2 The secondary beneficiaries were expected to include: (i) the then-Ministry of Public
Works, Transportation and Telecommunications (MPWTT, now Ministry of Public Works,
Transportation (MPWT) through receiving technical assistance to establish the Maritime
Administration (MA), implement the new Port Authority Law, re-organize the GRD into the
Albanian Road Authority (ARA), and strengthen the capacity of the new institution; (ii) GRD,
through the experience to be to be gained by its PIT in implementing the Project and in contract
management and through receiving technical assistance in best practices in highway engineering
skills, staff training and building the capacity to manage OPBM contracts; and (iii) the
Department of Traffic Safety (DTS) through receiving technical assistance to implement the
National Road Safety Action Plan and to implement changes in the primary and secondary
legislation, analysis of statistics and extension of the Accident Information System, and
undertaking of a road safety audit on the Tirana-Durres highway.

1.5 Original Components
1.5.1      The TP included the following components:
1.5.2 Component 1: Construction of the Minot to Reshen Road [Estimated total cost:
US$37.4 million (EUR 28.47 million); Bank–financed: US20.42 million (EUR 15.55 million)].
This component was expected to finance the civil works and consultant supervision to undertake
the construction of the three lots of the 26 kilometer Milot to Reshen section of the Milot to
Morine road corridor. The proposed road is located mostly within the Mirdite District which had
a poverty incidence ranging between 20-40 percent of the population at the time of project
appraisal. Improving access to this impoverished area was a key policy objective of the
Government. The proposed new road was designed as a single carriageway road (7.5 meter two-
lane; total width of 11.1 meters; paved width amounting to 9.3 meters), with a design speed of 80
km/hr. The Bank was expected to co-finance Lots 1 and 2 with the GoA, and Lot 3 was to be
financed by the OPEC Fund 2. The achievement of this component is to be measured by two


2
    Formal approval of the co-financing was made by the Board of the OPEC Fund on December 19, 2006.



                                                    4
outcome indicators: (i) vehicle journey time from Rreshen to Milot in free flowing conditions
reduced by 25 percent, and (ii) improved access measured by the increase in population living
within the 20 minute isochrone of Milot. As a result of the improved road condition, road users
are expected to enjoy journey time savings. In addition, the 20 minute isochrone from Milot is
expected to move further beyond the 26 km road section, which would lead to an increase in
population living within the 20 minute isochrone.
1.5.3 Component 2: Introduction of Output/Performance Based Maintenance Contracts.
[Estimated total cost: US$11.5 million (EUR 8.75 million); Bank-financed: US$1.30 million
(EUR0.99 million)]. The second component was to involve the introduction of output or
performance based road maintenance contracts in two pilot regions—Tirana and Kukes—together
with consultant supervision. This initiative was to follow the experience accumulated during the
introduction of this approach in an earlier World Bank project in Serbia—where provisional
indications suggest a significant reduction in unit operating costs for the same level of
maintenance. The provisional expectation for the output of this component was that an improved
quality in maintenance could be achieved for a constant level of resource input, together with a
robust assessment of the efficacy of this approach. The achievement of this component was to be
measured by using a PDO outcome indicator of satisfactory piloting of output and performance
based maintenance contracts in two regions.
1.5.4 Component 3: Road Safety Component. [Estimated total cost: US$1.2 million (EUR0.91
million); Bank–financed: US$1.2 million (EUR0.91 million)]. The third component was
concerned with safety. It was to build on the recently completed road safety component in the
Road Maintenance Project, and the recent Action Plan prepared by the National Road Safety
Council. This was to involve the provision of necessary technical assistance to aid in the
implementation of the National Action Plan—including assistance to implement changes in the
primary and secondary legislation—drawing on best international practice, analysis of statistics,
and extension of the Accident Information System. It was also expected to support the
undertaking of a road safety inspection on the Tirana-Durrës Highway, which would result in an
action plan for road safety improvements. This would have a significant demonstration effect. It
was expected to involve the provision and operational introduction of necessary goods—in the
form of axle load weigh scales, speed guns and breathalyzers—for the Traffic Police under the
Ministry of Interior. Preparation of a Road Safety and Action Plan for the Tirana-Durres Road
corridor was identified as a PDO outcome indicator by which to measure the achievement of this
component.

1.5.5 Component 4: Technical Assistance and Goods. [Estimated total cost: US$2.08 million
(EUR 1.58 million); Bank–financing: US$2.08 million (EUR 1.58 million)]. The final component
was to support the provision of necessary technical assistance to MPWTT. This was to include
the following: (i) technical assistance to establish the maritime administration, implement the new
port authority law and prepare new maritime by-laws in conformity with EU standards; (ii)
undertaking a sector specific fiduciary assessment to identify the necessary changes to undertake
a SWAp 3 type approach in the sector in future; (iii) technical assistance in best practice in




3
 SWAp stands for Sector Wide Approach. SWAp supports locally owned programs for a sector in a
comprehensive and coordinated manner. It promotes increasing reliance on country systems and procedures
and using a common framework for planning, implementation, expenditure, and monitoring and evaluation.
A SWAp is neither a lending instrument nor a particular financing modality. A SWAp may be supported by
a variety of financing instruments—in the World Bank, the most common are adaptable program loans,
specific investment loans, and sector investment and maintenance loans. Programs under a SWAp can be


                                                  5
highway engineering skills to the Project Implementation Team in GRD for a defined term; (iv)
training; (v) limited office expenses for a transitional period; (vi) two vehicles for the PIT; (vii)
road roughness measuring equipment to provide information for the asset management system;
and (viii) equipment for counting/classifying motor vehicles on the network, to the same end. No
PDO outcome indicator was identified to evaluate this component. However, two intermediate
indicators were identified to measure the achievement of this component. These were: (i)
establishment of MA and (ii) procurement of and introduction into practice of traffic
counters/classifiers.
1.5.6 At the request of MPWTT, this project was co-financed with the OPEC Fund for
International Development (OFID). OFID was expected to contribute US$15 million to finance
the civil works for Lot 3 of the Milot-Rreshen road section and be consistent with World Bank
Procedures. The IDA Credit was envisioned to support the TA, consultancy services and PIT
incremental costs.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1 The Project underwent one restructuring in May 2010 (see para 1.3.1) and a second in
October 2010. There was no cancellation or addition of any component.
1.6.2 However, the October 2010 Restructuring —which was undertaken at the request of the
GoA—led to the inclusion of certain additional activities and the dropping of some others under
the Road Safety Component. Below is a summary of these modifications within the same
component:
1.6.3 Addition of new road safety activities: These activities were added at the request of the
Government to allow for: (i) the actual implementation of the National Road Strategy and Action
Plan that was developed under the Project; (ii) the preparation of a plan for the immediate
establishment of the Secretariat under the Inter-Ministerial Road Safety Council—and support for
implementation of the plan; and (iii) the identification of a priority list of accident black spots on
the road network, and the preparation of detailed designs for the implementation of measures to
address the identified black spots.
1.6.4 Dropping the procurement of some equipment. This was done to allow inclusion of the
above mentioned activities in the Project‘s Road Safety Component. Procurement of the
following equipment was dropped from the Project: (i) traffic counters/classifiers and road
condition measuring equipment—because the collection of data and road condition measurements
was to be outsourced to the private sector; and (ii) vehicles for the PIT as the PIT retained the
existing ones from the previous project.

1.7 Other significant changes

1.7.1   The changes described below were made during project implementation.

1.7.2   Design, scope and scale. These changes included the following:
           Change in the design approach toward the Milot-Rreshen road section. The original
            design was revised and optimized to facilitate the GoA‘s future plan of upgrading this




financed through parallel financing, pooled financing, general budget support, or a combination of the
above.


                                                  6
            section from a two-lane to four-lane highway—this was necessary in order to reduce
            costs and simplify the construction arrangements.
           Reduction in the period during which Output and Performance-based maintenance
            (OPBM) contracts were to be funded from the TP. Delays were experienced in the
            design of the OPBM approach and preparation of the bidding documents due to the
            poor performance of the OPBM consultant. This led to a delay of about one year in
            the awarding of these contracts—which meant that they would extend beyond the
            closing date of the TP. As the Bank was unwilling to extend the project closing date,
            it was agreed that the Bank would finance only the first two years—and the GoA
            would fund the third year of both the civil works and supervision contracts. The
            Bank continues to receive updates on the implementation of the OPBM contracts.
           Relaxation of the penalty system under the OPBM contracts. After the first six
            months of actual OPBM contracts, all contract parties found the penalty system too
            strict and discouraging—given that the contracts were pilot in nature, and should
            therefore take into account necessary learning curves. Under the initial penalty
            system, if there was a single defect (a pothole, grass higher than 20 cm or drainage
            obstructed and reducing water flow by less than 10%, etc) along one km of the road,
            the payment due to the contractor would be reduced to zero—even if the other
            maintenance activities had met the required levels of service. The penalty regime was
            subsequently amended by introducing progressive demerit points corresponding to
            cumulative defects. The amendment took effect in October 2010.
           Addition of Milot-Rreshen and Rreshen-Kalimash to OPBM contracts. The GoA
            decided to concession these sections, after which they were given OPBM contracts to
            ensure their routine maintenance. The GoA agreed to continue funding these sections
            of road until June 2012, when the concession arrangement was expected to be in
            place.
           Dropping of a sector specific fiduciary assessment to undertake a SWAp approach
            within the sector in the future. This study was dropped in light of the challenging
            pilot SWAp implementation in the education sector. A subsequent transport
            operation - the Secondary and Local Roads Project/Program – adopted a more
            pragmatic programmatic approach.
           Extension of the TA contract to GRD. Upon the successful completion of the 18-
            month contract, it was extended for about an additional 12 months with funding from
            the EIB.
           Dropping of the procurement of axle load weigh scales. During project
            implementation, it was realized that the General Directorate of Transport Services did
            not have the adequate capacity for the operation and maintenance of the axle load
            weigh scales; and it was agreed that that their purchase was unlikely to be productive
            until the main elements of the road safety action plan were in place.

1.7.3 Implementation arrangements and schedule. There was no change and the project
closed as scheduled on June 30, 2011.

1.7.4 Funding Reallocations. During the restructurings in May and October 2010—both of
which were approved by the Country Director—there was a reallocation of the Bank funds
between categories of services and goods. The May 2010 restructuring: (i) increased services
category costs by SDR 40,000 for the supervision consultant contract; and (ii) increased operating



                                                7
costs by SDR 230,000 for the salaries and administrative expenses of the PIT for another 12
months. The increase in the operating costs of the PIT was attributed to the delay in the reform of
the GRD. The funds were available for re-allocation because procurement of breathalyzers and
speed guns was dropped, as was the specific fiduciary assessment for the transport sector.
1.7.5 The October 2010 Restructuring led to an increase in funding by SDR 230,000 and a 6-
month extension of the road safety TA to support three new road safety activities (see para 1.6.3).
The funds were reallocated after dropping the procurement of traffic counters/classifiers, vehicles
for the PIT, and road condition measuring equipment (see para 1.6.4).


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
2.1.1 Preparation. Preparation of the Project was initiated in 2003 as a result of the dialogue
that took place during the implementation of the Bank-funded Emergency Road Repair Project
and the Road Maintenance Project. Thus, the Project design reflected in part lessons learned from
those earlier operations. In particular, those lessons revolved around the need to improve
transport infrastructure, implement all projects through existing public sector structures, and
reduce transaction costs on counterparts. During this period, the EU was assisting the
Government with the preparation of the ANTP. Preparation of the TP benefited from the ANTP
by drawing on the emerging consensus between donors and the GoA on its findings and
recommendations—particularly regarding sector policy, institutional arrangements, and priority
investments. Of particular importance was ANTP‘s finding that the number one investment
priority for the road sector should be improvements to the Durres-Milot-Morine road corridor,
which links the Port of Durres with the country‘s hinterland—including Kosovo and Serbia. This
Road Corridor also passes through one of the poorest areas of Albania. In 2006, the OPEC Fund
agreed to co-finance the Milot-Rreshen section with the Bank. This led to the inclusion of the
signing of the related agreement between the GoA and the Fund as one of the conditions of
effectiveness.
2.1.2 Project design. The Project design was simple and realistic—with an adequate number of
components that were not burdened by overly ambitious content. The implementation
arrangements were simple: (i) one lone external co-financier was to be engaged; (ii) there was a
sufficient amount of innovation (OPBM); (iii) the implementation was not very geographically
dispersed; and (iv) there were a limited number of social and environmental factors to consider.
Unfortunately, the schedule for reform of the GRD was not appropriately assessed, and thus,
ultimately turned out to be overly ambitious. The results framework had certain deficiencies—
some of the PDO outcome indicators were either too output-oriented, or there were no indicators
that could have more appropriately reflected the expected outcomes of some of the Project
components. A further discussion on the results framework is provided in section 2.3.
2.1.3 Adequacy of the Government’s commitment. The substantial commitment of the
Government at the project entry was reflected in a number of critical actions. There was a strong
focus—with the close support of the Bank team—on consolidating the four existing PIUs into one
PIT, in order to reduce transaction costs and facilitate greater capacity building. The reform of the
GRD was well underway, in terms of defining its new structure and establishing an
Environmental unit within the GRD to manage implementation of environmental safeguards. The
Minister of Public Works, Transport and Telecommunication had made a public commitment to
increase maintenance funding—which had been included as part of the formal loan condition of
the Project. The commitment of the GoA was well tested by the Project design through the



                                                 8
provisions in the Project covenants. In addition, GoA started reforms in the maritime sub-sector
with transforming Durres Port into a landlord port and enacting a new Maritime Code in July
2004, but it needed support to establish the new Maritime Administration and define the
secondary legislation to supplement that new Maritime Code.

2.1.4 Participatory process. The design of the Project was enhanced by the participation of the
local beneficiary communities. During consultations in regard to the design and EIA, the Milot
and Fushe-Milot communities requested flood protection works on the northern Bank of the Mati
River. Following this request, the Bank carried out a due diligence exercise regarding the
hydraulic effects of constructing the flood protection embankment on the northern bank, and
agreed along with the GoA and the Ministry of Agriculture responsible for irrigation and drainage,
to construct similar flood protection structures on the southern bank. Implementation of flood
protection works on the both banks of the Mati River was even included in the covenants of the
Project.

2.1.5 Risks. All risks were properly identified and mitigation measures were developed. The
Project risk was rated in the PAD as moderate, with two specific risks rated as substantial. The
first of these two risks was: ‗the Government may not allocate sufficient resources to road
maintenance, which could undermine the sustainability of the planned investment‟. This was
expected to be mitigated by a formal loan condition to increase the allocation to maintenance by
10% per year, in real terms. The condition was necessary given the historical failure to provide
adequate funding for road maintenance and the mitigation measure was appropriate. The second
substantial risk was: „institutional reform within the GRD may stall, delaying application of
appropriate maintenance regimes to the new roads, and thus undermining the sustainability of
the investment‟. The mitigation measure was: ‗the Government has made a clear statement of
commitment to the reform of the GRD, with the support of the World Bank and the EU. There
was also a TA component, which was to be funded by the EU and was due to start the second
phase to facilitate this process.‘ It is difficult to judge the sufficiency of this mitigation measure,
because the PAD did not specify: (i) whether the Government commitment was binding in
nature—such as in a signed letter of sector policy; and (ii) what activities were to be implemented
under the TA component to be funded by the EU. That said, it is noted that the FA contained two
covenants for the GoA that should have been reflected in the risk table as mitigation measures.
The two covenants stipulated the following: (i) not later than June 30, 2007, the proposed new
structure of the GRD is to be submitted for review and agreement by the Bank; and (ii) not later
than June 30, 2008, the GRD is to be reformed in line with the agreed new structure, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.1.6 A third risk contained in the risk table and rated as moderate was: “PIT/GRD staff may
not be competent to oversee implementation of the construction or the OPB road maintenance
contracts.? This statement was clear—and the mitigation measures were appropriately being
focused on the development of the capacity of the PIT to manage the Project. These measures
were appropriate; however, the Project only provided for the engagement of one TA—reflecting
the prospective reform of the GRD into the ARA. This was deliberate, in order to provide
significant incentive to GRD management in planning for the end of support. The delay in the
reform of the ARA—and the significant and unforeseen increase in the amount of work in the
GRD—required that this technical support be extended with funding from another donor: the EIB.
A risk that could have been flagged was that the GRD would not be able to retain the experienced
PIT staff upon completion of the Project for various reasons—including that the reform would not
lead to employment conditions that could retain such staff. However, this risk was considered to
be minor, because terms of employment were proposed to be equalized with the private sector as
part of the reform process.


                                                  9
2.1.7 Three other risks were mentioned in the risk table with a rating of ‗negligible‘—with the
PAD clearly indicating the mitigation measures.
2.1.8 There was no Quality at Entry rating by the Bank‘s Quality Assurance Group for the
Project.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1 Implementation was satisfactory throughout the course of the Project, and even highly
satisfactory during the period of October 2009-June 2010. The following were the main factors
that impacted project implementation:
2.2.2 Force majeure events and weather conditions. Since the contractor had quoted in US
Dollars, the depreciation of the US Dollar delayed the implementation of the civil works on the
third section of the Milot-Rreshen Road. In addition, extreme weather conditions—such as
intense rainfall—caused land slips that resulted in delays and in the consequent extension of the
contract, but this did not ultimately effect the closing date of the Project.
2.2.3 Borrower‟s ownership of sector institutional reforms. The Project intended to support
two major institutional reforms. These reforms were aimed at: (i) commencing the re-
organization of the GRD, and contributing to the operational establishment of the Albania Road
Authority (ARA, public enterprise), and (ii) establishing the Maritime Administration (MA). As a
result of the overall Government restructuring prior to the Project—and of significant downsizing
of manpower in the transport sector—there was no designated Government institution to manage
the maritime sub-sector. As a consequence of having joined the International Maritime
Organization (IMO) and of having signed a treaty, the GoA was under significant pressure from
the international community and realized that there was a critical need to set up an agency to
manage this sub-sector. Thus, the Government was very pro-active in supporting all the necessary
actions towards this objective. However, in case of the road sub-sector, the GoA realized that
there was a high risk involved in intervening with a major institutional reform, and was less pro-
active in its promotion. It was obvious that implementation of a major reorganization of the GRD
in the midst of the execution of several significant investments might cause delays that would not
be appreciated by either the general public or politicians. Thus, the GoA substantially delayed the
enactment of the relevant Law. The law was eventually passed on October 15, 2009, almost one
year later than expected.
2.2.4 Quality of consultancy services. The quality of consultancy services was another key
factor that affected many Project activities. The components that had high quality consulting
services (e.g., Road Safety Component, maritime-related activity under the TA Component) were
not only implemented successfully, they also delivered additional outputs not planned at the time
of appraisal. However, at the beginning, the design of the OPBM component suffered from low
competence and lack of local knowledge on the part of the OPBM international consultant team.
There was a delay in the development of the bidding documents due to the poor performance of
the first team leader of the OPBM consultant. There was subsequently a need to procure a new
Team Leader of the consultant team with the needed level of international expertise and local
knowledge. The bidding process and award of the OPBM contracts were completed in October
2009, almost one year later than planned. As a result the OPBM contracts were not completed by
the end of the project and the third year of the OPBM contract is being financed by GoA until
June 30, 2012. The consultant team that supervised all three construction contracts on the Milot-
Rreshen road section and the team that supervised OPBM contracts contributed to the efficiency
of the supervision. They spent a substantial amount of time on the construction site and worked
closely with the contractors to immediately resolve any emerging issues. In addition, the OPBM



                                                10
supervision consultant provided trainings on OPBM approach and other subjects to both
contractors and GRD staff.
2.2.5 The GoA‟s commitment to quality road infrastructure. The GoA showed a clear vision
and commitment to sound road planning and asset preservation. The GoA‘s decision to revise and
optimize the design of the Milot-Rreshenroad section in view of its future plan to upgrade this
road to a four-lane highway led to cost increases in the contract of about US$5.5 million—
excluding other costs related to bridge design, provision of pedestrian footbridges, requests from
municipalities for improved access to communities, etc. The decision to provide for maintenance
of the Milot-Morine Corridor under OPBM contracts also led to additional costs of about
US$2.25 million. However, these increases were justified by GoA‘s proper planning and
management of the road assets targeted for improvement under the TP. GoA was committed to
reduce any further substantial costs associated with the future widening of these road sections.
2.2.6 Continuation of key Project personnel. Most of the team from the implementing agency
and the Bank remained the same from Project inception throughout implementation. This
contributed to close collaboration between the Bank and the client, immediate and effective
resolution of emerging issues, and a relatively successful and timely implementation of the TP.
2.2.7 Inadequate empowerment of Road Safety Secretariat. The Inter-Ministerial Committee
did not well meet regularly. It therefore did not empower this Secretariat by providing more
regular guidance and policy support. This could have led to the implementation of more of the
actions stipulated in the Action Plan and, quite importantly, maintain the multi-sector approach to
addressing road safety, a key pillar of the road safety strategy (see 5.2.2).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Design. The Results Framework of the PAD consisted of a list of outcome indicators and
intermediate results for monitoring progress and outcomes. The design included specific
indicators for each component and covered physical as well as institutional results. The indicators
were simple to collect, and closely monitored during implementation. Baselines were established
for each indicator except the one relating to the ‗percentage increase in population living within
20 minute isochrones of Milot‘, which was not established throughout project implementation.
Some components could have had different indicators that would have more appropriately
reflected expected outcomes. For example, ―decrease in fatality or accident rate either on the
Project roads or at the national level‖ would have more appropriately demonstrated the outcome
of the overall road safety component than ―preparation of road safety audit and action plan‖,
which is more an output-oriented/intermediate outcome indicator. It would also have been more
appropriate to have the indicator ―improved road condition‖ to measure: (i) the impact of the
technical assistance activities aimed at building the capacity of GRD in managing the road
network; and (ii) the impact of compliance with the covenant related to 10 percent annual
increase in road maintenance funding.
2.3.2 Beyond the standard results matrix, Annex 10 of the PAD included a matrix on the
application of the CAS governance filter4, namely its two pillars relevant to the sector - seeking
greater transparency in the use of public resources and supporting increased autonomy and de-
politicization of key public sector counterpart organizations. The matrix identified a number of




4
    This was a requirement for all Bank projects supported under the CAS.



                                                     11
relevant sector governance issues, project activities to address them, and governance indicators to
measure the contribution of key Project activities in addressing governance issues. Some of these
governance indicators were similar to the ones included in the Project‘s overall Results
Framework or were covenants and, thus, their monitoring did not present any additional burden
for the Borrower. These included, for example, OPBM contracts issued in two pilot regions,
annual increase in maintenance expenditures and others. This required continuous monitoring of
the GoA annual investment and maintenance budget, and procurement/contract management, etc.
However, the status of their achievement was reported only in the aide memoires and not in the
ISR. All governance indicators were met, except the ones related to procurement of traffic
classifiers and road safety equipment, which was cancelled (see para 1.6.4).
2.3.3 The GRD/PIT had responsibility for data collection relating to all of the indicators except
the one relating to maritime sector activities, for which the MA was responsible. The indicators
were to be reported yearly, with the exception of those relating to the road safety audit (end of
Project) and the physical outputs for the civil works—which were to be reported ‗up to Year 3‘ in
line with the expected duration of the respective contracts. There was a delay in the contractors
carrying out the OPBM contracts procuring equipment for measuring the roughness index—and
this in turn led to a delay in the measurement and reporting of the related indicator. The PIT
reported on the indicators in its quarterly reports.
2.3.4 Implementation and Utilization. The Results Framework of the PAD had four PDO
outcome indicators and seven intermediate outcome indicators. Monitoring of all indicators in the
ISRs was inconsistent—only two of the outcome indicators and two of the intermediate indicators
contained in the first six ISRs were monitored. The seventh ISR saw the inclusion of the PAD
outcome indicator relating to road safety—this was the final amendment to the list of indicators
monitored in the ISR. The ISR did not include the following outcome indicator: ‗satisfactory
piloting of OPBs in two regions‘. However, progress towards all PDO-level and intermediate
indicators was always reported in the aide memoires and the Borrower‘s periodic reporting. In
addition, the second covenant relating to the reform of the GRD was not stated in the ISR and
aide memoire.
2.3.5 The indicators have been found useful and tangible for the Borrower, in particular for the
MA, Road Safety Department, and GRD/ARA. GRD/ARA is working to ensure the use of project
indicators after the project closure and even to make them part of their upcoming performance
agreement with the Ministry of Finance, once the transformation to an autonomous Agency is
fully completed.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
2.4.1 Environmental Safeguards. This was an Environmental Category A Project, mainly
because of the inclusion of the construction of the Milot-Rreshen road section. The Project was in
full compliance with all environmental regulations, policies and procedures of the GoA and the
Bank. The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) developed subsequently together with the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was adequate. The Bank team followed up to ensure
that they were updated—because changes were made to the design of the road, as a result of the
optimization exercise on the alignment of the Milot-Rreshen road section. Movement of the
alignment of the Milot-Rreshen road into the flood plain of the River Mati triggered the revision
of the EIA in accordance with Bank procedures. To ensure application of the relevant mitigation
measures, the Project included two unusual Project covenants related to the implementation of
strengthening of flood protection works on the north and south sides of the River Mati by June
2007 and December 2007, respectively. Thanks to this flood protection work, these areas were
not adversely affected during the floods of 2010 and 2011.



                                                12
2.4.2 Compliance with the EMP was adequately checked by the supervision consultants and
the Environmental Unit in the GRD. Supervision consultants took adequate steps to ensure that
contractors obtained the necessary approvals regarding materials sourcing and compliance with
materials transport, traffic management (payments not made for this item if provision during the
month was deemed unacceptable), and other environmental issues.
2.4.3 A few issues required attention during the implementation of the environmental
safeguards: (i) disposal of both industrial and domestic waste; (ii) disposal of old and abandoned
motor vehicles; and (iii) building of structures (shacks, petrol stations, etc.) without permission.
These activities not only adversely impact the aesthetics of the road, but also cause road hazards
and violate GRD‘s eminent domain rights. GRD attributes this to the generally low level of
observance of planning laws and regulations. The Bank team helped GRD to address these issues
during Project implementation. However, GRD needs to enforce the relevant law and develop a
mechanism to deal with this issue in a more systematic way. GRD has committed to developing a
plan for protection of its right of way and acquisition of additional land in anticipation of future
road expansion projects.
2.4.4 A key success factor of the overall satisfactory implementation of the environmental
safeguards was the support of the Environmental Unit. The unit was established in early 2004,
following the recommendation of the environmental management capacity assessment of GRD
carried out under the previous Bank-supported RMP. The Bank team provided detailed guidance
to the Environmental Unit on the application of Bank environmental safeguards policies and
procedures and on how to strengthen the capacity within GRD in environmental management of
major road projects.

2.4.5 Social Safeguards. The Milot-Rreshen road section was the main Project activity that
triggered land acquisition. A Resettlement Action Plan was prepared by GRD/PIT and approved
by the Bank. The RAP was in compliance with the national laws and regulations of Albania and
the Bank Operating Policies on Involuntary Resettlement.
2.4.6 After the first set of land acquisitions was completed, the Government in 2010 enacted a
new Law on Property Valuation that made a change in the method of payment of compensation.
The change, which affected the second set of land acquisitions, was made to accommodate the
optimization—and also because of an unrelated landslip in Fang Village. This Law changed the
basis for calculation of the amount of compensation due for the land acquired by the Government.
It led to a reduction in the rate of compensation paid to Project-affected persons. After receiving
the guidance of the Regional Safeguards Advisor and Project Lawyer, the Bank team informed
GRD that it could apply the provisions of the new Law. This led to a related change in the RAP.
2.4.7 Actual payment of due compensation was sometimes delayed because the title holders
were outside the country or had died and successors did not have the title. The enactment of the
2010 Law on Property Valuation required compensation to be made through a specific bank.
Most of the population affected by the construction works was from the area where the flood
protection works were implemented and was rural—many of the affected persons did not have
bank accounts. Therefore, this provision significantly delayed payments of due compensations.
The new Law triggered some dissatisfaction from people who had gone through the first
expropriation and then through the second. However, the GoA organized a general awareness
campaign, not only for this project, to explain to citizens the new methodology of land evaluation,
the rights and obligations of their owners, etc. The PIT was proactive in helping the affected
persons in the following ways: (i) explaining an alternative method of compensation calculation;
(ii) directly assisting owners without land titles by having land registration offices confer upon
them preferential status; (iii) helping every owner to open an account in the nearest branch (in
Milot, Rrubik and Rreshen) of the designated bank; and (iv) opening an escrow account for those


                                                13
who had died or were abroad. As it was shared during the meetings with the Bank project team
and direct interaction with GRD, the affected people were, in the end, satisfied with the process
and the amount of compensation.
2.4.8 Twenty three households lost their residences and had to be relocated. All of them were
compensated and assisted to settle in the new places. In one of the cases, where the residence was
illegally occupied by a family, the Municipality of Milot provided at no cost a new apartment to
the family. An additional 12 households lost partially or completely their commercial structures.
338 households lost their agricultural and/or commercial land. All compensations were fully paid
to the Project-affected people by the end of the Project. Total amount of compensation, for
residential and commercial structures was ALL 174,165, 661 (about US$1.7 million equivalent).
Total amount of compensation for agricultural/commercial land and loss of agriculture
production/expected income of the particular year and, the subsequent other 2-3 years was ALL
185,854,139 (about US$1.8 million equivalent).
2.4.9 Financial Management. There were no major issues in financial management. The
Project financial management arrangements within the PIT and GRD were periodically reviewed
and assessed to ensure the continued adequacy of systems and controls in place for Project
implementation. This included the following systems and controls: (i) Project accounting and
reporting; (ii) staffing; (iii) internal control procedures planning and budgeting; (iv) flow of
funds; and (v) auditing arrangements. These were considered satisfactory and acceptable to the
Bank. The interim financial reports submitted and reviewed by the Bank during the
implementation were considered satisfactory, in a format acceptable to the Bank, and with minor
or no issues identified. Annual audit reports were received on time, with one exception, and the
auditor‘s opinion on each and every set of the project's annual financial statement was unqualified.
The OPEC disbursements were handled through the same Project Unit and FM system, and the
payments processed through direct applications of the unit to OPEC.
2.4.10 As of December 8, 2011, the revised amount of the total IBRD loan and IDA credit was
US$24.11 million against the original US$25.00 million. This is due to the cancellation of EUR
220,630.46 of the IBRD loan and SDR 368,625.00 of the IDA credit on October 31, 2011 and
November 2, 2011, respectively. The final total disbursement amounted to US$26.13 million due
to the depreciation of the US Dollar.
2.4.11 Procurement. Procurement arrangements were well-defined and satisfactorily applied.
However, two major issues were encountered during implementation. The first was that the bid
documents for the three contracts for the construction of the Milot-Rreshen road section did not
adequately stipulate the extent of sub-contracting allowed. The winning bidder took advantage of
this by virtually sub-contracting all the works and operating essentially as a project manager with
supervisory staff on site. Fortunately, the arrangement in the end worked well due to a
combination of the quality of the staff assigned by the contractor and the quality of the civil
works supervision consultants. The second issue involved the delay in preparation of tender
documents for the OPBM contracts due to the fact that the consultant initially engaged was
unable to produce documents satisfactory to the Bank and the GRD/PIT, and had to be replaced
(see para 2.2.4). This delay led to a situation in which the contracts were not fully fundable—
therefore, the Government agreed to fund the final year of the three contracts from its own
resources after the closure of the project.
2.4.12 The total sub-contracting situation under the supervision of experienced contractors and
project managers raises the possibility of using this approach to build capacity of medium scale
contractors without the experience of handling major contracts or internationally-funded major
civil works contracts.




                                                14
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
2.5.1 While GRD continues to be responsible for national and regional roads, the enabling
legislation for its transformation into the ARA has been enacted and the Board of the ARA has
been appointed. However, the ARA is not yet operational—the hiring\confirmation of its staff has
yet to take place. The country is experiencing a downturn in its economy which may constrain the
ability of the GoA to agree to conditions of service that would allow ARA to attract and retain
experienced and competent staff—at least in the short-term.
2.5.2 Road safety activities are now to be coordinated more at the technical level through the
Working Group established in the MPWT—but the scale of the problem still requires a high level
of political commitment and a scaling-up of the identification of accident black spots and their
treatment. The Inter-Ministerial Committee and its Secretariat will need to play a more active role
(see para 5.2.2).
2.5.3 Routine maintenance of all the investments along the Milot-Mirone road corridor is being
carried out through OPBM contracts until June 2012, or when the corridor is concessioned. The
downturn in the economy may constrain the ability of the GoA to fully fund the contracts and
complete the process of concessioning the corridor. The GoA is seeking Bank support to scale-up
the OPBM approach, develop the maintenance contracting strategy, establish Road/Bridge Asset
Management System, support road safety and other activities through a new Bank operation.
However, a formal request remained outstanding at the time of ICR preparation.
2.5.4 As a complement to this Project, the Bank has recently supported through a trust fund a
comprehensive study on the improvement of Road Construction and Maintenance in Albania. The
recommendations of this study are being followed up by relevant government institutions and are
expected to be followed up during preparation of the next Bank operation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
3.1.1 The PDO remains highly relevant to both Albania‘s National Strategy for Development
and Integration (NSDI) for 2007-2013 and the Bank and IFC‘s Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for Albania for FY11-FY14. It was well-defined to meet the relevant outcomes envisaged
in both documents. The following have been identified as the key priorities of the NSDI and CPS
for closing the infrastructure gap and accelerating the recovery in Albania‘s economic growth
through improved competitiveness: (i) improvement in the connectivity of the road network; (ii)
removal of the maintenance backlog; (iii) provision of sustainable management and financing
systems; (iv) continuation of institutional reform and capacity strengthening to improve sector
institutions, such as the nascent ARA; and (v) improvements in infrastructure and service delivery
in the port sub-sector. The annual ‗Doing Business surveys‘ continue to highlight poor road
infrastructure as a constraint on Albanian business development. The recent launching of the
‗Decade of Action on Road Safety‘ by the UN confirms the need to prioritize actions to improve
road safety.
3.1.2 The design of the project is also deemed highly relevant because the project activities
were consistent with the PDO and implementation arrangements were appropriately chosen to
facilitate effective implementation of each of the components. The project activities sought to



                                                15
address connectivity through construction of a strategically important 26-km road link, to remove
maintenance backlog through GoA‘s 10 percent annual increase in maintenance funding and
successful piloting of OPBM approach, to address road safety issues through establishment of the
Secretariat under the Inter-Ministerial Road Safety Council and implementation of a number of
road safety activities, and to strengthen capacities of the road and maritime sub-sectors through
promotion of ARA and MA institutional reforms. GRD was the key implementing agency for
most of the project activities, except for the institutional reforms where MPWTT was the key
implementing institution. The choice of lending instrument – a Sector Investment Loan - was
appropriate to support investment in the road sub-sector and implementation of technical
assistances to the road and maritime sub-sectors.
3.1.3 During the period of project implementation, the operation remained important to
achieving GoA‘s and Bank‘s objectives in the country as well as the global priority of
improvement of road safety. The two level-2 Restructurings that were made had little impact on
the objectives or design of the project (see para 1.3.1 and Sections 1.6 and 1.7). The cancellation
of procurement of road safety equipment during the May restructuring was minor in terms of
value and impact and was even outweighed by adding new road safety activities during the
October 2010 restructuring which strengthened the design of the road safety component and made
it even more relevant to the global priority of improvement in road safety situation.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 The achievement of the PDO is rated satisfactory. The rating takes into account
achievement of the key associated outcome targets set at appraisal:
(i)    Reduce user costs on the Milot-Rreshen section of the Durres-Milot-Morine Corridor
(achieved). This was achieved through the reduction in journey time for road users on this
corridor. Journey time was used as a proxy to measure the impact on road-user costs. The average
travel time of road-users was reduced from 43 min to 18-20 min, which represents a 53-58%
reduction in journey time against the original target of 25%5 . There has also been a marked
improvement in the quality of travel, which was not captured in the indicator, but would be
reflected in reduced accidents and a more reliable travel environment. These benefits are
additional to those reflected in the reported ex post EIRR below.
(ii) Improve access for the hinterland population (achieved). The construction of the Milot-
Rreshen road provided improved access to the Mirdite district, one of the poorest parts in the
country. This resulted in an increase in the population living within defined isochrones of the
Milot-Rreshen road section (percentage change in population within 20 minutes isochrones). Due
to the improved condition of the road and the accompanying reduction in the journey time, the 20
minutes isochrone now extends well beyond the 26 km section in all directions. As a result, there
has been a proportional increase in the population living within 20 min isochrones of the Milot-
Rreshen section 6 . Following the requests of local communities and municipalities, additional
access points to the Project road were provided to ensure the safety of the road-users.

(iii) Introduce innovation in road maintenance on a pilot basis (achieved). This was achieved
through the satisfactory piloting of four OPBM contracts in two regions. At the start of the



5
  General Roads Department. January 2011. ―Transport Project: Quarterly Report for Period of October to
December 2010.‖ January 2011. Ministry of Public Works and Transport.
6
  General Roads Department. January 2011. ―Transport Project: Quarterly Report for Period of October to
December 2010.‖ Ministry of Public Works and Transport.


                                                  16
Project, Albania had no experience with OPBMs. The Project contributed to building solid
experience in using this approach. This was accomplished through: (i) supporting the
development of the Bidding Documents; (ii) providing training for contractors; (iii) implementing
four OPBM contracts; and (iv) incorporating immediately the lessons learned from the pilot by
replacing a stricter penalty system with a demerit system in the OPBM contracts. The
performance of the contractors showed mixed results—the maintenance standards achieved
varied from 60 percent for Tirana region contracts to about 94 percent for Kukes region contracts.
All the same, the contractors have overall improved their performance and built their capacity in
the OPBM approach. The average improvement in IRI on OPBM roads after two years of the
OPBM contracts in execution is about 4.5 percent as compared to the original IRI. The
expectation was to achieve a 10 percent improvement after the completion of the contracts, i.e., at
the end of the three years of the contract period. The one-year delay in the award of OPBM
contracts has resulted in contract end date of June 30, 2012 which is after the project has closed
(see para 2.2.4). Thus, the target can be considered partially achieved at the time of the project
closing, given that OPBM was still being implemented. Achieving about half of the target
improvement can still be considered a satisfactory result, given that these were pilot contracts and
both contractors and employer were engaged in a learning process. The GRD/ARA would like
Bank support to scale-up this approach in other regions of the country with the support of the next
Bank operation.

(iv) Contribute to the development of the institutional framework (achieved). Using the Results
Framework Annex of the PAD, this objective was expected to be achieved primarily through the
establishment of the MA, and the procurement and use of traffic counters/classifiers. The former
was fully accomplished. However, the latter activity, together with its respective intermediate
outcome indicator, was dropped from the Project and its Results Framework during the October
2010 Restructuring (see para 1.6.4). It was envisaged that the procurement of traffic counters
would have helped with the operational establishment of the ARA. However, its relative
contribution to the development of the institutional framework would have been minimal
compared to the contribution made by the establishment of the MA for example, or the
contribution of other institutional accomplishments in the road sector (see Section 3.5 (b)). A
manifestation of these institutional accomplishments is the increase in the percentage of primary
roads in good and fair condition from 32 percent in 2002 to 97 percent in 2010. While this
remarkable improvement is in large part due to the increase in the capital budget, it can also be
attributed to a noteworthy achievement of the project: a 10 percent annual increase in
maintenance funding by GoA during project implementation (a project covenant). The objective
was therefore considered achieved, despite the fact that the procurement of traffic
counters/classifiers was dropped.

(vi) Contribute to the implementation of road safety activities throughout Albania (achieved).
This was achieved through: (i) the implementation of a road safety audit on 178 lane km of the
road; and (ii) the implementation of the Action Plan for the Tirana-Durres Road Corridor, one of
the busiest in the country. The absolute number of accidents has been reported as declining on
this corridor (from 97 in 2007-08 to 79 in 2009, and 73 in 2010)7, while the traffic volume has
been increasing. The reduction in absolute numbers is even more impressive given the increase in
the volume of traffic over this time period.




7
 An accident rate could not be reported because the ICR team did not have accurate data on average annual
daily traffic for this specific Tirana-Durres corridor for the period of 2007-2010.


                                                   17
3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1 Efficiency in achieving the PDO in terms of the EIRR is Satisfactory because the ex-post
EIRR was healthy at 24.6 percent and was higher than the one estimated at appraisal (19.6
percent).
3.3.2 The ex-post economic analysis has been undertaken employing a standard cost-benefit
approach. The analysis is utilizing the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-
4)—with actual information on the duration and timing of road works, current traffic data, and
actual road works costs. The appraisal analysis assumed a starting year of 2006 and construction
duration of two years—with 50 percent expenditures in years 2006 and 2007. Actual road works
started in 2007 for a duration of four years—with 23 percent of expenditures in 2008, and 45
percent of expenditures in 2009. The appraisal analysis assumed 7 percent annual traffic growth
for the period of 2003-2008 and a 6 percent growth rate in subsequent years. For the overall
Milot-Rreshen road section, the actual annual traffic growth rate for the period of 2008-2011 was
16 percent, which resulted in actual traffic in 2011 being 32 percent higher than the estimated
traffic at appraisal. The Model indicates that with the increase in traffic, periodic maintenance
will be needed one year earlier than in the case of the projected traffic flows. This small impact
on the future maintenance needs is due to the fact that the road carries mostly light vehicles, with
only around 15 percent of the traffic composed of trucks and buses. For the overall Milot-Rreshen
road section, the construction cost was 6 percent lower than the estimated cost at appraisal.
3.3.3 The ex-post economic analysis was carried out using the same discount rate and analysis
period used at appraisal (12 percent discount rate and 25 years of Project benefits). The reduction
in Project benefits caused by the 3-year delay in implementing the road works was outweighed by
the higher actual traffic on the road and the lower actual construction costs. Detailed analysis is
provided in Annex 3.
3.3.4 Other indicators of efficiency. These include: (i) closing of the project on time and on
budget; (ii) doubling the expenditure on road maintenance with 100 percent of maintenance
contracted out to the private sector which is expected to lead to increased efficiency; (ii) the
successful piloting of the OPBM contracts which is already evidenced by improvement in IRI on
the OPBM roads and is also expected to result in private sector driven efficiencies; and (iii) the
GRD staff and local private sector road contractors becoming more efficient and professional in
assessment of the quality of road maintenance works through participation in the measurement
and monitoring of the roughness index under the Project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory.
3.4.1 The overall outcome is rated satisfactory because of the high relevance and efficiency of
the Project, and the satisfactory achievement of the PDO. The Project remains highly relevant to
the GoA‘s and CPS‘s priorities. The PDO was fully achieved, with some of the outcome targets
being exceeded. The Project also demonstrated its economic efficiency with an EIRR of 24.6
percent at Project completion

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




                                                18
3.5.1 While there was no specific attempt to collect relevant data under the Project, it is
believed that the construction of the Milot-Rreshen road section and the road maintenance
activities have contributed to poverty reduction through creation of jobs and improved access to
social and economic opportunities for people living in the Project area. The Project also
facilitated the construction of flood protection structures on both sides of the Mati River—this
ensured that the communities living in the river plain were spared from any agricultural losses
during the recent floods in 2010 and 2011. There is evidence of increased roadside informal
trading activities along the improved road section—particularly at bus stops—and of increased
building of commercial structures such as restaurants and petrol stations—even if sometimes
without permission. An attempt to directly measure the poverty impact of Project activities
through a socio-economic impact survey could have helped in gaining an insight into the impacts
of the investments on the population within the Project areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.2 Five significant positive institutional impacts of the Project can be identified. The first is
the study to define a detailed roadmap for the reform of GRD. This study was completed during
the first year of the Project. It has remained a valuable point of reference for dialogue on the
implementation of the reform process and a good starting point for the subsequent support by the
EU for the implementation of the reform.
3.5.3 The second institutional impact was the building of a competent contract management
capacity within the GRD. This meant that the various Project activities were managed
successfully—particularly the physical investment—where close monitoring of the contracts was
instrumental to early detection of areas requiring action by GRD higher level management or the
Bank.
3.5.4 The third institutional impact was the change in mindset within the Albanian local road
contracting industry with regard to maintenance works. The experience under the Project clearly
demonstrated to the industry that there is an alternative to the traditional works measurement
approach—and indications are that there will be more active participation in future tenders of
such works.
3.5.5 The fourth institutional impact was in facilitating the successful creation of the Maritime
Administration and the preparation and enactment into law of its related by-laws and codes,
which are in line with EU standards.
3.5.6 The Project also contributed to strengthening institutional arrangements for the
management of road safety activities. While noting that the Inter-ministerial Committee could
have played a stronger role (see para 2.2.7), it nevertheless adopted the updated Road Safety
Action Plan and provided some guidance. The Road Safety Department (RSD) of MPWT is now
more empowered been now given the mandate to act as Secretariat of the Inter-ministerial
Committee.. The Traffic Police Department has developed and made fully operational the
accident and black-spots database. The annual budget for road safety has been increased—and it
is now a separate line item in the ministry budget. In addition, a database of health\emergency
centers has been established—and materials to be included in the curricula of elementary and
high education have been prepared. Enabling and implementing institutional action has led to
changes in legislation, which is not always possible within the lifetime of a project. An example
is the New Albania Road Code, which was approved by Parliament in early December 2011. The
TA under the Project supported preparation of the draft road safety chapters of this code by the
RSD of the MPWT.




                                                19
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.5.7 The optimization exercise to adjust the alignment of the construction of the 2-lane Milot-
Rreshen road section so that the construction was in line with the planned eventual upgrading to a
4-lane highway led to changes in the contract. The intention was to help reduce the cost of future
upgrading and to simplify its construction so as to improve access for local communities to the
improved road. These were positive impacts not envisaged at appraisal.
3.5.8 The total subcontracting by main contractors inadvertently helped build capacity of the
local construction industry (see paras 2.4.11-2.4.12).
3.5.9 An unintended negative impact was the newly emerging informal roadside trading
activities and construction of petrol stations without due permission along the road. This brought
home the need for action by GRD to protect its right of way by exercising its power of eminent
domain. It also flagged the need for good forward planning by the GRD/ARA in acquiring land
along its road corridors to accommodate future road expansion. This would also help reduce the
scale of land appropriation actually linked to a specific road contract.
3.5.10 The design of the Milot-Rreshen road section did not adequately provide for the
operation of public transport along its length; bus stops were not properly designed to adequately
accommodate buses and provide safe access for users. The needs of vulnerable road–users,
including pedestrians, were not adequately met; the road safety audit of the improved road
highlighted the need for additional pedestrian bridges and safer crossing points.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
3.6.1   This is a Core ICR, and a beneficiary survey is not required.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate.
4.1      The risk to development outcome is rated as moderate. The risk is not due to the project
design or implementation but rather to the severe economic and financial crises in the region that
are likely to affect future priorities and all planned investments and commitments as well as the
GRD/ARA institutional reforms. Had it not been for the economic situation, the risk to the
development outcome would have been rated low or negligible.
4.2      The adverse economic conditions do not provide the right environment to discuss and
come to agreement on the terms and conditions of the staff of the proposed ARA. If a decision is
reached, there is therefore a possibility that the final terms and conditions may not be adequate to
retain key staff of the PIT. Such an eventuality may adversely affect—at least for a certain period
of time—the capacity of the GRD to implement development projects.
4.3      The main physical investment under the Project Milot-Rreshen is planned to be part of
the concession of the entire Milot-Morine Road Corridor being prepared for award with IFC
technical support by mid 2012. This should help safeguard the serviceability of the section and
thus continuation of its development impact. This would also help to reduce encroachment of the
right of way as the concessionaire can be expected to closely monitor and prevent such events to
safeguard its operations. However, a serious downturn in the economy could in the short to
medium term affect traffic volumes and delay the planned corridor concession.
4.4     The Government has demonstrated its commitment to scale-up the use of the OPBM
approach by agreeing to fund—from its own resources—the existing contracts after the Project
closes. Moreover, the Government has complied with the covenant stipulating that an annual
increase in the budgetary allocation to road maintenance by 10 percent in real terms during the


                                                20
period of implementation of the Project. However, future maintenance allocations could be
reduced depending on the severity of the present economic downturn.
4.5      There also appears to be government commitment to building on the road safety
outcomes of the Project. This is evidenced by: (i) the Government‘s decision to fund, through the
GRD budget, the proposed accident black spots improvement measures; and (ii) the
Government‘s decision to create a working group on road safety with a secretariat located in the
MPWT and managed by the Directorate for Road Traffic, to address the hiatus created by the
infrequent convening of the IRSC. With this arrangement, working level coordination can be
facilitated which is expected to help with implementation of various aspects of the Road Safety
Action Plan. However, decrease in the political commitment, evidenced through the lack of
activity of the IRSC remains a risk to scaling up the road safety activities.
4.6      The Maritime Administration has been established, and it is now operational. The
continuing relevance of the MA should be ensured by: (i) the need for Albania to comply with
international obligations—such as those of the EU and International Maritime Organization
(IMO); and (ii) the importance of effective operation of the ports to the Albanian economy.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory.
5.1.1 The Project was well-designed, with a primary focus on physical investment, road
maintenance, and road safety. The institutional dimensions were well-focused on: (i) developing a
roadmap for the reform of GRD; (ii) establishing the MA and enacting related by-laws and codes;
and (iii) improving the road safety institutional framework. The long Project preparation period
(2003-2007)—albeit with a hiatus when preparation was suspended due to differences in
investment priorities between the Bank and the former administration—allowed for progress on
policy issues, feasibility studies and detailed designs for the Milot-Rreshen road section, and
preparation of the EIA. Good interaction between the Bank and other donors helped build trust,
which was crucial in reaching agreement on the establishment of a common Project management
team within GRD and in building consensus on the direction of needed policy reforms. In
particular, the results of the ANTP prepared by the GoA with EU TA support provided useful
background information for policy dialogue and investment priorities. In hindsight, the passing of
the Tirana component to the EBRD as a result of the hiatus in preparation was beneficial—
because it placed the focus on the construction and maintenance of major roads and related
activities, such as improving road safety.
5.1.2 Key project risks were correctly identified and reasonable mitigation measures were put
in place (see paras 2.1.5 and 2.1.6).
5.1.3 The design could have included a general activity in component 4 to allow for the
conduct of various studies in support of implementation of the reform—although the precise need
would have been difficult to predict at the time of appraisal. This would have given the Bank the
opportunity to support some of the quick win recommendations of the Study to define a road map
for reform—especially, supporting the establishment of the Reform Implementation Team (RIT).
However, the GoA at that time wanted to limit the amount of the loan/credit for technical
assistance/studies. It was envisaged that the latter would be supported by grant financing from
other donors—notably, the IPA grant money from the EU. Indicators could have been defined
more sharply (see para 2.1.2).



                                               21
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory.
5.1.4 During implementation, the Bank undertook supervision missions twice yearly, with the
team member based in the Country Office available to provide follow up support as needed. The
supervision teams were usually comprised of Bank staff, one of whom was a highway engineer,
supported as required by an international consultant highway engineer. Environmental and social
safeguards specialists were part of the missions, or they sometimes undertook missions outside of
the main mission of the Bank team. There was no record of a road safety expert being a member
of the Bank team throughout Project implementation—but the team leader (and later team
member) was the Europe and Central Asia regional road safety contact point, and had
considerable experience in designing and supervising road safety components. The Bank missions
closely monitored progress with the implementation of the contracts, particularly the major civil
works contracts. They engaged closely with the PIT, and thus, were timely informed of any
emerging problems. The Bank team had a good relationship with counterparts, who were very
appreciative of their technical expertise and their commitment to the Project and the sector—
follow up from the Country Office in-between missions was also highly regarded. The Team
enjoyed good relationships with other development partners—particularly the EU, which gave the
team good access to information generated from its TA support to Government in the sector. The
Bank team felt comfortable providing frank and detailed comments on the reports produced under
the TA.
5.1.5 The tracking of progress in achieving the PDO through the indicators was one area that
could have been better done. The ISR did not reflect a key Project covenant, and did not fully
reflect the Results Framework throughout Project implementation. The Bank team did not pick up
on the difference between the PDO text in the PAD and the FA. This resulted in the tracking of
indicators that did not need to be tracked—and in the exclusion of one indicator that should have
been tracked. It should be noted however, that this lapse did not have any impact on the
achievement of the PDOs.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
5.1.6 The satisfactory rating was based on the Bank‘s satisfactory performance in ensuring
quality at entry, and on its satisfactory performance during Project implementation.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.
5.2.1 The Borrower did not perform satisfactorily with regard to actions to advance the
institutional reform of the GRD. There were significant delays in meeting the relevant key
covenants. The law establishing the ARA was passed on October 15, 2009, and the Board was
appointed in September 2010 but the Chief Executive is still to be appointed, and the staff has yet
to be engaged—pending a final decision on their conditions of service. These delays put into
question the Borrower‘s commitment to the reform.
5.2.2 The notable achievements of the Borrower included: (i) designating road safety as a
separate line item in the GoA annual budgets; (ii) maintaining and utilizing the road accident
database; and (iii) increasing allocations for road maintenance. (See para 3.5.6 for further
borrower achievements). The latter was done through compliance with the covenant requiring it
to increase allocations to road maintenance by 10 percent annually in real terms over the period of
the Project. In addition, the Department of Road Safety in the MPWT has been very active (with



                                                22
the support of a road safety consultant -) in updating the Road Safety Strategy, approving its
action plan by the Inter-ministerial Road Safety Committee, and preparing the new Road Code
(approved in November 2011). However, the Borrower could still have provided more support to
the road safety activities. The Inter-ministerial Committee could have convened more frequently,
carried out a more intense public awareness campaign, and prepared curricula to be introduced by
the Ministry of Education without significant delays.
5.2.3 The Borrower prepared and submitted a comprehensive ICR for the Project in April 2011.
The document provided a very candid and thorough evaluation of the Project preparation and
implementation, including: (i) achievement of the PDO; (ii) accomplishments under each of the
Project components; (iii) issues and challenges faced during preparation and implementation; (iv)
lessons learned; and (v) assessment of the Bank‘s and Borrower‘s performances.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
5.2.4 The Project was well-implemented by GRD through its PIT. The Project was completed
on time despite significant delays in some individual activities, such as the late award of the civil
works contract for the Milot-Rreshen road section and the four pilot OPBM contracts in two
regions. The PIT was quick in following up on Project issues—particularly, on the changes to the
civil works for the Milot-Rreshen road section as a result of the Government‘s decision to award
the contract for an adjacent section of the Milot-Morine Road Corridor as a 4-lane highway. The
resulting optimization exercise was well-coordinated by the PIT. In a similar way, the PIT
responded well to the need to ensure good quality preparation and implementation of the OPBM
contracts. It was firm in applying contractual provisions, but it also displayed fairness by—for
example—recognizing the need to relax the penalties included in the contracts given that they
were pilot in nature and the contractors had no experience in OPBM. The PIT kept good records
on the Project‘s activities and is now a very competent contract management unit well able to
manage donor-funded projects.
5.2.5 An area not so well handled by the PIT related to the control of use of the right of way
after completion of the construction works on the Milot-Rreshen road section, when third parties
started informal trading activities along the road. These activities were hazardous and affected
road safety. GRD needs to strengthen its capacity to address this issue, and to streamline its
solution in further road projects.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory.
5.2.6 The overall moderately satisfactory rating (rather than satisfactory) is due to the
performance of the borrower with regard to the GRD institutional reforms and the inter-
ministerial Road Safety Council as explained above.

6. Lessons Learned
           Sound collaboration with other development partners and IFIs allows for synergies
            and consistency in the design of projects and particularly in promoting sectoral
            institutional reforms. Working closely with the EU on its TA not only ensured
            consistency and synergies, but enhanced the success of their respective initiatives.
           Institutional reforms are typically difficult and often need a longer time than
            envisioned within a Standard Investment Loan‘s duration. Moreover, the risk of
            failure for institutional reform components tends to be significantly higher than for
            physical components—but their development benefits tend to be significantly larger.


                                                 23
           Consequently, it is important: (i) for the Bank team to build alliances with other
           development partners and IFIs; (ii) for the Bank team to identify champions for the
           reforms within the Government; and (iii) for Bank management to recognize the
           inherent risks involved, and to decide how to reflect those risks in the Project design.
          A sub-contracting provision needs to be clearly defined in the contract. The
           ambiguity regarding the extent of sub-contracting allowed under the contract for the
           Milot-Rreshen road section allowed the winning contractor to sub-contract all the
           civil works, and eventually act as a contract manager. In such a major contract, this
           could have led to a disastrous situation if not for the experience and ability of the
           supervision consultants and the contractor‘s staff. The contract should also include a
           clearly-defined provision about the main contractor‘s responsibility to provide its
           own major equipment (e.g., crushing plant, concrete plant and asphalt plant) in order
           to avoid forcing sub-contractors to rely on local suppliers. This lesson was also
           highlighted in the Borrower‘s ICR.
          Arrangements for water monitoring during the works execution need to be clearly
           determined prior to bidding—and a relevant provision should be included in the civil
           works contract. With the start of construction works, it was not clear which party
           would cover the costs for water tests, because there were no such provisions in either
           the Works Contract or the Supervision Contract. Also, the GRD did not have money
           allocated for this purpose in the budget. The responsibility for water testing should be
           assigned to the contractor in the Environmental Management Plan—and a relevant
           item should be included in the Contract Documents, within the BOQ, for water
           sampling and testing, utilising a Provisional Sum.
          The expected levels of service and the penalty system should be defined in OPBM
           contracts with due consideration of the current condition of assets. It is important to
           have accurate asset inventory and condition data, because they provide the baseline
           for measurement of performance by the contractor. Monthly penalties should be
           defined in accordance with the level of service to be expected during the early life of
           the Project.
          Project design should include a reasonable unallocated amount, so as to be able to
           respond to unanticipated needs. Had the Project included such a provision, it would
           have been able to facilitate some of the upfront incremental actions recommended by
           the Study to develop a roadmap for reform of GRD. This could have helped maintain
           the momentum behind the reform while the much bigger EU TA was being put in
           place—and it could have given the Bank some leverage in discussing progress on the
           reform.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

7.1     The Borrower/Implementing Agency (IA) submitted to the Bank its ICR for the Project
in April 2011. It was subsequently revised in July 2011. The report exceeds 10 pages. Therefore,
a summary of the report has been enclosed in Annex 7, while the original document has been
saved in the Project files.
7.2     The Borrower also provided its comments on the Bank‘s draft ICR on December 14,
2011. The Borrower/IA mostly agreed with the findings, issues, conclusions and lessons learned
in the draft ICR for this project. The Bank corrected, updated and revised a few factual
inaccuracies pointed out by the IA in the draft document.




                                               24
7.3      With regards to the Borrower‘s ownership of sector institutional reforms as one of the
key factors affecting implementation, the Borrower/IA emphasized that it had been more
concerned ―about GRD accomplishing its objectives being the GoA primarily sector in budget
investments rather than the institutional reform of GRD. Any hindrance to GRD performance
affecting its capacities, budget allocations and staffing in the most critical period of Road
Infrastructure investment was seen to be risky and thus to be avoided.‖ This point was taken into
consideration and the respective paragraph was revised accordingly. On the encroachment of the
right of way by informal vendors and petrol stations, The Borrower/IA clarified that GRD is only
the owner of the right of way, but it is not within its competence to enforce this law. GRD can
only inform the relevant authorities about the intrusion of third parties in the right-of-way and has
never exerted its right to grant any permission to any part of Milot-Rreshen road.
7.4     The Borrower/IA requested the Bank to revise upwards the ratings of project efficiency,
Government performance and IA Performance. The ICR team reviewed the justification for the
Government performance and agreed that shortcomings were moderate, not significant, and
eventually upgraded the rating of Government Performance to Moderately Satisfactory. The ICR
team did not agree with justification for upgrading the other two ratings to highly satisfactory
because there was a reduction in project benefits due to the delay in works execution, no
quantitative results on regarding OPBM and the increased maintenance spending; and there were
minor shortcomings in the IA‘s performance,.

(b) Co-financiers
No comments on the Bank draft ICR were received from OPEC Fund.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                 25
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Costs by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                         PAD           Actual        % of
                             Component   Costs          Costs      Appraisal
                                       (US$M)         (US$M)
1. CONSTRUCTION OF MILOT-
RRESHEN ROAD:
1a. Lot 1 Milot – Skuraj                   12.30           14.48    118%
1b. Lot 2 Skuraj – Rubik                   10.70           10.32     96%
1c. Lot 3 Rubik – Rreshen                  13.20           13.64    103%
1d. Consultant Supervision                   1.20           1.84    153%
Sub-total                                  37.40           40.28    108%
2. PERFORMANCE-BASED
ROAD MAINTENANCE
CONTRACTS:
2a. Pilot OPBM contracts in two
                                           10.00            6.04     60%
regions
2b. Consultant Supervision                   1.50           1.54    103%
Sub-total                                  11.50            7.58     66%
3. ROAD SAFETY:
3a. Technical Assistance                     1.00           1.13    113%
3b. Road Safety Equipment                    0.20           0.14     70%
Sub-total                                    1.20           1.27    106%
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND GOODS:
4a. To establish the maritime
                                             1.00           1.34    134%
administration
4b. To undertake sector specific
fiduciary assessment (preparation of         0.10           0.36    365%
bid documents of OPBC)
4c. International TA to the PIT in
                                             0.25           0.24     98%
GRD
4d. PIT staff and office expenses            0.25           0.51    204%
4e. Vehicles for PIT                         0.06           0.00     0%
4f. Training                                 0.05           0.00     0%
4g. Road Condition Equipment                 0.01           0.06    649%
4h. Traffic Counters/Classifiers             0.30           0.00     0%
4i. To support institutional reform in
                                             0.06           0.06    107%
GRD.
Sub-total                                    2.08           2.52    121%
Physical Contingencies                       3.62           0         0%
Total Project Costs                        55.80           51.65     93%




                                          26
(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of Co-   Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                          financing      (USD        (USD        Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                            16.00       16.10         100.63
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                    20.00        20.22       100.10
and Development
 International Development
                                                    5.00         4.72        94.00
Association (IDA)
 OPEC FUND                                          15.00        12.42       82.80




                                               27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Transport Project is composed of four components: (i) the construction of the 26 km section
of the Milot-Morinë road corridor, between Milot and Rreshen; (ii) the introduction of OPBM
contracts in two pilot regions; (iii) the road safety component, which involves a mix of technical
assistance and equipment; and (iv) other necessary technical assistance and equipment. The
Project‘s outputs by component are detailed in the table below.

Item Component                        Output                                       Changes/Comments
Component 1: Construction of the Minot to Reshen Road
1.1  Contract 1- Fushe Milot to       9.0 kilometers of 2-lane                     Alignment ‗optimized‘
     Skuraj Junction                  highway constructed                          to facilitate future
                                                                                   upgrading to 4-lane
                                                                                   highway
1.2     Contract 2- Skuraj to Rubik            9.0 kilometers of 2-lane            Same as above
                                               highway constructed
1.3     Contract 3- Rubik to Rreshen           8.0 kilometers of 2-lane            Same as above
                                               highway constructed
1.4     Engagement of consultant for                               Contract extended to
                                               Supervision of the works
        supervision of the three civil         completed           include carrying out of
        works contracts                                            the optimization
                                                                   exercise and design
                                                                   review of the tendered
                                                                   drawings, as well as
                                                                   delays in
                                                                   implementation of Lot
                                                                   3 Contract.
Component 2: Introduction of Output and Performance-based Maintenance Contracts
2.1  Contract 1, Tirana Region,       Completed. Initial           Due to delay in
     Tirana district                  rehabilitation works8 and    contract award, agreed
      K.Zall Herr-Zall Herr (SH53)    specified routine            that Government will
     K.Kamez-Vore-Marikaj (e re)      maintenance works            continue to fund the
     (SH2)                            completed, leading to        contracts from own
     K.Durrës-K.Lushnje (SH4)         achievement of the following resources after Project
     K.Kamez-Vore-(Dytesore           roughness index values at    closing including
     Djathtas)                        Project completion for the   related supervision
     Mbikalimi Kashar -Rinas          road sections respectively:  until November 2011.
     K.Rinas-Rinas (SH60)             7.0; 5.0; 4.0; 6.8; 4.0; and The IRI improvement
                                      6.0.                         in all sections is



8
  For all contracts, initial rehabilitation works (total cost capped at 40%) could include all or any of the
following: (i) repair of erosions and landslides; (ii) construction or reconstruction of the drainage system,
including culverts and ditches; (iii) patching of the existing pavement; (iv) partial pavement rehabilitation,
including scrapping the actual pavement, crushing, spreading and compacting it to be used as a new base,
followed by laying down of a new pavement layer; (v) full pavement rehabilitation, including substitution
of the sub-base; and (vi) construction of guard rails and other related features.




                                                     28
2.2    Contract 2 - Tirana Region -    Initial rehabilitation works     between 4-5%
       Tirana/Kavaje Districts         and specified routine
       Kombinat-Romanat (SH56)         maintenance works that led
       Sauk-km 29(kufi Elbasan)        to achievement of the
       (SH3)                           following roughness index
       K.Tirane-Senatorium (SH86)      values at Project completion
       Vorë – Km10 (kufi Krujë)        for the road sections
       (SH52)                          respectively: 11.5; 11.0; 17.6
                                       and 5.6.
2.3    Contract 3 – Kukes Region –     Initial rehabilitation works
       Kukes/Has Districts             and specified routine
       Q/Shllak-Kalimash (SH5)         maintenance works that led
       Kukes-Airport (SH31)            to achievement of the
       Kalimash-Morine (A1)            following roughness index
       Krume-Qafe Prush (SH23)         values for each of the
                                       respective road sections: 8.8;
                                       6.5; 5.2 and 8.8.
2.4  Contract 4 – Kukes Region -       Initial rehabilitation works
     Tropoje District                  and specified routine
     B.Curri- Buajanit (SH12)          maintenance works that led
     Buajanit-Fierze (SH12)            to achievement of the
     Sopot-Kam (SH13)                  following roughness index
     Sopot-Qafe Morine (SH12)          values for each of the
     Qafe Meidan-Tropoje Vjeter        respective road sections: 9.8;
     Sopot-Buajanit (R1218)            9.8; 9.5; 6.0; 6.0; and 6.0.
2.5  Engagement of consultants for     Completed
     the supervision of the four
     OPBM contracts.
Component 3: Road Safety Component.
3.1  Implementation of National     Road safety campaigns,
     Action Plan                    including organization of
                                    workshop ―stop mass killing
                                    on roads‘ and one month TV
                                    campaign on use of seat
                                    belts; inventory of resources
                                    and capabilities among
                                    hospitals and ambulance
                                    services; analysis of curricula
                                    and road safety education in
                                    school books.
3.2  Changes to primary and         The review of laws and by-
     secondary legislation          laws are completed;
                                    consultant has produced, in
                                    cooperation with Ministry of
                                    Health an inventory of
                                    resources and capacities of
                                    Albania hospital and
                                    ambulance emergency
                                    services; consultant has
                                    provided to Ministry of



                                            29
                                        Education an in-depth
                                        analysis of the curricula and
                                        road safety education,
                                        providing ready-to-be-
                                        included materials in the
                                        school books
3.3    Road safety audit of Tirana-     Completed the remedial
       Durres pilot project             measures included in the
                                        Government Road Safety
                                        Plan and 2012 budget
                                        allocations
3.4    Road safety inspection of the    Completed the remedial
       completed Milot-Rreshen road     measures implemented
       section                          during the Defects Liability
                                        Period of the CW Contracts
                                        and supervised by the same
                                        consultant
3.5    Implementation of National       The Action Plan, as one of
       Road safety Strategy and its     the actions of the strategy, is
       Action Plan                      prepared and approved (May
                                        2011) by the Inter-Ministerial
                                        Committee of Road Safety,
                                        chaired by PM
3.6    Detailed remedial measures for   18 Black Spots have been          Implementation by
       improving accident black spots   analysed, improvement             GRD started with
       for 20% of the priority list     interventions have been           allocation of
                                        designed, and bidding             US$700,000 in 2011
                                        documents prepared. The           budget. 2012 budget
                                        improvement of all these          about US$ 100,000
                                        black-spots has started in
                                        2011 and will continue
                                        (budgeted for) in 2012

Component 4: Technical Assistance and Goods
4.1  Technical assistance to          Maritime Administration             Final report delivered
     establish the maritime           established and functional.         29 July 2010.
     administration, implement the    About 36 by-laws and codes          Beneficiary agency
     new port authority law and       prepared and enacted.               well satisfied with
     prepare new maritime by-laws     Extended to include drafting        consultant‘s
     in conformity with EU            of ‗Inland waterway                 performance and
     standards                        regulation‘ following tragic        would like assistance
                                      accident on Lake Ohrid in           with IMO codes. The
                                      Macedonia.                          Structure and Manual
                                                                          of Organization of the
                                                                          Albanian Maritime
                                                                          Administration,
                                                                          Amendments and
                                                                          recommendations to
                                                                          the current Albanian
                                                                          Maritime Code, the



                                             30
                                                                           new Maritime Code
                                                                           which has been
                                                                           approved, the set of 32
                                                                           Maritime Regulations
                                                                           in accordance to the
                                                                           new Maritime Code,
                                                                           HR development plan
                                                                           for Maritime
                                                                           Administration staff,
                                                                           Seafarers Program,
                                                                           Detailed Syllabus and
                                                                           Detailed Program of
                                                                           the IMO compulsory
                                                                           course, Budget and
                                                                           Business Plan Report,
                                                                           Recommendations for
                                                                           future IT
                                                                           developments and web
                                                                           page design for the
                                                                           Maritime General
                                                                           Directorate.
4.2   Undertaking a sector specific      Dropped                           Dropped in light of the
      fiduciary assessment to identify                                     challenging
      the necessary changes to                                             implementation of
      undertake a SWAp type                                                SWAp in the education
      approach in the sector in future                                     sector. The subsequent
                                                                           secondary and local
                                                                           roads project/program
                                                                           adopted a
                                                                           programmatic
                                                                           approach.
4.3   Technical assistance in best       Completed                         TA service extended
      practice in highway                                                  for additional 18
      engineering skills to the PIT in                                     months under EIB
      GRD for a defined term.                                              funding.
4.4   Training                           Training in contract
                                         management, Bank
                                         procurement procedures,
                                         financial management, and
                                         dispute resolution for
                                         GRD/PIT personnel. Road
                                         safety tour for GRD, Traffic
                                         Police and MPWT road
                                         safety departments.
4.5   Limited office expenses for a      Completed. Staff salaries of      Funding of staff
      transitional period                PIT staff and incremental         salaries extended to
                                         operating costs of PIT            end of Project
                                         initially from start of Project   following delay in
                                         until March 2010. Extended        establishment of ARA.
                                         until Project closing, due to



                                              31
                                        the delay of GRD/ARA
                                        reform. As of today, the PIT
                                        established under the Project,
                                        is continuing the
                                        implementation of foreign-
                                        funded projects, and the staff
                                        are full-time employees of
                                        GRD (will continue to be so
                                        under the new ARA
                                        structure)
4.6   Purchase of two vehicles for      None                             Obtained via EU
      the PIT                                                            resources.
4.7   Procurement of road roughness     ‗Roughometer‘ purchased via      Initially envisaged
      measuring equipment to            OPBM contracts.                  ‗bumpometer‘ agreed
      provide information for the                                        as not well suited to
      asset management system                                            gravel roads. To be
                                                                         handed to GRD on
                                                                         contract completion.
4.8   Purchase of equipment for         None                             Agreed not to procure
      counting/classifying motor                                         as GRD plans to
      vehicles on the network, to the                                    outsource the related
      same end.                                                          activities.
4.9   Support institutional reform in   Study ‗Institutional capacity    The study and its
      GRD                               building and transformation      action plan was
                                        of GRD into a Public             approved by CoM in
                                        Enterprise‖ which contained      April 2009, and a Draft
                                        road map for reform.             law was produced by
                                                                         MPWT drawing on the
                                                                         report passed into law
                                                                         early Oct 2009




                                             32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The economic analysis of the Project done at appraisal was undertaken employing a standard
cost-benefit approach, utilizing the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4)
that identifies the major cost and benefits, quantifies them in monetary terms, and discounts them
back over a defined analysis period at a given discount rate. The methodology used compares the
reduction in vehicle operating costs and time costs in a ‗do-something‘ scenario, when the
proposed capital road works are executed, against a ‗do-minimum‘ scenario, when minimum
maintenance works are done to the road. The ex-post economic analysis followed the same
methodology and used the same model.

The appraisal economic analysis has been conducted both on the primary Project component; the
section of 26 kilometers between Milot and Rreshen constructed under the Project, and on the
entire corridor between Milot and the border of Kosovo at Morine to be improved over time with
different sources of financing. The appraisal economic analysis of the Milot - Rreshen road
section resulted in an estimated economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 19.6% and for the
entire corridor 13.6%. The ex-post economic analysis has been conducted for the Milot - Rreshen
road section that was financed under the Project, accounting for approximately 75% of total
Project costs.

The ex-post economic analysis was done with actual information on the duration and timing of
road works, current traffic data and actual road works costs. The appraisal analysis assumed a
starting year of 2006, construction duration of two years, 50% expenditures in years 2006 and
2007, and an operating period of 25 years of Project benefits. The following table shows the
appraisal estimates and actual construction duration and stream of road works expenditures.
Actual road works started in 2007 for duration of four years with 23% of expenditures in 2008
and 45% of expenditures in 2009.

                  Table 1: Construction Duration and Annual Costs Stream

                                                          Appraisal     Actual
                 Construction Duration                     2 years      4 years
                 Expenditures in 2006 (%)                     50
                 Expenditures in 2007 (%)                     50           14
                 Expenditures in 2008 (%)                                  23
                 Expenditures in 2009 (%)                                  45
                 Expenditures in 2010/2011 (%)                             18

The appraisal examination of previous traffic flows on the road, together with growth in traffic
volumes elsewhere on national roads led to the assumption of 7% forecast traffic growth for the
period 2003-2008, with 6% growth rate in subsequent years. Traffic from the old alignment was
also assumed to divert almost entirely to the new alignment. The following table provides, for
each road segment and for the overall road section: (i) the appraisal estimated traffic in 2008
(assumed road opening year) and in 2011; and (ii) the actual traffic in 2011. For the overall Milot
- Rreshen road section, the actual traffic in 2011 is 32% higher than the estimated traffic at
appraisal.




                                                33
                       Table 2: Traffic on Milot - Rreshen Road Section


                                                       Traffic (AADT)
                                             Appraisal    Actual    2011 Actual
                                    Length 2008 2011       2011    per Appraisal
         Segment     Chainage        (km) (vpd) (vpd) (vpd)            Ratio
         1           0 - 3.6          3.6  5,517 6,571 6,000            0.91
         2           3.6 - 10.1       6.0  2,600 3,097 6,000            1.94
         3           10.1 - 27.0     16.3  2,600 3,097 4,000            1.29
         Overall                     25.9  3,005 3,580 4,741            1.32

The procurement of the construction of the Milot - Rreshen Road Section was done under three
contracts. The table below presents the appraisal construction cost estimates (base costs plus
consultant supervision plus physical contingencies) and the actual costs per contract. For the
overall Milot - Rreshen road section, the construction cost was 6% lower than the one estimated
at appraisal.

                Table 3: Construction Costs on Milot - Rreshen Road Section


                                                                                     Actual
                         Appraisal                            Actual                  per
                              Cost per                            Cost per
             Length Cost        Km                       Cost        Km            Appraisal
    Contract (km) (US$ M) (US$ M/km)                   (US$ M) (US$ M/km)           Ratio
    1          9.0  14.2        1.58                     14.7        1.64            1.04
    2          9.0  14.2        1.58                     10.5        1.17            0.74
    3          8.0  12.6        1.58                     13.5        1.69            1.07
    Overall   26.0  41.0        1.58                     38.7        1.49            0.94

The ex-post economic analysis was done adopting the same discount rate and analysis period
used at appraisal (12% discount rate and 25 years of Project benefits). The ex-post economic
analysis resulted in a Project EIRR of 24.6%. The reduction in Project benefits caused by the
delay in implementing the road works (3 year delay) was compensated with the higher actual
traffic on the road (33% increase in traffic) and the lower actual construction costs (6% reduction
in construction costs). The following table presents the ex-post economic evaluation results. An
ex-post EIRR of 24.6% indicates that the Project achieved its economic objectives with a strong
economic justification.

                     Table 4: EIRR Milot - Rreshen Road Section

                                   Appraisal                     Actual
                                    19.6%                        24.6%




                                                34
The Financial Analysis of the Road Sector

At appraisal, an evaluation of total transport capital and recurrent expenditures was done for the
period 2000 to 2005. The evaluations showed that in 2000-2005 the transport sector accounted for
a significant proportion of total investments in total public expenditures, with total transport
capital expenditures being on average 8% of the total consolidated Government spending and
2.4% of GDP. During 2000-2005, total transport capital outlays have been volatile with a trend as
a proportion of GDP going downwards. By contrast, the trend in total recurrent expenditures
displayed a modest increase over the same period, excepting 2005. A current evaluation shows
that since 2005 there was a substantial increase in transport capital spending up to 2009,
decreasing sharply in 2010. The transport capital spending reached 5.7% of GPD in 2009,
increasing from 2.5% in 2006, to decrease to 2.8% of GDP in 2010. By contrast, transport
recurrent expenditures increase gradually to 0.4% of GDP in 2010 from 0.2% of GPD in 2006.


                    Figure 1: Transport Capital and Recurrent Spending 2000-2010

                                                 70,000                                                                                            6.0


                                                 60,000
                                                                                                                                                   5.0




                                                                                                                                                         Transport Spending as a % of GDP
              Transport Spending (ALL Million)




                                                 50,000
                                                                                                                                                   4.0

                                                 40,000
                                                                                                                                                   3.0
                                                 30,000

                                                                                                                                                   2.0
                                                 20,000


                                                                                                                                                   1.0
                                                 10,000


                                                     0                                                                                             0.0
                                                          2000   2001    2002    2003    2004      2005    2006    2007    2008    2009    2010

                                                          Transport Capital Spending                    Transport Recurrent Spending
                                                          Transport Capital Spending as % of GDP        Transport Recurrent Spending as % of GDP




The road subsector still consumes the largest share of budgeted public expenditures. At appraisal,
it was determined that expenditures on roads averaged 2.1% of GDP or 88% of transport
expenditures over the period 2000-2005. A current evaluation shows that over the period 2006-
2010, the average expenditures on roads increased to 3.9% of GDP and are 98% of transport
expenditures.




                                                                                                   35
      Figure 2: Composition of Transport Spending (% of Total Transport Spending)

                            100.0%

                            90.0%

                            80.0%

                            70.0%

                            60.0%
              Percent (%)




                            50.0%

                            40.0%

                            30.0%

                            20.0%

                            10.0%

                             0.0%
                                           2006               2007                2008                 2009               2010

                                     National Roads & Local Roads     Railways      Civil Aviation      Maritime Transport



The percentage of road expenditures of the General Road Directorate GRD on national roads for
capital works (construction and periodic maintenance) has increased steadily since 2000, reaching
93% of total GRD expenditures in 2009 or 4.8% of GDP. The percentage of total expenditures for
internationally-financed projects has decreased over the years from 59% in 2000 to an average of
8% over the period 2005-2010.

                                        Figure 3: Breakdown of GRD Expenditures

             100.0%

               90.0%

               80.0%

               70.0%

               60.0%

               50.0%

               40.0%

               30.0%

               20.0%

               10.0%

                    0.0%
                                 2000     2001     2002      2003    2004        2005    2006        2007     2008     2009      2010

                                          Capital Works      Internationally Financed Projects       Recurrent Works



GRD recurrent expenditures (routine maintenance) averaged 1,177 ALL million per year from
2005 to 2010 and are around 0.1% of GDP over that period. The periodic maintenance


                                                                          36
expenditures (asphalt repair and partial resurfacing) average 2,942 ALL million per year during
that period. The following table presents the GRD expenditures on national roads from 2005 to
2010.


           Table 5: GRD Expenditures on National Roads by Type (ALL Million)


                                          2005     2006     2007     2008     2009      2010
   Capital Works
   Road Construction                     1,955 13,181 23,282 20,578 48,063 18,764
   Asphalt Repair                        1,487 2,854 2,269 2,792 4,979 3,216
   Partial Resurfacing                                           18     21     17
   Bridge Construction                     562 1,197     657    237     30     81
   Culvert Construction                                          25     84     74
   Design Studies                           97    242    472    246    549    323
   Supervision                              56     88    107    576    594    238
   Expropriation                           572    534      0    162    288     27
   Sub-Total                             4,729 18,095 26,785 25,661 54,897 23,219
   International-financed Project
   Local Contribution                      402       579     370       631      648    1,233
   VAT                                     485       473   1,188     1,083    1,514    1,777
   Sub-Total                               888     1,052   1,558     1,713    2,161    3,010
   Recurrent Works
   Operating Expenses                      292    370    857 1,039     133 1,010
   Social Insurance                         78     75     62     57     54     47
   Wages                                   276    301    313    298    302    300
   Sub-Total                               646    746 1,233 1,395 1,684 1,357
   Total                                 6,263 19,893 29,576 28,769 58,743 27,587


Road user charges in Albania include fuel taxes and vehicle ownership charges. Total revenues
from road user charges increased substantially since 2000, amounting to ALL 28.7 billion in 2010.
In 2001, fuel taxes revenues amounted to 70% of road user charges revenues and in 2010 the
percentage increased to 97%.




                                              37
                                                             Figure 4: Revenues from Road User Charges (ALL millions)

                                                             35,000



                                                             30,000


             Revenues from Road User Charges (ALL Million)   25,000



                                                             20,000



                                                             15,000



                                                             10,000



                                                              5,000



                                                                 0
                                                                      2000   2001   2002     2003    2004     2005    2006    2007     2008   2009    2010

                                                                                    Fuel Charges    Vehicle Taxes    Other Revenues



Revenues from road users during 2005-2010 were below total spending on national and local
roads, but exceeded total routine and periodic maintenance spending on national roads. The
following table presents the revenues from road user charges from 2005 to 2010.

          Table 6: Revenues From Road User Charges 2006-2010 (ALL Millions)


                                                                                                          2006          2007          2008       2009        2010
      Fuel Charges
      Diesel and Gasoline Charges                                                                      11,771 19,268 21,123 21,266 22,145
      Carbon Tax on Fuel                                                                                  330    547    577    516 1,813
      Durres-Kukes Road Tax                                                                             1,622 2,284 3,780 4,199 3,850
      Sub-Total                                                                                        13,723 22,099 25,480 25,981 27,808
      Vehicle Charges
      Vehicle Registration Tax                                                                               540          793          881           924     800
      Annual Vehicle Tax per Axle
      Road Circulation Tax                                                                                     3            3             3            3       3
      Sub-Total                                                                                              542          796         1,338          927     803
      Other Revenues
      Foreign Vehicle Circulation Tax                                                                        322          444          240           188       0
      Change of Vehicle Ownership Tax
      Import Tax on Used Vehicles                                                                           1      1      1      1      1
      Transport Licenses                                                                                   63     85    126    135     74
      Sub-Total                                                                                           386    530    367    323     75
      Total                                                                                            14,652 23,425 27,185 27,231 28,686


                                                                                                        38
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                      Responsibility/
Names                      Title                              Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Ceasar Queiroz             Lead Transport Specialist          ECSSD    TTL until 2005
                                                                      TTL from 2005- May
Richard Martin Humpreys    Senior Transport Economist         ECSSD
                                                                      2011
                                                                      Environmental
Bernard Baratz             Consultant Specialist              ECSSD
                                                                      Safeguards
Artan Guxho                Project Officer                    ECSSD   Project Officer
Jesus Renzoli              Procurement Specialist                     Procurement
Beda Hafizi                Team Assistant                     ECCAL   Team Assistant
Richard Podolske           Consultant Transport Specialist    ECSSD   Transport Specialist
Lorraine McCann Kosinski   Temporary                          ECSSD   Team Assistant
                           Consultant Environmental                   Environmental
R. Scott Hanna                                                ECSSD
                           Specialist                                 Safeguards
 Salim Benouniche          Senior Procurement Specialist      MNAPR   Procurement
Radhika Srinivasan         Senior Social Scientist            ECSSD   Social Safeguards
John Snell                 Consultant Highway Engineer        ECSSD   Highway Engineer
Elona Gjika                Financial Management Specialist    ECS03   Financial Management
Olivier Le Ber             Senior Transport Specialist        ECSSD   Transport Specialist
Belita Manka               Procurement Specialist             LEGOP   Procurement
Brad Julian                Port and Marine Specialist         C3PLA   Port and Marine
Ahmet Gokce                Senior procurement Specialist      ECSO2   Procurement
Sanjay Sinha               Operations Officer                 ECSSD   Operations Officer

Supervision/ICR
                                                                     TTL until May
Richard Martin Humpreys    Senior Transport Economist         ECSSD
                                                                     2011
                                                                     TTL, since May
Artan Guxho                Senior Infrastructure Specialist    ECSS5
                                                                     2011
                           Consultant Environmental
Bernard Baratz                                                EASCS Environment
                           Specialist
Salim Benouniche           Lead Procurement Specialist        MNAPR Procurement
Jacques Bure               Sr Highway Engineer                ECSS5 Highway Engineer
                                                                    Financial
Elona Gjika                Financial Management Specialist    ECSOQ
                                                                    Management
                                                                    Social
Naima A Hasci              Senior Social Scientist            ECSS4
                                                                    Development
Nikola Kerleta             Procurement Analyst                ECSO2 Procurement
Esma Kreso                 Environmental Spec.                ECSS3 Environment
Belita Manka               Counsel                            LEGOP Legal Counsel
Stephen Muzira             Transport. Engineer                LCSTR Engineer
                                                                    Social
Radhika Srinivasan         Senior Social Scientist            OPCFC
                                                                    Development


                                            39
 Natasa Vetma             Operations Officer                  ECSS3 Operations Officer
John Snell                Consultant Highway Engineer         ECSSD Highway Engineer
                                                                    Social
Helen Shahriari           Senior Social Specialist            ECSSD
                                                                    Development
Elda Hafizi               Program Assistant                   ECCAL Program Assistant
                          Senior Financial Management               Financial
Ida Njeri Muhoho                                              ECS03
                          Specialist                                Management
George Banjo              Sr. Transport Specialist            ECSS5 ICR TTL/co-author
Natalya Stankevich        Transport Specialist                ECSS5 ICR co-author
Coral Bird                Program Assistant                   ECSS5 Program Assistant


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY03                            10.53                        80.71
FY04                            25.89                        185.62
FY05                            32.41                        157.11
FY06                            19.29                        94.77
FY07                            26.89                        97.38
Total:                          115.01                       615.59
Supervision/ICR
FY08                            23.00                        120.33
FY09                            26.72                        89.09
FY10                            22.26                        96.75
FY11                            24.01                        89.30
FY12                            10.68                        37.59
Total:                          106.67                       433.06




                                           40
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                      41
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                   42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Borrower provided a detailed ICR, the main elements of which are summarized below.

Relevance of Project objectives and goals
No changes have been made or were proposed to the Original Project. At the End of the Project
Life it is the Borrower‘s opinion that the Project objectives and goals were all relevant. While a
small minority of the Project sub-components were not eventually achieved i.e. the procuring of
the road safety Goods: speed radar guns and breathalyzers, this does not mean that the Project
objectives or goals are diminished by this incompletion. Only the fourth part of the Project
Development Objective was affected i.e. that the Project contributes to the development of the
institutional framework and implementation of road safety activities throughout Albania. But
even within this part, following the reallocation of these funds for alternative use to finance
additional consultancy services for the Road Safety Project, the engagement and involvement of
the Road Safety Consultant‘s Specialists has contributed to the above Project requirement.
Summary on key changes to the scope of the Project

COMPONENT 1: CONSTRUCTION OF THE MILOT TO RRESHEN ROAD
Lot 1: Fushë Milot – Skuraj Junction Contract CW/2006/1

     ‗optimisation‘ of the existing design for the Milot-Rreshen road section, miscellaneous
      access connections as requested by local community.
     changes to the Road Marking Design to make it comply with the Albanian Road Code.
     running costs of the Engineer and Laboratory and offices until the end of the works
      following the delay of the works without extension of time.
Lot 2: Skuraj Junction – Rubik Contract CW/2006/2

       carrying out of some accommodation works for the Copper Works at Rubik
       undertake some additional slope excavation at Km 9 and 12 in order to provide for the
        widened carriageway later, without affecting the safety of the current road Project.
       change in the method of pile testing for Lot 2 to bring it in line with the method of
        pile testing adopted for Lots 1 and
       provision of some emergency services following a massive slip of the slope in
        Km 12+250 which caused the closure of the new carriageway to one lane. The
        additional services included i) services to monitor the emergency situation and
        intervene, ii) provide a mini by-pass to allow normal flow of traffic and iii)
        provision for removing the fallen material and place gabion walls.
Lot 3: Rubik – Rreshen Contract CW/2006/3
slope protection works to the cuttings which were carried out by the Albanian Army




                                               43
Supervision Consultant “Egis Route?

      To the contract of supervision consultant, at the end of 2007, to carry out an
       ―optimisation exercise‖ to ensure that the existing design layout, which is actually under
       construction, allows for the future Government aim of incorporating two extra right hand
       traffic lanes with minimal cost and disruption including feasibility study of the
       optimization.
      Modification of staffing proposals because of the lateness of award of the Works
       Contracts for Lots 2 and 3.
      undertake necessary design reviews and modifications for Lots 1, 2 and 3 in order to meet
       the requirements of the GRD,
      the design and preparation of the working drawings, plus cost estimate, for the
       replacement of bridge at Km 25+685 to replace existing bridge.
      extension of the Contract for the staff that it was considered to be necessary to supervise
       the Works until their completion, together with the associated costs.
      the consultant to investigate the potential for undertaking additional earthworks
       excavation at the locations Km 9, 12 and 17 within the Lot 2 Works Contract to permit
       the Contractor to carry out the excavation work for the second carriageway, whilst
       excavating the cut material for the current contract. The amendment also required the
       Consultant to investigate the possibility of removing the need for additional excavation at
       Km 17 by verifying that the second carriageway could be constructed on the river side of
       the carriageway currently under construction between Km 17 and 19.

COMPONENT 2: INTRODUCTION OF OUTPUT AND PERFORMANCE-BASED ROAD
MAINTENANCE CONTRACTS.
      Appointment of consultant instead of advisor to undertake the preparatory stage of this
       component in view of its extensiveness to carry out: (i) the identification of the areas; (ii)
       the geographical and technical scope of the contracts; (iii) the pre-bid conferences with
       potential contractors; (iv) the preparation of the bidding documents; and (v) assistance to
       the PIT throughout the process.
      Due to the delayed start of the contracts extension of the duration of the maintenance
       contracts and supervision services to three years
      Revision of bid documents for the maintenance contracts as a result of dissatisfaction
       with the quality of the documents produced previously
      Introduction of demerit points to reduce the severity of penalties under the maintenance
       contracts.
      Extension of OPBRM contracts to include the Milot-Kalimash Corridor for maintenance
       for an Interim Period and of Milot – Rreshen section (constructed under the Transport
       Project) and the Rreshen – Kalimash section.
Contract Tirana 1: Contract Works/ICB/2009/1

      Removal of 20 km of K.Durres-K.Lushnje from the maintenance under this OPBRM
       Contract reducing total network being Maintained by the Contractor is 51.2Km.



                                                44
Contract Tirana 2: Contract Works/ICB/2009/2

      Change of works on the Kombinant-Romanat road to Holding Maintenance from the
       beginning of September 2010 until the full rehabilitations is carried out by GRD and use
       of the un-used emergency quantities in the contract up to a maximum of one-third (1/3)
       of the total sum as specified in the contractor‘s price submission.

Contract Kukes 3: Contract Works/ICB/2009/3

      Inclusion under OPBRM Contracts of a 26 km section of Qaf Shllak-Kaimash road,
       where the Contractor was currently maintaining 9 Km
Contract Kukes 4: Contract Works/ICB/2009/4

Supervision Consultant “EgisBCEOM?

      Extension of the services of the Supervising Consultant of the OPBRM Contracts to
       provide additional services for this section. COMPONENT 3: ROAD SAFETY.
      Reallocation of the funds initially provisioned for the procurement of new speed radar,
       guns and breathalysers
      Procurement of IT equipment for DRST for developing black spot list.
      funding of ―the use of seat-belts‖ TV-spot campaign.
      extension to the road safety consultant‘s services to among other things help the
       implementation of the National Road Safety Strategy and its Action Plan and develop and
       compile detailed projects for the improvement of accident Black-spots and design of
       remedial measures for 18 Black-Spots from the priority list and conduct of seminar on the
       Black-spot process and planning.
      reallocation of the funds initially provisioned for the procurement of new speed radar
       guns and breathalysers.


COMPONENT 4: NECESSARY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND GOODS
Drafting legal framework and new regulation for the Inland Water Navigation.
      Dropping of undertaking a sector specific fiduciary assessment to identify the necessary
       changes to undertake a SWAp type approach in the sector in future. Not to be carried out
       under the Transport Project.
      Extension of technical assistance in best practice in highway engineering skills to the PIT
       with funding from EIB.
      Extension of payment of limited office expenses for a transitional period till end of the
       Project.
      Dropping of procurement of two vehicles for the PIT.
      Dropping of road roughness measuring equipment to provide information for the asset
       management system.




                                               45
       Dropping of procurement of equipment for counting/classifying motor vehicles on the
        network, to the same end
       Contracts for repairs and upgrades to the GRD‘s ‗Road Surface Profiler‘ and ‗Falling
        Weight Deflectometer‘.

Borrower performance and outcomes
The Borrower and the Beneficiaries have performed satisfactorily throughout the Project. The
Borrower has ensured that counterpart financing has been made available on time and that
payments to the Works Contractor‘s has been made in a timely manner. In addition, the
Beneficiary has complied with all the Borrower‘s guidelines and operational policies especially
regarding Environmental and Resettlement issues. The Beneficiaries of the various components
have cooperated fully during the implementation of the Project. The personnel from GRD and
PIT have assisted and liaised closely with the Works Contractors, to ensure that contracts have
been successfully completed, whenever required to do so. Personnel from the Ministry‘s Safety
Department and from the Police Department have worked closely with the Road Safety
Consultant and provided sound ideas and advice towards improving road safety in Albania.
Bank performance and outcome
The Borrower considers that the Bank performed very well throughout the period of the Project.
The MPWT, GRD in general and the PIT staff in particular are very appreciative of the help,
work and advice given to them by the Bank‘s staff during the implementation of the Project. The
contribution and work of Task Manager, Mr. Martin Humphreys and his assistant Mr. Artan
Guxho, together with their supervision missions, have contributed greatly to the final success and
achievements of the Project.
Lessons
Subcontracting of Civil Works
An area of Concern that should be addressed in future Contracts, is the Subletting of the works,
the Contract Data, should stipulate, the amount in percentage, the amount that should be sublet
and not left open like in the Contracts used for the Civil Works on Milot Rreshen section, where
it states ―Not all the Works should be Sublet‖.
The Main Contractor should also be made to follow their Technical Proposal, that is part of their
Contract and provide their own Crushing Plant, Concrete Plant and Asphalt Plant, and not relying
on local suppliers who have definitely affected the site progress. On future Contracts where all of
the works are sub-contracted, the main Contractor should be made contractually aware that they
need to provide the above mentioned equipments
Noise and Water Pollution Monitoring
Protection of Water Resources: According to the Environmental Monitoring Plan (EMP),
included in the Particular Specifications, the CRE and the MEFWA are responsible for
monitoring the potential for water pollution from improper material storage/management and
from runoff from the site. According to the EMP, water samples should be taken monthly and
analyzed by a competent laboratory. The CRE can arrange to collect water samples for analysis if
necessary. However the issue is that water pollution is not able to be monitored because
arrangements have not been made for analyzing the water samples and this was a problem. There
was no provision for funding for water analyses within either the Works Contract or the
Supervision Contract. The GRD also did not have any funds within its budget for water analyses.
This issue needs to be addressed in future Works contracts. If would probably be better to
attribute the responsibility to the Contractor for testing the water samples in the Environmental


                                                46
Monitoring Plan. Then an item could be included in the Contract Documents, within the BOQ, for
water sampling and analyses utilizing a Provisional Sum. However during late 2008, it was
agreed by the PIT and the CRE to take some water samples in Lot 3 where the bridges were still
under construction and works are adjacent or over the river where they can have an effect. The
CRE arranged that the funding for the water analyses shall be paid using Day works for payment.
The water analysis was subsequently carried out and the results from the tests, which confirmed
to be satisfactory, were sent to the Environmental Specialist of the Bank.
Noise monitoring: A similar problem to the one for water analysis also applied to noise
monitoring. Equipment for monitoring noise levels was not available on the site. Although the
CRE and MEFWA are responsible for monitoring noise levels, the responsibility to provide the
sound level detector lies with the NEAA according to the EMP. The Client (GRD) didn‘t possess
any monitoring equipment and it was not a requirement for the Supervisor or the Contractor to
provide the equipment. Again this issue needs to be addressed in future Works contracts. The
Environmental Monitoring Plan should attribute the responsibility to the Contractor for providing
sound measuring equipment and monitoring the noise levels. Then an item could be included in
the Contract Documents, within the BOQ, for provision of a noise meter and subsequent noise
monitoring utilizing a Provisional Sum.




                                               47
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


No comments are yet received from the OPEC Fund




                                          48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Project Appraisal Document, the World Bank, January 23, 2007

   2. Financing Agreement, Transport Project, March 21, 2007

   3. Loan Agreement, Transport Project, March 21, 2007

   4. Aide memoires

   5. Implementation Status Reports

   6. Quarterly Reports, PIT, GRD, Republic of Albania

   7. Transport Project, Borrowers Contribution to the ICR, April 2011

   8. Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for Albania (FY06-08), World Bank, May
      2008

   9. Country Partnership Strategy for Albania (FY11-14), June 2010
   10. Implementation Completion and Results Report for the Road Maintenance Project,
       December 2007

   11. Institutional Capacity Building and Transformation of the GRD into a Public Enterprise,
       Final Report, GRD, Government of Albania, December 2007




                                             49
MAP IBRD No.35035




                                INSERT

                                   MAP

                                  HERE



               AFTER APPROVAL BY COUNTRY DIRECTOR

        AN ORIGINAL MAP OBTAINED FROM GSD MAP DESIGN UNIT

                          SHOULD BE INSERTED

                       MANUALLY IN HARD COPY

           BEFORE SENDING A FINAL ICR TO THE PRINT SHOP.




                    NOTE: To obtain a map, please contact

                    the GSD Map Design Unit (Ext. 31482)

               A minimum of a one week turnaround is required




                                     50
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 35035R
 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                      KOSOVO
                        ON ENEGR
                      M ON T EN EGR O
                                                                                                                                                                                  ALBANIA

                                                                                                           Tropojë
                                                                                                                                          SECTION 3
                                                                                                                                      Kalimash – Morine
                                                           Lake
                                                          Scutari
                                                                                                                                   Kalimash                 Morine
                                                                             Shkodër                                                               Kukës
                                                                                                  Pukë
                                                                                                                                                OPBM Contracts 3 and 4
                                                OPBM Contracts Extended to Cover                                                                   in Kukës Region
                                             Milot – Morine Corridor Till Concessioned
                                                                                                         Blinish                           SECTION 2
                                                                                                                                       Rrëshen – Kalimash
                                                                       Shëngjin        Mirditë
                                                                              Lezhë                       Rrëshen
                                                                                   Milot
                                                                                                                                               Dibër
                                                                                   SECTION 1
                                                                                 Milot – Rrëshen
                                                                                                                   Mat                                                                  FYR
                                                                                                Krujë
                                                                                                                                                                                     MACEDONIA
                                                                    Durrës                                   TIRANA
                                                                                               OPBM Contracts 1 and 2
                                                                                                  in Tirana Region
                                                                                                                                                       Librazhd
                                                                                                                         Elbasan
                                                                                                                                                                             Lake
                                                                                                                                                                             Ohrid
                          Adriatic
                                                                                                                                                                                            Lake
                                                                                             Lushnjë                                                                                          Prespa
                                Sea                                                                                                                               Pogradec
                                                                                                                                   Gramsh


                                                                                      Fier                                  Berat

                                                                                                                                                                             Korçë

                                                                                                                                                Skrapar
                                                                              Vlorë
                     ALBANIA
  TRANSPORT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                     Kolonjë
                    GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA/                                                                               Tepelenë
ITALY               ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK
                                                                                                                                                            Përmet

                    WORLD BANK/OPEC FUND
                    MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                Gjirokastër
                    RAILROADS
                    PORTS

                    POVERTY, IN PERCENT:                                                                                  Sarandë                                                     GREECE
                    0.0 − 10.0
                    10.1 − 20.0
                    20.1 − 40.0
                    40.1 − 90.4

                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                    MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                    PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                       DECEMBER 2011
