                       Document of
                   The World Bank
                                            62877 v1
                                                             Report No:




              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                             ON A

       PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                   OF THE
        CUSTOMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                LOAN (LN. 4689)
                 April 22, 2003


                        TO THE

               RUSSIAN FEDERATION


                      June 13, 2011




 Regional Vice President:       Philippe H. Le Houérou
        Country Director:       Pedro Alba
Sector Manager / Director:      William L. Dorotinsky / Yvonne M.
                                Tsikata
       Task Team Leader:        Jens Kromann Kristensen
          RUSSIAN FEDERATION — CUSTOMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                P072960
                              LN-4689-RU

                                 Restructuring Paper

                        Extension of Closing Date

1.      The closing date for the Customs Development Project, Ln. 4689-RU, P072960
will be extended from June 30, 2011 until June 30, 2013.

2.      The project has achieved considerable progress in implementation. As of May 12,
2011 disbursement of the loan proceeds was USD 109 million (78%). Most of the
remaining 22% of the loan proceeds are committed but undisbursed. Only few
procurement packages have not been contracted. The project has been implemented
effectively since the first extension in 2009 in regard to procurement and contract
management. The last Implementation Status and Results Report rates implementation as
Satisfactory.

3.      The project objectives include: supporting the reform and modernization of the
Russian Customs administration with a view to promote internationally acceptable
practices for processing of international trade flows by Customs; increasing taxpayer
compliance with the Customs Code; supporting macro-economic stability and increasing
transparency; and supporting the timely transfer of collected revenues to the Federal
budget. These objectives continue to be achievable, and the project indicators show
continued progress over time. Project performance indicator data from the Federal
Customs Service as well as external indicators (BEEPS, World Economic Forum, and the
Logistics Performance Index), show significant progress towards meeting the project
objectives, specifically by increasing efficiency and reducing opportunities for rent
seeking behavior. It is expected that additional progress will be made during the
extension period.

4.      The largest share of the outstanding disbursement is planned to fund the design
and implementation of a Unified Automated Information System. This activity will
integrate customs sub-systems and will thereby provide additional return on already
completed investments under the project. These sub-systems are currently being adjusted
to accommodate new procedures under the customs union between Russia, Belarus and
Kazakhstan. These adjustments, which originated outside the project, necessitate an
adjustment in the implementation schedule beyond the current project closing date.

5.     An action plan has been developed that sets a completion date of June 2013 for
remaining parts of the project. The Project is in compliance with all dated legal
covenants. There are no overdue or qualified audit reports. Financial Management and
Procurement activities have been rated Satisfactory. Project ratings are Satisfactory with
only one exception. The exception is for a component rated moderately unsatisfactory
because it would not be possible to implement without a project extension.


                                            2
6.     This will be the second extension of the project. The first extension was granted
in   June    of    2009,     at   the    request    of    the     Russian    Authorities.




                                           3
