,  RETURN  TO    \                                          RESTR I CTED
REPORTS  F-ILE (IflcOPY                                          Report No. PA-39a
WITHIN                    *IL   UrX
ONE WEIW (
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
GUATEMALA
December 16, 1970
Projects Department



CURE1NCY ECIIVALENrS
US$ 1        -         Quetzal 1
WEIGHTS AND IMEASUES
1 kilogram (kg)                                       - 2.20 pounds
1,000 (kg)               =  1 metric ton (m ton)      - 2,200 pounds
1 meter (m)                                           = 1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                                      - 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)           =  10,000 m2                 = 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2) =  100 ha                      0.39 square mdle
1 liter (1)                                           = 0.26 gallon
1,000 millimeters (mm)                                * 39.37 inches
GIDSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AU                           Animal Unit
CACM                     =   Central American Coino  Market
1DB                          Inter-American Development Bank
GDP                      =   Gross Domestic Product
GNP                      =   Gross National Product
TSU                          Technical Services Unit
Q                            Quetzal



GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ....................................          i
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                  1
II. BACKGROUND.                                                    1
A. General.                                                 1
B. Agriculture.                                             2
C.   Animal Health .................. , .,                 4
D. Agricultural Services.                                   4
E.   Agricultural Credit Services .                         5
F. Government Policies.                                     6
III. THE PROJECT.                                                   8
A. Description.                                             8
B. Project Area.                                            8
C. Cost Estimates.                                         9
D. Proposed Financing .10
E.   Organization and Management .12
F. Lending Operations .14
G. Disbursements .15
H. Auditing .16
I.  Procurement ................. 16
IV.    MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS .17
A. Markets and Prices .17
B.   Producer Benefits and Revenue Generation              19
V.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS   .      .19
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS .20
All the mission members contributed to this report. Mr. F. Van Gigch
was primarily responsible for its preparation.






ANNEXES
1.   Banking System and Credit.
2.   Development of a 350 ha Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Table 1 - Investment Cost Projection
Table 2 - Herd Development Projections
Table 3 - Projection of Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 4 - Financial Projections
Table 5 - Financial Rate of Return on Incremental Investment
3.   Technical Services Budget
4.   Project Organization Chart
5.   Duties and Responsibilities of the Project Director
6.   Project Fund Income and Expenditure, and Cash Flow Statement
7.   Economic Rate of Return
8.   Disbursements
MMAP - Project Area






GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Livestock Development Project in Guatemala for which a Bank
Loan of US$4.0 million equivalent is proposed would be the first agricultural
operation of the Bank Group in that country. The Project would provide finan-
cial and technical assistance to about 300 beef breeding/fattening ranchers
on the Pacific Coastal Plains to raise Guatemala's current low levels of pro-
ductivity to modern standards. Despite great livestock potential, Guatemala's
beef supply has lagged behind demand, particularly since 1960 when an export
market for Central American beef developed in the United States. Since then,
Guatemala's beef exports jumped from nil to about 21 million lb. This has
resulted from an apparent decline in domestic per capita consumption from
about 9 kg to 6 kg and an increased import of weaner cattle for fattening.
Population and income growth are causing rapid increases in domestic demand
and unless all aspects of beef production improve and local production of
weaners promptly expands, either domestic consumption will decrease further
or beef exports will have to be curtailed. The objective of the Project is
to help Guatemala retain its share of the beef export market without further
sacrifice of domestic consumption.
ii.       Project funds would be channeled to ranchers through public and
private banks by a Livestock Development Fund (Fund) at the Bank of Guate-
mala. A rediscount mechanism would be used. On-ranch development sub-loans
would be extended to ranchers for a term of 12 years, including a 4-year
grace period, at not more than 10% per annum. These sub-loans would finance
pasture establishment and consolidation, fencing, watering points, farm
structures, machinery, and breeding cattle. Participating credit institu-
tions would complement development sub-loans with short-term loans, entirely
from their own resources, to finance the incremental working capital during
ranch development.
iii.      A Technical Services Unit would be established within the Ministry
of Agriculture, responsible directly to the Vice-Minister of Agriculture.
It would be headed by an experienced Project Director, internationally
recruited, who would be assisted by a local staff. Development plans pre-
pared by the technical staff and approved by the Project Director would be
the basis for loan approvals by the Project Credit Committee. A Project
Commission would coordinate Project activities.
iv.       The Project cost including incremental working capital, is esti-
mated at about US$7.8 million equivalent. The proposed Bank Loan of US$4.0
million would finance the foreign exchange component of about US$2.6 million
and US$1.4 million of local costs. A smaller loan, limited to the foreign
exchange requirements of the Project, would fail to secure the active parti-
cipation of Government and local credit institutions. This would not only



- ii -
prevent the Bank from making an immediate contribution to Guatemala's econo-
mic development through this high priority Project but, in addition, would
jeopardize the opportunity of influencing the institutional reforms that
would be necessary in later stages of Guatemala's Livestock Development
Program.   The contributions of the Bank, Government, participating credit
institutions and ranchers would be 52%, 20%, 8% and 20%, respectively.
v.        Goods required for the Project would be procured through existing
commercial channels. These channels are adequate, since there are several
sufficiently competitive retail outlets for supplying and servicing most
required goods, both local and imported. No discriminatory duties or
quotas affect imported goods required for the Project. Disbursement of the
loan would be for 75% of ranch development sub-loans approved by the Project
Director and 100% of approved foreign exchange expenditures by the Technical
Services Unit.
vi.       Expected benefits to participants and to the overall economy are
adequate. The economic rate of return of the Project and the financial
rate of return to ranchers on incremental investment are estimated at 20%
each. Ranchers' cash balances after debt service, at full development,
would be adequate to encourage their participation. After 10 years the
Project would generate annually about 18 million lb of additional beef,
equivalent to 24% of current national production.
vii.      The Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$4.0 million for a
term of 16 years, including a 5-year grace period. The Borrower would be
the Government which would carry the foreign exchange risk.



GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Guatemala has applied for a Bank Loan to provide
long-term funds for livestock development on the Pacific Coast. It would
be the first Bank Group operation in Guatemala for agricultural purposes.
The Project would provide financial and technical assistance to ranchers
in modernizing their livestock production techniques in order to realize
the under-developed livestock potential of that area. The origin of the
Project is the "Beef Cattle Program for the South Coast," prepared by the
staff of the Bank of Guatemala. This Program contemplates financing about
1,000 ranchers on the Pacific Coast at a total project cost of about US$28
million including about US$15 million in external assistance. This Project
is the first phase of that Program and would consist of financing the de-
velopment of 300 ranches. It was prepared by an FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program mission that visited Guatemala in March 1969.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission that
visited Guatemala in October-November 1969 and a follow-up mission in
January 1970. The first mission, composed of Messrs. J. Gerring, J. Gregor,
F. van Gigch (Bank) and J. Moffat (Consultant), was able to ascertain the
technical and economic feasibility of the Project, but could not make a
final judgement on Project lending channels. The follow-up mission, com-
posed of Messrs. F. van Gigch and J. Gregor completed the appraisal.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Guatemala, the northernmost Central American country (see map),
has a land area of about 109,000 km2 (42,000 sq mi). It is bound on the
North by British Honduras and Mexico and on the South by Honduras and El
Salvador. It has shores on both the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. Popu-
lation, growing at an annual rate of about 3.2%, was estimated at about
5 million in 1969. About 50% are Indians, many of whom do not speak
Spanish and are illiterate.
2.02      Real Gross National Product (GNP) has been rising during the 1960's
at an average rate of about 4.0% annually and in 1969 was equivalent to about
US$300 per capita. Agriculture and commerce contribute 28% each of Gross
Domestic Product (GDP) and industry 15%. The development of the Central
American Common Market (CACM) during the 1960's was a great stimulus to
Guatemala's economy, particularly to industry and commerce which became its
most dynamic sectors, growing at rates of about 7.5% and 6.2% per year,
respectively. The decade was also characterized by remarkable price stabil-
ity.



-2-
2.03      Export performance, which is essential to Guatemala, was good
during the past decade. The volume of coffee and cotton exports, which
together represent two-thirds of the value of all exports, expanded at an
annual rate of 2.8% and 20%, respectively, between 1960 and 1967. However,
the future of Guatemala's traditional exports is fraught with both market
and technological uncertainties. Despite current high coffee prices caused
by frosts in Brazil, future expansion of Guatemala's coffee exports is some-
what limited by the International Coffee Agreement. Increases in the cost
of cotton production, especially with respect to insect control, have slowed
down growth rates which were spectacular in the past. It is therefore im-
portant that non-traditional export avenues be fully exploited. An objec-
tive of the proposed Project would be to enable Guatemala to take further
advantage of its newly developed beef export market without sacrificing
domestic consumption. This market was wholly developed after 1960 and in
1969 absorbed over 21 million pounds.
B. Agriculture
General
2.04      Agriculture's annual rate of growth was 3.9% over the period
1950/68.  Export crops led by cotton grew fastest during this time, while
growth in livestock production was the slowest, (less than 2% per annum)
and was generated principally by the rapid development of poultry produc-
tion. The production of "basic crops" for domestic consumption (corn,
beans, wheat, sorghum, etc.) stagnated during the 1950's but grew vigorously
thereafter, mainly because of increases in commercial production on the
Pacific Coast. Despite encouraging growth in other sectors (para 2.02),
agriculture continues to be the largest sector in absolute terms. It
generates over 80% of exports and employs about 65% of the labor force.
2.05      Guatemala can be divided in three agricultural regions (see map):
the Central Highlands; the Coastal Region, a discontinuous region compris-
ing four states on the Pacific shores and the State of Izabal on the
Atlantic; and the rain forest region of the Peten. The Central Highlands
is the most populated region, containing more than 80% of all farm units
that have an average size of about 6 ha (15 ac). The Coastal Region, which
developed during the 1950's after the construction of the Pan-American High-
way, is less densely populated than the Highlands and contains the largest
proportion of commercial farms. The Peten is the least explored region of
Guatemala and would require much improved physical infrastructure to ful-
fill its economic potential.
2.06      The census of 1964 reported a total of about 417,000 farm units
occupying almost 3 million ha (7.5 million ac). Land in farms represents
about one-third of the country's total area. Although part of the remaining
two-thirds is known to be unsuitable for farming, a considerable amount is
still unexplored and is believed to include some areas that could be used



- 3 -
for agriculture. Farming in Guatemala is performed by both subsistence and
commercial farmers. Subsistence farming takes place on numerous small hold-
ings, located mostlv in the highlands and operated by Indian families. It
produces less than 20% of the value of agricultural output, the crops being
mainly those for domestic consumption such as corn, wheat and beans. Be-
cause land resources available to these farmers are generally insufficient
for their support and employment, they are a source of seasonal migratory
labor for commercial production of coffee and cotton. The subsistence sub-
sector employs a primitive technology that is difficult to modify because
of the problems of communicating with the numerous, dispersed and generally
illiterate producers. As a result, its direct contribution to economic
growth is small. Only 50,000 farmers out of more than 400,000 are commer-
cial operators, and onlv about 10,000 operate holdings larger than 45 ha
(110 ac). Export crops such as coffee, cotton and essential oils originate
almost totally from commercial farms, which also produce wheat, corn,
sorghum, fruits and vegetables, poultry, beef and dairy products for do-
mestic consumption and for the CACM. Although a part of the commercial
sub-sector, such as cotton farming, utilizes the most modern technology
and is very productive, productivity is generally low measured by modern
standards and is capable of vast improvement. Commercial farmers, however,
control about 80, of the land and generate the bulk of agricultural pro-
duction. They are at present the main source of agricultural growth.
The Livestock Sub-sector
2.07      Livestock accounts for about one-fifth of total agricultural pro-
duction. It has been, however, the slowest growing component of the agri-
cultural sector (para 2.04). In particular, beef production is virtually
at a standstill. The national herd, estimated at about 1.4 million head,
has increased by only 1.7% annually over the last decade. The total number
of cattle slaughtered increased from 185,500 in 1961 to 210,000 in 1967,
the extraction rate 1/ decreased from 14% to 12%, and the average carcass
weight of cattle went from 174 kg to 164 kg. Imports of feeder steers from
Honduras and Nicaragua, via El Salvador, increased from 20,500 to 37,000.
The boned-out meat production resulting from 37,000 imported feeder steers is
equal to about 50% of the quantity of beef exported by Guatemala during 1969.
Thus current levels of production are dependent upon imports of feeder cat-
tle from neighboring countries; such imports, however, may become progres-
sively more scarce as domestic demand expands in these countries and as they
continue to develop their own meat export processing industries.
2.08      Cattle development is centered on the Pacific Coast, which con-
tains more than half of the national herd. Land values are high but soils
are fertile, climate is favorable and there is great potential for pasture
development. Lack of infrastructure has limited attempts to expand cattle
production in other regions.
1/   Total number of national cattle slaughtered annually expressed as a
percentage of the national herd.



- 4 -
2.09      While levels of nutrition from pastures are generally adequate
at current stocking levels during the rainy season, weight losses and
mortality from nutritional stress often result in poorly managed herds
during the 2-to-4-month dry season (para 3.04). Average weaning rates 1/
are about 50%. Although silage is known and some hay is made, forage
conservation is not widely practiced, and fertilizers are seldom used on
pastures. Private cattle farmers have made considerable investments in
importing purebred livestock for upgrading native beef cattle. Normally,
management rather than inherent potential of existing stock is the major
factor limiting increased beef production in Guatemala.
C. Animal Health
2.10      The main animal health problem is inadequate nutrition for the
calves due to the "esquilmo" system of milking, whereby the calf is allowed
to suckle only about 25% of the cow's milk (the rest is milked for the
market), without receiving any suplementary feeding. This, together with
poor pasture management, lack of legumes in the pastures and little or no
forage conservation to cover dry months, results in high calf mortality,
slow growth, poor reproductive performance and susceptibility to disease.
Other major animal health hazards include internal and external parasites,
anthrax, blackleg, hemorrhagic septicaemia, and malignant oedema. However,
as a result of active promotional work by manufacturers and distributors of
veterinary products, most ranchers have learned to control these diseases
by using vaccines and parasiticides. The warble and horn flies which may
cause physical and economic losses, can be checked by dipping or spray-
ing. There is no foot and mouth disease in Guatemala and neighboring coun-
tries, thanks to effective Government quarantine services.
D. Agricultural Services
2.11      Livestock research is principally the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture, although the School of Veterinary Medicine of
San Carlos University also runs some field experiments with grasses.
Only a nominal amount of actual research is done, however, because of the
scarcity of financial and experienced human resources. The budgetary
allocation for 1969 allowed for only 18 technical and professional positionis
for livestock research in the Ministry of Agriculture. The few experiments
actually run consist of implantation of grasses and measurement of yields,
but do not include evaluation of performance under commercial conditions.
1/   Weaning rate is the number of calves alive at weaning expressed as an
annual percentage of the female breeding herd. Under modern management
methods this rate often reaches 85% to 90%.



A real lack of technology and inadequate information on how to adapt tech-
niques developed elsewhere, are serious limitations to improving livestock
production in Guatemala.
2.12      The Ministry of Agriculture's Extension Service and about 12 other
public agencies provide some sort of extension activity. The Livestock
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture's Agricultural Development Service,
for instance, provides artificial insemination services, sells low-cost
pedigree cattle and pasture seed to producers and organizes occasional
short courses for farmers. The scarce resources available to the Extension
Service are spread thinly through 39 agencies, which are generally staffed
with only one technician of high school vocational training level, and are
geared principally to help the small farmer, emphasizing crop rather than
livestock production. Thus, no extension is available to the commercial
livestock producer other than that provided by manufacturers and distri-
butors of veterinary products. A few large and dynamic livestock pro-
ducers have developed their own sources of technological information
and practice fairly modern and productive methods of animal husbandry.
The majority, however, has no access to such information and operates
very inefficiently. The lack of an adequate flow of information to
ranchers explains the virtual stagnation of cattle production in Guate-
mala despite exceptional natural conditions, good prices (para 4.01) and
increasing credit (para 2.15). It also emphasizes the importance of com-
plementing any livestock credit in Guatemala with agressive technical
services as provided under the Project (para 3.13).
2.13      Adequate agricultural intermediate training, including specializa-
tion in animal production, is supplied by the National School of Agriculture,
administered by the Ministry of Agriculture. College agricultural education
is provided in San Carlos University's Schools of Agronomy and of Veterinary
Medicine and Animal Husbandry, which were created in 1950 and 1957, respec-
tively. Up to the present, they have awarded about 100 degrees in agronomy
and veterinary medicine. The curriculum for Animal Husbandry was started
in 1968 and the first graduates are expected in 1971. The School of Vete-
rinary Medicine has a good reputation in Central America, but the annual
graduating class of about 8 to 10 veterinarians is insufficient to cover the
needs of the livestock industry. However, there would not be any problem
in securing the assistance of suitable local technicians for the Project,
providing they are offered sufficiently attractive working conditions (para
3.15). Furthermore, Government is negotiating with UNDP to send two local
technicians to Australia immediately to study tropical pasture management
in view of forming, at an early date, the nucleus of the Project's local
staff.
E. Agricultural Credit Services
2.14      Agricultural and, in particular, livestock credit is provided by
both public and private credit institutions. The banking system in Guate-
mala is well developed and generally well represented by branches and



agencies throughout the country and in the Project Area. Annex 1 pro-
vides details on the banking system and credit in Guatemala.
2.15      Aggregate credit to all sectors doubled between 1961 and 1968 to
reach Q 138.1 million. While credit for livestock operations increased
from Q 2.6 million in 1961 to Q 11.1 million in 1968, crop production credit
stabilized at around Q 40.0 million and has decreased as a share of total
lending (Annex 1). Practically all of the funds available to livestock
producers are short term and almost invariably are used for cattle purchases,
mostly weaners for fattening. If drawn from local resources, the cost of
credit is 8% annually, plus another 4% to 5% for stamp duty, registration
charges and legal fees, payable on annual renewal. This results in an
ultimate annual cost to the producer of 12% to 13%. Banks also borrow ex-
ternally, mostly from the United States. External lines from commercial
banks are short-term and currently cost slightly over 9%. Local bankers
may add a 2% spread over the external cost of borrowing.
2.16      Lines of credit granted by the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) in 1966, for a total of US$6.0 million equivalent, represent virtually
the only source of long-term loans available. These lines may be used for
agricultural, livestock and industrial development for terms of up to 18
years. The yearly rate of interest to the producer is 8% if the loan is
handled by state banks; however, loans handled in this way are limited to
amounts under Q 15,000 (except in cases of cooperatives). All other loans
from this source are channeled to the producer through the rest of the
banking system at 9-1/4%. For loans of Q 30,000 and above the borrower
also must pay consultant's fees for the preparation of a detailed investment
plan and financial projections. These lines of credit include both a foreign
exchange component that can be used only to finance imports, and a local
currency component. The latter is practically exhausted at present. The
current undisbursed balance is about US$2.1 million, most of which is eligible
only for imports and which is, therefore, better suited to finance activities
other than livestock production since comprehensive on-ranch development re-
quires a high proportion of locally produced goods and services.
2.17      Slowly maturing investments, requiring long-term financing, in-
cluding necessary grace periods, are the basis of lending for livestock
development. Despite progress (para 2.15), financial support to livestock
production has been inadequate to support vigorous growth. Furthermore,
Guatemalan producers have lacked technical support in the planning and im-
plementation of investment in livestock production.
F. Government Policies
2.18      Agricultural programs in Guatemala fall into two categories:
(a) traditional and (b) development. The first includes most of the
services normally provided to agriculture by the public sector such as



extension, research, and education. The second consists of a series of
agricultural diversification projects to encourage production of specific
crops. 1/ To date, Government has been virtually passive in regard to
livestock development (paras 2.11 to 2.13). Public action has been limited
to making credit, mostly short-term for fattening (para 2.15), available
through the Bank of Guatemala. However, the Government is becomimg more
interested in developing the livestock industry in order to retain its beef
export market without further sacrifice of the internal market (para 4.01).
Accordingly, Government is anxious to start the proposed Project, which
it regards as a first stage of a more ambitious beef development program.
In addition, it expressed intentions of encouraging dairy production in
the temperate western foothills and swine and sheep production in the
Central Plateau. Preliminary estimates of the Agricultural Development
Plan 1971/75, currently under preparation, show agricultural expenditures
of about US$143 million, requiring about US$81 million in foreign assist-
ance over the five-year period. About 13% would be for livestock development.
2.19      In compliance with its agreement to voluntarily restrain beef ex-
ports to the United States, the Government established during 1969 a beef
export quota of 21.4 million lb, which is allocated between the two Gua-
temalan beef export concerns (para 4.02). Beef export quotas are not new
in Guatemala. ro protect supply to the domestic market, the Government
imposed them regularly prior to the agreement with the United States.
Export quotas, however, were not set at levels sufficient to prevent ex-
ports from growing faster than domestic production, with the result that,
during the last 10 years, domestic prices have tended to go up (para 4.01).
To further protect the domestic consumer, government has attempted to en-
force beef price ceilings on all but superior cuts. Price controls, how-
ever, are mostly nominal since actual prices are above ceilings. Periodical-
ly, ceilings are adjusted to the level of existing prices. Government be-
lieves that these ceilings, even though not enforced, serve as a restraint
against unreasonable increases; it is satisfied with attaining this limited
objective. Furthermore, there is general agreement that it would be politic-
ally difficult to eliminate beef price controls altogether. Similar attempts
in the past, in the case of milk, created such public reactions that Govern-
ment had to withdraw its proposals. Although better market efficiency could
be attained with free prices, the actual policy has not kept the producer
from getting verv attractive prices (para 4.01).
2.20      The principal taxes affecting livestock producers are on
property, sales and income. Property taxes have recently been doubled,
as an emergencv measure, to 0.6% on the assessed value of the properties.
Moreover, the assessed value of properties is generally well below market
prices, although there is a reassessment whenever the property is sold.
There is a 1-1/2% sales tax on any transaction. All producers achieving
a gross income from agriculture of Q 15,000 or more are required to file
an income tax. During 1968 about 1,300 farmers filed income tax returns,
about 850 of whom had to pay taxes.
1/   On-going projects include bananas, plantain, avocado, citrus and
deciduous fruits, flowers and vegetables.



- 8 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      This Project is designed to increase beef production in Guatemala
through better utilization of the livestock resources of the Pacific Coast.
It is expected to be the first stage of a long term livestock development
program (para. 1.01). The Project would provide about 300 beef breeding/
fattening ranchers with credit and technical services to introduce more
productive pastures and superior herd management methods, including pro-
gressive elimination of the "esquilmo" system of production (para 2.10)
in order to raise calving percentages, reduce mortality and increase sub-
stantially the number of slaughter stock available for sale. Credit would
be channeled by the banking system (para 3.12) utilizing the rediscount
facilities of a Livestock Development Fund at the Bank of Guatemala (para
3.11), while the required technical services would be provided by a Techni-
cal Services Unit (para 3.13) established in the Ministry of Agriculture.
A Project Commission, at ministerial level, would coordinate Project activi-
ty (para 3.17). It is expected that 120 ranchers would join the Project
during the first year and 180 during the second. Investment in each parti-
cipating ranch would be phased over 3 years (Annex 2, Table 1) and total
disbursement is expected to take 4 years.
3.02      Under the Project, commercial ranches (350-ha modal size), would
receive long-term sub-loans, phased over 3 years, to finance fencing, pas-
ture establishment and consolidation, watering points, ranch structures,
selected farm machinery and breeding cattle (Annex 2, Table 1). In addi-
tion, short-term financing would be provided to participating ranchers
during the first years of ranch development to cover incremental operating
expenditures, and the purchase of fattening steers to utilize surplus feed
during the herd build-up. The proceeds of the proposed IBRD Loan would be
applied to finance long-term sub-loans and Project related technical ser-
vices while short-term financing would be completely supplied by partici-
pating banks from their own resources.
3.03      The Project would also provide for training local technicians
outside of Guatemala and conducting pasture management and utilization
field trials in the Project Area (Annex 3).
B. Project Area
3.04      The Project Area would be the Pacific Coastal Plains, which
stretch from Mexico to El Salvador over approximately 11,000 km2 (4,500
sq mi) 250km long by 30 to 50km wide (map). The Area is tropical, but
with variable rainfall. The southern tier receives between 1,700 mm and
2,500 mm rainfall and has a marked dry season that runs from November to



- 9 -
March. The rest of the Coastal Plains have annual rainfalls of 3,000 to
4,000 mm, with only 3 dry months (November to January). Soils are gen-
erally fertile and adequately drained, except those nearest the coast
where seasonal inundations often occur. Throughout the Project Area, the
original tropical forest has been largely cleared. The vegetation now
consists mostly of crops and pastures. The principal crops are cotton,
maize, citronella grass and sugarcane. The most common cultivated grasses
are pangola, guinea, jaragua, African star, para, and signal.
3.05      There are some 2,200 farms of 45 ha (110 ac) and larger in the
Project Area; 1,500 are livestock breeders. Normally, livestock breeders
run a dairy/breeding operation ("esquilmo"), selling off the young steers no
older than 18 months. Under the Project, breeders would be encouraged to
fatten their own steers and gradually phase out milking. A Government sur-
vey indicates that there would be no problem in securing 300 eligible ap-
plicants during the first two years of the Project. This was later con-
firmed by bankers and field visits.
3.06      The Project Area has good access to markets via a good road
network based on the Pan-American highway. Project technicians would
find adequate living conditions and easy access to any participating
ranch from the Project Area's towns of Escuintla, Retalhuleu and Chiqui-
mulilla.
C. Cost Estimates
3.07      The estimated Project cost, including incremental working capital,
is US$7.75 million. For the purpose of this Project, incremental working
capital is defined as the amount of money required by a typical participat-
ing rancher (Annex 2) to achieve an annual cash balance after debt service
no smaller than that before development. Thus it is computed as a residual
from the ranch development model's financial projections (Annex 2, Table 4).
It is estimated that, on the aggregate, participating ranchers would require
an average annual incremental working capital of about US$0.9 million equi-
valent over the 4-year disbursement period. The Project's estimated direct
foreign exchange component is about US$2.6 million. This is equal to about
33% of Project cost including working capital, although an additional US$0.6
million would be required during the disbursement phase to cover interest
and commitment fees on the IBRD Loan. Cost estimates are based on prevailing
local prices and include a contingency allowance of about 10%. The following
table summarizes the estimates of the Project costs by major investment cate-
gories:



- 10 -
US$'000 V/ Z/
% Foreign
Item                      Local    Foreign    Total         Exchange
On-Ranch Development Costs
Pasture Establishment             650        820     1,470
Pasture Consolidation             170        250       420
Fencing                           290        160        450
Watering Points                   110        130        240
Farm Structures                   350        213        563
Machinery                         280        560        840
Cattle                          1,800        -       1,800
Contingency -                     360        217        577
Sub-total                 4,010      2,350      6,360         37
Technical Services                310        180       490         37
Project Cost              4,320      2,530      6,850         37
Working Capital -                 900        -         900          -
Total Requirements        5,220      2,530      7,750         33
1/   Figures are rounded and do not include commitment fees and interest
on the IBRD Loan during the development period.
2/   The Quetzal, Guatemala's currency, is at par with the US dollar.
3/   The foreign exchange content of the contingency allowance is propor-
tional to the average foreign exchange content of overall on-ranch
investment.
4/   Average annual incremental working capital requirement of the Project
during the disbursement period.
D. Proposed Financing
3.08      The estimated Project cost and incremental working capital of US$7.75
million would be financed as follows:



- 11 -
Participating
Category           IBUJ        Banks       Ranchers    Government  Total
…_____________--…(Us$ 000)…
On-Ranch Investments   3,820          -           1,270          1,270    6,360
(Distribution)           (60%)        -            (20%)          (20%)   (100%)
Working Capital           -           600           300            -        900
(Distribution)            -           (67%)        (33%)           -      (100%)
Technical Services        180         -             -              310      490
(Distribution)           (37%)        -             -             (63%)   (100%)
Total                   4,000         600         1,570          1,580    7,750
(Distribution)           (52%)         (8%)        (20%)          (20%)   (100%)
3.09      A Bank Loan of US$4.0 million would finance 60% of on-ranch invest-
ments and 37% of technical services, or about 52% of Project costs including
incremental working capital. About 35% of the proposed Loan, or about US$1.4
million, would finance local currency expenditures. One alternative to Bank
financing of local currency expenditures would be to reduce the size of the
Loan. Yet the size proposed is already about one-quarter to one-third of
that originally envisaged by Government, because technical and administra-
tive limitations might cause delays in the implementation of a more ambitious
operation. However, any loan smaller than now proposed would fail to secure
the active participation of Government and local credit institutions. This
would not only prevent the Bank from making an immediate contribution to
Guatemala's economic development through this high priority Project (para
2.03) but, in addition, it would jeopardize the opportunity of influencing
the achievement of institutional reforms -- particularly in the fields of
marketing and price policies -- that would be necessary for the development
of later stages of the Livestock Development Program (para 4.04).
3.10      The Project must rely upon the availability of sufficient working
capital during the disbursement stage. It is expected that participating
ranchers would need to borrow, on the average, about two-thirds of the
incremental working capital required during the first 3 years of the develop-
ment of their ranches (para 3.07). State and private credit institutions
have indicated that they would provide the necessary short-term financing
to support this. During the 4-year disbursement period, these institutions
would be required to provide short-term financing for an annual average of
about US$0.6 million equivalent, with an estimated peak requirement of about
US$1.1 million equivalent, during Project year 2. Individual ranch require-
ments would spring from the ranch development plan prepared, in each case,
by the ranchers with the assistance of the Project's Technical Services
Unit (para 3.14).



- 12 -
E. Organization and Management
Lending Channels
3.11      The Borrower would be the Government which would bear the foreign
exchange risk. Prior to effectiveness of the Loan, the Government would
enter into a contract with the Bank of Guatemala (Central Bank) for the
purposes of carrying out the Project. Under the contract a Livestock
Development Fund (Fund) would be created in the Bank of Guatemala, adequate
for rediscounting eligible sub-loans extended by participating credit insti-
tutions, and to administer Project funds. Appropriate assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations.
3.12      Sub-loans to ranchers to finance on-ranch investment would be
channeled through the overall banking system of Guatemala. Under regula-
tions issued by the Monetary Board of Guatemala (Annex 1), the Bank of
Guatemala would extend discount privileges under the Project to any private
or public bank willing to participate in the Project, adhere to its lending
policies and provide sub-borrowers with short-term loans to finance working
capital during ranch development (para 3.10). Only ranch development plans
approved by or on the authority of the Project Director would be financed
(para 3.14). Participating credit institutions would be primarily responsi-
ble for assessing the creditworthiness of applicant sub-borrowers. This
aspect would be subject to the approval of a Project Credit Committee for
sub-loans to be eligible for discounting from the Fund. The Project Credit
Committee would be composed of the Vice-Minister of Agriculture, the Vice-
Minister of Finance and the Manager of the Bank of Guatemala. Appropriate
assurances were obtained during negotiations.
Technical Services
3.13      A Technical Service's  Unit (TSU) would be established within the
Ministry of Agriculture prior to the effectiveness of the Loan to provide
Project-related technical services. These services would consist principal-
ly of: (a) helping ranchers to prepare on-ranch development plans, (b)
recommending such plans to participating credit institutions for financing,
(c) supervising the implementation of on-ranch investment plans, and (d)
advising participating ranchers in matters of herd, pasture and, ranch
management in general. TSU would be under the direct line of authority
of the Vice-Minister of Agriculture (Annex 4). Assurances on these matters
were obtained during negotiations. TSU would be located physically in the
City of Escuintla; one agency would also be located in each of the cities
of Retalhuleu and Chiquimulilla. Appropriate assurances were obtained
during negotiations.
3.14      During the disbursement period TSU would be headed by an experienced
Project Director, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank and appointed on
terms and conditions acceptable to both. As development is dependent on the
introduction of improved livestock and pasture development and management
techniques for tropical conditions, it is essential that the Project Director



- 13 -
be fully qualified and experienced in this field. He would have primary
responsibility for selection of TSU technical staff, recommending their
promotion or dismissal, and training them to prepare investment plans and
suDervise their operation. No ranch development plan and finance require-
ments under the Project would be aporoved, or subsequently modified, except
on the authority of the Project Director. He would also be responsible for
recommending and supervising the pasture field trials financed under the
Project (para 3.03). The duties, responsibilities and authority of the
Project Director are set forth in more detail in Annex 5. The Government
would be encouraged to find such expertise among the ranks of local pro-
fessionals, but, because of the relatively short academic tradition in
animal husbandry, (para 2.11) and limited practical experience in this
advanced technology in Guatemala, it will be difficult to find such expe-
rience there. Should local recruitment prove not possible the Government
would recruit from outside Guatemala a Project Director with experience in
areas of other Bank/IDA countries ecologically similar to those of Guatemala.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that a Project Director, either
from within or from outside Guatemala, would be employed for the disbursement
period under terms and conditions, and with duties, responsibilities and
authority, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, and with qualifications
acceptable to both. His appointment would be a condition of effectiveness
of the Loan.
3.15      The Project Director would be assisted by a small staff of the
most qualified local technicians available. During negotiations, the Bank
obtained assurances that the Ministry of Agriculture would offer the nec-
essary terms and conditions of employment that would encourage such tech-
nicians to accept appointments. During the second and third years of the
Project, two members of the TSU technical staff, selected by the Project
Director, would be granted 6-month fellowships for training abroad; these
fellowships would be financed with the proceeds of the Loan (Annex 3).
3.16      The local costs of TSU would be financed wholly by Government
(para 3.08). During negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances that the
Government would make the necessary allocations to the Fund promptly as
needed for the TSU, along lines proposed annually by the Project Director
and that sufficient resources would be available prior to the effectiveness
of the Loan to permit the initiation of TSU's operations. An estimate
of the Project Technical Service cost is provided in Annex 3.
Project Commission
3.17      A Project Commission would be set up by Government as an advisory
body for the purpose of coordinating Project activities. It would also
provide the Project Director, who would be the Commission's Executive
Secretary, with a forum in which he could bring to the attention of the
highest authorities any administrative bottleneck that might arise. The
Commission would be composed of: (a) the Minister of Agriculture (Chair-
man); (b) the Minister of Finance; (c) the President of the Bank of Guate-
mala; (d) the Secretary General of the National Planning Council, (e)



- 14 -
the Chairman of the Banker's Association; (f) a local representative of
the beef cattle ranchers in the Project area; and (g) the Project Director.
3.18      The main functions of the Commission would be periodically to
assess the Project's progress, to receive advice from the Project Director
on any major Project policy issues, to ensure inter-governmental cooperation
and to give various participating authorities an opportunity to become fully
acquainted with the latest project developments. Regular meetings would be
held quarterly, but the Project Director, or any other member of the Com-
mission, could call for a meeting at any time, if necessary. During nego-
tiations, the Bank obtained assurances that, before the effectiveness of
the Loan, the Commission would be appointed as outlined in this section.
F. Lending Operations
Ranch Development Loans
3.19      Applications and sub-loans would be processed and serviced by the
participating credit institutions. Sub-loan applications would meet the
creditworthiness criteria of these institutions which would bear the full
credit risk. Security for sub-loans would include real estate mortgages
based on acceptable titles and, if needed, chattel mortgages on livestock
and equipment. Increased real estate value resulting from ranch improve-
ments would be reflected in the values established for collateral purposes.
Working Capital Loans
3.20      The participating credit institutions would undertake to provide
each applicant with incremental working capital as determined by the invest-
ment plan prepared by the Project TSU (para 3.14). Such loans would be
made under the normal short-term lending conditions of the participating
credit institution.
Terms and Conditions
3.21      The Bank of Guatemala would credit to the Fund reimbursements
from the IBRD Loan as well as the Government contributions, the former for
a term of 16 years, including 5 years of grace at the normal IBRD rate of
interest, and the latter for the same term and grace period but interest-
free. 11 Thus, the blend interest rate of IBRD and Government funds com-
bined would be approximately 5% per annum. The Fund would rediscount
1/   Government considers its contribution to be in the nature of equity.
At present it is in the process of organizing a new Agricultural
Development Bank (Annex 1, para 20). It hopes to transfer eventually
to this new institution the surplus funds of the Project (including
the Government's counterpart contribution).



- 15 -
eligible ranch development loans at 7% to participating banks. The result-
ing Fund margin of approximately 2% would be sufficient to cover the Fund's
normal operating expenses and the cost of the Project's Technical Services,
and leave a surplus of approximately Q 170,000 at the end of 16 years, pro-
vided that it would continue to invest the cash surpluses accruing after the
first 3 years under terms and conditions similar to those of the Project
(Annex 6). Prior to the effective date of the Loan, the Government would
credit to the Fund US$500,000 equivalent to enable it to initiate rediscount
operations and to cover the starting-up costs of the TSU. Cash surpluses
accruing to the Fund in excess of requirements to service IBRD's loan and
Governments contribution would be used for additional relending for live-
stock sub-loans during the life of the Project. This was assured during
negotiations.
3.22      Participating credit institutions would extend sub-loans to ranchers
to cover about 80% of total on-ranch investment, approved only on the autho-
rity of the Project Director (para 3.14). Development sub-loans would be
granted for a term of 12 years, including a 4-year grace period at not more
than 10% per annum. Participating credit institutions would be entitled to
discount 100% of eligible sub-loans with the Fund at 7% per annum. They
would retain a net spread of 2% to cover administrative costs, risks and
profit. To avoid excessive extraneous costs to the sub-borrower all other
charges including registration, valuation, legal, settlement fees and stamp
taxes would not exceed 1% per year on the outstanding amounts of the sub-
loans. It is considered that this arrangement would encourage the bankers
to support and promote the Project. Furthermore, the cost to the ranchers
would be consistent with the cost of borrowing in Guatemala and would,
therefore, be conducive to the efficient allocation of Project funds. Sub-
loans which exceed the equivalent of US$50,000 would carry an additional
charge of 2% per year to be paid into the Fund to cover the costs of tech-
nical services. Sub-loans in excess of US$100,000 equivalent would require
prior approval of IBRD. Agreement on the terms and conditions of lending
and rediscounting outlined in this section were obtained during negotiations.
G. Disbursements
3.23      From the proceeds of the Loan the IBRD would disburse the equiva-
lent of 75% of the payments made in Quetzales by participating credit in-
stitutions for ranch development sub-loans. The request for withdrawals
prepared by the Central Bank would be supported by documentation which
would include records showing disbursements by development categories,
certification by the lending institution that disbursements were made
for approved ranch development purposes and certified by the Project
Director. The documents would be submitted by the Central Bank to IBRD
to support withdrawals from the Loan Account. Disbursements from the Loan
to pay for the services of the Project Director would be made against 100%
of foreign exchange expenditures upon appropriate documentation submitted



- 16 -
by the Central Bank. The same procedure would apply to disbursements re-
lating to capital expenditure connected with the Technical Services Unit
as approved by the Project Director. Full disbursement of the Loan is
expected within 4 years, as shown in the table below:
Year
1         2         3          4         Total
(                 US$ 000                       )
On-Ranch Development Cost       700     1,500        1,050     570         3,820
Technical Services               50        50           50      30           180
Total                      750      1,550       1,100     600        4,000
H. Auditing
3.24      There are several auditing services that would be acceptable to
IBRD, such as the Office of the Superintendent of Banks and other external
auditors normally employed by the private banks. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Bank of Guatemala and each participating bank
would maintain separate accounts for the Project activities, that these
accounts would be audited annually by a firm acceptable to IBRD, and that
the audit report would be submitted to IBRD not later than 4 months after
the close of the respective institution's financial year.
I. Procurement
3.25      International competitive bidding would be inappropriate for this
livestock credit Project. The individual contracts are small and numerous,
and the size and mix of farm investments vary greatly. Goods required for
ranch development such as pasture seed, fertilizer, fencing materials,
machinery, and equipment, would be procured through existing commercial
channels. These channels are adequate, since there are several, sufficient-
ly competitive retail outlets for most required goods, both local and im-
ported. No discriminatory duties or quotas affect imported goods necessary
for the Project. Adequate facilities exist for the servicing and main-
tenance of agricultural machinery.



- 17 -
IV. MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Markets and Prices
4.01      With the development of the United States as an import market
for Central American beef, production in Guatemala has not kept pace with
demand. Thus, while beef exports increased from nil in 1958 to about
10,000 m ton in 1969, domestic per capita consumption decreased from
about 9 kg to 6 kg. The disparity between the growth in supply and de-
mand resulted in a steady increase in beef prices to producers. Accord-
ingly, the liveweight price of a good steer increased from about 0.09 US$/
lb in 1960 to 0.16 US$/lb in October 1969, and was holding firm through
January 1970. Current prices compare favorably with prices prevailing in
major exporting countries. 1/
4.02      Virtually all of Guatemala's beef exports go to the United
States and consist of boned-out meat for grinding purpose. At present,
United States beef imports are subjected to a system of voluntary restraint
whereby each supplying country agrees not to exceed a quota determined
annually by the United States Government. This system operates in lieu of
U.S. Public Law 88-482, which enables the Executive to proclaim import
quotas whenever exporting countries threaten to exceed a variable maximum,
called the "trigger point." The trigger point is determined annually in a
manner that will ensure that both traditional beef exporters to the United
States and domestic producers will share proportionally in the growth of
the United States beef market. Thus, the overall, beef import quota of
the United States grows in some proportion to the increase in domestic
meat production.  Domestic production of meat in the United States has
increased at about 2.8% annually since 1965.  Since there is no indication
that this trend will change, it is reasonable to expect that Guatemala's
share of the U.S. beef import market -- which is only about 2% of the
total -- will grow at least 2% a year for the foreseeable future.  The
system of voluntary restraints has generally operated satisfactorily.
The Government of Guatemala, in particular, enforces its export quota by,
in turn, assigning a quota to each of its two beef exporting concerns 2/.
The quota assigned to Guatemala for 1970 is 22.3 million lb compared with
21.4 million lb for 1969, representing an increase of 4.2%.
1/   The following is a sample of prices, in US$/lb liveweight, commonly
paid to producers for an average quality steer: Paraguay, 0.07;
Uruguay, 0.09; Argentina, Australia, and New Zealand, 0.12 to 0.14.
2/   "'Exguapagra, S.A." and "El Ganadero, S.A.," two privately owned meat
processing plants, are the on ly concerns in Guatemala that meet US
Department of Agriculture meat inspection standards enabling them to
export beef to the United States.



- 18 -
4.03      The domestic market is still the principal outlet for Guatemala's
beef. It absorbs 75% of total beef output, which, on the average, was
about 72 million lb per year from 1964 to 1968. This market has substantial
growth potential that can be thwarted only by lags in supply, which would
result in further price increases. Population is growing at about 3.2%
per annum (para 2.01) and per capita income is expected to grow at about
2% annually to 1975. Hence, the domestic market could easily absorb addi-
tional beef at a rate of 4.5% 1/ per annum in the foreseeable future. Con-
sidering, in addition, an expected annual growth in export demand of at
least 2% (para 4.02), total demand for Guatemalan beef can be expected to
increase by about 3.8% per year. Thus, by 1975, Guatemalan producers could
have a firm market for about 22 million lb of additional beef, carcass
weight 2/.   The additional beef sales generated by the Project, which at
full development (about 1980) are expected to be 18 million lb per year,
can be absorbed comfortably by the expected market expansion. Furthermore,
rapid worldwide growth in the demand for beef may soon result in addition-
al outlets for Guatemala beef, particularly in neighboring Caribbean islands
where tourism expansion is increasing beef demand.  Considering the beha-
viour of beef production in Guatemala during recent years and the fact that
imports of feeder cattle may decrease in the future (para 2.07), no substan-
tial increases in beef production are expected from outside the Project Area.
4.04      Beef marketing facilities, procedures and government services
are primitive in Guatemala, except in processing and transporting beef for
exports that meet United States Government standards. There are no cattle
auctions or local cattle markets and market information is very limited.
Cattle sales are often made on estimated rather than actual liveweight
per head basis. There is no grading of cattle or meat; cattle are slaught-
ered inefficiently under poor conditions of hygiene and with loss of by-
products. Meat is generally transported unrefrigerated and most retail
outlets lack elementary modern facilities. Imperfect as they are, however,
actual facilities and procedures would be adequate to take care of the
additional output generated by the proposed Project. Although a more
efficient marketing system would be beneficial to both producers and con-
sumers, there would be more to lose than to gain in delaying the Project
until market improvements are brought about. It is questionable though
whether further extensions of the Project could be justified until better
livestock and beef marketing was assured. Therefore, during negotiations,
the Bank obtained assurances that the Government would complete a sur-
vey of beef marketing facilities, procedures and policies before the end
of the second year of the Project to identify required policy changes and
1/   This is equal to 3.2% population growth, plus the additional beef con-
sumption generated by income growth. In this case, it is assumed that
a 1% increase in income will cause a 0.75% increase in beef consumption.
2/   Beef production for 1969 was expected to be about 79 million lb, car-
cass weight, about the same level as that in 1968. The 1964-68 average
was about 72 million lb annually.



- 19 -
areas of marketing infrastructure development. To that purpose, the Govern-
ment would seek financing from sources such as the UN Special Fund or bila-
teral aid programs. The selection of personnel and the preparation of terms
of reference would be done in consultation with the Bank. The survey would
be followed by feasibility studies that could be part of the preparation
of a possible follow-up project.
B. Producer Benefits and Revenue Generation
4.05      Participating ranchers are expected to achieve sufficient incre-
ments in disposable income as a result of investing under the Project to
encourage their participation. It is estimated that, at full development,
after about 10 years, annual net cash balances after debt service and in-
come taxes would be about US$11,500, equivalent to more than twice those be-
fore development. The estimated financial rate of return on new investment
of about 20% (Annex 2, Table 5) is satisfactory for a project of this nature.
4.06      Participating ranchers are expected to save and invest part of
the income generated by the Project. However, individual patterns of con-
sumption are variable and difficult to ascertain, making it impossible to
arrive at a meaningful estimate of total savings to be expected. Ranchers'
total incomes are composed of cattle sales, net of operating expenses,
plus cattle retained to build up the herd. To the extent that ranchers
have the option of selling rather than retaining cattle, retentions are
postponed consumption and, therefore, genuine savings. This measureable
source of savings can be taken as the lower limit of personal savings
generated by the Project. It is estimated that savings in the form of
cattle retention during the life of the Project would be about 55% of
ranchers' total incremental ranch incomes, although during the first 5
years of the Project, virtually all incremental income would take the form
of herd build-up. It is likely that participating ranchers would also
continue to save part of their cash income. In addition, part of the
income generated by the Project would be collected by Government through
income taxes. The average participating rancher is expected to achieve
gross sales in excess of Q 15,000 after the second year of the Project and,
consequently, would be expected to file income tax returns (para 2.20). At
full development, a participating rancher on a typical 350-ha holding (Annex
2) would be expected to pay annually about Q 600 in income tax, equivalent
to about 5% of his annual cash balance after debt service.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
5.01      The Project would assist Guatemala in realizing part of its
considerable, but under-developed, livestock potential. It is expected
that, after 10 years, beef production under the Project would amount to



- 20 -
the equivalent of 26 million lb per year 1/, of which about 6 million lb
would represent additional beef exports. It would represent more than a
tripling of the production of participating ranchers and an increase of
about 24% over the current national production. The most significant be-
nefits, however, are non-quantifiable. Under this Project, new, superior
livestock production techniques would be introduced; local expertise through
in-service training and training abroad would be developed; participating
credit institutions would become familiar with livestock development fi-
nancing; and improvements in beef marketing facilities and procedures
would be encouraged (para 4.04). Such changes would lead the way to im-
plementation of an ambitious long-term Livestock Development Program that
would significantly contribute to the diversification of Guatemala's agri-
cultural economy, now dependent upon only a few crops (para 2.03).
5.02      The economic rate of return to the overall Project has been
estimated at 20% (Annex 7). This calculation was based on the aggregation
of individual rancher's expected cash flows after adjustment for transfer
payments and the cost of the Project-related technical services.
5.03      At full development, the Government would collect annually about
Q 200 thousand in incremental sale taxes (Annex 7) and income taxes (para
4.06) directly related to the Project. In addition, over the life of the
Project, the Project Fund would achieve a surplus of about Q 170 thousand
above all Project related payments made by the Government (Annex 6). In
total, the Government is expected to achieve a net surplus of about Q 3.3
million, over its Project contribution of about Q 1.6 million equivalent
(para 3.08).
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      In addition to the customary conditions the following have been
agreed upon as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan:
a)   The Government had entered into a Contract with the
Bank of Guatemala, satisfactory to the Bank, for pur-
poses of carrying out the Project, including the estab-
lishment of a Livestock Development Fund (Fund) adequate
to rediscount eligible sub-loans and administer Project
monies (para. 3.11);
b)   regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, had been issued
by the Monetary Board of Guatemala under which discount
privileges would be made available by the Bank of Guatemala
to credit institutions participating in the Project (para.
3.12);
I/   Including about 14,000 breeding heifers produced annually by the
Project, expressed in beef equivalent.



- 21 -
c)   The Project Credit Committee had been established (para.
3.12);
d)   The Technical Services Unit had been established (para.
3.13);
e)   The Government had employed a qualified and experienced
specialist, acceptable to the Bank, upon terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank, to be the Project
Director and head of the Technical Service Unit with such
responsibility, authority and duties as are satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 3.14);
f)   The Project Commission had been established whose com-
position and function were satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.18); and
g)   The Borrower had credited the Fund with an amount equi-
valent to US$500,000 to enable it to initiate rediscount
operations and meet the start-up costs of the Technical
Services Unit (paras. 3.16 and 3.21).
6.02      In addition to the conditions of effectiveness specified in 6.01
and standard assurances, agreement was reached with Government during nego-
tiations that it would:
a)   cause the Bank of Guatemala to extend rediscount priv-
ileges under the Project, to public and private banks
willing to participate under the terms and conditions of
the Project. Such terms to include the provision to sub-
borrowers of short-term loans to finance the working capi-
tal indicated in the ranch development plans (para. 3.12);
b)   cause the Ministry of Agriculture to employ Project staff
in number and competence adequate to render Project related
technical assistance (para. 3.15);
c)   cause the Bank of Guatemala to rediscount automatically
through the Fund 100% of eligible sub-loans at a rate
of 7% per annum. Cash surpluses accruing to the Fund,
in excess of requirements to service IBRD's loan and
Government contribution, would be used for additional
re-lending for livestock sub-loans during the life of
the project (paras. 3.12 and 3.22);
d)   make available its contribution to the Fund for a term
of 16 years, including a 5-year grace period, and free
from interest (para. 3.21);
e)   ensure that participating credit institutions would
provide development sub-loans to Project borrowers of



- 22 -
up to 80% of total on-ranch investment, approved only
on the authority of the Project Director, for a 12-year
term, including a 4-year period of grace, and at not
more than 10% per annum, inclusive of all charges.
Sub-loans which exceed the equivalent of US$50,000
would carry an additional charge of 2% per year to
cover technical services costs. Sub-loans in excess
of the equivalent of US$100,000 would require prior
approval of the Bank (para. 3.22);
f)   cause participating credit institutions to maintain
separate Project accounts which would be audited
annually in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; au-
dited reports would be submitted to the Bank within
4 months of the closing of the financial year (para.
3.24); and
g)   seek financing, and complete before the end of the
second year of the project, a beef marketing survey
under terms of reference prepared and with personnel
selected in consultation with the Bank (para. 4.04).
6.03      The Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$4.0 million.



ANNEX 1
GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANKING SYSTEM AND CREDIT
I.  Banking System
Introduction
1.        The Banking system of Guatemala consists of Banco de Guatemala
(Central Bank), three state banks, eight national private banks, two
foreign private banks and two development finance companies. The system
is controlled by a Monetary Board and it is supervised by the office of
the Superintendent of Banks. Appendix 1 shows the structure of the banking
system.
Central Bank
2.        The Central Bank, established in 1946, heads the banking system.
It has headquarters in Guatemala City, as well as six agencies. There are
an additional 26 agencies throughout the country.
3.        Lines of Responsibility.  The Monetary Board, apart from con-
trolling the banking system, is also the governing body of the Central
Bank (para 8). The President of the Monetary Board is simultaneously the
President of the Central Bank. His main duties are:
(a)  to see that the Central Bank achieves its objectives and
fulfills its duties;
(b) to prepare and design policies and rules relating to money,
foreign exchange and credit;
(c) to propose to the Monetary Board drafts of regulations for
the Central Bank and its annual budget and to make submis-
sions on matters relevant to the functions of the Central
Bank;
(d) to direct the implementation of the Central Bank's policy
through the Manager of the Central Bank and the Superintendent
of Banks;
(e) to deal directly with the authorities of the Republic and to
coordinate the economic, financial and fiscal policies of
the State; and
(f) to deal directly, or through Management, with foreign
organizations and institutions.



ANNEX I
Page 2
4.        Management and Administration.  The Manager is in charge of the
Central Bank's administration and its day-to-day operations. He is
appointed by the Monetary Board and is responsible to it as well as to the
President. The Manager is assisted by two Sub-managers and eight Directors
of Technical Departments. Four of them, together with one of the Sub-
managers, form a Technical Council (Consejo-Tecnico). There are eight sub-
Directors and these, as well as all officers above them, are appointed by
the Monetary Board (Appendix 2).
5.        Functions.  In the domestic sphere, the Central Bank is charged
with securing monetary stability; efficient operation of the banking system,
including distribution of credit consonant with the interests of the national
economy; coordination of the various economic and financial activities of the
State that affect the market for money and credit; and establishment and
maintenance of coordination between fiscal and monetary policy. In the in-
ternational sphere the Central Bank's duties are typically the maintenance
of external value and convertibility of the national currency and the admi-
nistration of international monetary reserves.
6.        Financial Operations.  The annual consolidated financial accounts
of the Central Bank for the 5 years up to 1968 are shown in Appendix 3.
Under a legal requirement the Central Bank transfers its annual net profit
to its Guarantee Fund. The movement in this Fund over the last 4 years has
been:
Guarantee Fund
Balance after
Year                          Annual Surplus                    adding surplus
- -00 - ------------ 100 Q
1965                               164                               9,617
1966                               159                               9,776
1967                               502                              10,278
1968                                 4                              10,282
These transfers are to take place until the Guarantee Fund reaches a level
of 10% of the Central Bank's total assets, less the value of physical gold,
deposits abroad and other equivalent international reserves. On December 32,
1968, net assets amounted to Q 147.2 million, establishing the Guarantee
Fund ceiling at Q 14.72 million, compared to the actual balance of Q 10.3
million. When the above level has been reached, transfers must be made to
a "Fund for the Regulation of Securities". The profits of the Central Bank
are, therefore, isolated from the Government's budgetary estimates.
7.        Capacity to Borrow. Subject to approval of the Monetary Board,
the Central Bank may borrow from international lending institutions either
directly or as an agent for Government as well as Administering Agency.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
The Monetary Board
8.        The Monetary Board (Junta Monetaria) controls the Central Bank
and the banking system. It is charged with the monetary, foreign exchange,
and credit policy of the Republic. Article 30 of the Statute of the Central
Bank ("Ley Organica del Banco de Guatemala") gives it wide powers for the
purpose.
The Board membership consists of the following (Decree 1704):
(a) President of the Central Bank, Chairman, appointed by the
President of the Republic for a term of 4 years. The
incumbent has held the post for the past 6 years. His
alternate is the Vice-President of the Central Bank,
appointed under the same terms;
(b) Ministers of Finance, of Economy, and of Agriculture, who are
ex-officio members, entitled to select their own alternates;
(c) Representatives of the University of San Carlos nominated by
the University for a period of 1 year; and
(d) Representatives of the Private Banks, the State Banks, and
the Chambers of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture, all
nominated for 1 year.
Superintendent of Banks
9.        The Superintendent is charged with the supervision of the Central
Bank and the banking system. The Superintendency has three departments
(Banking, Securities and Statistics) and has a staff of over 50. The
Superintendent is chosen by the President of the Republic for a term of
five years from three candidates submitted by the Monetary Board. Once
appointed, he cannot be removed except by the President at his own discretion
or at the request of the Monetary Board. He may succeed himself. The in-
cumbent Superintendent has been in office for approximately 4 years. His
functions are fully defined in the Statute governing the Central Bank. Con-
trol over the banking system is based on a detailed chart of accounts that
all banks are required to follow so as to ensure that the monthly banking
returns can be meaningfully consolidated.
Public Banking Sector
10.       Instituto de Fomento de la Produccion (INFOP).  INFOP was formed
in 1948 to promote the development of agriculture, livestock and industry.
It is a large organization with a deficient record of performance and con-
sistent losses. The annual accounts on December 31, 1968 show the paid
up capital and reserves at Q 15.9 million, against which there is an
accumulated loss of Q 10.1 million. Under the statute creating INFOP, the
Government is responsible for meeting all losses. Over the last 20 years,
the Government has, in fact, met losses to the extent of appromizately Q



ANNEX 1
Page 4
8.0 million, which, together with the Q 10.1 million still unextinguished,
gives a total of approximately Q 18.0 million of losses since inception,
or almost Q 1.0 million for each year of its existence.
11.       While its charter would make INFOP the natural channel for the
proposed Livestock Loan, in its actual form it could not be considered in
any other way except for participation as one unit of the banking system.
At present INFOP is undergoing a reorganization and it is likely that its
agricultural and livestock portfolio will be transferred to a new Agri-
cultural Development Bank (par& 20).
12.       Credito Hipetecario Nacional.  This is a cowmercial and mortgage
bank formed in 1930. In November 1969, its paid up capital was Q 3.15
million and its reserves Q 2.85 million. Its management expressed interest
in participatioe in the proposed Livestock Project.
13.       Banco IMeconal Agrario.  This bank was formed in 1953 to provide
credit to small agricultural producers, particularly to implement the
country's land reform program. Under the present plans of Government, this
bank is al8s to*be absorbed into the proposed Agricultural Development
Bank (para 20).
Private Banking Sector
14.       The 8 national private banks and 2 foreign banks are ranked accord-
ing to their paid-up capital and reserves as at June 30, 1969, as follows:
Paid-up
National Banks                            Capital   Reserves  Total
-- …-------Q  00 …-______
Banco Industrial (formed in June '68)          5,462           7    5,469
Banco del Agro                                 3,185         295    3,480
Banco Agricola Mercantil                       2,000       1,271    3,271
Banco de Occidente                               815       1,271    2,086
Banco Granai y Townson                         1,200         226    1,426
Banco de Comercio e Industria                  1,250          82    1,332
Banco Inmobiliario, SA.                          993         248    1,241
Banco de lo  Trabajadores                     3,676           5    3,681
Foreign BankA
Banco de Londres y Montreal                    2,050         162    2,212
Bank of America                                2,000         119    2,119
Source: Baaco de Guatemala, "Boletin Estadistico".



ANNEX 1
Page 5
The foreign banks have a gentlemen's agreement with the Central Bank under
which they would refrain from using the Central Bank's external lines of
credit.
15.       Under current regulations, a bank's total loan portfolio may not
exceed ten times the total of its paid-up capital and reserves. The banks
close to this limit are the two foreign banks, and Banco del Agro, whose
portofolio limit is Q 34.8 million, of which Q. 32.8 million had been
reached in September 1969.
16.       With the exception of the Banco de los Trabajadores and the 2
foreign banks, discussions were held with all the banks who indicated that
they would not be able or willing to contribute to the Project long-term
investments. Bankers interviewed, however, were unanimously interested in
retailing the Project long-term credits on the basis of a 100% discount
with the Central Bank. Further, they were willing to accept, as a condi-
tion of participation the provision of the required incremental working
capital.
17.       The banking system generally, and the private banks particularly,
have an extensive network of branches and agencies in the Project area.
The banks' participaticn would, therefore, enhance the promotional aspects
of the Project and the possibility of an early disbursement.
Development Finance Companies
18.       Finance development companies were introduced by a special law in
1964 (Decree 208, "Ley de Sociedades Financieras Privadas") and were added
to the banking system as investment banks. The first one, "Financiera
Industrial Guatemalteca S.A." (FIGSA) was formed in 1968 by the liquor
industry for the primary purpose of financing that industry. It would
therefore not be interested in participating in the proposed livestock
project. The other is "Financiera Industrial y Agropecuaria S.A." (FIASA)
whose manager did express interest. FIASA was formed in early 1969 with
an authorized capital of Q 2,500,000, Q 1,000,000 of which has been paid
up. The bulk of its capital has been taken up by prominent members of
the Guatemalan business community, while 12.5% has been subscribed by
foreign interests primarily by the Bank of America International, Deutsche
Sudamerikanische Bank (Branch of Dresdner Bank), ADELA and some of the
Central American Finance Companies. The maximum foreign participation is
limited to 25% in Guatemala. During its short life, the company has dis-
bursed approximately Q 1.0 million of a USAID loan of US$ 5.0 million, which
it had contracted directly in May 1969.
Non-Banking Credit Institution Related to Agriculture
19.       The Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Credito Agricola Super-
visado (SCICAS) is an agency of the Ministry of Agriculture that provides



ANNEX 1
Page 6
supervised credit to the small farmer. Through education, SCICAS is thus
preparing the small farmer for eventual commercial credit operations. SCICAS
has handled an impressive portfolio to date, the bulk of its finance origi-
nating in annual Government allocations, USAID and, recently, a US$4.5 mil-
lion loan from the Inter-American Development Bank. The Government intends
to transfer SCICAS to the new Agricultural Credit Bank (para 20).
Proposed Agricultural Development Bank
20.       The Government has indicated that it plans to form a new agricul-
tural credit institution which would concentrate, under a single management,
the various efforts undertaken at present by three entities: (a) Servicio
Cooperativo Interamericano de Credito Agricola Supervisado (SCICAS, para
19); (b) Agricultural and Livestock portfolio of the Instituto de Fomento
de la Produccion (INFOP, para 10-11); and (c) Banco Nacional Agrario (BNA,
para 13),. Although this matter is still in the planning stage, Government
expressed determination to set up the new institution before the end of
1970.
II. Legal Framework of Banking and Credit
Laws relating to Banking
21.       The principal banking laws are:
(a) "Ley Organica del Banco de Guatemala," which governs the
Central Bank (Decree of Congress No. 215 of December 11,
1945, amended by Decrees 1315 and 1704 of September 30,
1959 and September 27, 1967, respectively);
(b) "Ley Bancaria", which governs all banks (Decree No. 315 of
December 23, 1946);
(c) "Ley Monetaria", which governs monetary matters (Decree No.
203 of December 26, 1945); and
(d) "Ley de Sociedades Financieras Privadas", which governs the
private development finance companies (Decree No. 208 of 1964).
In addition, all state banks were formed under their own legislative decrees.
Liquidity Ratios
22.       All banks are required to maintain a deposit with the Central Bank,
of 35% of their checking and short-term deposit accounts and 10% of their
savings and long-term deposits.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Investment of Banks' Capital and Reserves
23.       All banks are required to maintain as legal reserves 5% in
securities issued or guaranteed by the state and 10% in other securities.
Lending Limits and Securities
24.       Both state and private banks can lend up to the following maximum
amounts:
(a) on real estate, up to 50% of the value assessed by the
banker's valuer. The limit is 70% in case of chattels;
(b) no more than 10 times the bank's capital and reserves in the
case of commercial banks and 20 times in the case of develop-
ment finance companies; and
(c) no more than 20% of capital and reserves to any single
borrower.
Normal security arrangements are in force, including registration of
mortgage deeds. There are normally no problems as regards real estate
titles.
Auditing
25.       All banks are audited by the Superintendent of Banks.  Private
banks have external auditors, appointed by the shareholders. All banks
have internal audit departments. Internationally known firms of auditors
have offices in Guatemala and there is a number of local auditing firms of
good repute.
Interest and Discount Rates
26.       Under the Monetary Board regulation, banks' maximum lending rate
of interest is 8% p.a. if own resources are used. For external lines of
credit the rate is determined by the Central Bank; to this the Banks may
add a maximum of 2% spread. Most of the credit available to farmers is of
a short-term nature. A borrower needs to renew this credit annually and
thus the various charges (stamp duties, registration charge and legal
fees) increase the cost to approximately 12-13% p.a.
27.       A banker may offer a loan paper for rediscounting to the Central
Bank, provided the maturity does not exceed 12 months generally, or a
maximum of 18 months in case of livestock working capital advances. In
case of advances for the acquisition of raw materials and inventory build-
up that will help improve production and marketing, the maximum term is
3 years. The rates of discount on new livestock operations are 2-1/2%
p.a. for fixed assets ("refaccionario") and 3% p.a. for working capital
("avio"). For established producers, the rates are 3% and 4% respectively.
It must be noted that discountable refaccionario advances are limited to



ANNEX 1
Page 8
1 year. If, therefore, acceptable paper for a working capital loan may
be discounted at 4%, the banker is left with an income of 4% on a maximum
charge of 8% (para 26). For commercial credit, the discount rate is 5%
and all others (unspecified) 6%.
28.       The maximum rate banks may pay on deposits is 7% p.a. for term
deposits, savings and issues of bonds. Savings banks may pay up to 5%
p.a. for savings. The state banks must pay a minimum of 5% p.a.
III. Credit
29.       Total credit granted by the banking system between 1961 and 1968
increased from Q 74.7 million to Q 138.1 million (Appendix 4). The share
of crop production has been declining from 44.7% (Q 33.4 million) in 1961
to 29.3% (Q 40.5 million) in 1968. Between 1963 and 1968 the figure has
remained almost constant at an average of approximately Q 40.0 million.
Credit for livestock production, meanwhile, has been increasing from Q 2.6
million (3.5% of all credit) in 1961 to Q 11.1 million (8.1% of all credit)
in 1968 (Appendix 5).
30.       Within livestock (Appendix 5), the largest share is taken by
fattening activities, which during 1966, 1967 and 1968 accounted for Q 5.1,
6.6 and 6.4 million respectively (77%, 75% and 58%, respectively, of cattle
operations). Operations for breeding during those 3 years were Q 1.3, 1.6
and 4.1 million respectively and the corresponding percentages were 20%,
18% and 37% of cattle operations.
31.       Practically all of the credit available to livestock producers is
of a short-term nature, reflecting the scarcity of long-term funds in
Guatemala. The nature of available statistics is such that no distinction
can be made as to the length of period for which livestock loans are given
nor do they disclose investment categories. Livestock credits are simply
classed as either fattening or breeding, which does not necessarily reflect
the term of the credit. Discussions with bankers, producers and local tech-
nicians suggest that most of the credits for breeding go into the purchase
of cattle and are for a term of up to 5 years. Thus, it would appear that
the financing of the livestock industry has not been geared to improving
the carrying capacity of the land nor to increasing the productivity of
the herds.
32.       The banking system receives support from the Central Bank by
way of credit lines made available from internal and external resources.
The amounts thus made available during 1966, 1967 anc 1968 were Q 30.6,
36.7 and 37.5 million, respectively. Livestock's share is shown in the
following table:



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Livestock
Fa_t__n_ n          Breeding                     Total
Resources    1966  1967  1968   1966  1967  1968         1966   1967   1968
-                       (- Q million ----)
Internal      1.1   1.6   2.4    -       0.1   -         26.8   31.5   30.6
External       -      -    3.7   2.1    2.0   0.1          3.8    5.2    6.9
Total         1.1   1.6   6.1   2.1    2.1   0.1          30.6   36.7   37.5
Source:  Banco de Guatemala, "Memoria Anual".
The table shows that during 1968 there were practically no advances from
the Central Bank for breeding operations.  During 1968, however, there was
a sharp increase in overall credit for breeding as shown in Appendix 5.
The table below shows that most of the lending for breeding in 1968 origi-
nated in the banking system with only nominal support from the Central Bank.
Fattening      Breeding
(        Q million-----)
Total cattle lending                       6.4             4.1
Advances Central Bank                      6.1             0.1
Banking system                             0.3             4.0
Within the banking system, most of the Q 4.0 million of credit for breeding
granted in 1968 came from the Government subsidized INFOP (para 10), whose
own statistics show approximately Q 3.0 million for 1968 livestock loans,
apparently, mostly for cattle purchases. The residue of Q 1.0 million for
breeding, plus Q 0.3 million for fattening, came from the rest of the banking
system, either from their internal resources or external financing directly
contracted with approval of the Monetary Board. Such external funds are
invariably fromn the USA, shorZ-term and at the current market rate.
Long-term External Credits
33.       At present there is only one significant source of long-term
external credit that may be used for livestock development operations.
It consists of 3 lines of credit totalling US$ 6.0 million, contracted
by the Central Bank in 1966 with the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), The first one to be channeled by INFOP (para 10) and Banco
Nacional Agrario (para 13) was for US$2.0 million, approximately half
of which was in local currency and the rest for imports. Loans were to
be granted to small producers, with a ceiling of Q 15,000 per applicant,



ANNEX 1
Page 10
except for cooperatives. As at January 21, 1970, there was an unused
balance of Q 200,000 and US$ 1,100,000, respectively. Recently the
Monetary Board decided to make this balance available to the rest of
the banking system in order to complete the disbursement. The rate of
interest is 8% p.a. to the producer, including 4-1/2% spread for the
state banks who are required to give technical assistance. The term is
up to 18 years.
34.       The second and third lines consisted respectively of US$ 800,000
equivalent in local currency and US$ 3.2 million in foreign exchange ear-
marked for imports. Both lines have been available to the private banks
(excluding the two foreign banks). The unutilized balances as of January
21, 1970 were Q 18,000 and US$ 800,000 respectively. The term is also up
to 18 years and the interest to producers is 9-1/4% p.a., including a
spread of 2% for the banks. The Central Bank has discretion to discount
loans up to Q 30,000. For larger loans, the applicant is required to
submit a complete investment plan and financial projections. To prepare
these he needs to hire consultants, few of whom are acceptable to the
Central Bank and who, therefore, tend to be expensive. Any loan over
Q 200,000 requires an approval by IDB.
35.       The remaining external finance contracted by the Central Bank is
of USA banking origin, short-term and at current rate of interest.



GUATEMALA: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANKING SYSTEM AND CREDIT
BANKING SYSTEM
ORGANIZATION CHART
MAONETARY BOARD
BANCO DE GUATEMALA                          SUPERINTENDANCY OF BANKS
(CENTRAL BANK)        - - - -  - - -   (ACCOUNTING CONTROL JNDER CODE
OF ACCOUNTS: 'INSTRUCCIONES CONTABLES DE 1963')
I~~~~ i.
[~~~~~~~-                            -  -    --     --  - -  - t- -    -- -- - -li
INVESTMENT BANKS
COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE BANKS               STATE DEVELOPMENT BANKS                 (FINANCIERAS)
-.1        AGRICOLA MERCANTIL       l  . . _| INSTITUTO DE FOMENTO     .  FINANCIERA INDUSTRIAL
DE LA PRODUCTION (INFOP)       GUATEMALECA S.A.
D    E      L~~~DE AGRO                  
L .  i.     _                 i_PFINANCIERA INDUSTRIAL
j- DENDSTRA_ NACIONAL AGRARIO  _Y AGROPECUARIA (FIASA)
(STARTED IN APRIL 1969)
H      GRANA~I Y TOWN50N         |
W         ~~~DE OCCIDENTE
-         LINEOFAUTHORITY
I__.    BANK OF AMERICA (FOREIGN)                           -    --.  SUPERVISORY FUNCTION
-       DE LOS TRABAJADORES (STATE)
4  CREDITO HIPOTECARIC; NATIONAL (STATE) |                                                    no D
18RD-4814 (R) >






GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANKING SYSTEM AND CREDIT-BANK OF GUATEMALA
O R GAN IZ ATION C H A RT
TARY BOARD
SECRETARY OF                                                LEGAL ADV1SERT~~~PRSIDI
TECH CA  LCE-R E5D EOMMNTE
T E
CO UNCIL
SYST EMS
TR       *U I                                                                                               & METHODS
ADNINISTIO EMISSIS 1OI                                                                                                                           DEPARTMENT         IAG       PRJLIVETSOCK  PBICN
OPERATIONS      -|   ARMENT              CEDITS       IAL ENT CRN ALE  L                  ADHA NG ET|TATIES OG  ECYI C                                                      & INDUSTRIAL           RELAIONS
AND TREASURY                                                                                                                        STUE IFS             INVESTIG. DEPT.       DPTMENT
PERSONNEL
J~~~~~IN~~~~~~ANCIAL" j~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~FNAC
LK ~~~~~~~~~l                                STTUT,.~~~~~~~~REITE  P                                                                                                    NUSRA
EXTERNAL  INTERNAL &  AUXILARS'         SECURITY            BALANCE OP           BAFIKING ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TUGIES &       EXTERDRNAL(R






GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banking System and Credit
Bank of Guatemala - Balance Sheet as of December 31st
1964              1965              1966               1967              1968
… ------------______----__------ Quetzales ---------------------------------…-
(Assets)
Gold and Foreign Currency                           61,741.853.16      75,072.410.40     68,903.210.58     73,772.48.66       74,018.640.57
Gold and Deposits                              39,604692.51      50,240 486.94      42, 820,272.70    51, 555822.26      54;0595367.97
Securities                                     12,848,255.38     10,192,731.87      10,654,229.31      7,817,780.35       7,382,350.70
Contributions to International Organizations    5,990,283.52      7,267,283.52       8,217,283.52      8,517,283.52       8,517,283.52
Other Assets                                    3,298,622.35       7,371,908.07      7,211,1425.05     5,831,597.53       4,059,638.38
Local Currency                                     114,123,2o6.45    135,469,596.16    148,455.269.97    150. 373 089.78    1147,228.895.27
Securities                                     43,J624,098.80    53,996,575.00    -56,058,1421.60     52,506,266.00      455
Credits Granted                                39,386,744.38     38,718,019.38      43,557.511.17     48,318,316.72      51,288,394.52
Contributions to International Organizations   15,797,716.48      22,382,716.48     26,728,716.48     27,328,716.48      29,690,716.48
Other Investments                              10,894,796.85     16,131,946.02      17,483,300.04     16,868,926.64      16,899,156.57
Other Assets                                    4.419,849.86   4,240,339.28          4,617,312.68      5.290,843-94       2,895,046.82
Total                                              175,865,060.21    210,542,006.56    217,358,480.55    224,1145,573.44    221,247,535.84
(Liabilities)
Foreign Currency                                    14,1435.492.77     21,707,54547      15,929.936.02      1450,638.6        19,876,117-5.
hposits                                            60,505.00          60,005.00         T1,7507)          324,541.36         66, W6.67
Other Obligations                              14,374,987.77      21,647,540.47     15,858,731.02      17,126,097.27     19,809,230.91
Local Currency                                     151,978,199.88    179,217,954.27    191,952,943,41    126,!67,138.42    191.089.878.50
Currency in Circulation                        77,290,619.49      81l200,961.7l     b5,555,910.u14     b7,535,463473     91,205,bb9.59
Monetary Deposits                               49,012,248.74     54,538,266.94     62,286,654.28      56,178,598.76     51,856,716.75
Other Deposits                                 23,035,599.72      38,641,548.81     37,947,608.62      45,350,574.99     42,159,939.82
Other Obligations                               2,455,945.55       4,458,792.71      5,642,041.97       7,078,558.01      5,781,925.26
Other Liabilities                                 183,486.38         178,384.03        520,728.40         223,841 .93          5,407.08
Guaranty Fund                                        9,451,367.56       9,616,506.82      9,775,601.12      10.277,896.39      10.281,539.76
Total                                              175,865,060.21    210,542,006.56    217,658,480-55    224, 0Q5,573.44    221,247,535.84       W
Source:  Superintendencia de Bancos, "Boletin de Estadisticas Bancarias".



ANNEX 1
Appendix  4
LlVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banking System and Credit
Credit Granted by the Banking System, 1961-1968
Year          Total               CroD  Production               Cattle. Production
000,O0O' Q          000000' Q
1961          74.7                33.4            44.7            2.6              3.5
1962          82.5                35.4            43.5            5.3              6.4
1963          94.9                39.4            41.5            5.0              5.3
196h         104.8                41.5            39.5            7.2             6.9
1965         103.8                39.8            38.4            6.5             6.3
1966         104.6                36.6            35.0            6.6             6.3
1967         118.0                38.4            33.7            8.8             7.7
1968         138.1                40.5            29.3           11.1             8.1
Source: Banco de Guatemala, "Boletin Estadistico".



GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banking System and Credit
Sectoral Allocation of Credit, 1961-68 L/
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
Non                                                       CATTLE PRODUCTION
Year     Total     Agricultural         Crop         Livestock                                             Total         Other
Sectors        Production      Production      Breeding     Fattening      Other      Cattle     Livestock
-(-----000,000' Quetzales------------------)   (---------------------O0O' Quetzales…---------------------
1961       75          39                33             3               757         1,340         389       2,1486         623
1962       83          42                35             6             2,490         2,335         507       5,332           439
1963       95          50                39             6             2,679         2,227          66       4,972          582
1964      105          56                42             7             1,715         5,419         104       7,238        1,262
1965      104          56                40             8             1,571         4,660         303       6,534        1,057
1966      105          60                37             8             1,318         5,091         153       6,562        1,397
1967      118          70                38            10             1,581         6,630         546        8,757       1,578
1968      139          86                41            12             4,066         6,388         665      11,119        1,243
1/ Figures are rounded
2  Preliminary
Source:  Banco de Guatemala, "Boletin Estadistico".
VrL






CUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a 350 ha Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Investment Cost Projection
Average          Development Phasing                        Total Cost
Average           Average       Cost                  YEARS                           for 300 Ranches
Units           Unit Cost   Per Ranch    1               2              3
Investment Item         Unit    Per Ranch        (----------------Quetzales----------------------)                       US$ '000
Fencing                  km       10                 150       1,500         500            500            500               45o
Pastures:
New                    ha       70                   70      L,900       2,000          2,000            900             1,h70
Consolidation         ha        70                  20       1,hoo         500            500            400               420
WaLtering points 1/      No         2                 400        800         400             0              -                 240
Ranch structures:
Corral 2/              No        1               1,000       1,000       1,000            -                                300
Spray race             No      0.5                 750         375         375            _                                113
Machinery:
45 HP Tractor          No      0.5               3,200       1,600       1,600            -                                480
Rotary Yower           No        1                  700        700         700            _                                210
Trailer                No        1                 500         500         500            -               _                150
Livestock:
Heifers 3/            No        30                 100       3,000         -            1,000          2,000               900
Bulls                  No        6                 500       3,000       1,000          1,000          1,000               900
Housing:
Workers houses         No        2                  250        500         250            250             -                 150
Contingencies v          -         _                  _        1,927         882            565            480                577
Total                                                       21,202       9,707         6,215           5,280             6,360
1/ Complete unit consisting of well, engine and pump, and troughs
T Includes a metal crush
3, Good quality, 1-2 years old
About 10% allowance for contingency



GUATEMALA
LIVFSTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a 350 ha Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Herd Development Projections
Before                                                 YEAR
CATEORY                        Unit    Value       Development       1       2      3       4      5      6       7       8      9       10       11      12
HlD CO1POSITION
Breeding Cows                   No.      100           240          255    279    304    308    318    337    358    385    395          395     395      395
Breeding Bulls                  No.      300            12           12      14     16      16     16     17      18      18     20       20       20      20
Calves                          No.       -            120          128    152    180    196    219    235    248    270    276          276     276      276
Heifers 1 - 2 years             No.       80            58           60      64     74      88     98    109    118    124    135        135      135     135
Steers  1- 2 years              No.       80            -            58     62      72      86     95    109    117    124    135        135     135      135
Heifers 2- 3 years              No.      140            54           56      51     56      65     78     86      96    104      85       85       85      85
Steers  2 - 3 years             No.      130            -            -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -        -        -       -
Bulls   I- 2 years              No       100            -             2       2      2       2      3       3     -       -      -        -        -       -
Purchased Neifers 1 - 2 years  No.        Bo            -            10      20     -       -      -       -      -       -      -        -        -       -
Purchased Steers  1 - 2 years  No.        80            -            20      20     20      10
Total                            No.                   484          601    664    724    771    827    896    955  1,025  1,0146   1,046   1,046   1,046
Animal Units                    No.                    364          473    512    544    575    608    658    707    759    770          770      770     770
IORTALITY
Heifera 1 - 2 years             No.       -              2            2       2      2       2      2       2      3       3       4       4        4        4
Steers  1 - 2 years              No.      -             -            -        2      2       2      2       2      3       3       4       4        4        4
Heifers 2 - 3 years             No.       -              2            2       2      2       2      2       2      3       3       4       4        4        4
Steers  2 - 3 years             No.       _      -                   -        2      2       2      2       2      3       3       4       4        4        4
Cos                             No.       -              9            9       8      8       9      9       9     10      11     12       12       12      12
Bulls                            No.      -             -            -       -      _       -      _       _      _       _      _        _        _        _
Total                            No.      -             13           13      16     16      17     17      17     22      23     28       28       28       28
PURCASIAS
Bulls                            No.     500            -             2       2      2      -      _       _       1       3       4       4        4        14
Heifers 1 - 2 years              No.     100            -            10      20                        -                          -       -
Steers  1 - 2 years              No.      80            -            20      20     20      10     -       -                      -       -        -
Total                            No.                    -            32      42     22      10     -       -       1       3       4       4        4        4
SALLS
Steers 2 - 3 years               No.     130             -           -       54     60      70      84     92    lo6    114    122       131      131      131
Purchased Steers                 No.     130             -           -       20     20      20      10     -
Steera 1 - 2 years               No.      65             54          -       -      -       -       -      -
Call heifers                     No.      60            -            -        5      6       7      8       9      10     11      12      12       12       12
Surplus Seifers                  No.       80            -           -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       36      48       48       48
Cull Cows                        No.     100            28           28      34     38      43      43     46      50     52      57      57       57       57
Cull Bulls                       No.     150             2            2       2      2       2      1       2       2      3       4       4        4        4
Total                            No.                    84           30    115    126    142    146    149    168    180    231          252      252      252
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
Effective Calving               %         -             50           50      55     60      65      70     70      70     70      70      70       70       70
Adult Mortality                  %        -              4            4       3      3       3      3       3       3      3       3       3        3        3 ~
Cow Culling Rate                %         -             12           13      14     15      15     15      15     15      15      15      15       15       15      o
Bull Culling Rate               %         -             15           15      15     15      15     15      15     15      15      15      15       15       15
Heifer Culling Rate              %         -            -            -       10     10      10     10      10      10     10      10      10       10       10
Carrying Capacity             (A'/ha)     -            1.0          1.3    1.5    1.6    1.7    1.8    1.9    2.0    2.1    2.2          2.2      2.2      2.2
Milk Production           (000' 1/year)  -              68           53      41     29      12      -      -       -      -       -       -        -        -



GUTATEMAIA
LIVESTOCK 0EVELOPMKNT PROJCT
2eveooetof0350 ho B,eedzng/Fattenti   R-ht
Prjcto  oflo , 2perating Rop .... a
and Operating Ic
Price per Unit     ~~Before                                                                       EI
Cotegory                          Tolt     '6i38Yei 2l'I                Noelopeo        1              2            3                         5              6           7A9                                    10            U1           12
--------            No.    (5T   No.   (Q)   No.   (Q)  So.-   (Q)  No.   (Q)   No.   (Q)   No.   (5)   No.   (Q)   No.    (Q)   No.    (Q)   No.   (Q)   No.    (Q)  No.    (Q)
Coil Co.,                         head        90          100         28   2,520   28   2,800   34   3,400   38   3,800   43   4,300   431  4,300   46   4,600   50   5, 000   52   5.200   57   5,700   57   5,700   57   5.700   57   5,700
CoilNBoiio                        hood       140          150          2     280    2     300    2    300    2    300    2    300    1          150    2     300    2     300    3      650    4     600    4      600    6     600    4      600
Col1lH.of.rs                      head        -            60                                     5     300    6     360    7     4,20    8    680    9      540 10       600 11        660 12       720 12        720 12       720 1?        720
Surpl- Helfers                    hsad        -            80--              -36 2,880   48   3,8&0   68  3,84048 3,840
St-. 1-2 y.ar0                    hood        65           80         56   3,510                                                                                                                                                         
"I'lr" 2-3                        hood        -           130          -     -      -     -      54   7,020   60   7,800   70   9,100   81  10,920   92  11,960  106  13,780  116  14,820  122  15,860  131  131,0-30  131  12,030  131  17,030
Pnreha-edSte.rs                   hood        -           130          -     -      --          20   2,600   20   2,600   20   2,600   10_ 1~,300                              -         
Subtot.l1-                                              -                ,1          3,100        13,620       14,860       16,0          1710         17,600       19.680        21,130       25.76o        27,890       27.890        27,890
Mlilk Soles                       liter    0.085           -           -5,760            6,500        3,500        2,500        2,000           -            -             --                         -            -             -            -
Total S.lo .-                                              -              12,070        7,600        17,120       17,360o       7, 17       1710          17,400       19,680        21,130       29,760        27.890       27.890        27,890
OPERATI1, EXPEAF.A
S,,lt and Minerals                A.0.          -           1                360           470          510          560          570           600          650           700          750          750           750           750          750
Animallea[l.th      1/            A-U                       3              1,000         1,600        1,500        1,600         1,700        1,800        1,950         2,100        2,250         2,250        2,250         2,250        2,250
Past-v  Mai.t.mnac.e-       2                                              1,000        1,000         1,300        1,600        1,860         1,860        1,860        1,860         1,860        1,860         1,860        1,840         1,840
Fenc  and Wote- Maintqrnoe-        -            -           -                155           150          160          170          180           180          180           180          180           180          180           180          180
Bmildin?  otnteeaee--                          - -                            50            50           50           50           60            60           70           .70          100          100           100)          100          100
()For-nn
(b) Stocisank                            -                           2,800        2,800        2,800         2,800        2,800        2,800         2,800        2,800         2,800        2,800         2,800        2,800         2,800
(c) No-lal seority'
Fool, Oil & LbioSrltat"            -           -            -450                          650           650          450          650           650          650           650          650           450          450           4,50         450
MNoh.11   ~itm,    7               -           -            -200                           200          250          300          300           300          300           300          300           300          300           300          300
BulNeplaoeente .                                                           500          -             -            -            -             -            -            500         1,500        2,000         2,000        2,000         2,000
Too on Soles                       -           -            -260                           150          360          350          360           350          390           620          650           560          550           550           550
Miell... s1a s                     -            -           -670                           670          740          790          820           860          860           290        1,060         1,070        1,070         1,070        1,070
So.btot.1                       -                        -7.420                       7,360        0,100        8.650         9,060       9__220     __9.490         10,350       11i,680       12,280       12,290        12,290        12,290
Feeder Stee,-                                         _                    -  _       l 600          160          600          800-                       -                   -                   -             -            -             -
Total Operating kEp.ow..                                                7  ~ ,420     8.940      9- (700       10 250         9,860        9,220    ~      60        10,350       11,68         12.280       12.290        12.290       12.290
OPENATI 04 IcoME
Ore,, Operatig Th-e,.                                                       6,657        (1,34o)       7,620         7,110        7,860        7,930         7,910        9,330        9,650        13,680       15,600        15,6o0        15,6oo     ~       j
Interest 8/                                                                   -(808)                  (1,599)       (1,756)      (1,761)      (1,696)       (1,54.8)     (1,335)      (1,205)      (1,008)          (791)        (552)         (285)
AGt OP-rooipg boone                                                         6,650        (2,168)       5,821        5,356         6,099        6,236         6,362        2,995        8,265        120,62       16,809        15,068        15,315
1/ Esters deeeloP-t~ 200 hsa o1eanod at 5 5/ha.  ACtor year 2, is. additi-o, f-rtila-ti-n oP to a  ai,so  of 70 ha peraocc at 12 Q/ha.
57/ 6% os. tie Cal,.. of An0talatoono,
7/1 5% 055 the Calac of tar. hoildingo.
)/I 0Om forsea  at 5 1,250) per annoe; 4 Oto.ekan at Q 375 per a-os.  Social son-roy 35 on 'olori-s
7/ 360 gal petrol at 0.66 (2/gal; 1,000 gal dio...l oil at 0.25 Q/ga1, and 75 1 of oil at 5.51) Q/1,
561 10% so th. Cal,. of ,achines7.
7/ Total oalee  imsc  total Aperating eop--s,
3/ Intera.t pay-,oto as both long-  de ohort-t-r   debt (Sorex, 2. 2001e ,),



GUATEKALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development of a 350 ha Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Financial Projections
Before                                                          YEAR
Development        1         2        3        4        5         6        7         a        9        10         11        12
…------------------------------------------------------------- Quetzales -------------------------------------------------
I   Cash Inflow
(a) Sales                                  12,070          7,600   17,120   17,360   17,720   17,150   17,400   19,680   21,130   25,760    27,890    27,890    27,890
(b) Loan:
(1) Long Term                            -             7,767    4,972    4,224      -        -        --                           -         -          -         -
(2) Short Term                           -4,500    2,000    1,300                   -        -        -         -        -         -         -          -         -
(c) Farmer's Contribution                     -            1,940    1,2143    1056      -        -         -        -        -         -         -          -         -
(d) Total Cash Inflow                      12,070         21,807   25,335   23;9140   17,720   17,150   17,400   19,680   21,130   25,760    27,o90    27,890    27,890
II   Cash Outflow
(a) Investment                                -            9,707    6,215    5,280      -        -         -        -        -         -         -          -         -
(b) Operating Expenses                       7,420         8,940    9,700   10,250    9,860    9,220    9,490   10,350   11,680   12,280    12,290    12,290    12,290
(c) Total Cash Outflow                       7,420        18,647   15,915   15,530    9,860    9,220    9,490   10,350   11,680   12,280    12,290    12,290    12,290
III   Annual Cash Balance
before Service Charges                      4,650         3,160    9,420    8,410    7,860    7,930    7,910    9,330    9,450   13, 480    15,600    15,600    15,600
IV   Service Charges
(a) Development Loan:
(1) Interest                              _              583    1,274    1,591    1,696    1,696    1,548    1,385    1,205    1,008          791        552       285
(2) Amortization                          -             -        -         -        -       1,483    1,631    1,794    1,974    2,171       2,388      2,627     2,894
(b) Working Capital:
(1) Interest                              -              225      325       165       65     -         -        -         -        -         -          -         -
(2) Amortization                          -             -        4,500    2,00     1, 300    -         -        -        -         -         ---
(c) Total Debt Service                                       808   64,°099    3,756    3,061    3,179    3,179    3,179    3,179    3,179       3,179      3,179     3,179
V   Annual Cash Balance
after Service Charges                       4,650          2,352    3,321    4,654    4,799    4,751    4,731    6,151    6,271   10,301    12,421    12,421    12,421
t- o
VI   Incremental Cash Balance
after Service Charges                        -            (2,298)  (1,329)       4      149       101       81    1,501    1,621    5,651       7,771     7,771      7,771



GUATdAAT LA
LIVzZ3TOGK D6VELUPACNT PROJ8C6T
_                            ~~~~~~~~~1/
Deve_lopment of a 350 ha Breeding/iattening hanch
Financial Rate of Return on Incremental nvestment
Before                                                               YZK
Development       1             2             3    _        4             5              u            7            °              9             10             11             12
_    …_   -…_ -  ---    ----------------------------------------------------------------- …uetza s ---
Sales                                12,070         7,600        17,120        17,360        17,720        17,150       17,400        19,680         21,130       25,760         27,890         27,890          27,890
Incremental Value of Herd              -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -                           -              -            39,060
Operating  .xpenses                 ( 7,420)      ( 8,940)      ( 9,70D)      (11,250)      ( 9,860)      ( 9,220)      ( 9.49'))     (10,350)      (11,680)    (12,280)        (12,290)       (12,290)        (12,290)
Short Term Loans:
(a) Borrowing                        -            4,500         2,100        1,300                                                     -             -                     -
(b) Amortization                     -             _          ( 4,500)      ( 2,000)       1,300)
On-Ranch Investment                    -          ( 9,707)      ( 6.215)      ( 5,280)        --             -             -             -             _            _              _               _              _
Balance                              4,650        ( 6,547)      ( 1,295)        1,130         6,560         7,930         7,910         9,330         9,450       13,480         15,600         15,600         54,660
Incremental Balance                    -          (11,197)     ( 5,945)      ( 3,520)        1,910         3,280         3,260         4,680         4,800        8,830          10,950         10,950         50,010
Internal Rate of Return on Incremental Investment: 20%
y/ Negative figures appear between parenthesis.






GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DIVELOPMENr PROJECT
Technical Services Budget
Foreign
YEARS                              Total     Exchange
EXPENDITURE ITEM                 1        2        .3        4              Cost       Component
(-   uss -)
I.  Operating Expenses
Project Director 1/      30,000   30,000   32,000   32,000             124,000    104,000
Professional Staff 2/    27,037   54,075   54,075   54,075             189,262        -
Clerical Staff             5,795    7,083    7,083    7,083             27,044
Salary adjustment local
staff 3/                  -        869    2,789    4,767              8,425        -
Per Diem Allowance 4/     2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200               8,800
Transportation 5/         6,467   10,059   10,059   10,059               36,644       -
Office Expenses              500      500      500       500              2,000       -
Contingency                2,001    2,214    2,669    2,691               9,575       -
Sub total              74,000  107,000  111,375  113,375             405,750    104,000
II. Capital Bxpenditures
Vehicles                  18,150    6,o50      -         -               24,200     24,200
Office Equipment &
Furniture               2,000      -        -         -                2,000      2,000
Livestock Studies 6/         -        -     13,000   12,000              25,000     25,000
Training Fellowships 7/      -        -     12,000   12,000              24,000     24,000
Contingency                1,850    1,950    2,625    2,625               9,050        800
Sub total               22,000    8,000   27,625   26,625              84,250     76,000
TOTAL                   96,000  115,000  139,000  140,000             490,000    180,000
1/ Internationally recruited; cost estimate includes salary,
gratuity, international travel, and family and housing allowance.
2/ One veterinarian and two agronomists for the central office in
Escuintla and one veterinarian and one agronomist for each of the
regional offices of Retalhuleu and Chiquimulilla. The professional
staff would be hired progressively during the first year of the Project.
3/ Provision for an average annual increase in salary of 3% for the local staff.
7/ Project Director and driver about 100 days per year at Q 15.0 and Q 5.0 per day
respectively.
5/ Repair, maintenance and running expenses of vehicles.
1/ Provision for field trial in pasture implantation and management and for
preparation of follow-up projects.
7/ Four fellowships of 6 months each to train local technicians abroad.






GUATEMALA: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL SERVICES UNIT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION  CHA RT
PROJECT COMMISSION
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE                                                  BANK OF GUATEMALA
VICE-MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE    MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
(CHAIRMAN)                               1
MINISTER OF FINANCE
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PRESIDENT OF BANK OF GUATEMALA                FUND
SECRETARY GENERAL TO THE
NATIONAL PLANNING COUNCIL
VICE-MINISTER
.......... CHAIRMAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION               OF AGRICULTURE
.         CHAIRMAN CATTLE GROWERS ASSOC.            VCOF FINANCE
MAOFNAGE,BNCE
.          PROJECT DIRECTOR                   .     MANAGER, BANK
-      ~~(EXECUTIVE SECRETARY)             -       O   UTML
TECHNICAL SERVICES UNIT
HEADQUARTERS (ESCUINTLA)                                             BANKING SYSTEM
PROJECT DIRECTOR
m.......... ..umuIIhEh||&...
RETALHULEU        CHIQUIMULILLA
AGENCY            AGENCY
PARTICIPATING   RANCHERS
-     DIRECT RELATION    sell- COORDINATION AND RELATIONS       >
z
z
x
I BRD-481 3(2R)'






ANNEX 5
GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Duties and Responsibilities of the Project Director
The Project Director, who shall be directly responsible to the
Vice-Minister of Agriculture, will have the technical responsibility for
implementation and execution of the Project and shall have the following
specific duties and powers:
(a) heading the Project's Technical Services Unit;
(b) executing the Project in accordance with policies and procedures
agreed between the Bank of Guatemala and IBRD;
(c) cooperating with the management of the Bank of Guatemala and of
the participating credit institutions toward accomplishing Project
objectives;
(d) selecting such technical staff as he considers necessary to carry
out Project activities, and recommending the promotion and dis-
missal of such staff;
(e) training of Project staff as may be necessary for fulfillment of
Project objectives;
(f) approving or disapproving all ranch development plans prepared
and appraised under the Lending Program;
(g) providing such supervision and technical assistance as necessary
to ensure successful completion of each ranch development plan;
(h) advising Participating Credit Institutions through the Bank of
Guatemala of any misuse of the proceeds of a ranch development
sub-loan or failure on the part of the sub-borrower to carry
out the ranch development plan and recommending any remedial
action therefor;
(i) establishing and maintaining records for sample ranches as needed
for Project evaluation;
(j) preparing an annual budget for the Project's Technical Services
Unit staff and office to be submitted to the Vice-Minister of
Agriculture;
(k) preparing quarterly and annual Project progress reports for trans-
mittal to the Bank; and
(1) advising the Project Commission on major policy decisions in
respect of the Project; also would act as Executive Secretary.



GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMEINT PROJECT
Project Fond Income and Expenditure, end Cash Flow Statement
1        2         3        4        5         6    _ 7                      Y 9     1          11        12         13         14        15         16           Total
-----------------------------------------__________-------_----_-----_----- GOO' Q-etzle  --------------------------------------------------------------- -----__________
OPERATING ACCOUNT
Income
Interest from Participating B.nkai/
On Origina  Investment                                      33      135       254      329       357      342       307      268       228      184        137         87        33         -          -         -            2,694
on Surplus Food Re-inve-tment/                              -        -         -        -          3       22        35       50        66       83        101        120       141        139       102         62             924
Sub-total                                    33      135       254      329       360      364       342      318       294      267        238        207       174        139        102        62           3,618
Expenditure
Commitment Fee to BRD                                         27       19         9        4        -        -         -        -         -        -          -          -         -          -          -          -               59
Tnterest to IBRD                                              27      110       205      267       290      286      267       247       226      203        178        152       124         94         62        27           2,765
Central Bank Administrative Cost                               5       15        20       20        15        5         5        5         5        5          5          5         5          5          5          5            130
Sub-total                                    59      144       234      291       305      291       272      252       231      208        183        157        129        99         67         32          2,954
I-come Surplus or (Deficiency)                                 (26)       (9)      20       38        55       73        70       66        63       59         55         50        45         4o         35         30             664
CA2H FLOWS
Inflose
Incoma Surplus                                                -        -         20       38        55       73        70       66        63       59         55         50        45         40         35         30             699
Loan Funds fr-m IBRD                                         747    1,528    1,104       621        -        -         -        -         -         -         -          -          -                                            6,000
Loan Fonds from Government                                   308      591       417      264        -        -                  -                                                    _  _     _          _                       1,580
Principal Repaid by Psrticip.ting Banks                       -        -         -        -        198      510       546      584       625      669        715        765        478        _          _          _            5,090
Sub-total                                 1,055    2,119    1,541        923      253       583      616      650       688       728       770        815        523        40         35         30          11,369
Outflow
lncse Deficiency                                              26        9        -        -         -        -         -                  -         -         -          -          -         -          -          -               35
Perticipsting B.nka far  On-ranch Investment                 933    1,995    1,402       760        -        -         -         -        -         -         -          -          -         -          -          -            5,090
Min. of Agriculture far Technical Serrices                    96      115       139       140                                                                                                                                      4 -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  490
Principal Repaid to IBRD                                      -        -         -         -        -       252       270      289       309       332        355       380        407       437        468        501           4,000
Principel Rep.id ta  tovernmest,/                             -        -         -         -        -        144      i44      144       1li4      144       144        i44        144       1414       144        10            1,580
Sob-total                                 1,055    2,119    1,541        900 o              396      414       433      453       476        499       524        551        581       612        646          11,195
Sorplos or (Deficiency)                                         -         -        -         23      253       187      202       217      235       252        271       291        (28)      (541)     (577)      (611)            174
Camuletive Surplus                                              -         -        -         23      276      463       665       882    1,117    1,369      1,64o      1,931      1,903     1,362        785        174             -
On combined IBRD and Government flnda
2    Surplus fonds mold be re-invested under conditions sinilar to the original on-ranch investment
Government expecta to recover it. contribution to the Proje-t but does not intend to charge any interest on it.



GUATEMALA
LIVESTOCK EVELCPMENT PROJECT
Econozpic Rate.-of.<Rsturn
YEAR
ITEM                                 1         2         3        45                  6        7         b         9         10         11         12         13
-T7:(------------------------------------------ 000' Quetzales ----------… …
Aggregate of Rancher's    1/
Incremental Cash Balances         (1,344)  (2,728)  (1,492)    (4O5         738       981    1,149    1,18    1,924         2,903      3,28g      7,972      9,002
Technical Services 2/                (96)    (11.5)    (139)    (140)       -         -         -         -        -          -          -          -          _
Incremental Indirect Taxes 3/         (8)        4        42       44        41        46        60       74        93        111        113        113         68
Balance                        (1,i48)  (2.839)  (l589)    (501)         779    1,027    1,209    1,492    2,017         3,014      3,398      8,o85      9,070
The Economic Rate of Return is 20%
1/ Aggregation of individual rancher's incremental balances (Annex 2, Table 5) assuming that 120 ranchers would start investmant in the
first year of the Project and 180 the second,
2/ See Annex 3.
3/ A sale or turnover tax of 1.5% is applicable to all transactions. This estimate only includes the transactions involvirg the rancher as
a seller or as a buyer. The product generated by the Project would be involved in several transactions before reaching the consumer, each of which
would cause the paymnt of the sale tax.  However, transactions not involving the rancher have been disregarded.
'p>






A EX 8
GUAT3i4ALA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Disbursements
Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
of US$t MiNlion Loan
,US 000
Quarter                                        Quarter        Disbursed         Balar±ce
Ending       Disbursed         Balance         Ending         _ _
1971                                           197h
Jun 30            50            3,950          March 31          200             60o
Sept 30         150             3,800          June 30           200             hO0
Dec 31           250            3,550          Sept 30           150             250
Dec 31           150             100
1972
March 31         300             3,250         1975
June 30          300            2,950          March 31          100               0
Sept'30          350            2,600
Dec 31          400             2,200
1973
March 31         500            1,70O
June 30         4o0             1,300
Sept             300            1,000
Dec 31           200               800






p: mEX 8
GUATEITALA
LIVSTOCK DEVEI.OPENT PROJECT
Disbursements
Estimated Schedule of Guarterly Disbursements
of US$4 Million Loan
US$ '000
Quarter                                        Quarter       Disbursed         Bai2nee
Ending       Disbursed         Balance         Ending
1971                                           1974
Jun 30           50             3,95o         March 31          200             600
Sept 30         150             3,8c0          June 30          200              o00
Dec 31          250             3,55o          Sept 30          150             2v0
Dec 31           150             100
1972
March 31        300             3,250         1975
June 30         300             2,950         March 31          100               0
Sept 30         350             2,600
Dec 31          400             2,200
1973
March 31        500             1,700
June 30         4oo             1,300
Sept            300             1,000
Dec 31          200               800






920    GUATEMALA                                      900
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
180                      PROJECT AREA
Project area
Region boundaries              |                                                     BRITISH
._._   International boundaries            ;                                                I  HO--R-
THIS MAP IS GIVEN FOR GEOGRAPHICAL ORIENTATION ONLY AND NO FEATURE SHOULD
BE INTERPRETED TO IMPLY A POSITION TAKEN BY THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR |
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT OR ITS AFFILIATES AS TO CONTESTED BOUNDARIES.
0       ~~50          100          150   *                                          
Kilometers                        *      m    PETEN
I  I          I ~~~~~D    ETNREGION 
0        25         50        75         100
Miles
M E X I C O   0-q
MEXICO                                                             i                       G~~~~~Jo i ,ulf a
)~~~~~                                                                   I      f-  fnr-a-
160                    /                                         --                                                          16
/I COASTAL                   N
/a <        J:I CENTRAL HIGHLANDS                                                             001
k   M/,                                                                f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.00
:Guatemala City                          HON DU R AS
....... :-:: :           *Retalhuleu,                                                       ro
,...'.:.-.'' ;S  . ...   ...............                   v      ~-  _
,.,'',  ..'''"''""""'2(.............   ............   .....   . .. *_
......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f   / E N Chiquimulilla    t-10
..O...DUSTRRE IO
,.," .'"'.:''''',' .:-   '.......................    . .........    ....  . . . . . * -
.......   ::::-...2v  : .:: -- .   :................    .....    .........  /
...........   ........................-,.-.----.-.: 
I                                   v-                    --\EL  SALVADORNIAGU
..   .-   .     ...._
MEXIC .   HODUA ..   ...   .
GAEA CoribbeanSeo:.  .   .:-::...-..   .   .    ..: ...     .....  ...   .. :       
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E L   S A L V< NCRGA  D    - .R   -  c-O    
P a c i f i c O c eao n  <  <  PAN AMPA  I                        i i : .
COSTA RICA                   \VENEZUELA
Canal Zone     COLOMBIA                           so1p 90
MARCH 1970                                                                                                            [BRD-2851 R



