                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00003267




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-75730)

                                         ON A

                                        LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                        GREATER AMMAN MUNICIPALITY

      WITH A GUARANTEE OF THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                                       FOR AN

  AMMAN SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT AND CARBON FINANCE PROJECT




                                  December 30, 2014




Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice
Middle East and North Africa Region
                                            i
                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2014)
                       Currency Unit   =    Jordanian Dinar (JOD)
                              JOD 1    =    US$1.40954
                              JOD 1    =    EUR 1.02948
                               US$1    =    EUR 0.73037

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1  –  December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASWMP   Amman Solid Waste Management and Carbon Finance Project
B/C     Benefit/Cost
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDM     Clean Development Mechanism
CER     Certified Emission Reduction
DBO     Design-Build-Operate
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENPV    Economic Net Present Value
ERPA    Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement
ESMP    Environmental and Social Management Plan
FIRR    Financial Internal Rate of Return
FM      Financial Management
FNPV    Financial Net Present Value
GAM     Greater Amman Municipality
GHG     Greenhouse Gas
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IOI     Intermediate Outcome Indicator
JOD     Jordanian Dinar
LFG     Landfill Gas
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOPIC   Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MTR     Mid-Term Review
MSW     Municipal Solid Waste
MSWM    Municipal Solid Waste Management
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PDD     Project Design Document
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMU     Project Management Unit
TTL     Task Team Leader
VER     Verified Emission Reductions


                         Vice President: Gerard Byam (acting)
                      Country Director: Ferid Belhaj
                      Practice Manager: Nina Bhatt (acting)
                  Project Team Leader: Chantal Reliquet
                     ICR Team Leader: Chantal Reliquet
                            ICR Author: Christian Vang Eghoff

                                       ii
                               Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
                            Amman Solid Waste Management Project


                                                  CONTENTS


DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information 
B. Key Dates 
C. Ratings Summary 
D. Sector and Theme Codes 
E. Bank Staff 
F. Results Framework Analysis 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs 
I. Disbursement Profile 

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 45
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 46
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 47
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ..................... 599
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 60

MAP IBRD 33424 




                                                           iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                             JO-AMMAN SOLID
                                                                             WASTE
Country:                  Jordan                      Project Name:
                                                                             MANAGEMENT AND
                                                                             CARBON FINANCE
Project ID:               P104960                     L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-75730
ICR Date:                 12/22/2014                  ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                             GREATER AMMAN
Lending Instrument:       SIL                         Borrower:
                                                                             MUNICIPALITY
Original Total
                          USD 25.00M                  Disbursed Amount:      USD 9.18M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:           USD 25.00M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Greater Amman Municipality
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process                Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:           12/18/2007       Effectiveness:          03/03/2009       03/03/2009
Appraisal:                06/17/2008       Restructuring(s):
Approval:                 09/30/2008       Mid-term Review:        01/06/2012       01/06/2012
                                           Closing:                06/30/2014       06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                          Moderate
Bank Performance:                                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                           Ratings
                                                                            Moderately
Quality at Entry:         Moderately Satisfactory Government:
                                                                            Unsatisfactory
                          Moderately                  Implementing          Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                          Unsatisfactory              Agency/Agencies:      Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank              Moderately                  Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:              Unsatisfactory              Performance:          Unsatisfactory




                                                      i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other Renewable Energy                                                                     35
 Public administration- Water, sanitation and flood
                                                                      3
protection
Solid waste management                                                97                   65


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery                         30                   50
Pollution management and environmental health                         70                   50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Gerard A. Byam                       Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Ferid Belhaj                         Hedi Larbi
Practice
                           Nina Bhatt                           Jonathan D. Walters
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Chantal Reliquet                     Jaafar Sadok Friaa
ICR Team Leader:           Chantal Reliquet
ICR Primary Author:        Christian Vang Eghoff


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the proposed project are to strengthen the operational,
financial, and environmental performance of MSWM in Amman.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target   Formally       Actual Value
                                                 Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval        Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)        Values        Target Years
                  Percentage of collected municipal solid waste disposed of and managed in a
Indicator 1 :
                  sanitary landfill increased from 0 to 80%.
Value
quantitative or   0                          80%                                  100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/28/2008                 06/30/2014                           06/30/2014
Comments
                  The target was met due to landfill construction funded by the project and further
(incl. %
                  surpassed due to improvements to transfer stations and vehicle routing.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     160,000 MWh generated through the LFG recovery system by 2013.
Value
quantitative or   0                          160,000                              0
Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/28/2008                  06/30/2014                        06/30/2014
Comments          The LFG recovery system was commissioned just before project closing in June
(incl. %          2014. Gas flaring pilot is completed, but no equipment installed for electricity
achievement)      generation.
Indicator 3 :     Cost-recovery ratio for SWM improved from 63% in 2007 to 75% by 2013.
Value
quantitative or   63%                        75%                                  52%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2007                  06/30/2014                      06/30/2014
Comments          The total cost of collection was JOD 42.0 M in 2013, with cost recovery of JOD
(incl. %          21.9 M (16.4 M from households, 2.2 M from the commercial sector, and 3.4 M
achievement)      from tipping fees).

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                                Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                  approval                         Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                          Target Years
                  Disposal infrastructure constructed at Al Ghabawi landfill for a total capacity of
Indicator 1 :
                  8 million tons of waste.
Value
(quantitative     6                          8                                    8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/28/2008                  06/30/2014                           06/30/2014
Comments          The PAD baseline was 0 but the project aimed at constructing 1.65 M ton
(incl. %          capacity for a total capacity of 8 M tons. The last ISR retains 10 M tons, which
achievement)      includes overload of the first three cells at the landfill, beyond design capacity.
Indicator 2 :     Discharge from the leachate treatment facility meets Jordanian standards.
Value
(quantitative     0                          Target met                           Target met
or Qualitative)

                                                   iii
Date achieved 08/28/2008                    06/30/2014                           06/30/2014
Comments
                No leachate is currently discharged, as all is recycled to assure adequate
(incl. %
                humidity of the waste for LFG production.
achievement)
                160,000 MWh produced and connected to the electricity grid by 2013
Indicator 3 :
                (cumulative).
Value
(quantitative   0                          160,000                               0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/28/2008                    06/30/2014                           06/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        See PDO indicator.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : 950,000 tons of CERs (as CO2 equivalent) generated by 2013 (cumulative).
Value
(quantitative   0                          950,000                               0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/28/2008                    06/30/2014                           06/30/2014
                No CERs were generated due to delay in implementing the DBO contract with
Comments
                subsequent withdrawal of the purchaser from the ERPA. Starting in June 2014
(incl. %
                the project has been flaring LFG for a trial period of 3 months, which results in
achievement)
                CO2 reductions.
                The ratio of kilometers travelled by collection vehicles in districts served by new
Indicator 5 : transfer stations to the total tons of municipal waste collected in those districts
                (km/tons) is reduced.
Value
(quantitative   5.5                        2.5                                   Not calculable
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/28/2008                    06/30/2014                           06/30/2014
Comments        Although the indicator is not calculable, it is estimated that the ratio of km/ton
(incl. %        has been reduced due to implemented technical changes to transfer stations and
achievement) collection vehicle routing.
Indicator 6 : Sector monitoring reports produced on a quarterly basis to management.
Value
                                                                                 Reports not
(quantitative   0                          Reports produced
                                                                                 produced
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/28/2008                    06/30/2014                           06/30/2014
Comments        The M&E study experienced delays and was only finalized just before project
(incl. %        closing and the conclusions are being validated before the M&E software will be
achievement) fully operationalized.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     12/10/2008          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     06/12/2009          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     2.00
  3     12/22/2009          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     2.00
  4     06/16/2010      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              2.00
  5     02/22/2011      Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              3.00
                                                  iv
                         Moderately                    Moderately
  6    07/26/2011                                                           4.00
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  7    04/27/2012   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory   4.00
  8    12/26/2012      Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory         4.93
  9    07/04/2013      Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory         4.93
 10    12/28/2013      Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory         4.93
                                                       Moderately
 11    05/25/2014       Unsatisfactory                                      4.93
                                                     Unsatisfactory
                                                       Moderately
 12    06/28/2014       Unsatisfactory                                      4.93
                                                     Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                              v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country context
1.       During the five years prior to project appraisal, Jordan had maintained strong
economic performance, and real GDP growth remained high at 6.4 percent in 2006. Political
stability provided an environment conducive for implementing reforms despite continuing
security threats and regional tensions. Environmental degradation, estimated in 2003 to cost
3.1 percent of GDP, affected the health of Jordanian citizens, hindered access to the EU
market, and jeopardized the country’s high tourism potential. Municipal solid waste
management (MSWM) was an important component of the country’s environmental agenda,
with high waste production per capita and urban population increasing at 2.3 percent per
year, pushed upwards by the flow of migrants from neighboring countries such as Iraq and
the West Bank. The metropolitan area of Amman accounted for 2.2 million of the country’s
total population of about 5.7 million. A strong revenue base, anchored mainly in property
taxes and service fees, enabled the Greater Amman Municipality (GAM) to maintain a
balanced budget.

Sector context
2.      The municipal solid waste (MSW) collection rate was quite high, estimated at 90
percent in urban areas and 75 percent in rural areas. About half of the active landfill sites in
Jordan adopted open dumping as a disposal method, and disposal practices in other landfill
sites were often inadequate in terms of environment and work safety. GAM accounted for
approximately 50 percent of Jordan’s total MSW and had a fully functional MSWM system.
In 2003 GAM established a new semi-controlled landfill at Ghabawi, located 30 kilometers
outside the city. The municipality directly managed waste collection, transfer at three transfer
stations, and disposal. GAM’s MSWM was remarkable in several respects: MSW was
collected on a daily basis from almost 100 percent of residents and the solid waste cost
recovery rates were estimated to be among the best in the Middle East and North Africa,
achieved through electricity surcharges and commercial solid waste fees.

3.      Compared to many other municipalities in the Middle East and North Africa Region,
Amman was doing a significantly better job at both providing MSWM services and
recouping costs from its customers. However, there were serious inefficiencies in MSWM
and there was scope for both reducing costs – through improving the efficiency of waste
collection and transfer – and strengthening revenues through the sale of Certified Emissions
Reductions (CERs) and energy generated through landfill gas (LFG). This had been piloted at
the decommissioned Russeifa landfill site but there was no LFG capture in place at Ghabawi.
There were also shortcomings in GAM’s technical capacity to plan, operate, monitor and
evaluate MSW services, and the new landfill had inadequate leachate management and
experienced delays to expansion of disposal capacity, which had led to overloading of cell 1.
The high collection cost was not covered by MSWM revenues, which resulted in high
transfers from general revenues to cover solid waste service costs.

Strategy of the government and Greater Amman Municipality
4.     The solid waste sector was among the target areas of the government’s National
Agenda, which established targets for increasing the percentage of MSW disposed of in an
environmentally sound manner (from 50 percent in 2003 to 70 percent in 2013). The

                                               1
country’s solid waste sector regulation had been strengthened but progress remained to be
made in terms of policy, planning, and financing. The government was developing sector
policies, laws and regulations, and had also set up an Executive Privatization Commission to
stimulate and drive private sector participation in infrastructure. The National Energy
Strategy called for the development of renewable and sustainable energy.

5.     GAM had recently developed, with support from the World Bank and other donors,
an urban master plan that provided a framework for infrastructure, planning and zoning,
service provision, community development, and private sector participation in municipal
services. At the heart of the master plan was the improvement of municipal services,
including for MSWM, consistent with the National Agenda.

Rationale for World Bank involvement
6.      The Amman Solid Waste Management and Carbon Finance Project (ASWMP) was to
be the first World Bank operation in Jordan to systematically address MSW issues. The Bank
was well poised to partner in supporting GAM’s improvement of its MSWM system and in
taking advantage of the international carbon finance market due to its ability to provide an
integrated package of services, including investment financing, purchase of carbon credits in
the form of CERs, and technical assistance.

7.      The project was consistent with the 2006 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Jordan, which underscored the significance of the environmental agenda and its linkages with
local development. On solid waste in particular, the CAS highlighted the increasing drain of
public funds for MSWM. The project built on the inclusion in the CAS of a carbon finance
operation in the solid waste sector by proposing an integrated approach. Finally, the project
was also fully consistent with the Bank’s strategy, adopted in 2005, to further engage in
carbon finance.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
8.      The PDO of the project was to strengthen the operational, financial, and
environmental performance of MSWM in Amman. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
and the Loan Agreement stated, in slightly different ways, the means to reach this PDO
(upgrade and expand the landfill, generate electricity while mitigating greenhouse gas
(GHG), and improve cost effectiveness and cost recovery through increased private sector
participation). In the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR), the achievement
of PDO as actually stated is evaluated primarily through the key indicators (listed below and
somewhat aligned to the stated means to reach the PDO), as well as the Intermediate
Outcome Indicators (IOIs), and by analyzing other available supporting evidence.

      Percentage of collected MSW disposed of and managed in a sanitary landfill
       increased from 0 to 80 percent.
      Generation of 160,000 MWh through the LFG recovery system by 2013.
      Cost-recovery ratio for MSWM improved from 63 percent in 2007 to 75 percent by
       2013.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
9.     The PDO and key indicators were not revised.



                                             2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
10.     The main beneficiaries were the population of Amman who would benefit from better
and more cost-efficient MSWM and cleaner environment. The GAM administration would
benefit from improved means to implement the mandate of service delivery through training,
improved cost-recovery, and general improved sector efficiency.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Development (US$1.6 million)
11.      This component was to finance technical assistance and capacity-building activities
benefiting GAM departments involved in MSWM. The component was to finance: (1)
technical assistance to GAM in operating the Ghabawi landfill and monitoring a Design-
Build-Operate (DBO) LFG-to-electricity contract; and (2) engineering services for
supervising all civil works contracts, including construction of cell 3 and upgrade of the
existing leachate treatment facility, and construction of the two new transfer stations. Other
activities included based on the GAM master plan were: (3) support for strategic planning in
MSWM systems including collection, recycling, sorting, transfer and landfilling, and update
of procurement guidelines, regulations and practices in GAM; (4) support for piloting private
sector participation in MSWM; (5) development of a MSWM monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) system, integrating environmental and financial information; and (6) development
and implementation of a public information, education, and communication program.

Component 2: Infrastructure Development (US$34.5 million)
12.     The component included three subcomponents: (1) construction of cell 3 of the
Ghabawi landfill and upgrade of the leachate treatment facility (cell 1 was full and cell 2 in
use); (2) construction and equipment of two new transfer stations to service the Northwest
and Southwest areas of Amman; and (3) implementation of a 5-year DBO contract for an
LFG-to-electricity system at Ghabawi (LFG recovery system for cells 1, 2, and 3, and
installation of 6 MW electricity generation capacity). Implementation of this sub-component
was intended to enable income generation from the sale of CERs and electricity.

Component 3: Project Management (US$0.4 million)
13.   The component was to finance technical assistance to the Project Management Unit
(PMU) being established in GAM to undertake day-to-day project management.

Attached Carbon Finance Operation
14.    The World Bank committed to purchasing part of the CERs resulting from the project,
in accordance with the procedures of the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) established
under the Kyoto Protocol and as reflected in an Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement
(ERPA). The ERPA was signed in January 2009 for 0.9 million tons of CO2 equivalent of
CERs from 2009 to 2014, valued at EUR 10.5 per CER (total contract value EUR 9.5
million). The World Bank CER purchase was on behalf of the Carbon Fund for Europe. As a
perquisite to the recognition of the project under the CDM and certification of emission
reductions, the Bank was to develop and submit, in coordination with GAM, a Project Design
Document (PDD). Registration by the CDM Executive Board was subject to validation of the
PDD by an independent validator.

1.6 Revised Components
15.     The components were not formally revised but some activities were changed during
implementation. The main changes were: (1) dropping the upgrade of the leachate treatment
plant, since leachate was recirculated onto the landfill and no leachate was released to the

                                              3
surrounding environment; and (2) substituting the construction of two new transfer stations
under the project with upgrade of one existing transfer station under GAM’s own budget.

1.7 Other significant changes
16.    The ERPA was cancelled when the project failed to deliver CERs within the required
timeframe. This is explained in detail in section 2.2.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
17.     There was good engagement by the government of Jordan as well as GAM
authorities. The government was actively involved through providing a loan guarantee and
participating in an Advisory Committee before project appraisal. GAM laid out a vision for
the sector during preparation, notably focusing on removing itself from day-to-day provision
of MSWM services to focus instead on strategic planning, policy-setting, and M&E, with an
increased presence of the private sector in service provision. GAM also agreed to establish
the PMU in April 2008, well before appraisal, finance all salaries and cost related to project
management, and initially staffing the PMU with a contracted project manager and a
seconded procurement specialist. More personnel was also seconded during implementation.
GAM had in place procurement procedures with a clear procurement manual, but since GAM
staff was not familiar with World Bank procurement procedures, relevant GAM staff
received training in World Bank procurement procedures during preparation.

18.     The component design was based on detailed feasibility studies, completed before
appraisal and analyzing different MSWM investment scenarios. The Environment and Social
Impact Assessment for planned investments was based on field investigations and public
consultations, including with affected population groups, key stakeholders and NGOs.
Additionally, the Bank had been able to leverage its experience with carbon finance
operations in the solid waste sector in the design of the landfill itself, so as to maximize
potential carbon revenues. For this reason, the project was designed as an investment
operation with an attached carbon finance operation to boost revenues and produce
environmental benefits through reduced GHG emissions. The PDD required to register the
project with the CDM had been developed but it was too optimistic to expect that the CDM
activity could be registered shortly after project approval and CERs be produced in the first
semester of 2009.

19.     The project was designed to address the main identified weaknesses in MSWM in
GAM and to support the strategy of increased private sector participation by bringing in an
operator for the Ghabawi landfill and supporting GAM to develop strategic plans for further
private sector participation. An M&E system for the sector to track costs, revenues, and
operations was included in the project as a tool to support better planning and help address
sector inefficiencies. The project would also fund two new transfer stations, which had been
identified as the best option to improve efficiency given the distance from the landfill of the
three existing transfer stations. It was expected that these facilities would increase the
proportion of MSW transported through transfer stations from 75 percent to 95 percent and
thereby reduce the cost of both collection and transfer of municipal solid waste in Amman.
The project included the construction of an additional waste cell at Ghabawi (cell 3), but it
was a design shortcoming to not specifically address disposal needs beyond cell 3, which
would be filled before the end of the project.



                                              4
20.     While the project would be the first World Bank-assisted MSWM project in Jordan
and the only Bank loan to the city of Amman after twenty years, the Bank’s recent experience
in Jordan’s municipal sector included the Jordan Community Development Project (closed on
June 2004) and the ongoing Regional and Local Development Project (approved in
November 2006). One of the valuable lessons learned from these projects was that attention
should be paid to the sustainability of investments at the municipal level, in particular by
strengthening the financial and technical capacity of municipalities. The Bank’s global
experience in SWM and LFG capture projects was also incorporated in the project design.
This led the project to provide institutional strengthening and support to establishing an
appropriate organizational structure for MSWM to overcome low local government technical
and managerial capacity for strategic planning and a step-by step approach to private sector
participation, including contract enforcement. Experience had also demonstrated that without
strong public participation and communication to address public concerns, projects that
depend on changes in public behavior are likely to fail. For that reason, the project design
included information, education, and communication activities.

21.    Other projects had encountered problems with overestimation of LFG systems
performance and delivery of fewer CERs than forecast. To avoid this situation, the Bank
engaged a senior LFG consultant. Several available models were used to estimate LFG
generation and capture, using the most conservative LFG forecasts.

22.     A number of risks were identified in the PAD, the most substantial ones of which
pertaining to counterpart financing, implementation capacity, and internal coordination
within GAM These risks were mitigated through ensuring annual budget allocations to the
project, upstream training of the PMU, and establishing a cross-departmental Advisory
Committee. Due to the ongoing revision process of GAM’s financial management procedures
and systems, it was deemed necessary to keep the project accounting separate from GAM’s
overall accounting and to assign a financial management (FM) staff dedicated to the project.
Further, the LFG estimates were set conservatively to avoid overestimating the carbon and
electricity revenues and the eventuality of fluctuating carbon prices was estimated in the
economic analysis but not substantially treated from a risk mitigation perspective, including
the economic and financial risk of delayed delivery of carbon revenues.

23.     Some risks were not fully addressed in the PAD however. They later materialized
however and had a substantial impact on the project outcome. For example, the risk of
securing sites for the transfer stations was rated as moderate, since a list of potential and
feasible sites had been identified. While this showed some advancement in preparation, the
politically contentious nature of implantation of MSWM facilities in urban areas was not
sufficiently recognized. Also, the complex process to get the PDD approved was not
identified. Changes to GAM management was expected to be mitigated through the
establishment of the Advisory Committee, but the lengthy processes for approval of
procurement decisions within GAM (in bloated technical and procurement committees and
by the Mayor) and with the relevant ministries was not identified. Later problems to attract
qualified bidders for the DBO contract were not easy to predict, but given the criticality of
the contract to project success, this should have at least figured in the risk section, to
complement the statement that the procurement process was well advanced. While the Bank
should be willing to take informed risk, this requires that all elements of risk be identified at
appraisal.



                                               5
24.     The quality at entry was moderately satisfactory. The overall project design was
innovative and built on good analysis of sector needs and definition of relevant PDO sub-
objectives targeting shortcomings in financial, environmental and operational performance of
MSWM in GAM. The M&E framework had some relevant PDO indicators but also had
shortcomings, such as optimistically set cumulative targets (see section 2.3). The project
preparation period was used to advance preparation of bidding documents, and the
prequalification for the DBO contract was advertised in May 2008, before project approval in
anticipation of contract signing shortly after project effectiveness. There were shortcomings
however in risk assessment and mitigation measures, which later resulted in implementation
slippages. The project would have had a more realistic implementation schedule if
procurement bottlenecks and approval process for the PDD had been analyzed in more detail.

2.2 Implementation
25.    The project was approved by the World Bank Board of Directors on September 30,
2008 and declared effective on March 3, 2009. The project encountered serious
implementation difficulties related to the procurement and completion of the main investment
component, the DBO contract of the LFG-to-electricity system on the Ghabawi landfill, and
the linked carbon finance operation. This is explained below, along with other
implementation difficulties and the solutions sought to correct project performance. Frequent
turnover in the GAM mayor’s office, with three changes of mayors, and lengthy approval
processes contributed to delays.

26.     Despite the fact that the pre-qualification of the DBO contract started before project
appraisal, the list of pre-qualified bidders was only cleared by the Bank in December 2009.
This proved more time and effort-consuming than expected, in particular because the pre-
qualification had to be re-launched after only two firms were retained following the initial
pre-qualification, which had too restrictive selection criteria on financial strength. The second
pre-qualification round retained four candidates. Meanwhile, the DBO bidding documents
underwent revisions. To reduce investment risk for GAM, a two-tranche design (one full, one
conditional) was adopted to allow for confirmation of the actual quantity and quality of
generated gas before the required power generation capacity is decided. The selection process
was finalized in November 2011. Overall delays were due to the re-launch of the pre-
qualification, GAM’s long evaluation processes, delays in getting endorsement of the
contract by the Prime Minister, changes of ministers, and GAM’s own reluctance to award
the contract without strong assurances on the revenues that were to be generated through the
associated carbon finance operation (which had not yet been registered with the CDM at the
time).

27.     After the award, and in spite of pre-bid site visits having been conducted with
candidates, disagreements arose between GAM and the DBO contractor regarding the
condition of the landfill. The disagreements mainly concerned the slope of cell 1, which the
contractor found to differ from the description provided in the bidding documents. This
delayed signing of the DBO contract until January 2012. The DBO contractor was asked to
start work on cell 2 (instead of on cell 1), but GAM and the contractor were not able to agree
on changes to quantities and prices. While the Bank team had agreed that GAM's strategy to
deal with these issues was adequate, the DBO contractor considered higher quantities were
needed at higher prices, without providing justification. These disagreements dragged on
until an agreement was only signed on December 26, 2013 to start works on cell 2. Works
started in January 2014 and were completed before project closing.


                                               6
28.     In December 2009, the lack of progress on the selection of sites for the transfer
stations was raised as a problem to achieve the project’s cost effectiveness objective. GAM
promised to identify sites by August 2010, purchase the land for the Southwest transfer
station, hire a consultant to prepare the design, and expropriate or purchase land for the
Northwest transfer station. Later this deadline was postponed by GAM to June 2011, and
finally the Ministry of Environment rejected the sites due to proximity to residential areas
and fear that price of land would be affected negatively. GAM was actively involved in
finding a workable and reasonable alternative and took the decision to finance an upgrade to
an existing transfer station (at Sha’eer) with addition of three compactor lines at a cost of
about JOD 4 million.

29.     While these problems were causing implementation delays, there were parallel
difficulties to get the PDD approved and uncertainties regarding carbon revenue for GAM.
The PDD went through 14 revisions due to changes to very specific procedures and
methodological requirements, combined with lengthy review process by the independent
validator and CDM Executive Board. Some procedures changed between the time of
submission of the PDD to the independent validator and the time of the reviews, which led to
a rejection on the basis of on procedural aspects beyond the control of the Bank.

30.     To take into account the delayed delivery of CERs due to the DBO contract delays,
and to cater to GAM’s concern regarding uncertainty of carbon revenue, the ERPA was
renegotiated in October 2011. At this time, the Bank accepted to purchase the 320,000
Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) expected to be generated over the remainder of the
project, to protect GAM from PDD registration risks (unlike CERs, VERs would be
generated even if the project did not register with the CDM). GAM also accepted that the first
three phases of the LFG system would not generate positive financial net present value
(FNPV). GAM still explicitly decided to continue with the project because of the economic
value for the country of a project that would generate electricity from a renewable source at a
cost substantially inferior to the true economic cost of electricity in Jordan and because the
marginal cost of investing for subsequent cells (4 to 9) would be much lower, once the initial
investment would have been completed for three first cells. The PDD was finally registered
in January 2012, but when it appeared that the DBO contract had still failed to deliver the
required VERs within a reasonable timeframe, the ERPA was then de facto terminated in
December 2012. The Bank agreed to cover, on an exceptional basis, expenses for preparation
and approval of the PDD (amounting to about US$0.5 million) that the client would normally
have had to cover.

31.    Procurement for the important MSWM study also took some time to get underway
and the contract was only signed in April 2010. The quality of the reports were not acceptable
to GAM (which found they lacked the required recommendations and advice), and while the
contractor complained of GAM’s lack of responsiveness, the contract expired in 2011 and
was only reactivated in 2014, when the consultant accepted to replace key team members.
The final report was submitted in June 2014.

32.    The MSW M&E system was also delayed. After launching the expression of interest
in September 2010, the contract was finally awarded in July 2012. Implementation of the
study caused problems due to the need to link up with GAM’s already existing IT systems,
which caused software issues. The initial 12-month contract was extended for another 12
months due to the software problems as well as GAM’s internal review processes. The study


                                              7
was finalized by project closing but the M&E system was not yet operational and able to
generate data and reports.

33.     Due to delays to project implementation schedule and problems to find suitable sites
for the transfer stations, a restructuring was discussed during the mission in January 2011.
The restructuring was ultimately not implemented. The reason given was that a restructuring
should be based on firm estimates of a new project end date (which was not known since the
DBO contract had still not been signed) and more solid basis to set new performance targets.
In June 2011 the progress towards achieving PDO and overall implementation progress was
downgraded to MU.

34.     The Mid-term Review was carried out in January 2012. Based on apparent progress at
the time with signing of the DBO contract and finalized procurement for other key activities
and registering of the PDD in January 2012, after the Mid-Term Review (MTR) it was
expected that project implementation would pick up and that the PDO could still be achieved.
This was not a reasonable assumption, since all evidence pointed to the impossibility of
achieving the cumulative indicator target on generation of 160,000 MWh of electricity, and
the value of the PDO indicator on cost recovery had not been updated since inception.

35.     Following the MTR, a project extension was tabled by GAM but not formally
requested. This would have included a reallocation to include cell 4 of the Ghabawi landfill
in the project. However, per request of the government, final decision regarding the transfer
stations (from which the funds would have been reallocated) had been deferred and was to be
further discussed as part of possible project restructuring during a supervision mission
scheduled for June 2012. In the end the tabled restructuring was not done, due to the renewed
contractual difficulties between GAM and the DBO contractor.

36.     As the works on the LGF-to-electricity system were finally launched in 2014, GAM
and the Bank reopened discussions regarding the project restructuring and the closing date
extension. A formal request for extension by 18 months was sent by the Ministry of Planning
and International Cooperation (MOPIC) on March 10, 2014. This was presented as sufficient
to complete the three phases of the DBO contract, given that construction was well under
way. The Bank carefully analyzed and weighed the benefits of extension against the risk and
finally did not consent to the restructuring due to the low disbursement rate, the history of
contractual difficulties with the DBO contractor, the low probability of reaching project
outcomes within a reasonable timeframe, and pending issues with GAM audits (see
section 2.4). A second joint request for extension was sent by MOPIC and GAM to the Bank
on June 3, 2014 and was also rejected. It was found that an extension would not benefit GAM
nor improve the outcome of the project due to low disbursement rates, and that pending
consultancies and audit issues also counted against an extension.

37.     At project closing, the DBO phase 1 was completed (LFG capture on cell 2 with pilot
phase flaring of gas for three months ongoing). The preliminary results of the pilot-flaring
phase were very positive, generating more LFG than the contractor’s projections and almost
twice the amount of the more conservative estimates in the model used for the economic and
financial analysis. Further, the gas is of good quality (about 55 percent methane compared to
estimated 50 percent and with low content of non-GHG components). The study relative to
the preparation of a public awareness program was also finalized just before project closing.
The study is being mainstreamed into GAMs overall communication strategy.


                                             8
38.    A final request for retroactive extension was sent by MOPIC on July 7, 2014. This
was rejected during a meeting between the Minister and the World Bank Regional Vice
President in late July.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design
39.    The project results framework had useful PDO indicators to monitor the three aspects
of the PDO. A better indicator to measure operational efficiency would however have been
the percentage of waste collected going through a transfer station, as this was identified as a
major objective for the construction of the two new transfer stations.

40.     The cumulative nature of the PDO indicator 2 on electricity generation and IOI
indicator 4 on CERs meant that the achievement of expected results would be highly
sensitive to any project implementation delays. Since the ERPA was signed only in January
2009, it was unreasonable to expect that the project would start generating CERs as early as
April 2009, after having been through the entire procurement process for the DBO contract,
the installation of the landfill gas extraction system and the testing phase. Also, the IOI
indicator 5 on ratio of kilometers travelled by collection vehicles appears to have been based
on an estimate and turned out not to be measurable during implementation. Baselines and
targets were available for all indicators and the project was designed to support
implementation of an integrated M&E system that would provide real time data on GAM’s
performance regarding MSWM’s costs, revenues, and operations.

Implementation
41.     Reporting on project progress was regular and aide-memoires and ISRs were used to
highlight concerns regarding implementation and propose solutions. The Bank team also
updated the efficiency analysis when needed (i.e. when the ERPA was renegotiated) as input
to dialogue with GAM. A shortcoming was that ratings in ISRs at times relied on estimates of
future progress rather than current status based on analysis of results data (e.g. the ISR7 filed
following the MTR upgraded the PDO and IP ratings from MU to MS, although the only
difference was the signing of the DBO contract, with no actual construction ongoing and no
change to indicator values). The tracking of indicator values was not always regular. As an
example, the PDO cost recovery indicator was not calculated for 2009 and 2010, but only
tracked starting in 2012 (based on 2011 numbers). When a restructuring was discussed, it was
also intended to drop the indicator on kilometers traveled, since the task team was not able to
measure the results. The project activity concerning the development of an overall M&E
system to track MSWM performance in GAM was designed during the project but, due to
implementation delays, was not yet operational by the time the project closed.

Utilization
42.     The Bank was actively using project progress data to highlight areas of concern and
work with GAM to find solutions, in particular to the DBO contract, by helping GAM
analyze alternative technical solutions and weigh risk of continuing or canceling the contract.
Risk and uncertainty analysis was also regularly updated by the Bank and reflected in aide-
memoires and ISRs to guide restructuring or extension considerations. However, results data
was not used to restructure the project when it should have been apparent that the project
would not achieve its objective within the original project timeframe. Several restructurings
were tabled by GAM or discussed in ISRs around the time of the MTR. In spite of this, the
recurrent uncertainties around commencement of the DBO contract and a request by the

                                               9
government to await a decision on the selection of sites for transfer stations were the main
factors behind repeated postponement of the restructuring. In hindsight, the restructuring
should have been carried out to at least align indicator target values to expected
implementation schedule and the amended ERPA, with reduced emission reduction quantities
and electricity generation forecasts. If ratings had been based on actual progress against
indicators (that is without upgrading ratings based on expected future results and
disbursements) this could have potentially triggered a restructuring after the MTR.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards compliance
43.     The ASWMP was classified as category "A" project and triggered Operational Policy
4.01 on Environmental Assessment and Operational Policy 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement.
An Environmental and Social Management Framework, an Environmental and Social Impact
Assessment, a related Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) and a
Resettlement Policy Framework were prepared, approved the Ministry of Environment and
the Bank, and disclosed before project appraisal in country and at Infoshop. No resettlement
took place under the project. The planned two new transfer stations, the only project activity
that could have entailed resettlement, were not constructed.

44.     GAM recruited a full-time environmental engineer to assist with supervising the
implementation of the Environmental and Social Management Plan at Ghabawi, which
included installation of groundwater monitoring. During 2009 waste pickers started entering
the landfill site, but this practice was stopped through dialogue, repairing the fence around
the landfill, and assuring adequate daily soil cover. The police building already in place was
staffed and surveillance of the landfill was effective. Following upgrade of the Sha’eer
transfer station (under GAM funding, not funded by the ASWMP), the project assured an
update of the Environmental and Social Management Plan. This resulted in training and
better practice by transporters to cover waste loads being hauled to the landfill. World Bank
safeguards procedures were fully complied with.

Fiduciary compliance
45.     Procurement. The PMU in GAM was responsible for all procurement under the
project with procurement staff seconded from GAM. The project encountered difficulties due
to the lack of qualified bidders on the main project activity (the DBO contract). This was not
due to the performance of the procurement team but was caused by complicated financial and
technical requirements. On the other hand, slow procurement processing was responsible for
substantial delays throughout the project, largely due to the bloated procurement committees,
change of leadership in GAM and delays to get final approval of awards and contracts. The
project also provided several rounds of procurement training to the PCU. All implemented
contracts were prior review and reviews by the Bank did not reveal any irregularities. World
Bank procurement procedures were complied with.

46.     Financial management. The PCU in GAM was also responsible for financial
management, with FM staff seconded from GAM. The timeliness of entity audits (audits of
all GAM accounts, required since the Loan Agreement was signed with GAM as a sub-
national entity) caused problems starting in 2011 and until the project closed. The entity audit
reports for 2011, 2012, and 2013 were still not received by the closing of the project. The
reason given by GAM was changes to financial management systems in 2011, which made
auditing difficult, combined with delays to recruit the auditor.


                                              10
47.     The project accounts were kept separately and used a different accounting system.
One project external annual audit report (for 2011) was received with delay, but all other
project external audits were received on time. The final audit (for 2014) is due by February
28, 2015. At project closing there were overdue IFRs for Q3 and Q4 of 2013, delays in
processing payments to contractors, inactive designated account, and instability of the FM
staff. Due to the mentioned problems, the project financial management was rated MU
starting in December 2012 and was rated Unsatisfactory in the last ISR. GAM has been
granted a two-month extension beyond the normal four-month grace period to submit
expenditures. The Bank carried out regular FM supervision missions to follow upon these
issues. All project audit reports and IFRs were reviewed by the Bank and comments provided
to the Borrower. Due to the problems with submission of entity audit reports, the project did
not comply with the FM legal covenant on annual audit of GAM as per the Loan Agreement.
Regular FM reviews did not reveal any cases of fraud or corruption

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
48.     All infrastructures financed by the project (Ghabawi landfill cell 3 and LFG capture
and flaring system) are commissioned. Cell 3 is already full and is no longer receiving waste
and cell 4 is under construction, with temporary disposal of waste on cell 5. On November
14, 2014 GAM confirmed the conditional tranche to the contractor (phases 2 and 3 of the
DBO contract, i.e. adding cells 3 and 1 to the LFG capture system and installing electricity
generation capacity). An agreement was reached for the contractor to keep some personnel on
the landfill while the contractor develops revised specs and conditions for the next phases
(given the time lapsed since the original offer). These are to be presented and discussed by
end December, 2014.

49.    During discussions between GAM and World Bank management in September 2014,
the Bank indicated that it is willing to continue to work with GAM on MSWM issues and
urban environment more broadly. From discussions with other donors during the mission and
as confirmed by GAM in December 2014, it is very likely that other sources of financing will
be available for phase 2 and 3 of the DBO contract. The discussions are advanced and final
approval of the funding could take place by April 2015. However, GAM is determined to
implement the full DBO contract irrespective of available financing.

50.     The registration of the PDD is still valid, and the project still has potential to generate
carbon revenue. Although the current prospect for the sale of CERs is meager, with a price of
CERs below EUR 1, some funds (such as the Nordic Environment Finance Corporation) have
launched calls for proposals for the purchase of carbon credits with a ceiling price of EUR 4
per CER. The World Bank has launched the Pilot Auction Facility for Methane and Climate
Change Mitigation, which is scheduled to become operational around June 2015. Further, the
Partnership for Market Readiness (which supports capacity building to scale up climate
mitigation and for which the World Bank Carbon Finance Unit serves as secretariat) is
currently exploring the possibility to support both GAM and the Ministry of Municipal
Affairs in identifying solid waste-related climate integration opportunities.

51.     The strategic plan for MSWM in Amman is available and includes recommendations
on increased separation at source and material recovery, as well as establishment of a public-
private partnership unit in GAM, further private sector participation in collection, transport,
and landfill operation (including LFG capture and energy production beyond cell 1-3). The
economic analysis demonstrates high rates of return to Jordan of this type of investment due


                                                11
to saved alternative electricity production cost, and if success is demonstrated at Ghabawi,
there is good potential for replication to other landfills in Jordan.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
52.    The relevance of the ASWMP objectives and design are substantial, based on the high
relevance of the objectives and the modest relevance of the design.

53.     Objectives: High. Addressing operational, financial, and environmental performance
of MSWM in Amman and generating electricity from sustainable sources remains highly
relevant to current development priorities for GAM, the government, and the World Bank.
The new MSWM strategy in GAM focuses on improved cost recovery and MSWM
collection efficiency, as well as leveraging LFG capture and sustainable energy production.
Overall Jordanian MSWM is being supported by the Bank under the ongoing Regional and
Local Development Project and the replication of ASWMP objectives to the national level in
the draft national MSWM strategy testifies to continued relevance. The objective of
generating revenues from electricity and reaping the economic benefits to Jordan from
reduced alternative electricity production cost remains highly relevant (see Section 3.3). The
expected outcomes of the World Bank Country Partnership Strategy (2012-2015) include
development of new electricity generation capacity in order to meet growing demand and
scale-up in implementation of renewable energy and energy efficiency activities, as well as
better urban environment in the Greater Amman Region and increased Jordanian contribution
to the climate change mitigation agenda. The Bank’s Environmental Strategy (2012-2022)
underscores the role of the private sector in achieving sustainable and inclusive economic
growth and development.

54.     Design and implementation: Modest. The design of landfill construction and technical
assistance were sound, but the difficulties to find suitable sites for transfer stations were
underestimated. The innovative nature of the project included mutually reinforcing aspects
(IBRD Loan and linked ERPA), but they turned out to be difficult to implement in practice.
Full success of the project as appraised depended on unrealistically fast procurement and
implementation of the DBO contract and registration of the PDD. A shortcoming was
omission regarding identification of exogenous factors (CDM complexity) and an M&E
framework with unrealistic achievement of cumulative targets for the PDO indicator on
electricity generation and the IOI indicator on CO2 emission reductions. The project would
have had better chances of closing with a successful result if a timely restructuring of the
project had been implemented to align objectives with realities on the ground or if the closing
date had been extended. In the absence of corrective action, the project closed with a less
than satisfactory result, in spite of prospects of increased value added in the future.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
55.    The achievement of PDO was modest, as measured by the PDO indicators and
supporting evidence. Assessment of the degree of achievement of the PDO is based on
progress made in the thematic areas of the PDO. The target for one of three key indicators
was achieved while two others fell short of target:

 (a) PDO indicator 1 target for waste disposal was fully achieved: currently 100 percent of
     collected MSW is disposed of in a sanitary landfill, compared to a baseline of 0 percent
     and target of 80 percent.


                                              12
 (b) PDO indicator 2 target for electricity generation was not achieved: at the time of project
     closing, the project had not yet generated electricity (target of 160,000 MWh
     cumulative).
 (c) PDO indicator 3 target for cost-recovery ratio was not achieved: the target was to
     improve cost-recovery ratio for MSWM from 63 percent to 75 percent. Although there
     is uncertainty about data validity (see below), cost recovery declined to about 52
     percent, according to figures from GAM.

56.     These results support a modest rating for achievement of PDO. Overall, the project
made substantial contributions to improved MSWM in GAM and progress was achieved in
all three areas of the PDO, although not enough to meet the targets set at appraisal, and which
remain in effect at closing. The available new MSWM strategy builds on the achievements
and lessons learned under the project, which means there are good prospects of continued
improvement to MSWM in GAM, and that indicators could still be met in the future. From a
strategic perspective it should also be mentioned that private sector participation to MSWM
was piloted through the DBO contract and that current prospects for further private sector
engagements are good. The MSWM M&E system will also allow GAM to continuously fine-
tune operations and investment strategy to optimize financial and environmental performance
of the sector going forward. But as presented below, the evaluation of results at the closing of
the project does not support a substantial achievement of the PDO.

57.     The objective of improving environmental performance of MSWM in Amman was
partly achieved, as evidenced by the environmentally sound disposal of waste (PDO indicator
1). This is due to the construction of cell 3 at Ghabawi, which responded to disposal capacity
constraints, and upgrade of the other cells to meet criteria for a sanitary landfill for a total
disposal capacity of 8 million tons of waste in a sanitary landfill (IOI1). The adequate
treatment of leachate (through recirculation, corresponding to meeting IOI2) also resulted
from the project. However, while some global environmental benefits were achieved through
flaring of LFG for a pilot phase of three months, and CO2 reductions may still materialize in
the likely event that phase 2 and 3 of the DBO contract are implemented, the project did not
so far result in substantially reduced CO2 emissions (compared to expected IOI4 target of
950,000 tons of CO2 reduction during the project).

58.     The objective of improving operational performance was also measured by PDO
indicator 1, which was achieved, as well as through the IOI5 on distance traveled by
collection vehicles expected from construction of two new transfer stations, and the IOI6 on
sector monitoring reports. The transfer stations were not constructed and as a suitable
alternative GAM decided to finance an upgrade of the Sha’eer transfer station. The results
against IOI5 cannot be verified since the methodology is not known but another indicator that
can be used is the percentage of collected waste that goes through a transfer station. This
indicator currently stands at 95 percent, as expected in the PAD, compared to 75 percent at
appraisal. The result is due to reduction in the direct collection in Ghabawi. A second (proxy)
indicator for operational performance is the fuel savings for the collection and transport
vehicles, which was reduced from 1,920,679 L in 2008 to 1,383,189 L in 2013,
corresponding to fuel savings of 537,490 L. This is a fuel efficiency gain of 28 percent for the
fleet as a whole, but is not directly comparable to the reduction of kilometers traveled by
collection vehicles (IOI5), since the fuel consumption also includes transport vehicles (which
would travel longer distances as a result of more waste going through a transfer station) and
result from a partially renewed vehicle fleet. The IOI6 on production of sector monitoring
reports was not met during the project, but will be met once the MSWM M&E system

                                              13
becomes operational as designed. This system is linked to GAM’s budget system and it is
designed to provide real-time M&E data on MSWM service coverage and efficiency,
financial performance, and environmental indicators.

59.     The financial performance of the sector did not improve as measured by electricity
generation and the cost recovery ratio, which went down from 63 percent in 2007 to 52
percent in 2013. It should be noted that the number for 2013 was provided by GAM based on
available budget data and is not based on as rigorous analysis as at appraisal, where a detailed
study was undertaken to analyze sector revenues and expenses. There are therefore likely to
be methodological differences between the two numbers - the result is the best available
estimate, but more analysis is needed to determine the underlying reasons for the decline in
cost recovery. According to available data, overall revenues did in fact increase from JOD
14.2 million in 2007 to JOD 21.9 million in 2013, due to increased revenue from MSWM
fees. However this was not enough to keep apace with increases in expenditure, which went
up from JOD 22.6 million in 2007 to JOD 42.0 million in 2013.

60.     The exact underlying reasons for this evolution in cost recovery are not known, since
the detailed study done at appraisal was not repeated for the ICR. For example, due to lack of
more detailed breakdown of available data, no conclusion can be drawn as to how much the
upgrade of the Sha’eer transfer station contributed to efficiency gains compared to what was
expected form the construction of two new transfer stations. However, we do know that
according to appraisal estimates, the generation of electricity at Ghabawi and the sale of
CERs would have added annual revenue of about JOD 4.8 million in 2013, which would have
resulted in maintaining an almost unchanged cost recovery ratio of 64 percent with current
level of cost. Part of the explanation for increased cost can be found in increased fuel prices
(up from JOD 0.5 per liter in 2007 to JOD 0.67 in 2013), general inflation, and population
pressure from the estimated 140,000 Syrian refugees housed in Amman outside of refugee
camps. Current daily MSW collection is about 3,000 tons compared to 2,200 tons in 2008 (an
increase of 36 percent). Finally, the breakdown of cost for 2013 into operating and capital
expenditures was not provided, but would also have provided useful input into the analysis.
The implementation of the GAM MSWM M&E system will make such analysis possible in
real time in the near future (the M&E system will be linked directly to the budget).

3.3 Efficiency
61.     Efficiency is rated negligible, since at the time of project closing the expected
economic and financial benefits had yet to materialize to offset the investments. Therefore, in
the present situation, returns on investments are negative. As demonstrated below, only the
upgrade of the Sha’eer transfer station can be justified based on efficiency considerations,
while the investments in the LFG-to-electricity system at Ghabawi have so far contributed to
lowering cost recovery ratios for MSWM in GAM. This does not necessarily mean however
that future investments to complete the originally appraised investment program should be
discouraged on economic or financial grounds, as demonstrated below and with further
details provided in Annex 3. At the time of analyzing efficiency for the ICR, GAM had
determined to proceed with phases 2 and 3 of the DBO contract and the analysis serves to
point to specific areas of particular importance to viability of future investments and also puts
the spotlight on cross-cutting issues of importance to the viability of this type of investments
in Jordan.

62.    A full economic and financial analysis was carried out with positive results at
appraisal. The economic analysis estimated that incremental investments of US$23.5 million

                                               14
would have an economic net present value (ENPV) of US$16.9 million and economic
internal rate of return (EIRR) of 37 percent with an economic discount rate of 12 percent.
This result was due to efficiency gains resulting from investing in two new transfer stations
and the revenues from selling CERs and electricity generated at Ghabawi. A financial
appraisal of the project was also carried out on the expected cash flow. The estimated FNPV
was US$18.4 million and the financial internal rate of return (FIRR) was 30 percent at a
financial discount rate of 8 percent.

63.      The analysis was rerun for the ICR, to analyze the current estimated efficiency of the
initial program. The main difference is that some benefit streams are substantially lower, with
absence of revenue from sale of CERs, and that construction of two new transfer stations did
not take place in the project. Instead, an upgrade of the existing Sha’eer transfer station was
financed by GAM. The economic benefits presented in the ICR stem from reduced fuel cost,
which are attributed to the Sha’eer upgrade (resulting from shorter total hauling distances),
expected future electricity revenues, based on updated LFG generation data from the pilot
LFG collection and flaring at Ghabawi cell 2, and benefits to the Jordanian economy from
avoided electricity production subsidies. The economic analysis shows an investment that is
economically viable with ENPV of EUR 23.7 million 1 for an investment of EUR 17.4
million, with an EIRR of 36 percent and a benefit/cost (B/C) ratio of 1.97 at unchanged
discount rate of 12 percent. The result is very robust and ENPV would remain positive in a
situation with 20 percent increase to future capital cost and LFG generation lower by 50
percent. The economic analysis shows that the Sha’eer investments considered in isolation
were economically viable, with ENPV of EUR 0.3 million for investments of EUR 4.1
million. The EIRR is 13 percent.

64.    The financial analysis for the ICR includes revenue from sale of electricity and
contrary to appraisal also includes cost and revenue from Sha’eer’s upgrade. The analysis
shows a negative FNPV of EUR -3.6 million in the base case, with FIRR of 5 percent at a
financial discount rate of 9 percent (higher than appraisal, considering current Jordanian bond
rates and investment risk premium). The result of the financial analysis of upgrading the
Sha’eer transfer station shows FNPV of EUR 1.3 million for investments of EUR 4.1 million.
The FIRR is 13 percent.

65.     Switching analysis was done for electricity revenues to show the increase necessary
for the project to become financially viable. With a 20 percent increase in electricity revenues
compared to the base case (either increase in purchase price of electricity generated at
Ghabawi, estimated at EUR 0.062 per kWh in the model, or increase in production of LFG)
the project as a whole would become financially viable to GAM. These results are interesting
since GAM is currently negotiating the selling price with JEPCO based on tariff regulation
from 2012. It is further interesting from a policy perspective, since profitability of this type of
investments potentially depend on rather marginal changes to electricity selling prices, even
without revenue from CERs.

66.    Other scenarios were developed to show impact of defined changes to key parameters,
including increased investment cost, including revenue from CERs (impact of revenue of



1
 Euro was used as base currency in the calculations in the ICR to minimize impact of exchange rate fluctuations,
as base currencies are JOD and EUR.


                                                      15
EUR 1 per CER), lower LFG production and electricity generation, and increased revenue
from electricity generation. The analysis also showed that operation and maintenance (O&M)
cost and engineering design choices are important factors in optimizing returns on
investments. These are mainly intended as input to an improved decisional basis for future
investments decisions by GAM and are presented in detail in Annex 3. Two of these cases
should be highlighted here. The first is that if considering the already made investments in
the DBO contract as sunk cost, remaining incremental investments of EUR 7.8 million to
complete the DBO contract phases 2 and 3 and achieve the expected benefits from electricity
generation will result in positive FNPV of EUR 1.4 million with an FIRR of 11 percent. The
second is that investing in additional electricity generation at Ghabawi beyond the planned
cells 1-3 (that is, expanding the LFG capture and LFG-to-electricity system gradually to cell
4-9) makes the total investment financially viable in the base case. Incremental investments
of EUR 45.5 million would be needed over 20 years (2014-2034), and would result in FNPV
of EUR 6.2 million and FIRR of 12 percent.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

67.     The overall strategy of improving solid waste management in GAM while bringing in
new sources of financing and mitigating climate impacts remains highly relevant, but the
relevance of the project as designed and implemented is modest as the project failed to
adequately adjust implementation to changing circumstances and therefore also failed to
substantially achieve the PDO. The project did achieve part of the PDO, notably the
environmental sub-objective for Amman. The operational sub-objective was also partly
achieved, although achievement of some indicators could not be evaluated. The financial sub-
objective was not achieved. This result was obtained with a negligible efficiency at this stage,
although completing the originally planned program of works could still turn out to be a
viable investment under the conditions outlined above and detailed in Annex 3. A Moderately
Unsatisfactory rating at the end of the project was justified by the relevance, available results
data, and economic and financial analysis. However, it should be underlined that the original
project still has potential to benefit GAM, but that the evaluation is based on status at project
closing and not the potential to generate future benefits.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
68.    There were no measurable impacts in these areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
69.     There were no impacts in this area other than those mentioned in the section on
outcomes.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
70.    The delay in implementing the LFG-to-electricity system presents a missed
opportunity to reduce GHG emissions, as described in the sections above.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
71.     No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop was held in connection with the
project.



                                               16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

72.     The risk to development outcome is rated Moderate. The rating is based primarily on
the risk that future (currently expected) outcomes from implementation of phases 2 and 3 of the
DBO contract could not be realized and thus environmental (CO2) as well as financial benefits
(from the sale of electricity and potentially CERs) would then be foregone. On November 14,
2014, however, GAM notified the contractor to confirm the conditional tranches of the DBO
contract (phases 2 and 3). GAM is in the process of acquiring financing from a third party, but in
the absence of this is committed to finance the continuation of the DBO contract on its own
budget. These are positive developments and while risk was likely greater at the time of project
closing, the rating of risk in the ICR incorporates the latest available information. The history of
the project indicates that future differences between GAM and the DBO contractor cannot be
ruled out, but that commitment of both parties to implement phases 2 and 3 leads to a risk rating
of Moderate. The risk that operational efficiencies will not be maintained is also modest, since
the construction of landfill cell 4 is ongoing and financing is available from the general
budget of GAM to cover revenue shortfalls to bear the cost of MSWM.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.      The Bank helped the client put together an innovatively designed program of
activities to address the main identified sector issues and to bring in financing to reduce
transfer from general revenues to cover MSWM cost. Financial management risks were
identified and addressed and all safeguard studies were available before appraisal. The
overall project design built on good analysis of sector needs and definition of relevant PDO
sub-objectives targeting identified shortcomings in financial, environmental, and operational
performance of MSWM in GAM. The M&E framework had shortcomings regarding
methodology and realism. Although some risks were identified and mitigated, others were
not identified and when materialized they led to implementation delays and difficulty to
achieve the PDO.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

74.     Implementation support missions were regular (12 missions in total) and comprised
the necessary expertise, including regular participation by a very senior LFG expert
consultant. The first supervision mission took place in May 2009, which was probably too
late given the need to support advancement of procurement of all key project activities.
Monitoring of fiduciary aspects was adequate throughout, with regular follow-op on entity
audit issues, and the Bank team continuously followed up on implementation issues,
including advising the client on alternative solutions to the DBO contract. The Bank also
accepted to take on increased financial risk by renegotiating the ERPA although GAM was
having problems to implement the DBO contract. As it were, the Bank is not responsible for
the lack of revenue from CERs, since this was brought on by delays in the DBO contract and
was not due to the problem for the Bank to get the PDD registered.



                                                17
75.      Reporting on progress in the ISRs should have been more candid and relied on
indicator data. The project had certain inherent risks, some of which should have been
identified better. When they materialized and were discussed, as early as 2011, the Bank did
not proactively support the client to restructure the project to align objectives to changing
circumstances. Based on risk analysis, the Bank also did not consent to the project extensions
requested by GAM and the government in 2014, due to the stated problems. Although the
Bank inputs to project supervision and support to GAM to resolve issues as they arose were
adequate, the project closed with less than satisfactory results. The Bank can reasonably be
perceived as having pushed GAM into a complex project and then not assuring a timely
restructuring or accepting the risk of accompanying GAM to see the original program of
activities through to completion.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

76.     The overall rating is justified by the good inputs to project appraisal and
implementation, with the mentioned shortcomings. The Bank’s inputs contributed to ensuring
quality at entry and the Bank also supported implementation through adequate technical
advice to GAM toward the achievement of development outcomes, but in parallel the Bank
did not support the client in timely restructuring of the project.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

77.     The performance of the government was Moderately Unsatisfactory. The government
provided a financial guarantee for the project took part in the project Advisory Committee
and was responsible for approving large contracts under the project. The approval processes
were very lengthy, which is sometimes explained by the change of ministers, but is not
satisfactory judged by actual performance. The government also did not agree to the
construction of two new transfer stations, despite having been consulted on the matter during
preparation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

78.     The local government (GAM) was both borrower and implementing agency, through
staff seconded to the PMU. To assure coordination aspects, GAM established an Advisory
Committee to meet twice a year and involving GAM and key outside partners to oversee
progress and provide strategic guidance. The mayor was changed three times during the
project. The mayors in office at appraisal and closing of the project were actively involved
and engaged in the project but this was not the case during a long period of its
implementation, and the project remained virtually at a standstill for about two years due to a
lack of engagement from the mayor’s office. Contract management in GAM was somewhat
deficient, notably regarding the three-year delay of the contract on the strategic sector study.
The technical and procurement committees took long to process procurement and GAM did
not submit the entity audits starting in 2011.

79.    The implementing agency for the project was the PMU in GAM, which could not
succeed in implementing project activities in the prevailing circumstances. The project

                                              18
manager was actively engaged in solving problems but the PMU was slow to process
procurement in the project startup phase. GAM acquired good knowledge on private sector
participation and investment planning, which can be applied going forward. The PMU did not
timely submit the IFRs for Q3 and Q4 of 2013, which had still not been received by project
closing.

80.    While GAM management was actively engaged at the start and end of the project and
the PMU worked to advance implementation, the lack of management engagement during
lengthy periods of time contributed to limit project success. There were also problems with
the timely delivery ISRs and together with uneven performance this justifies a Moderately
Unsatisfactory rating.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

81.   The Moderately Unsatisfactory ratings of both government and GAM/PMU justify a
Moderately Unsatisfactory overall rating of borrower performance.

6. Lessons Learned
82.     The Bank should be willing to take risk, including in innovative project concepts, but
targets should be conservative and the restructuring bar should be set correspondingly low.
Restructuring decisions should be guided by M&E data and analysis of the full results chain,
rather than relying on prospects of implementing activities or of overcoming obstacles.
Having less than full information should not result in postponing a needed project
restructuring, since a second restructuring can be carried out at a later date if needed.

83.     The experience of the design-build-operate of the LFG-to-electricity contract shows
that success of the approach depends on alignment of incentives of all parties and realistic
level of complexity. The procurement of the DBO contract would have been smoother if the
qualification criteria had been lower in the first round of pre-qualification, and had a better fit
with the buyer’s technical capacity, including capacity to assure full conformity of technical
specifications and site conditions.

84.    Carbon finance is a results-based instrument that is very closely linked to successful
implementation of the underlying project. Carbon finance operations are further extremely
susceptible to changes in the carbon market. Linking these to regular investment operations
requires deep risk analysis, including robustness of efficiency analysis and related mitigation
measures. The project was nicely structured with two parts that carried each other, but when
one part failed to produce results, the total project package was no longer financially viable.

85.     Decisions regarding location of solid waste infrastructure in urban areas are highly
controversial and should preferably be settled fully before appraisal. Site conditions
continuously change in MSWM projects and facilities need to be developed continuously; for
this reason changes to part of the collection chain risks substantially impacting the sector’s
financial, operational and environmental performance and alternative scenarios should be
developed as part of project preparation.

86.     When the Bank concurrently represents the interests of different stakeholders in a
project there is risk of conflict of interest. In the ASWMP, the Bank acted as lender, as
project advisor to the client, as representative of purchaser of credits, and was responsible for

                                                19
registration of the PDD. In practice this meant that the Bank advised GAM on an investment
package that included an expected revenue stream, which the Bank was to provide along with
the investment financing, on condition that GAM produced the expected CERs. The Bank
was to assure preparation and registration of the PDD, incurring expenses that the client
would then cover from the expected carbon revenue stream. This leaves the Bank in a
conflicting role, as the delays to registering the PDD was part of the reason for GAM to delay
signing of the DBO contract. The conflict became apparent in the ASWMP when the ERPA
was cancelled, and the Bank agreed to cover, on an exceptional basis, expenses for
preparation and approval of the PDD.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
87.    The ICR was shared with GAM for comments. No comments were received.

(b) Cofinanciers
88.    There were no co-financiers.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
89.    There were no other partners or stakeholders.




                                             20
                              Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million)(a)
                                               Appraisal                   Latest       Percentage of
                 Components
                                                Estimate                 Estimate(b)     Appraisal
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening and        1.80                         0.59       33.0%
Capacity Development                               (0.54)                       (0.25)     (46.4%)
                                                   34.10                        11.62       34.1%
Component 2: Infrastructure Development
                                                  (22.45)                       (8.78)     (39.1%)
                                                    0.58                         0.22       38.7%
Component 3: Project Management
                                                   (0.10)                       (0.09)     (89.7%)
                                                   36.48                        12.44       34.1%
                        Total Baseline Cost
                                                  (23.09)                       (9.12)     (39.5%)
                                                    3.96                         0.000       0.0%
Physical and Price Contingencies
                                                   (1.85)                       (0.000)     (0.0%)
                                                   40.44                        12.44       30.8%
                         Total Project Costs
                                                  (24.94)                       (9.12)     (36.6%)
                                                    0.06                      0.06         100.0%
Front-end fee
                                                   (0.06)                    (0.06)       (100.0%)
                                                   40.50                        12.50       30.9%
                  Total Financing Required
                                                  (25.00)                       (9.18)     (36.7%)
(a) Total financing with IBRD Loan in parenthesis.
(b) Latest estimate based on GAM reporting, as the grace period for GAM to submit expenditures has been
extended to December 31, 2014. For this reason the disbursement figures above may differ from the
disbursement figure in the datasheet.

 (b) Project Financing – MSWEIP (in US$ Million equivalent)
                              Type of         Appraisal                     Latest         Percentage of
      Source of Funds
                            Cofinancing       Estimate                     Estimate         Appraisal
IBRD                                               25.0                          9.18         36.7%
GAM                           Parallel             15.5                          3.32         21.4%

(c) Note on linked carbon financing
1.     The project financing (US$25 million IBRD loan) was provided under P104960 with
loan ID IBRD-75730. This operation was blended with P107410, which was the vehicle for
the carbon financing through the trust fund TF-92344. The amount of this TF (US$12.97
million) corresponds to the amount of the ERPA, which was signed for an amount of 900,000
CERs and a price per CER of EUR 10.5. The total value of the ERPA was, therefore, equal to
EUR 9.45 million or US$12.97 million. The TF remained undisbursed except for US$50,000
for administrative expenses.

2.       The Bank accepted to cover expenses linked to the preparation and submission of the
PDD amounting to US$0.5 million. This amount is in addition to project financing amounts
in the table (b) above and Bank staff time and cost mentioned in Annex 4. Standard practice
is for the Bank to prefinance these expenditures for preparation of carbon finance operations
and then be reimbursed by the client out of the carbon revenue. Since no such revenue
materialized, the Bank agreed to cover the expenses for GAM, on an exceptional basis.




                                                     21
                               Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.     This Annex lists the actual ASWMP outputs financed by IBRD and GAM funds, as
well as those planned outputs that could not be delivered for the reasons presented briefly
below and elaborated on in the main text.

Activities financed as part of project preparation (GAM financing)

2.     The outputs delivered as part of project preparation and partially paid for by the front-
end fee (with GAM paying the rest) were:

        Technical assistance for design studies for the upgrade of Ghabawi landfill and for
         LFG capture and LFG-to-energy system and for development of DBO bidding
         documents.
        Feasibility study for an update to the existing MSWM plan and definition of priority
         projects and institutional aspects.

Component 1: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Development

3.       The outputs financed by the project were:

        Technical assistance to GAM for supervision of phase 1 of the DBO contract and the
         operation of Ghabawi landfill. Phase 1 concerns the capping and implementation of
         the LFG capture system for one cell (originally cell 1, changed to cell 2 during
         implementation) of Ghabawi landfill, design and construction of a leachate recycling
         system within the cell, and LFG capture and flaring for three months.
        Study on strategic actions toward the establishment of sustainable and affordable
         MSWM and for exploring opportunities and defining appropriate options for private
         sector participation.
        Partial development and implementation of an overall MSWM performance M&E
         system linked to GAM budget systems: draft report available, no systems
         implemented and running but physical progress 75 percent at project closing.
        Elaboration of public information and education strategy to raise public awareness
         and build partnerships in MSWM.
        ESMP updated for Ghabawi landfill and transfer stations.

4.       The planned outputs not completed were:

        Supervision of the contract to construct two transfer stations. The transfer stations
         were not constructed due to concerns related to cost of land acquisition and
         environment (proximity to residential areas).
             o As an alternative GAM financed an upgrade of one existing transfer station, at
                 Sha’eer. This was not counted as part of project financing, but the project
                 monitored application of environmental and social safeguards on the upgraded
                 transfer station.
        Supervision of the contract for landfill construction (Ghabawi cell 3) and of upgrade
         of the leachate treatment facility. The supervision of construction (cell 3) was done
         in-house by GAM. The upgrade of leachate treatment facility was not implemented
         due to limited leachate discharge from the landfill, which is recycled and used to keep
         the humidity of the waste mass optimal for LFG generation.

                                               22
        Technical assistance to GAM for supervision of phase 2 and 3 of the DBO contract.
         Phase 2 and 3 include addition of two more cells to the LFG capture system and
         construction of LFG-to-energy system, which was not implemented due to time
         constraints under the project.
        MSWM performance M&E system developed but not implemented by project closing.
         The study was not finalized on time due to factors explained in the main text and the
         system could not be operationalized before project closing.
        Implementation of public information and education strategy to raise public
         awareness and build partnerships in MSWM. It was decided to mainstream this into
         GAM’s overall communication strategy, and a budget is available (including private
         sector co-financing).

Component 2: Infrastructure Development

5.       The ASWMP financed the following outputs:

        Landfill construction (Ghabawi cell 3).
        Construction of an LFG capture system on Ghabawi landfill cell 2 (as part of DBO
         contract phase 1), including design and construction of a leachate recycling system
         within the cell, and pilot flaring of LFG for three months.

6.       The planned outputs not completed were:

        Upgrade of the leachate treatment facility. This was deemed not necessary due to the
         limited leachate discharge from the landfill, which is recycled and used to keep the
         humidity of the waste mass optimal for LFG generation.
        Construction of two new transfer stations. The transfer stations were not constructed
         due to concerns related to cost of land acquisition and environment (proximity to
         residential areas).
             o As an alternative GAM financed an upgrade of one existing transfer station.
                 This was not counted as part of project financing, but the project monitored
                 application of environmental and social safeguards on the upgraded transfer
                 station.
        Capping of cell 1 of Ghabawi landfill (originally cell 2), construction of an LFG
         extraction system on the cell, and construction of an LFG-to-energy plant with grid
         connection and operating the system as well as phase 1 (corresponding to DBO
         contract phase 2). This was not implemented due to project delays.
        Capping of cell 3 of Ghabawi landfill, construction of an LFG extraction system on
         the cell, expansion of the LFG-to-energy plant and operating the system together with
         phase 1 and 2 (corresponding to DBO contract phase 3). This was not implemented
         due to project delays.

Component 3: Project Management

7.       The following outputs were delivered as part of Component 3:

        Hiring and payment of salary of first project manager.
        Salary of environment and social specialist.
        Training workshops on safeguards and environmental monitoring.


                                               23
        Updating of ESMP for the Sha'eer transfer station.
        Project accounts audit.
        Procurement of project financial management system.
        Training on Bank procurement procedures.

8.       The planned outputs not delivered were:

        Consultancy services for the preparation of environmental impact assessment studies
         for two new transfer stations in Amman. The transfer stations were not constructed.




                                              24
                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1. The economic and financial analysis of the project carried out during appraisal consisted
of three main parts: (1) Cost-benefit analysis of the project, with comparison of the capital
and running costs of the project to the benefits produced by this type of operation in the form
of revenues from the sales of certified Carbon Emission Reduction (CERs), electricity
generation from captured landfill gas (LFG) at the Ghabawi landfill and cost savings from a
more efficient transfer system. (2) Financial appraisal of the project, the strategy of GAM and
its budget for hauling and dumping solid waste. (3) Analysis of GAM’s cost recovery with
regard to MSWM and expected cost recovery with and without the project. Finally, the
analysis also covered GAM’s debt capacity.

2. For the ICR the parts relating to the economic and financial analyses and cost recovery
are updated using the actual data available, and with updated assumptions and risk analysis as
relevant. The major differences with the analysis conducted at appraisal is that:

   (i)   There is no immediate prospect of generating revenue from sale of CERs. Even
         though this could still materialize in the future, the revenue would likely be quite
         limited compared to appraisal estimates. This is due to the current spot price for
         carbon emission trading being quite low, at below US$1 per ton of CO2, compared
         to estimates of US$13.5 at appraisal.
   (ii) The expected construction of two transfer stations did not take place under the
         AMSWP (due to reasons explained in the main text). As an alternative GAM
         financed upgrade of an existing transfer station (Sha’eer), to reap some of the
         expected benefits from more efficient solid waste collection and transfer. This
         investment was inspired by feasibility studies for the ASWMP and was made
         necessary by the absence of expected investments in the two new transfer stations
         under the ASWMP, but the activities were paid for by GAM outside of the ASWMP.
         The appraisal financial analysis excluded benefits from constructing two new
         transfer stations. The benefits from upgrading the Sha’eer transfer station are
         included in the ICR financial analysis, since these benefits can be given estimated
         financial values, as explained below.
   (iii) The appraisal methodology did not quantify benefits to the Jordanian economy from
         saved electricity generation subsidies. This is incorporated in the current economic
         analysis, with the assumptions explained below.
   (iv) Both the economic and financial analyses in the ICR include scenarios that
         incorporate longer-term investments in LFG-to-energy generation for the planned
         cell 4-9 at the Ghabawi landfill, in addition to the investments in cell 1-3 planned
         under the ASWMP.

3. The analysis of GAM’s debt capacity is not updated for the ICR since the IBRD loan is in
the past there is no planned future IBRD investment to analyze debt capacity against.

4. The analysis is complicated by the fact that it is not certain if the investments in phase 2
and 3 of the landfill DBO contract (adding cell 3 then cell 1 to the LFG capture system and
installing electricity generation equipment) will take place. As of November 2014, GAM has
expressed to the contractor their intention to proceed with phase 2 and agreed that the
contractor will submit a proposal with revised specs and conditions, given the time lapsed
since the original offer. This submission is due at the end of 2014. GAM is committed to


                                              25
implementing phase 2 and 3 of the DBO contract, and in the current situation this seems
highly likely.

5. Phase 1 was implemented under the project and comprised installation of an LFG capture
and flaring system for cell 2 of Ghabawi landfill and operation of the system for a pilot phase
of three months. Each part of the analysis is thus updated with the assumption that GAM will
actually finance phase 2 and 3. In the absence of further investments, the economic and
financial return on investment at Ghabawi would be negative, since no benefits will
materialize from phase 1 (except the benefits from construction of cell 3, which would also
have materialized in the Do-Nothing scenario described below).

I – Economic Analysis:
6. The methodology used for the ICR is a cost-benefit analysis based on a comparison
between the Do-Nothing scenario and the Do-Something scenario. These are defined as the
following:

     Do-Nothing scenario: Minimal investment to allow current solid waste management
      operations to be continued in GAM in the current manner, that is to say a business as
      usual scenario without any investment in transfer stations, leachate treatment plant,
      LFG system, and gas to electricity plant. However, in this scenario, GAM would need
      to invest in the construction of cell 3.

     Do-Something scenario: Upgrade of current solid waste management practices in
      GAM through the infrastructure investment component including: (1) upgrading one
      transfer station; (2) construction of cell 3; (3) capping and equipment of cell 1-3 with
      LFG system; and (4) construction of LFG-to-electricity plant.

7. The economic analysis considers the project costs and the following main benefits:

       Sales of electricity produced by the LFG-to-electricity plant at Ghabawi landfill.
       The economic value of avoided government subsidy to electricity production. The
        benefit is estimated by multiplying the difference between the average cost of
        electricity produced in Jordan (JOD 0.184/EUR 0.19 per kWh),2 and the sale price of
        electricity produced at Ghabawi (JOD 0.06/EUR 0.062 per kWh according to 2012
        regulation), by the estimated number of kWh sold. This probably underestimates the
        benefits, since normal practice would be to assume that the most expensive kWh was
        replaced (the peak load kWh), which is more expensive than the average one.
       Benefits from operational efficiencies made possible by the upgrade of the Sha’eer
        transfer station.

8. Other benefits in the Do-Something scenario that could not be quantified in the economic
analysis are:

       Reduced safety issues and cost to put out fires at the landfill.



2
 Source document: Luck, T. (2012): Gov’t set for electricity price hike, The Jordan Times, May 10 2012.
Retrieved November 11, 2014.


                                                     26
       Lowered risk of groundwater contamination from the upgrade of the existing landfill
        (installation of leachate recirculation).
       Improved safety conditions for workers due to improved landfill management
        practices.
       Reduced odor nuisances from the landfill due to better landfill cover.
       Reduced noise and odor nuisance to residents of Amman due to better and shorter
        routing of MSW collection vehicles through the upgraded Sha’eer transfer station.

9. Other general assumptions include:

       The project evaluation period is 20 years as it is usually assumed for LFG-to-
        electricity plants projects, starting in 2014, when the first expenditure took place, and
        finishing in 2034.
       If phase 2 is launched electricity production could start towards the end of 2015, but
        the economic analysis assumes conservatively that electricity generation from phase 2
        starts in 2016 (5 MW production) and with 1 MW production added in 2017. It is
        unlikely that GAM would be able to sell any CERs before 2016; for this reason the
        scenarios below that include (limited) revenue from sale of CERs at a price of EUR 1
        per CER also estimate revenue from CERs beginning in 2016.
       O&M cost are estimated at 10 percent of investment cost plus cost of overhaul of
        engines for every 60,000 hours of operation. The model is in fact quite sensitive to
        O&M cost. If O&M cost can be reduced to 5 percent of investment cost (and
        maintaining cost of overhaul of engines), all scenarios studied below (in the economic
        as well as the financial analysis) will be viable. The possibility of reducing O&M cost
        should be studied closely.
       Selling price of electricity is set at JOD 0.06 per kWh (EUR 0.062). This is according
        to the purchase tariff for electricity generated from biogas in the current electricity
        price regulation from 2012. However, the price cold be higher. The electricity
        distribution company JEPCO currently pays EUR 0.072 for electricity from the LFG-
        to-electricity system at the decommissioned Russeifa landfill and discussions are
        ongoing between GAM and the JEPCO for selling price based on regulation in effect.
        According to this regulation, electricity generated based on biogas is paid at JOD 0.06
        per kWh. GAM is however asking for a selling price of JOD 0.09 (EUR 0.098), which
        is the tariff applied to electricity generated based on biomass (waste).
       Costs and benefits are expressed in EUR.3
       The discount rate traditionally used for World Bank projects is 12 percent.
       Investment cost is based on the original offer from the DBO contractor for phase 1-3.
        Results of the current ongoing negotiation between GAM and the contractor for
        implementation of phase 2 and 3 should be reflected in any future update of the
        analysis.
       For investments in cell 4-9, estimated cost is obtained by applying a conversion factor
        to the cost from the 2007 feasibility study (which analyzed investments in cell 1-9)
        and the contractor’s offer (for cell 1-3 only), since the contractor’s offer for cell 1-3
        was substantially higher than the estimated cost for the same investment (cell 1-3) in


3
  The appraisal analysis used US$, but since the base currencies for all cost data are JOD and EUR, EUR was
used for the analysis in the ICR. Underlying calculations in base currencies should be used for any future
updating of economic and financial analysis to be used as input to investment decisions.


                                                     27
         the feasibility study, by a factor of 1.43. The realism of this assumption should be
         revisited following conclusion to ongoing renegotiation between GAM and the
         contractor for implementation of phase 2 and 3.
        LFG generation and calorific value are based on the data from the initial pilot phase.
         It is assumed that this generation can be extrapolated to derive future LFG generation.
         Current landfill cover is mostly impermeable to water. The level of LFG captured in
         the future could potentially fall to below the contractor’s estimates, due to falling
         humidity in the landfill mass (needed to maintain optimal LFG generation conditions).
         A system is in place to recirculate leachate to the landfill. Alternative technical
         solutions are available if the current one is not sufficient.
        Using alternative technical design solutions could potentially reduce cost of future
         investments. The DBO contractor has been invited to close half of the LFG capture
         wells to verify results under these conditions. If results are positive (same level and
         quality of LFG) under these conditions, future investment costs would be lower.

10. Further analysis is done to evaluate impact of defined variation of key parameters,
notably revenue from sale of CERs, LFG production (and resulting revenue from sale of
electricity and benefits of avoided electricity subsidies), and capital expenditure.

a) Project Costs:
     Investment Costs:
11. The project costs are those related to the infrastructure component only4 and include: (1)
upgrading the Sha’eer transfer station; (2) construction of cell 3; (3) upgrade of leachate
recirculation system; (4) capping and equipment of cell 1, 2 and 3 with LFG system; and (5)
construction of biogas to electricity plant. All costs are excluding taxes, as environmental
projects in Jordan are eligible for tax exemption. The total investment cost is estimated to be
EUR 23.4 million.
                                   Table A3.1: Estimated investment cost
                 Infrastructure component                                        Amount
                 1. Upgrade of the Sha’eer transfer station.                 EUR 4,117,9205

                 2. Construction of cell 3.                                  EUR 2,981,6496

                 3. Upgrade of the leachate recirculation system.                 EUR 07
                 4. Capping and equipment of cell 1,2 and 3 with
                 LFG system.
                                                                             EUR 16,302,788
                 5. Construction of biogas to electricity plant and
                 connection to the grid.
                 Total Investment Cost                                       EUR 23,402,357



4
  The bulk of the project costs are dedicated to the infrastructure component. The institutional component
benefits being hardly quantifiable, they have not been taken into account.
5
  JOD 4,000,000, estimate provided by GAM based on several separate investments.
6
  USD 4,082,404 contract value.
7
  The upgrade was not necessary since the leachate production was limited and the available leachate
recirculated onto the landfill to assure adequate level of moisture of the landfill mass for LFG production. The
upgrade should be reconsidered if analyzing investments in additional cells (cell 4-9).


                                                       28
12. Given that the methodology used for this analysis considers only incremental costs
between the Do-Nothing scenario and the Do-Something scenario, and given that cell 3 and
final capping (estimated at EUR 3,000,000) would have been constructed in both scenarios,
the incremental investment cost to be considered is then EUR 17,420,708.

    Expanded scenario (adding cell 4-9):
13. An expanded scenario is also used in which it is considered that LFG-to-electricity
generation capacity is added for the additional cell 4-9, that are planned in the future at
Ghabawi to meet Amman’s future solid waste disposal demands. The additional required
incremental investments would amount to EUR 28.1 million on top of the 17.4 million for a
total investment of EUR 45.5 million. The additional investments mainly come from adding
additional gas engines for a total electricity generation capacity of 20 MW, drilling wells, and
installing a gas transmission system to the engines.

    Increased Operations and Maintenance costs:
14. The installation of the LFG system as well as the construction of LFG-to-electricity plant
will increase the O&M costs of current solid waste services in GAM. The cost of operating
the LFG system and the gas to electricity plant has been estimated based on the DBO contract
as on average 10 percent of investment cost annually plus overhaul of gas engines for every
60,000 hours of operation. In the base case this amounts to annualized O&M cost of EUR 1,4
million over the 20 years life of the project, taking into consideration the declining
production of LFG over the years and resulting decommissioning of some gas engines. The
corresponding amount would be EUR 3.1 million if adding cell 4-9.

15. Increased O&M costs resulting from the leachate recirculation have not been considered,
since this would also have been necessary in the Do-Nothing scenario.

b) Project Benefits:
          1- Savings from collection and transfer:
16. Previously, about 70 percent of MSW in GAM was transported via 3 transfer stations:

      -     Sha’eer: 45 percent of MSW quantities and 55 percent of collection vehicles loads
            from November 2006 to October 2007, but progressing and its capacity is being
            increase by two additional compaction systems.
      -     Ain Ghazal: 10 percent of MSW quantities and 15 percent of collection vehicles
            loads.
      -     Yarmouk: 7 percent of MSW quantities and 4 percent of collection vehicles loads.

17. The economic analysis in the PAD was based on a detailed study of the collection and
transfer of MSW in a Do-Noting scenario and in a Do-Something scenario that was to include
the construction of two new transfer stations. The benefits were then quantified based on
reduced time and distance to collect MSW, which was expected to reduce collection cost by
about US$917,000 per year compared to the Do-Nothing scenario.

18. Currently, about 95 percent of MSW in GAM transits through the operational transfer
stations due to the upgrade of the Sha’eer transfer station and improved routing of collection
vehicles. In the absence of the expected MSMW M&E and fleet tracking system (developed

                                               29
under the project but not yet operational), updated data on distances and time is not available
for the ICR, which instead uses fuel savings to estimate O&M cost savings. In 2008 the total
quantity of fuel consumed for MSW collection and transfer was 1,920,679 L, which was
reduced to 1,383,189 L in 2013, corresponding to fuel savings of 537,490 L. With a fuel price
of US$0.94 (JOD 0.67) per liter in Jordan, this corresponds to annual savings of US$507,601
per year (EUR 370,735). Some of the fuel savings likely result from ongoing renewal of the
collection vehicle fleet result, but other savings such as time-savings (staff salary) and
reduction in fleet capacity are not incorporated in this estimate of benefits. The quantified
benefits are estimated to increase with increased future MSW quantities, estimated to
increase at 5 percent per year (as in the PAD).

       2- Production of LFG and sales of electricity:
19. The forecasted production of LFG in the landfill and extraction efficiency was updated
from appraisal estimates based on an initial six-week pilot phase of LFG collection and
flaring. This resulted in substantially higher LFG available for electricity production
compared to previous estimates by the Bank but close to the estimates by the contractor (e.g.
1,325 Nm3 LFG/h from cell 2 in 2014 compared to previously conservatively estimated 684
Nm3/h by the Bank). The income from electricity production is computed on the basis of
0.06 JOD per kWh (EUR 0.062). Furthermore JEPCO pays an extra peak load tariff (so
called “Maximum Demand”) price of 2.98 JOD per kW (EUR 3.07) of peak load generation
capacity per month, which is an extra bonus price paid to small power producers once a
month, if they deliver electricity during that half hour per month where the power company
has its highest production. It is assumed that the LFG-to-electricity plant will be operated
during 8,000 hours per year. Based on a calorific value of methane of 5 kWh/Nm3 and a
power efficiency of 36 percent, the power effect and the yearly power production are
deducted and presented in the graph below. Total income during the project life from
electricity sales is estimated to be around EUR 41.3 million for investments in LFG-to-
electricity from cell 1-3 of Ghabawi. The avoided subsidies will amount to EUR 80.0 million.
If considering the longer-term investment in LFG-to-energy for all planned waste cells at
Ghabawi (cell 1-9), the total income from sales of electricity over 20 years would be EUR
147.2 million and the economic value of avoided subsidies EUR 285.6 million.




                                              30
Table A3.2: Power production from connecting LFG capture and electricity production from cell 2-3-
                              1. Estimates for the period 2014-2034

                           Power Production Cells 1‐3 (2014‐2034)
               60,000

               50,000

               40,000
         MWh




               30,000

               20,000

               10,000

                   0


                                                    Year


        Table A3.3: Power production from connecting LFG capture and electricity production from
                           cell 1-9. Estimates for the period 2014-2034

                           Power Production Cells 1‐9 (2014‐2034)
               180,000
               160,000
               140,000
               120,000
               100,000
         MWh




                80,000
                60,000
                40,000
                20,000
                     0


                                                     Year


       3- Global economic benefits:
20. The revenue from electricity production and the economic benefits from avoided
subsidies are included in the scenarios analyzed below. It should be noted that the potential
global benefits from the reduction of carbon emissions are not included, except to the limited
extend that selling price of CERs of EUR 1 is included in some scenarios. This is far below
the estimated global cost of carbon emissions, which was estimated at an average of US$12
per ton of CO2 in a review of peer-reviewed estimates carried out by the International Panel
on Climate Change (IPCC) for the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report in 2007. Based on initial
LFG capture during the pilot phase, the IPCC model used for the current analysis (Tier 1
method for estimating emissions of methane from solid waste disposal sites) estimates the


                                               31
average annual CO2 savings from the analyzed investment in LFG-to-energy for cell 1-3 at
Ghabawi at 154,000 tons of CO2 per year (for an annual global economic value added of
US$1.8 million). Investing in additional LFG-to-electricity for the planned cell 4-9 at
Ghabawi would result in estimated average annual CO2 reductions of 572,000 tons for an
annual economic value of US$6.9 million.

c) Results of the base case:
21. In the base case, investments on cell 1-3 are as estimated based on the DBO contractors
offer, current LFG generation is extrapolated to derive future LFG generation, there is no
revenue form sale of CERs, revenue from avoided subsidy is included, past and future
investments are included, and electricity selling price is as described in the section on
assumptions above. The results of the economic analysis in terms of the ENPV, the EIRR,
and the B/C ratios are presented in the following tables.

                              Table A3.4: Results of the economic analysis
           Total       Increased O/M Cost Savings      CER      Electricity     Avoided       Benefits less
        Investment       costs from  from transfer   revenues   Revenues       subsidies         Costs
                       LFG and Power    stations
                            Plant



 2014    € 8.586.813        € 111.722    € 370.735         €0             €0             €0     -€ 8.327.801
 2015    € 5.571.764      € 1.004.066    € 389.271         €0             €0             €0     -€ 6.186.558
 2016    € 3.262.131      € 1.656.492    € 408.735         €0    € 2.639.484    € 5.120.000      € 3.249.596
 2017             €0      € 1.330.279    € 429.172         €0    € 3.167.381    € 6.144.000      € 8.410.273
 2018             €0      € 1.330.279    € 450.630         €0    € 3.043.132    € 5.902.985      € 8.066.468
 2019             €0      € 1.330.279    € 473.162         €0    € 2.890.182    € 5.606.297      € 7.639.362
 2020             €0      € 1.330.279    € 496.820         €0    € 2.745.162    € 5.324.993      € 7.236.696
 2021             €0      € 1.330.279    € 521.661         €0    € 2.607.651    € 5.058.252      € 6.857.286
 2022             €0      € 1.810.279    € 547.744         €0    € 2.477.249    € 4.805.301      € 6.020.016
 2023             €0      € 1.570.279    € 575.131         €0    € 2.353.578    € 4.565.408      € 5.923.838
 2024             €0      € 1.330.279    € 603.888         €0    € 2.236.281    € 4.337.878      € 5.847.768
 2025             €0      € 1.330.279    € 634.082         €0    € 2.125.021    € 4.122.058      € 5.550.882
 2026             €0      € 1.330.279    € 665.786         €0    € 2.019.477    € 3.917.327      € 5.272.312
 2027             €0      € 1.330.279    € 699.075         €0    € 1.919.348    € 3.723.100      € 5.011.245
 2028             €0      € 1.330.279    € 734.029         €0    € 1.824.348    € 3.538.822      € 4.766.921
 2029             €0      € 1.330.279    € 770.731         €0    € 1.734.207    € 3.363.969      € 4.538.628
 2030             €0      € 1.810.279    € 809.267         €0    € 1.648.669    € 3.198.044      € 3.845.702
 2031             €0      € 1.570.279    € 849.730         €0    € 1.567.492    € 3.040.579      € 3.887.522
 2032             €0      € 1.330.279    € 892.217         €0    € 1.490.447    € 2.891.129      € 3.943.514
 2033             €0      € 1.330.279    € 936.828         €0    € 1.417.317    € 2.749.273      € 3.773.139
 2034             €0      € 1.330.279    € 983.669         €0    € 1.347.898    € 2.614.616      € 3.615.904




                                                     32
                          Table A3.5: Results of the economic analysis
                   Indicator                          Value (EUR)
                 ENPV (@12%)                          23.7 million
                     EIRR                                 36%
                   B/C Ratio                              1.97

22. The economic analysis indicates that the investment component of the project is
economically viable, returning an ENPV of EUR 32.7 million, following an incremental
investment of EUR 17.4 million. The EIRR is 36 percent and the estimated B/C ratio is 1.97,
which, since it is greater than one, indicates that the investment has a positive economic rate
of return. This compares to an expected ENPV of US$16.9, EIRR of 37 percent and B/C ratio
of 1.63 at appraisal. The main difference is the lack of revenue from sale of CERs (estimated
at US$31.4 million at appraisal), lower estimated cost savings from upgrade of the Sha’eer
transfer station compared to expected cost savings from construction of two new transfer
stations, as well as inclusion in the ICR analysis of economic benefits from avoided subsidies.

d) Sensitivity and Switching Analysis:

23. This section indicates the impact of uncertainty or variation in the key parameters of
interest on the economic appraisal of the project. For the ICR the economic analysis was in
fact carried out along a number of different parameters, to serve as decision basis for GAM in
relation to phase 2 and 3 of the DBO contract and to demonstrate the importance of any
future variation in key parameters to investment projects of this type in Jordan. The table
below presents the variation on parameters analyzed. These cases were further analyzed in a
scenario with LFG capture and LFG-to-electricity investments for the full life span of the
Ghabawi landfill, corresponding to investments over 20 years to capture LFG from all
planned waste cells (cell 1-9). This would require total incremental investments of EUR 45.5
million, including the investments already undertaken at the Ghabawi landfill, future
incremental investments in cell 1-3 and subsequently in cell 4-9, and the Sha’eer transfer
station.

                     Table A3.6: Cases considered in the economic analysis
                       CER (EUR)    LFG generation and capture    Investment cost
   1:Base case         0,00         As IPCC model                 Full
   2:With CER case     1,00         As IPCC model                 Full
   3:Low LFG case      0,00         IPCC less 20%                 Full
   4:CAPEX +20%,       0,00         As IPCC model                 Full +20% from 2015
   OPEX +20%                                                      onwards, O&M +20%

24. The results show (see table A3.7) that for the considered investments in LFG system for
cell 1-3 (including the investments in upgrading Sha’eer), NPV is positive in the base case
and all other cases analyzed. In case 2 (adding revenue from CERs at a price of EUR1 per
CER), the EIRR, ENPV, and B/C ratio are slightly higher, but the CERs do not make a
significant difference to economic viability of the project. Case 3 (20 percent reduction in
LFG production), and case 4 (20 percent increase in future capital expenditure) also show
results that would indicate an economically viable investment.

25. When considering a longer-term investment in cell 1-9, the outlook is even more positive.
Incremental investments of EUR 45.5 million would be needed over 20 years, but would


                                              33
   result in ENPV of EUR 72.0 million in the base case and highly positive EIRR, ENPV, and
   B/C ratio in all other cases.

              Table A3.7: Result of variation in different parameters in the economic analysis
                                           (all amounts in EUR).
Case         1                            2                     3                       4
             Base case                    CER Case              Low LFG case            Capex 20% increase
Investment   EIRR     ENPV   B/C EIRR ENPV       B/C EIRR ENPV       B/C EIRR ENPV       B/C
                             Ratio               Ratio               Ratio               Ratio
C1-3          36% 23.059.310 1.97 37% 24.165.264 2,02 28% 14.488.407 1,61 32% 20.187.007 1,76
C1-9          46% 72.012.111 2.80 48% 75.090.409 2,88 38% 50.390.594 2,26 42% 65.879.754 2,43

   26. The analysis was also carried out to show the combined impact of LFG production lower
   in 20 percent and capital expenditures higher in 20 percent. In this case the ENPV remained
   positive (Table A3.8 below). Longer-term investments in cell 1-9 also remain viable.

    Table A3.8: Result of combined variation in different parameters in the economic analysis – scenario
                   including cost and benefits of the upgrade of Sha’eer transfer station
                                           (all amounts in EUR).
                             Case           3+4
                                            Low LFG production and + 20% CAPEX
                             Investment        EIRR         ENPV         B/C Ratio
                             C1-3               24%        11.456.665      1,43
                             C1-9               34%        44.098.799      1,95

   27. Another simulation was done (Table A3.9 below) on the economic analysis to show the
   needed decrease in LFG generation compared to the base case for the project to be no longer
   viable (e.g. ENPV becomes negative) in a case with 20 percent higher capital expenditures.
   In a situation with 20 percent increased future capital cost, compared to the base case, LFG
   production would need to decrease by 50 percent below the base case estimates for the
   project to be no longer viable. This is a quite robust result, but still means that if LFG
   generation turns out to be substantially less positive than the pilot phase indicates, i.e. if it
   approaches the values initially estimated by the Bank (which were 50 percent lower than the
   results of the pilot), the project could be no longer economically viable, especially if capital
   expenditures were to increase.

                         Table A3.9: Result of switching value for the economic analysis.
               Switching value for LFG production assuming 20% higher capital expenditures
               C1-3                                                    50%
               C1-9                                                    61%

   e) Economic Analysis of upgrading Sha’eer:
   28. The assumptions regarding benefits from upgrading the Sha’eer transfer station were set
   conservatively, quantifying only the savings from reduced expenditure on fuel. Even in under
   these assumptions, the economic analysis shows that the Sha’eer investments were
   economically viable, with ENPV of EUR 0.3 million for investments of EUR 4.1 million.
   The EIRR is 13 percent, above discount rate of 12 percent.



                                                       34
f) Conclusion on the Economic Analysis

29. In conclusion, the economic analysis shows an investment that as a whole is
economically viable if considering past and future expenditure to implement the project as
planned in the PAD and using alternatives to reach originally planned objectives, i.e. when it
became impossible to invest in two new transfer stations. The analysis also shows that
continuing to invest in LFG-to-electricity system at Ghabawi, continuously adding cells to
the system as they become full, the investment will have higher economic rates of return than
if considering only the investments in the three first cells. These results are quite robust to
increases in capital expenditure and lower LFG generation, but it cannot be completely ruled
out that in a situation with higher capital expenditure and substantially lower LFG production
(lower by 50 percent), the investment would no longer be economically viable.

II - Financial analysis of the project:

30. The financial analysis is based on comparison of a Do-Nothing scenario with a Do-
Something scenario. These are defined as the following:

    Do-Nothing scenario: Minimal investment to allow current solid waste management
     operations to be continued in GAM in the current manner, that is to say a business as
     usual scenario without any investment in transfer stations, leachate treatment plant,
     LFG system, and gas to electricity plant. However, in this scenario, GAM would need
     to invest in the construction of cell 3.

    Do-Something scenario: Upgrade of current solid waste management practices in
     GAM through the infrastructure investment component including: (1) upgrading one
     transfer station; (2) construction of cell 3; (3) capping and equipment of cell 1-3 with
     LFG system; and (4) construction of LFG-to- electricity plant.

31. The financial analysis considers the project costs and the following main benefits:

      Sales of electricity produced by the LFG-to-electricity plant.
      Cost savings from operational efficiencies made possible by the upgrade of the
       Sha’eer transfer station.

32. Further analysis is done to evaluate impact of variation of key parameters, notably
revenue from sale of CER, LFG production and resulting electricity production, revenues
from sale of electricity, and capital expenditure. Finally, the analysis is run considering past
investments as sunk cost for decisions on future investments – that is, analyzing if future
investments will have positive financial returns irrespective of the investments already made.

33. Other general assumptions include:

      The project evaluation period is 20 years as it is usually assumed for biogas to
       electricity plants projects, starting in 2014, when the first expenditure took place, and
       finishing in 2034.




                                              35
       Costs and benefits are expressed in EUR.8
       The discount rate used (9 percent) is based on the Jordanian Treasury Bond rate (6.8
        percent)9 and risk premium (2.2 percent percent).10

34. The financial costs include the project investment cost and increased operating cost due to
the implementation of the LFG system and the biogas to electricity plant.

a) Project Costs:

35. The investment costs considered for the financial analysis are the same as for the
economic analysis (in the absence of taxes, as environmental projects in Jordan are eligible
for tax exemption). The incremental investments in the base case (cell 1-3) are EUR 17.4
million, and EUR 45.5 million in the expanded scenario (cell 1-9). The annualized O&M cost
are also the same, EUR 1.4 million in the base case and EUR 3.1 million if adding cell 4-9.

b) Project Benefits:

36. The financial benefits differ from the economic benefits essentially in that avoided
subsidies are not part of the financial analysis for GAM. The savings from collection and
transfer are the same as in the economic analysis, EUR 370,735 per year. The production of
LFG and sales of electricity are also the same as in the economic analysis, with total income
estimated at EUR 41.3 million for investments in LFG-to-electricity from cell 1-3 of
Ghabawi, and EUR 147.2 million if considering the longer-term investment in LFG-to-
energy for all planned waste cell at Ghabawi (cell 1-9).

c) Results of the base case:

37. In the base case, investments on cell 1-3 are as estimated based on the DBO contractors
offer, current LFG generation is extrapolated to derive future LFG generation, there is no
revenue from the sale of CERs, past and future investments are included, and electricity
selling price is as described in the section on assumptions above. The results of the financial
analysis are presented in the following tables.




8
  The base currencies for all cost data are JOD and EUR and underlying calculations in base currencies should
be used for any future updating of economic and financial analysis to be used as input to investment decisions.
9
  Source: Amman Stock Exchange. http://www.ase.com.jo/en/treasury-bonds, accessed on November 21, 2014.
10
   Investment Risk premium for the Middle East. Source: NYU. Stern School of Business.
www.stern.nyu.edu/~adamodar/pc/datasets/ctryprem.xls. Accessed on November 21, 2014.


                                                      36
                           Table A3.10: Financial analysis of the project
             Total       Increased O/M Cost Savings    CER             Electricity     Benefits less
          Investment       costs from  from transfer revenues          Revenues           Costs
                         LFG and Power    stations
                              Plant



 2014      € 8.586.813         € 111.722      € 370.735          €0               €0     -€ 8.327.801
 2015      € 5.571.764       € 1.004.066      € 389.271          €0               €0     -€ 6.186.558
 2016      € 3.262.131       € 1.656.492      € 408.735          €0      € 2.639.484     -€ 1.870.404
 2017               €0       € 1.330.279      € 429.172          €0      € 3.167.381      € 2.266.273
 2018               €0       € 1.330.279      € 450.630          €0      € 3.043.132      € 2.163.483
 2019               €0       € 1.330.279      € 473.162          €0      € 2.890.182      € 2.033.065
 2020               €0       € 1.330.279      € 496.820          €0      € 2.745.162      € 1.911.703
 2021               €0       € 1.330.279      € 521.661          €0      € 2.607.651      € 1.799.033
 2022               €0       € 1.810.279      € 547.744          €0      € 2.477.249      € 1.214.714
 2023               €0       € 1.570.279      € 575.131          €0      € 2.353.578      € 1.358.430
 2024               €0       € 1.330.279      € 603.888          €0      € 2.236.281      € 1.509.890
 2025               €0       € 1.330.279      € 634.082          €0      € 2.125.021      € 1.428.824
 2026               €0       € 1.330.279      € 665.786          €0      € 2.019.477      € 1.354.984
 2027               €0       € 1.330.279      € 699.075          €0      € 1.919.348      € 1.288.145
 2028               €0       € 1.330.279      € 734.029          €0      € 1.824.348      € 1.228.099
 2029               €0       € 1.330.279      € 770.731          €0      € 1.734.207      € 1.174.659
 2030               €0       € 1.810.279      € 809.267          €0      € 1.648.669        € 647.657
 2031               €0       € 1.570.279      € 849.730          €0      € 1.567.492        € 846.944
 2032               €0       € 1.330.279      € 892.217          €0      € 1.490.447      € 1.052.385
 2033               €0       € 1.330.279      € 936.828          €0      € 1.417.317      € 1.023.866
 2034               €0       € 1.330.279      € 983.669          €0      € 1.347.898      € 1.001.288

                            Table A3.11: Results of the financial analysis
                           Indicator                                Value
                         FNPV (@9.0%)                         -3.6 million EUR
                             FIRR                                    5%

38. The financial analysis indicates that the investment component of the project is not
financially viable, returning a negative FNPV of EUR 3.6 million, following an incremental
investment of EUR 17.4 million. The FIRR is 5 percent. This compares to an expected FNPV
of US$18.4 million at appraisal and FIRR of 30 percent. The main difference is the lack of
revenue from sale of CERs (estimated at US$31.4 million at appraisal).

d) Sensitivity and Switching Analysis:

39. The same scenarios were analyzed as for the economic analysis, to serve as decision basis
for GAM in relation to phase 2 and 3 of the DBO contract and to demonstrate the importance
of any future variation in key parameters to investment projects of this type in Jordan. The
financial analysis was run for two additional cases: (1) considering increased revenue from
electricity and (2) in a case where already made investments were considered as sunk cost, to
show the level of financial viability of future investments. The table below presents the
variation on parameters analyzed in each of these cases. These cases were further analyzed in
a scenario with LFG capture and LFG-to-electricity investments for the full life span of the
Ghabawi landfill, corresponding to investments over 20 years to capture LFG from all
planned waste cells (cell 1-9).



                                                 37
                           Table A3.12: Cases considered in the financial analysis
                             CER       Electricity price (EUR)      LFG generation      Investment cost
                             (EUR)                                  and capture
     1:Base case             0,00      0,062                        As IPCC model       Full
     2:With CER case         1,00      0,062                        As IPCC model       Full
     3:Low LFG case          0,00      0,062                        IPCC less 20%       Full
     4:High electricity      0,00      50% increased electricity    As IPCC model       Full
     revenue                           revenue11
     5:CAPEX +20%,           0,00      0,062                        As IPCC model       Full +20% from
     OPEX +20%                                                                          2015, O&M +20%
     6:P1 sunk cost case     0,00      0,062                        As IPCC model       Less cost of P1
                                                                                        (EUR 5.468.893)


40. When considering the investment as a whole, the results (see Table A3.13 below) show
that for the considered investments in LFG system for cell 1-3, FNPV remains negative in
case 2 (adding revenue from CERs at a price of EUR1 per CER), case 3 (20 percent reduction
in LFG production), and case 5 (20 percent increase in future capital expenditure). The
analysis also shows that FNPV would be positive in case 4 (increase in electricity revenue by
50 percent). Finally, if considering the already invested amount (in phase 1 of the DBO
contract) as sunk cost for future investments (case 6), the future investments of EUR 7.8
million necessary to complete phase 2 and 3 of the DBO contract and achieve the expected
benefits will lead to positive FNVP of EUR 1.4 million, with FIRR of 11 percent.

41. When considering a longer-term investment in cell 1-9, the outlook is more positive.
Investments of EUR 45.5 million would be needed over 20 years, but would result in FNPV
of EUR 6.2 million in the base case and positive FNPV in all other cases, except when
considering a 20 percent reduction in LFG generation (case 3) or a 20 percent increase in
future capital expenditures (case 5).

               Table A3.13: Result of variation in different parameters (all amounts in EUR).
Case             1                              2                             3
                 Base case                      CER Case                      Low LFG case
Investment          FIRR              FNPV         FIRR          FNPV             FIRR           FNPV
C1-3                 5%            -3.551.918       7%         -2.179.475          0%         -7.191.492
C1-9                 12%            6.184.463      15%         10.277.098          7%         -3.765.893
Case             4                              5                             6
                 High electricity revenue       Capex 20% increase            P1 investments as sunk cost
Investment          FIRR              FNPV         FIRR          FNPV             FIRR           FNPV
C1-3                 14%            5.547.019       1%         -6.976.751         11%          1.389.664
C1-9                 23%           31.060.353       8%         -1.603.875         17%         11.126.045




11
     To evaluate the impact of application of the higher tariff under discussion between GAM and JEPCO


                                                       38
42. The model was run for the cases (cases 4 and 6) in which investments in cell 1-3 would
give positive FNPV and FIRR above opportunity cost of capital (9.0 percent) to show impact
of variation of capital expenditure (see Table A3.14). With increased electricity revenues, the
FNPV remains positive for investments in cell 1-3, assuming either 20 percent increase in
future capital expenditures (case 4a) or 20 percent reduction in LFG (case 4b). However, the
sunk cost case is sensitive to both increase in capital expenditure (case 6a) and decrease in
LFG generation (case 6b). Longer-term investments in cell 1-9 remain viable when
considering the case with higher electricity revenues in combination with 20 percent increase
in capital expenditure (case 4a) or 20 percent reduction in LFG (case 4b). When considering
the Sunk cost case for cell 1-9, it remains viable when separately considering increase in
capital expenditure (case 6a) and decrease in LFG generation (case 6b), but not if combining
the two (case 6c).

      Table A3.14: Result of combined variation in different parameters (all amounts in EUR)
                      Case         4a
                                   High electricity revenue + 20% CAPEX
                      Investment          FIRR                     FNPV
                      C1-3                 11%                   2.122.186
                      C1-9                 19%                  23.103.679
                      Case         4b
                                   High electricity revenue - 20% LFG
                      Investment          FIRR                     FNPV
                      C1-3                 9%                   17.169.544
                      C1-9                 17%                  16.134.819
                      Case         6a
                                   P1 sunk cost case + 20% CAPEX
                      Investment          FIRR                     FNPV
                      C1-3                 6%                   -2.035.169
                      C1-9                 11%                   3.337.706
                      Case         6b
                                   P1 sunk cost case - 20% LFG
                      Investment          FIRR                     FNPV
                      C1-3                 5%                   -2.249.911
                      C1-9                 10%                   1.175.689
                      Case         6c
                                   P1 sunk cost case +20% CAPEX and -20%
                                   LFG
                      Investment          FIRR                     FNPV
                      C1-3            Not evaluated            Not evaluated
                      C1-9                 4%                   -6.612.650

43. Another simulation was done on the financial analysis to show the maximum capital
expenditure increase in future investments (case 6) for the project to become unviable (see
Table A3.15). Regarding capital cost, the analysis shows that future capital cost for case 6
(sunk cost) would need to increase by at least 15 percent for investments in cell 1-3 to
become unviable (22 percent if considering revenue of EUR 1 per CER). Finally, the needed
increase in electricity revenues for the project to become viable (e.g. FNPV becomes
positive) was analyzed for cell 1-3. Electricity revenues would need to increase by 20 percent
over the base case selling price (without revenue from CERs) for the project to become viable,
and by 15 percent if including revenue from sale of CERs. In a situation with 20 percent


                                               39
increased future capital cost, compared to the base case, electricity revenues would need to
increase by 38 percent over current selling price (without revenue from CERs) for the project
to become viable, compared to the base case scenario (and only 28 percent with CERs).

44. Finally, when looking at the longer-term investments in cell 1-9, the analysis shows that
future capital cost for case 6 (Sunk cost) would need to increase by at least 28 percent for
investments in cell 1-3 to become unviable (39 percent if considering revenue of EUR 1 per
CER). In the base case for cell 1-9, the electricity revenues can actually decrease by 12
percent (without CER) or 20 percent (with CER) and the project will remain financially
viable. When considering a case with 20 percent increased future capital expenditure, it’s a
close call: electricity revenues would need to increase by 4 percent for the project to become
viable if there is no revenue from CERs, whereas electricity revenues can decrease by 4
percent with even limited revenue from CERs and the project will remain viable.

                  Table A3.15: Result of switching values in the financial analysis.
       Case 6 (sunk cost): Switching value for CAPEX C1-3
       With CER                                           15%
       Without CER                                        22%
       Case 1 (Base case C1-3): Switching value for electricity revenue C1-3 NO CAPEX
       INCREASE (NB! Electricity revenue increase needed for project viability)
       With CER                                              12%
       Without CER                                           20%
       Case 1 (Base case C1-3): Switching value for electricity revenue C1-3 + 20% CAPEX
       (NB! Electricity revenue increase needed for project viability)
       With CER                                             19%
       Without CER                                          38%
       Case 6 (Sunk cost C1-9): Switching value for CAPEX C1-9
       With CER                                          39%
       Without CER                                       28%
       Case 1 (Base case C1-9): Switching value for electricity revenue C1-9 NO CAPEX
       INCREASE (NB! Electricity revenue decrease for project to be no longer viable)
       With CER                                              20%
       Without CER                                           12%
       Case 1 (Base case C1-9): Switching value for electricity revenue C1-9 + 20% CAPEX
       With CER                                               4%
                              (NB! Electricity revenue decrease for project to be no longer viable)
       Without CER                                            4%
                                (NB! Electricity revenue increase needed for project viability)

e) Financial Analysis of upgrading Sha’eer:

45. The result of the financial analysis does not differ substantially from the economic
analysis, since the quantified benefits from upgrading the Sha’eer transfer station are the
same and only the discount rate differs. Even under conservative assumptions, the financial
analysis shows that the Sha’eer investments were financially viable, with FNPV of EUR 1.3
million for investments of EUR 4.1 million. The FIRR is 13 percent, above discount rate of 9
percent.




                                                  40
f) – Conclusion on Financial Analysis

46. In conclusion, the financial analysis shows an investment that as a whole is not viable in
the base case, but which could become viable with limited increases in electricity revenues or
if including revenue from sale of CERs. The analysis also shows that if considering already
invested amounts as sunk cost, future investments (in the planned cell 1-3 as well as
expanded investments in cell 1-9) will be financially viable (have positive FNPV) without
changing other parameters. However several cases are quite close, and it is recommended to
base any decision on close review of assumptions, using the latest data on LFG generation on
the Ghabawi landfill, and considering options to reduce operations and maintenance
expenditures.

III – Cost Recovery

47. At appraisal, significant effort was put into estimating the full costs of MSWM collection
and cleaning, transfer, and disposal. This resulted in estimates of total operation and capital
cost of about JOD 22.6 million per year. The revenues to cover these costs were estimated at
JOD 14.2 million, for a cost recovery rate of 63 percent. The projected cost recovery was
estimated at 79 percent in 2013, based on projected revenues of JOD 26.2 million for total
cost of JOD 33.0 million. This result was to be reached based on expected increases in waste
disposed at Ghabawi of about 2.5 percent annually, increase in the number of households of 5
percent per year, unchanged solid waste fees for households, increase by 6 percent annually
in revenues from business waste, increase in tipping fees at the rate of disposal at Ghabawi,
reduced MSWM operating cost from two new transfer stations, CER revenues from LFG
system at Ghabawi, and cost of operating the LFG system, including assumed 20 year
depreciation period.

48. The main difference between the estimates at appraisal and the actual situation at the time
of the ICR is the absence of revenues from sale of CERs and electricity and increased cost.
The actual revenues from various MSWM fees (from households, businesses and tipping
fees) were provided by GAM for 2013 as JOD 21.9 million to cover costs of JOD 42.0
million. This corresponds to a cost recovery rate of 52 percent, which is actually a decline in
cost recovery compared to the baseline in 2007 (63 percent). The decline is due to increased
operating and capital costs, which have gone up from JOD 26.2 million in 2007 to JOD 42.0
in 2013. Increases in revenues (up from JOD 14.2 million in 2007 to JOD 21.9 million in
2013, due to increased revenue from MSWM fees) have not matched the cost increases.

49. It should be noted that the number for 2013 was provided by GAM based on available
budget data and is not based on as rigorous analysis as at appraisal, where a detailed study
was undertaken to analyze sector revenues and expenses. The result is the best available
estimate, but more analysis is needed to determine the underlying reasons for decline in cost
recovery. The detailed study done at appraisal was not repeated for the ICR, so the
underlying reasons for the cost increase are not known. E.g. due to lack of more detailed
breakdown of available data, no conclusion can be drawn as to how much the upgrade of the
Sha’eer transfer station contributed to cost savings compared to what was expected form the
construction of two new transfer stations.

50. However, we do know that according to appraisal estimates, generation of electricity at
Ghabawi and sale of CERs would have added annual revenue of about JOD 4.8 million in
2013, which would have resulted in maintaining an almost unchanged cost recovery ratio of

                                              41
64 percent with current level of cost. Part of the explanation for increased cost can be found
in increased fuel price (up from JOD 0.5 per liter in 2007 to JOD 0.67 in 2013), general
inflation, and population pressure form the estimated 140,000 Syrian refugees housed in
Amman outside of refugee camps. Current daily MSW collection is about 3,000 tons
compared to 2,200 tons in 2008 (an increase of 36 percent). Finally, the breakdown of cost
for 2013 into operating and capital expenditures was not provided, but would also have
provided useful input into the analysis. The implementation of the GAM MSWM M&E
system will make such analysis possible in real time in the near future (the M&E system will
be linked directly to the budget).




                                             42
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
Names                          Title                                 Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending
Reynold Duncan                 Operations Adviser                    SACPK
Jaafar Sadok Friaa             Program Leader                        SACPK     TTL
Elisabeth Sherwood             Consultant                            GWADR     Financial sector
Knut Opsal                     Lead Social Development Specialist    GSURR
Dahlia Lotayef                 Sr. Environment Specialist            MNSSD
Sherif Kamel F. Arif           Consultant                            GEFVP     Environment
                                                                     EASIS -
Georges Raphael Khoury-Haddad Consultant                                       Procurement
                                                                     HIS
Rafelo Cervigni                Sr. Natural Resources Economist       MNSSD
Hans Willumsen                 Consultant                            GSURR LFG and SWM
                                                                           Operational
Mokhtar Abdallaoui-Maan        Junior Professional Associate         MNSSD
                                                                           Support
Natasha Hafez                  Program Assistant                     MNSSD
                                                                           Operational
Lamis Aljounaidi               Junior Professional Associate         MNSSD
                                                                           Support
Ahmed Mohamed Khaled Mostafa
                             Technical Specialist                    GCCCF     Carbon Finance
Abdel Wahid
                                                                               Public financial
Andrew Macdonald               Consultant                            -
                                                                               management
Hyacinth Brown                 Sr. Finance Officer                   LOAFC
Robert Bou Jaoude              Sr. Financial Management Specialist   MNAFM
Jad Raji Mazahreh              Sr. Financial Management Specialist   GGODR
Velayutham Vijayaverl          Sr. Procurement Specialist            MNAPR
Kenneth Mwenda                 Sr. Counsel                           LEGEM
Supervision/ICR
Jaafar Sadok Friaa             Program Leader                     SACPK TTL
Sherif Kamel F. Arif           Consultant                         GEFVP Environment
Salim Benouniche               Lead Procurement Specialist        GGODR
                                                                  MNSSU -
Francois Boulanger            Sr. Urban Economist                         TTL
                                                                  HIS
Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi         Sr. Procurement Specialist          GGODR
                                                                  EASIS -
Georges Raphael Khoury-Haddad Consultant                                  Procurement
                                                                  HIS
Jad Raji Mazahreh             Sr. Financial Management Specialist GGODR
Ahmed Mohamed Khaled Mostafa
                              Technical Specialist                GCCCF Carbon Finance
Abdel Wahid
Knut Opsal                    Lead Social Development Specialist GSURR
                                                                          Operational
Ghada Abdel Rahman Shaqour    Consultant                          GSURR
                                                                          support
Elisabeth Sherwood            Consultant                          GWADR Financial sector
Chantal Reliquet              Sr. Urban Specialist                GSURR TTL
Christian Vang Eghoff         Consultant                          GSURR ICR Author
Hans Willumsen                Consultant                          GSURR LFG and SWM
Adrien de Bassompierre        Sr. Carbon Finance Specialist       GCCCF

                                            43
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      US$ Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
               FY07                             5.14                    22,098.56
               FY08                            23.88                   190,437.96
               FY09                            11.00                    83,781.58
                          Total:               40.02                   296,318.10
Supervision/ICR
              FY09                              1.75                    19,020.00
              FY10                             15.36                   100,525.16
              FY11                             12.87                   116,589.86
              FY12                             17.27                   154,186.76
              FY13                             20.56                    99,953.26
              FY14                             17.85                   120,947.05
              FY15                              5.48                    48,567.24
                          Total:               91.14                   659,789.33




                                       44
                       Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.   No beneficiary survey was carried out.




                                          45
              Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1.   No stakeholder workshop was held.




                                         46
            Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.    Description of Project Design
      The development objectives of the ASWMP project were to strengthen the operational,
      financial, and environmental performance of MSWM in Amman. Specifically, the
      project would help achieve the following:
            I.    Environmentally upgrade and expand the existing municipal solid waste landfill
                  to meet the city’s disposal needs up to 2013 and generate electricity while
                  mitigating GHGs; and
            II. Improve the cost effectiveness of the existing municipal solid waste collection
                and transport system and improve overall cost recovery.

      The Key Performance Indicators
     1. Percentage of collected municipal solid waste disposed of and managed in a sanitary
        landfill increased from 0 to 80%;
     2. 160,000 MWh generated through the LFG recovery system by 2013; and
     3. The cost recovery ratio for SWM improved from 63% in 2007 to 75% by 2013.

2.    Design Analysis
     Soundness of the background analysis s and the lessons learned incorporated.
       i.        During appraisal, the several requirements relating to environmental and social
                 safeguards that the project would need to follow were identified, along with
                 mitigation measures and monitoring plans. The proposed project falls under the
                 World Bank environmental category A Classification, two policies of World Bank
                 safe guard were triggered: Operation Policy (OP) 4.01 on Environmental
                 Assessment and Operational Policy (OP) 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. To
                 comply with ( OP) 4.01 Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) was
                 conducted by Eco consultant, Jordan Where the concerning stakeholders were
                 consulted to define the scope of work, the most relevant environmental and social
                 issues, and Draft Environmental & Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) draft report
                 and the Resettlement Policy Framework were reviewed and concluded with
                 stakeholder recommendation. During the ESIA preparation the key alternative as
                 potential options for implemented for each project component were identified
                 with their potential benefits and impacts. OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement
                 was triggered, and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) has been prepared
                 because the nature and extent of land acquisition and the resettlement needed for
                 the implementation of the some of subcomponents as the new transfer station to
                 be established .
      ii.        Prior to project appraisal, the Government of Jordan adopted a series of enabling
                 policies to reform the MSW in compliance with the modern SWM policies. The
                 project responded to the major elements of the four objectives of the National

                                                  47
            Agenda (for 2006 to 2015 ) for establishing a modern SWM system in GAM: (i)
            MSW Strategic Planning, Monitoring/supervision of MSWM services, (ii)
            Communication with MSWM producers, (iii) Provision of solid waste disposal
            services, (iv) Private sector participation, and (v) Reductions in greenhouse gas
            emissions. GAM had embarked on a series of interventions such as financing a
            solid waste strategy including MSW privatization, rehabilitating three transfer
            stations, upgrading El Ghabawi landfill; Contracting the private sector to construct
            and operate a recycling facility for high-value non organic material, and
            Designing and implementing two Clean Development Mechanism (CDM)
            projects for electricity generation from LFG .
     iii.   Due diligence was carried out by the World Bank, GAM and concerned entities
            during project preparation, consistent with the Bank’s environmental and social
            safeguard policies. The design also supported the Bank’s efforts in supporting the
            carbon market for greenhouse gas emission reductions.
The lessons incorporated in project preparation phase:
       i.   World Bank international experience with MSWM projects, such as the Solid
            Waste Management projects in Lebanon, Tunisia, Argentina, Mexico, Bosnia and
            India was taken into consideration in the project design. This included focus on
            the sustainability of investments at the municipal level by strengthening the
            financial and technical capacity of municipalities as this was GAM’s first project
            in MSW.
      ii.   Inadequate technical capacity for strategic planning and private sector
            participation: additional technical capacity the technical capacity in contracting,
            supervision and monitoring was needed for project success, because most of the
            PMU staff was seconded from GAM’s technical and managerial departments.
     iii.   Overestimation of LFG Systems performance: the Bank’s experience in LFG
            projects showed that projects had delivered fewer CERs than forecasted in the
            Project Design Documents (PDDs).
     iv.    Public participation and communication: Local communities play a vital role in
            the implementation of MSW projects. Residents should be aware of their rights
            and responsibilities as almost all project components directly or indirectly affect
            their quality of life. The communities were involved from the beginning of the
            project. The ESIA report was based on studies, field investigations, and public
            consultation, including consultations with affected population groups and key
            stakeholders and NGOs

3.    Assessment of the project design:
The Project design was built on the major elements and objectives of the national agenda for
modern SWM system, in addition to the focus on privatization and on renewable energy
targets. In its components, the Project emphasized the following major elements:
                  MSW Strategic Planning.

                                               48
                  Monitoring/supervision of MSWM services
                  Communication with MSWM producers.
                  Provision of solid waste disposal services.
                  Communication with MSWM producers
                  Private sector participation.
                  Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.


The detailed project design: the project design consists of the following components and sub-
components:


Component 1: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Development Component
Sub-component 1.1: Technical Assistance to GAM, including: (I) supervision of the
contract to construct two transfer stations and of the contract for landfill construction and
upgrade of the leachate treatment facility; and (ii) technical assistance to GAM for
supervision of the DBO contract and the operation of Ghabawi landfill.
Project outputs: The project was procured using the QCBS method and a time based
contract. in accordance with the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers", May 2004, revised October 2006. The contract was subject to
prior review by the Bank. This supervision contract was awarded to IDOM INGENIERIA Y
CONSULTORIA S.A (Spain) on September 30, 2010; the contract price was USD
528,906.66 inclusive of local taxes, duties, fees, levies and exclusive of the 16% sales tax. A
variation order for the engineering design of Ghabawi landfill (including the detailed design
of cell # 4) was issued on December 20th, 2011 with a total value of USD 76,138.17,
inclusive of all local taxes, duties, fees, levies, etc. and exclusive of the 16% sales tax . The
services have been carried out for the landfill gas DBO contract for phase one and will
continue for the next phases (second and third).The consultant also provided technical
assistance for Ghabawi landfill operations


Sub-component 1.2: Support for Strategic Planning, Private Sector
Participation, and Monitoring and Evaluation :The main objective of the study is to
identify the most cost effective , efficient, affordable, and quality-service municipal solid
waste management system in the City of Amman through improvements to the City's
institutional, operational, financial, socio-economic, and legal aspects, including private
sector participation.

Project outputs: This activity has been procured using the QCBS method and a lump-sum
contract, in accordance with the World Bank Standard "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", May 2004. This activity is partially
financed by the Bank and subject to prior review. The Contract was awarded to the
Consortium of Sogreah Consultants SAS, Grupo IG, and Arab Center for Engineering
Studies ACES (France) on April 28, 2010. The contract price was EUR 215,623.66 and


                                               49
JOD 21,989.250, inclusive of all local taxes, duties, fees, levies, etc. and exclusive of the
16% sales tax. The contract award was published on dgMarket and UNDB.
Major identified issues based on the diagnosis of the municipal solid waste management in
the City of Amman included: 1) Developing a legal framework for example the drafts of
waste management law and PPP; 2) The department of waste management operations is at
low level of capacity, needing separated fleet maintenance and procurement functions; 3)
Street cleaning is labor intensive and ineffective, however potential economy can be
achieved through mechanical sweeping, door to door service, public awareness, and
available containers; 4) The collection service reaches 100% of Amman however with an
aging fleet, 20% of waste is not containerized, 5) bad condition of containers, public
ownership of containers, poor M&E, low average fleet loading capacity, multiple handling,
poor health and safety standards, illegal dumping and open burning, and the current system
is not adapted for major waste generators; 5) transfer and transport benefits from the
strategic location of Shaar however suffer from inefficiency and environmental performance
of gravity system in Shaar, poor occupational health and safety standards in Shaar,
insufficient transfer network, and the low average loading capacity of the transport fleet; 6)
no material recovery at the industrial scale, only through the informal recycling sector;
and 7) available land space for landfill extension and economy can be achieved through
landfill gas recovery (electricity and carbon credits sale).
Some activities were conducted to mitigate the adverse impacts of the issues identified
above including: public awareness and communication program for MSW which has been
developed under sub-component 1.3 (the consultant prepared an implementation plan with
all organization, logistics, and infrastructures required for the implementation of the public
awareness and communication program, which shall be implemented by the concerning
departments in GAM; also, over the last two years, GAM conducted a set of activities to the
improve the efficiency of waste collection operation through the procurement of new
collection vehicles, rehabilitation and maintenance of old vehicles and increase in the
capacity of Shaar transfer station. Under sub-component 3.5 (environmental and social
safeguards specialist and implementation of ESMP) an environmental audit and mitigation
plan for the existing East Amman (Al‐Sha'eer) transfer station; a health and
safety/contingency plan for the existing East Amman (Al‐ Sha'eer) transfer station were
prepared in addition to training of the relevant personnel on its implementation. The
analysis carried out in the strategic plan included provision for consultant for a recycling
market in Amman based on surveys conducted on waste pickers and factories owners. There
is a high interest in working in a formal system, to work in sorting plant with better
standards of safety rather than in the streets.
The design of a monitoring and evaluation system to track municipal solid waste
management system sector performance in Amman: This activity has been procured using
the QCBS method, through a lump sum contract, according to the World Bank Standard
RFP in accordance with the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers”. The Contract was awarded to Fehily Timoney and Company trading as
Fehily Timoney International (FTC) (Ireland). The Contract price was JOD 160,593 (One


                                              50
Hundred Sixty Thousands and Five Hundred Ninety Three Jordanian Dinars), inclusive of all
local taxes, duties, fees, levies, etc. and exclusive of the 16% sales tax. The contract was
awarded on July 9th, 2012 Contract award and published on dgMarket and UNDB.
Sub-component 1.3: Development and Implementation of Information,
Education and Communication Program: This sub-component financed public
information and education campaigns to raise public awareness and build partnerships in
various areas of SWM. This activity also financed a sustained awareness campaign involving
the production of education and learning materials and their systematic dissemination, in
particular through NGOs and informal organizations.
Project outputs. The Development of Public Awareness and Communication Program for
the Municipal Solid Waste Management Sector in Amman: this activity was procured using
the QCBS method and a lump-sum contract in accordance with GAM Procurement
guidelines and procedures. The Contract was awarded to Consolidated Consultants (Jordan);
Contract price is JOD 47,572 inclusive of all local taxes on January 25th 2011
Based on survey/focus groups’ results and literature review, the conclusion of focus issues is:
1) littering; 2) proper waste handling at the source, proper waste bags, collection programs,
frequency of taking-out household waste, and then placement in containers; 3) participation
in waste separation at source programs; 4) participation in waste reduction and reuse
programs; 5) perception of waste transfer stations in Amman; 6) unsightly conditions of the
area around containers due to waste pickers’ activity;7) thee effectiveness of GAM complaint
center; and 8 ) general information/awareness on municipal solid waste management and
programs in the City of Amman.

Component 2 - Infrastructure Componen : This component included three subcomponents
aimed at improving the cost effectiveness of SWM transfer and disposal, strengthening the
management of the existing landfill, reducing GHG emissions (and generating emission
reductions credits) and generating electricity. The main investment activities under this
component are as follows:

Sub-component 2.1: Landfill construction and upgrade of the leachate treatment
facility: Under this sub-component, the project financed civil works for the construction of
cell 3 of at Ghabawi landfill. This cell will have a capacity estimated for 2-3 years based on
an average quantity of waste of about 3,000 tons per day. The construction was based on a
design prepared by an international consulting firm in 2003, which was updated optimized by
an international expert during preparation. This subcomponent will also finance upgrading of
the existing leachate treatment facility. These two works were implemented under a single
civil works contract in order to maximize synergies. The upgrade of leachate treatment
facility was found unnecessary due to limited discharge in the environment in view of the dry
climate and high evaporation rate in the existing pounds

Project outputs. This activity was procured using the international competitive bidding
procedures and the World Bank standard bidding document for the procurement of small


                                              51
works, April 2008. The Contract was awarded to Issa Jarad Tarawneh and Son's Company.
The contract price was JOD 2,681,386.425, inclusive of all local taxes, duties, fees, levies,
etc. and exclusive of custom duties and sales tax on imported materials and equipment
(exempted). The contract award was published on dgMarket and UNDB.
The third cell total capacity is almost 2 million ton capacity (2.4 million tons if we consider
the area between cell 2 and 3).

The contractor suffered significant delays and damages due to the long-time administrative
and approval process of changes in contract price/variations.
The contractor claimed additional costs for additional waste quantities removed from cell # 1
during reshape, extension of the intended completion date by 144 days, indirect costs
(overhead) for the extension period, compensation for the lack of on‐site water from the
water well, and damages due to delay in payments and release of securities Finally, an
amicable settlement was reached between GAM and the contractor, who was entitled to 40%
of the total payment for cell 1 reshape, compensation for the lack of on-site water and
extension of the intended completion date.

Sub-component 2.2: Construction of two transfer stations This sub-component was
intended to finance the construction and equipment of two transfer stations aimed at reducing
the cost of collection services in the North-West and South-West areas of GAM, with the
objective of ensuring that 100 percent of the waste collected would transit through transfer
stations, thereby reducing total transit costs. The project feasibility study validated the final
selection of the sites, capacity, technical specifications and related cost estimates.

Project outputs. This activity was not procured due to the unavailability of the selected sites,
following the rejection of licenses by the Ministry of Environments, because of the proximity
of the sites to residential areas, with no further details on the criteria of their exclusion.

Sub-component 2.3: Construction of an LFG extraction system and LFG-to energy
plant: Under this sub-component, the project was to finance the design, supply, Installation,
commissioning, and initial operation of an LFG recovery system (extraction of LFG and
energy generation) for cells 1, 2, and 3. This sub-component also included the final capping
of cells 1, 2, and 3, as well as the upgrading of the leachate drainage system, with the
objective of generating and extracting the maximum amount of LFG. Implementation of this
sub-component would enable income generation from the sale of emission reductions credits
(through the related Carbon Finance operation) and energy sales

Project outputs: This activity was been procured using the International Competitive
Bidding procedures and project specific pre--qualification and bidding documents, based
upon the Sampler DBO Documents made available by the Bank as a lump-sum contract. The
specific procurement notice was posted for first round of prequalification process in 2008, 17
applications were received but only 2 bidders passed the pre-qualification process. The
decision was then taken to re-launch the prequalification process for more competition and a
new publication was made in the local newspapers, on the dgMarket, and UNDB, with the
                                               52
applicants participating in the first round having the option of confirming their applications or
submitting new ones. Nine (9) applications were received and twelve (12) applications were
confirmed from the first round. Contract award recommendation was approved by GAM City
Council and the Prime Ministry. The contract was awarded to Joint Venture of Construction
Company Christopher D. Constantinidis S.A and HELECTOR S.A at EUR 11,477,524.63
and JOD 7,985,230.90 that is inclusive of all local taxes, duties, fees, levies, etc. The
contract was suspended due to site conditions, mainly in cell 1, on March 3rd, 2012. An
agreement was reached and actual construction started in November 2013. The settlement
agreement between the Mayor of Amman and the Operator was signed in December 2013.
The official commission date for phase #1 was on 15th July 2014. The owner had the
obligation to shall inform the operator whether to/not to proceed with the successive phase
within 4 months from the commission of the first phase.

The landfill gas to energy project in Ghabawi landfill is registered as a CDM project on
May 11, 2012 after almost 4 years since the validation mission in Amman in June, 2008.
Due to various circumstances and delayed start of construction works in DBO contract
which started in October 2013 and the registration of a CDM PoA based on the City-Wide
Approach was not achieved by the end of 2012, it was not excreted to develop this program
to be able to generate CERs under this program in the short/medium term. Therefore, GAM
decided to withdraw its participation in the Carbon Partnership Facility, as provided for in
Section 15.1 of the SPA on October 31st, 2013.

Component 3: Project Management A Project Management Unit (PMU) was established to
ensure day-to-day Management of the project. This component included technical assistance
to the PMU to assist it in fulfilling its overall supervisory, coordinating, and monitoring role.
This component also supported all project management activities, including technical issues,
procurement, and financial management.


The technical assistance and capacity building for ESMP and RAPs implementation:
This activity was procured under prior review. The Contract wass awarded to Consortium of
Dar Al- Omran Infrastructure and Environment and EPEM S.A (Jordan) on Jun 6, 2012.
The contract price was JOD 76,167 Seventy Six Thousands and One Hundred Sixty Seven
Jordanian Dinars inclusive of all local taxes, duties, fees, levies, etc., and exclusive of the
16% sales tax. The contract award was published on dgMarket and UNDB.
Project output: Under this contract two training workshops on ESMP/RAPs and
environmental monitoring were conducted in December 2012 for 25 participants from
GAM engineering department, GAM environmental department, and other ministries. The
consultant also developed an ESMP manual and database focusing on environmental
monitoring, mitigation, and reporting, in addition to an environmental audit and mitigation
plan for the existing East Amman (Al-Sha'eer) transfer station, an health and
safety/contingency plan for the existing East Amman (Al-Sha'eer) transfer station in
Arabic, and training for its implementation, translation of the existing health and


                                               53
  safety/contingency plan for Al-Ghabawi landfill into Arabic and to training of relevant
  personnel on its implementation.

  Project Audit services: This sub component was awarded to Ernest and Young on July
  12th, 2010 for Contract price JOD 60,000 inclusive of all local taxes, duties, fees, levies, etc.
  and exclusive of the 16% sales tax. The contract was managed by GAM financial directorate
  and the Amman solid waste management project will have a separate audit report for the
  period March, 2009 – December, 2010. the services of GAM accounts audit for the years
  2011,2012 was awarded to (Al- Samman and partners BDO Jordan ) Contract price is JOD
  28,000 inclusive of all local taxes, duties, fees, levies, etc. and exclusive of the 16% sales tax .
  Project Audit services for years 2011 – 2014 awarded to Talal Abu Ghazaleh & Co.
  International (Jordan) on July 2nd , 2012 for amount of (11497.92 JD ) .The consultant
  submitted the ASWMP auditing reports for years 2011,2012 and 2013 The external auditor
  audited the project’s financial statements on an annual basis in accordance with
  internationally accepted auditing standards acceptable to the Bank,.

  The financial management system: The financial management system was awarded to
  MID IT (Local contractor). The contract price was JOD 13,000 inclusive of local taxes,
  duties, fees, levies and exclusive of the 16% sales tax. A system maintenance contract was
  put in place for the period 2013-2014.
    i. The PMU was established and financed by GAM. Staff will consist of (i)a full-time
       project manager; (ii) a full-time Environmental engineer seconded from GAM’S
       Environment and Cleanliness Department; (iii) a full-time financial management
       specialist seconded from GAM’S Financial Department; (iv) (v) a part time
       procurement specialist seconded from GAM’s Department of Procurement and
       Tendering.

 Implementation period: The project started implementation with procurement stage in 2008
 for Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Development Component and the infrastructure
 component and ended at the end of June 2014.

Adequacy of government’s and GAM’S commitment, stakeholder involvement, and/or
 participatory processes:
   ii. The scope of work was defined for ESIA of project during the appraisal mission in
       consultation with key stakeholder, public and NGO’s, because of the nature of project
       and its potential impacts on the environment and natural resources.
   iii. Consultation with affected communities took place in the form of visits by the GAM
        project management team to residents are being potentially affected by the proposed
        development, to raise public awareness the advertisement in public press was a
        requirement before implementation any component of project.
   iv. Regarding the construction of the new cells in the landfill, the two transfer stations a
       consultation with public was a requirement to gain a clearer understanding to express

                                                  54
      their opinions and concerns on the proposed projects and to allow them to should take
      place. The consultation could take a form of house to house meeting, questionnaires and
      the results obtained were reflected into the recommendations.
   v. As good practice, the relevant governmental identities were involved during project
      implementation. An Advisory Committee consisting of the City Manager of GAM, the
      Deputy City Manager for Planning and Economic Development, the Deputy City
      Manager for Public Services, and representatives from the Ministry of Planning and
      International Cooperation, the MoE, and the EPC was established by Mayoral Decree.
      The Advisory Committee facilitated coordination and collaboration between the various
      GAM departments involved. This will help in duplicating the project in other
      municipalities in Jordan and will provide strategic guidance for overall monitoring of
      the projects.
  vi. A PMU was established within GAM by Mayoral Decree for day to day management of
      the project and was the counterpart to the World Bank for all technical, fiduciary, and
      environmental matters. The PMU was responsible for: (i) the overall supervision of the
      project; (ii) ensuring compliance with the IBRD legal agreement and the EWA; (iii)
      coordinating with the various GAM departments in the implementation and supervision
      of contracts.
Assessment of risks (as determined by such factors as policy and institutional capacity)
and mitigation measures
 During Appraisal, the financial, technical and social risks were defined and rated as low or
 moderate. Lack of coordination, lack of implementation capacity, difficulty in securing sites
 for the transfer stations, changes in GAM’s leadership were the major risks that had a direct
 impact on project implementation. The impacts were represented in the unexpected delays in
 components implementation as DBO contract and the construction of the third cell. The lack
 of experience in capacity in PSP project and the cancellation of EPC resulted in slow
 development in MSW project privatization
 The analysis of risks assessments and their mitigation measures are detailed in Annex (1).

 4. Implementation Process
 The main factors contributing to the successful implementation of the project are summarized
 as follows:
     1) The adequacy of the data used in project design and planning during the appraisal
         period: an Environment and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) was prepared in
         compliance with the Jordanian regulations as well as the Bank Guidelines and
         procedures, including the consultationd with affected population groups and key
         stakeholders and NGOs.
     2) The selection of GAM as an implementation agency due to its expertise in project
        implementation and solid waste sector management. Well-developed experience of
        GAM in financial, procedural, procurements processes management that directly
        affected the success of project implementation.


                                              55
     3) The nature of the project; The proposed Solid Waste Project was classified as
        Category A because of its potential impacts on environment and natural resources and
        the need to strengthen the financial , operational and environmental performance in
        Amman City .
     4) During project preparation, Jordan witnessed strong economic performance, political
        stability that provided a conducive environment for implementing reforms despite
        continuing security threats and regional tensions.
     5) The PUM unit established in GAM responsible for the day to day operation of the
        project and for managing the information needed for M&E. The M&E system that is
        currently under implementation shall provide GAM management with monitoring and
        evaluation tools to meet their plans in MSW sector. This system is designed to
        address the following key elements: (i) Service coverage and efficiency; (ii) Financial
        performance (e.g. unit cost/ton collected, revenue volumes by source, cost recovery
        factor of service, etc.); (iii) Environmental impact indicators (waste collected per
        citizen, % of waste recycled, % of waste disposed, % of greenhouse gases captured,
        and other environmental impacts).
     6) The supervision of the Bank was carried out twice a year during project
        implementation assisted PMU staff and GAM in project execution and monitoring of
        project performance.

5.      Assessment of Outcomes

Relevance: The common disposal practices are in open dumpers, even in case landfills there
are of inadequate capacity in term of work safety and environmental safeguards. The national
agenda has instituted some policies to upgrade the efficiency of the MSW sector and to
increase the disposal percentage from 50% to 70% by 2013, and the costs of providing
services are quite high. The capacity of GAM is remarkable in MSW services which forms
approximately 50 percent of Jordan’s total MSW.
The strategic plan of Amman city defined strategic goals and objectives of the development
of Amman, and the long term strategic plan developed under the sub-component (1.2) set the
order of priorities and recommended the most cost effective, affordable and quality-service
municipal solid waste management system in the City of Amman through improvements to
the City's institutional, operational, financial, socio-economic, and legal aspects, including
private sector participation. In addition to the waste management framework law which
provides the legal frame for waste generation reduction, investments in waste recycling,
waste treatment and extraction of raw materials.

Achievement of PDO:
1. Percentage of collected municipal solid waste disposed of and managed in a sanitary
   landfill: 100% collected waste goes to El Ghabawi




                                              56
2. 160,000 MWh generated through the LFG recovery system by 2013: The LFG plant is
   now expected to start electricity production by the start of 2015 after completion the
   second phase of DBO project
3. The cost recovery ratio for SWM improved from 63% in 2007 to 75% by 2013. Current
   revenue covers only 75% of operation costs and 62% of total SWM costs. Current
   revenues cover only 75% of operation costs and 62% of total SWM costs12

Efficiency and financial viability of the project: The estimated costs of the project were
reasonable and disbursement level did not exceed the budget limit. Due to delay in DBO LFG
the project expenditures were low. The detailed project costs and expenditure of all contracts
are explained in Annex (2).



6.      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
In order to achieve the development objectives of ASMW and improve the cost effectiveness
of the existing of collection and transport service; the following activities that have not been
implemented yet or partially implemented should be considered in post completion
operations: (1) Construction of new transfer stations, and increase the capacity and efficiency
of the existing station; (2) renewal of the collection and transport fleet; (3) private sector
participation in MSWM contracts; (3) the construction of the second of the third phases of
LFG recovery system and electricity generation; (4) implementation of public awareness and
communication plan in addition to the development of RAPs and ESMP plans needed for
construction of transfer stations.

Performance of GAM and the World Bank
     i.   GAM TEAM (PMU).
          1. Team enthusiasm, full utilization of their knowledge and experience, smoothness
             with any difference between GAM and internal Bank regulations and readiness for
             learning.
          2. Most of team members were seconded from GAM and worked in the project part
             time in addition to their principal duties in GAM, and were therefore not fully
             committed to the project.
          3. Team participation in decision making was satisfactory; most decisions were
             taken by senior management based on professional recommendations of the PMU
             and the concerned parties with some exceptions; because they are locked into
             established rules and procedures that members find difficult to change.
          4. The need for capacity building and professional training on best practices in
             different fields of specialty.




12
 ICR author’s note: The number differs from the one used in the main report, which is was reported after the
GAM ICR was drafted.


                                                     57
 ii.    WB TEAM
        1. Supportive and informative team and were giving constructive advices to GAM
           team during project implementation.
        2. Using delegated persons with different skills with high experience in their field

8.       Lessons Learned
     1. Economic constraints and the lack of capacity and experience in LFG recovery
        system lead to the loss of a lot of gas emitted in existing cells before DBO project
        construction, also ineffective leachate management can also impact LFG recovery if
        no further technical solution is put in place .
     2. Early engagement and public awareness through public campaign about MSW can
        lead to behavioral change of citizens to understand their role in waste reduction and
        thus reduction of cost.
     3. A unified legal and regulatory framework can reduce the contradiction between
        regulators, facilitates, waste fees collection and contribute to achieving the proper
        compliance with regulations.

9.      Recommendations
        The long-term strategic plan recommended options and priorities for development,
        including (i) A Renewal Plan for the collection fleet, containers, mechanical sweepers,
        transfer stations, and disposal infrastructure, herein landfill gas utilization; (ii)
        Introduction of waste separation at source coupled with a Clean Material Recovery
        Facility construction; (iii) The need for at least 3 transfer stations in Amman; (iv)
        Landfill gas recovery and utilization for cells 4 and 5 in Ghabawi landfill; and (v) PPP
        options in street cleaning and collection, in landfill for landfill gas and disposal, and
        in clean MRF.
GAM now investigates the required funds from international donors to finance these services
due to GAM’s budget shortfall. Funds are also needed to fulfill the project developments
objectives that were not fully met because the relevant activities were either not implemented
or only partially implemented.




                                               58
        Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

There were no co-financiers.




                                       59
                          Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.       The following documents are in the project file:

           Feasibility Study – Task 1 – update of existing MSWM plan (2007)
           Feasibility Study – Task 2 and 3 – definition of priority projects and institutional
            aspects (2008)
           Project Appraisal Document (2008)
           Environmental and Social Management Framework (2008)
           Resettlement Policy Framework (2008)
           Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (2008)
           Environmental and Social Management Plan (2008)
           ESMP for transfer station and Ghabawi (2014)
           Loan Agreement (2009)
           Project aide-mémoires (total of 12, 2008-2014)
           Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs #1-12, 2008-2014)
           M&E System Report (2014)
           GAM Implementation Completion Report (2014)
           ERPA (2009)
           ERPA amendment (2011)
           Strategic sector study (2014)
           21-year period gas projections (2014)
           Efficiency analysis model (2014)




                                               60
MAP IBRD 33424




      61
                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33424
               35°E                                                 36°E                                  37°E                                           38°E                                39°E
  34°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         34°N




                      n
            Se anea
                r
              a
             er
       dit




                                                                                                       JORDAN
 Me




  33°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         33°N
                                       To                                     To
                                      Zefat                                 Damascus
                                    Lake                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                 Tiberias                                                                                                                                                                Baghdad

                                                       Um Qais
                                                           Irbid

                                                    IRBID
                                                    IRBI D                                                                                                        Ar Ruwayshid
                         AJLUN
                                                           Ajlun                 Al Mafrak
                                           River




                    JARASH                                         Jarash                                                                      MAFRAK
                                           n




                                                   Arda                                                            Mahattat al Halif
                                       Jorda




                                                   BALQA                    Az
  32°N
                                              As Salt                                                                                                                                                          32°N
                                                                            Zarka
                                                                    AMMAN                    ZARKA
                                                                                                       Azraq ash
                                                                                                         - -
                                                                                                       Shishan
                                               Madaba
                       To
                   Jerusalem
                                           MADABA                           AMMAN
                                                   Dead
                                                   Sea
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                     Al Jawf
                                           Al Mazra’ah

                                                                              -
                                                                       Al Qatranah
          To                           Al Karak
       Beersheba
                                              KARAK
                                               --
                                           As Safi
  31°N                                                                                                                                                                                                         31°N
                                                                                                       Ard
                                           TAFILAH                                                               as
                                  At Tafilah                                                                           Sa
                                                                                                                              w
                                     -
                                         Al
                                 Rashadiyah
                                                                                                -
                                                                                               Ba’ir                              aa
                                                                                                                                         n
                               Ash Shawbak
                                                                                          MA'AN
                                    Petra
                                                                      Al Jafr
                                                                                                                                                                     0       0         50 Kilometers
                                                          Ma'an

                                                                                                                                                                     0            25                50 Miles
  30°N                                     Ra’s an Naqb                                                                                                                                                        30°N
                                                                                                                                                           38°E                                  39°E

                      AQABA
                                 Ad Disi

  To
Nuweiba
                                                                                                                                                                         JO R D A N
                               Jabal Ram
               Aqaba           (1,734 m)                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
      aba




                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
                                                   Al Mudawwarah
 of Aq




                                                                                                                        This map was produced by                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
                To                                                                                                      the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                        World Bank. The boundaries,
               Al B'ir                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
Gulf




                                                                                                                        colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                        any other information shown
  29°N                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                     MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                        the part of The World Bank
                                                                                 To                                     Group, any judgment on the                       RAILROADS
                                                                                Al B'ir                                 legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                        or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                        acceptance of such
                                                                                                                                                                         GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                        boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
            35°E                                                   36°E                                   37°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                        JANUARY 2005
