 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14727

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Jordan
             Project ID: P104960                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Jo-amman Solid               Project Costs (US$M):                      40.5                12.5
                         Waste Management
                         And Carbon Finance
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                         25                9.18
      Sector Board:      Urban Development           Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                            Board Approval Date :                                 09/30/2008
                                                           Closing Date:            06/30/2014           06/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Solid waste management (97%); Public administration- Water; sanitation and flood
                          protection (3%)
         Theme(s):        Pollution management and environmental health (70%); City-wide Infrastructure and Service
                          Delivery (30%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Victoria Alexeeva      Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Loan Agreement of December 4, 2008 (p. 5), the objective of the project is “to assist the
    Borrower in improving the operational, financial and environmental performance of its municipal solid waste
    system through upgrading the existing municipal solid waste landfill to meet the City of Amman's increasing
    demand for solid waste disposal as well as in improving the efficiency of the Borrower's municipal solid waste
    services and the cost recovery for the delivery of said services, including strengthening the Borrower's capacity to
    pilot private sector participation in the delivery of municipal solid waste services.”

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) (p. 6) states that the objective of the project is “to strengthen the
    operational, financial, and environmental performance of MSWM [Municipal Solid Waste Management] in
    Amman”. It further specified that the project would help achieve the following: (i) environmentally upgrade and
    expand the existing municipal solid waste landfill to meet the city’s disposal needs up to 2013 and generate
    electricity while mitigating greenhouse gases (GHGs) (); and (ii) improve the cost effectiveness of the existing
    municipal solid waste collection and transport system and improve overall cost recovery.

    As per the harmonized guidelines, this Review will use the PDO in the Loan Agreement as the basis for the
    validation.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
    The project contained three components:

    Component 1: Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Development (appraisal estimate US$ 1.8 million, actual
    US$ 0.59 million, 33% of appraisal) was to finance technical assistance for: i) operating the Ghabawi landfill and
    monitoring a Design Build-Operate Landfill Gas to-electricity contract; ii) conducting engineering services for the
    supervision of all civil work contracts; iii) strategic planning of Municipal Solid Waste Management (MSWM) and
    updating procurement guidelines, regulations and practices in the Greater Amman Municipality (GAM); iv)
    piloting participation of the private sector in the MSWM; v) developing a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system
    for MSWM which includes environmental and financial information; and vi) developing and implementing an
    education, communication and public information program.

    Component 2: Infrastructure Development (appraisal estimate US$ 34.1 million, actual US$ 11.62 million,
    34.1% of appraisal) was to finance: i) constructing cell 3 of the Ghabawi landfill and upgrading the leachate
    treatment facility; ii) building two new transfer station for the Northwest and Southwest areas of Amman; and iii)
    implementing a five year Design Build- Operate contract for a landfill gas- to- electricity system at Ghabawi.

    Component 3: Project Management (appraisal estimate US$ 0.6 million, actual US$ 0.22 million, 38% of
    appraisal) was to finance technical assistance to the Project Management Unit.

    Carbon Finance Operation: The Bank committed to buying 0.9 million tons of CO2 equivalent of Certified
    Emission Reductions (CERs) resulting from the project, at a value of Euro 10.5 per CER. The Emission
    Reduction Purchase Agreement was signed by the Bank on behalf of the Carbon Fund of Europe for a total value
    of Euro 9.5 million. The Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement was cancelled in December 2012 once the
    project could not deliver Certified Emission Reductions within the required time-frame due to delays in the
    Design-Built-Operate construction.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    Project Costs: The project was estimated to cost US$ 40.5 million. The actual cost was US$ 12.5 million (30.9%
    of appraisal) due to cancellation of activities as a result of significant delays in project implementation.

    Financing: Of the original IBRD loan of US$ 25 million, US$ 9.18 million was disbursed (36.7% of appraisal
    estimate). The Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement signed by the Bank on behalf of the Carbon Fund of
    Europe in 2009 for a total contract value of EUR 9.5 million was cancelled.

    Borrower Contribution : The Borrower was the Greater Amman Municipality (GAM) with a guarantee of the
    Government of Jordan. At appraisal, the estimate for the Borrower’s contribution was US$ 15.5 million, and the
    actual disbursement was US$ 3.32 million (21.4% of appraisal).

    Dates: The project was not restructured and closed as scheduled, on June 30, 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High: The objective was in line with Greater Amman Municipality's MSWM strategy, which aims to improve cost
recovery and collection efficiency of MSWM and to take advantage of landfill gas (LFG) capture and sustainable
energy production. Also, Jordan’s National Energy Strategy aims to develop renewable and sustainable energy. The
solid waste sector was among the key priorities of the Government’s National Agenda for Sustainable Development,
which established targets for increasing the percentage of municipal solid waste disposed of in an environmentally
sound manner (from 50% in 2003 to 70% in 2013).

The objective was also in line with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (FY2006-2010) at the time of appraisal
which emphasizes the importance of the environmental agenda and its link to local development. Also, the Country
Assistance Strategy identified MSWM as costly for public expenditure. The objective is also in line with the Country
Partnership Strategy (2012-2015) which focuses on developing new electricity generation capacity and improving
urban environment in the greater Amman region and increasing the contribution by Jordan to the climate change
mitigation agenda.

b. Relevance of Design:
   Modest: The planned activities to improve the operational, financial and environmental performance of Amman’s
   MSWM included technical assistance for institutional strengthening and capacity building such as identifying a
   strategy for developing a sustainable and cost efficient MSWM and opportunities for private sector participation.
   The physical investments included expansion of the existing Al Ghabawi landfill, a landfill gas (LFG) capture and
   LFG-to-energy system. It also included construction of two transfer stations that were meant to improve municipal
   solid waste collection and enable income generation from the sale of CERs and electricity generated through
   LFG.

   The Bank used a combination of an IBRD loan linked to an Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement as the
   lending instrument. The causal relationships between the project interventions and underlying assumptions
   about how program actions would lead to intended outcomes were logical. However, the project design had
   several shortcomings: i) the design was too optimistic in terms of the timeline for the registration of the clean
   development mechanism briefly after project approval and the production of certified emission reductions during
   the first half in 2009; ii) the project design did not provide solutions for disposal needs beyond cell 3 at Ghabawi;
   and iii) the project design did not sufficiently address issues related to the construction of MSWM facilities in
   urban areas, in particular the difficulties to identify suitable locations for transfer stations

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Improving the operational , financial and environmental performance of its municipal solid waste system through
   upgrading the existing municipal solid waste landfill to meet the City of Amman 's increasing demand for solid
   waste disposal as well as in improving the efficiency of the Borrower 's municipal solid waste services and the
   cost recovery for the delivery of said services , including strengthening the Borrower 's capacity to pilot private
   sector participation in the delivery of municipal solid waste services .

   (1) Improving the environmental performance of the City of Amman 's municipal solid waste system . Modest.
   Outputs:
        Cell 3 at the Al Ghabawi landfill was constructed as planned to add 1.65 million tons of waste to a total
         capacity of 8 million tons of waste. The target was achieved.
        A landfill gas capture system was constructed on cell 2 at the Ghabawi landfill, including a leachate recycling
         system within the cell. The LFG system was commissioned in June 2014. An LFG flaring was being piloted
         for three months.
        No equipment was installed for electricity generation.
        The leachate treatment facility was not upgraded, as the leachate discharge from the landfill was limited.


   Outcome:
     The percentage of the collected municipal solid waste disposed of and managed in a sanitary landfill
       increased from 0 to 100%, surpassing the target of 80%.
     The expected target 950,000 tons of CO2 reduction was not met due to delays in construction. The ICR (p.8)
       reports that the preliminary results of the pilot LFG-flaring phase were positive, generating more LFG than
       the contractor’s projections and almost twice the amount of the more conservative estimates in the model
       used for the economic and financial analysis. Further, the gas is of good quality (about 55% methane
       compared to estimated 50% and with low content of non-GHG components).
     The target for generation of 160,000 MWh electricity through the LFG recovery system was not met.
     No leachate was discharged at project closure, as the discharge was recycled to assure adequate humidity
       of the waste for LFG production.

   (2) Improving the operational performance of the City of Amman 's municipal solid waste system . Modest.
   Outputs:
     Two new transfer stations were not constructed as planned due to environmental and social concerns, most
       likely as a result of public opposition. As an alternative, GAM financed an upgrade of one existing transfer
       station (Sha’eer) through its own funds.
     The M&E study experienced delays and was only finalized shortly before project closing. The conclusions
       were being validated at project closure for the M&E software to be fully operationalized. The M&E system
       would be linked to GAM’s budget system and is designed to provide real-time M&E data on the Municipal
       Solid Waste Management (MSWM) service coverage and efficiency, financial performance, and
       environmental indicators. The completion progress by project closure was 75%.
     No sector monitoring reports were produced as planned on a quarterly basis to management. The ICR (p.13)
       reports that the target would be met once the MSWM M&E system becomes operational as designed.
        A study relative to the preparation of a public awareness program was finalized before project closure. As
         reported by the ICR, it is being mainstreamed into GAM's overall communication strategy.

    Outcome:
      The selected outcome indicator related to the construction of new stations was not applicable at project
        closure as no new transfer stations were built ( i.e., reduction in the ratio from 5.5km to 2.5km travelled by
        collection vehicles in the districts served by the new transfer stations to the total tons of municipal waste
        collected in those districts). The ICR reports that the percentage of collected waste that goes through a
        transfer station increased from 75% at appraisal to 95% by project closure, and is attributed by the ICR
        (p.13) to the reduction in direct collection in Ghabawi (at appraisal, such an increase was expected to be
        achieved through the construction of two new transfer stations). A daily MSW collection in 2014 is about
        3,000 tons compared to 2,200 tons in 2008 (an increase of 36%).

    (3) Improving the financial performance of the City of Amman 's municipal solid waste system . Negligible.
    Outputs:
      Technical assistance was provided to GAM for supervision of phase 1 of the DBO contract and the operation
        of Ghabawi landfill.
      A study was completed in June 2014 on strategic actions toward the establishment of sustainable and
        affordable MSWM and for exploring opportunities and defining appropriate options for private sector
        participation.

    Outcome:
      The financial performance of the sector as measured by the cost recovery ratio worsened from 63% in 2007
        to 52% in 2013 (target was 75%). The total cost of collection was JOD 42.0 M in 2013, with cost recovery of
        JOD 21.9 M (16.4 M from households, 2.2 M from the commercial sector, and 3.4 M from tipping fees).
      The sale of carbon emission reductions (CERs) was cancelled due to delays, and no electricity from the LFG
        system was produced. The ICR (p. 14) estimates that the generation of electricity at Ghabawi and the sale of
        CERs would have added annual revenue of about JOD 4.8 million in 2013, which would have resulted in
        maintaining an almost unchanged cost recovery ratio of 64% with the level of cost current at project closure.
        The ICR (p.25) reports that GAM expressed interest in proceeding with phases 2 and 3 of the DBO contract
        (capping and equipment of cell 1 and 3 with LFG system, and construction of LGF-to -electricity plant).


5. Efficiency:

    The ex-ante cost-benefit analysis estimated a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$ 16.9 million, an Economic Internal
    Rate of Return of 37% and a Benefit Cost Ratio of 1.63. The analysis compared two scenarios: the do-nothing
    scenario and the do-something scenario. The analysis took into account the project costs (incremental costs
    between both scenarios of US$ 23.5 million) and the following benefits: i) cost savings from collection and
    transfer through implementing two new transfer stations; ii) reduction of carbon emission through implementing a
    Landfill Gas system; and iii) sales of electricity produced by the Landfill Gas electricity plant. The analysis used a
    discount rate of 12% and an evaluation period of 20 years.

    No benefits had materialized by project closure, except the benefits from construction of cell 3, which as reported
    by the ICR (p.26), would also have materialized in the do-nothing scenario (it was assumed that GAM would
    continue business as usual and invest in the construction of cell 3). At project closure, there were no revenues
    from sale of CERs and electricity generated through LFG system. According to the ICR (p.25), there is no
    immediate prospect of generating revenue from sale of CERs; even if this could materialize in the future, the
    revenue would likely be limited as compared to the appraisal estimates due to the low spot price for carbon
    emission trading at below US$1 per ton of CO2, compared to estimates of US$13.5 at appraisal. The expected
    construction of two transfer stations did not take place under the project; as an alternative, GAM financed
    upgrade of an existing transfer station (Sha’eer) through its own funds. The ICR carried out the economic and
    financial analyses based on the assumption that GAM would finance the installation of electricity generation
    equipment on cell 3 planned under the project and implement phase 2 and 3 of the landfill DBO contract. The
    benefits estimated were revenues from sale of electricity, saved electricity generation subsidies, and cost savings
    from operational efficiencies as a result of the upgrade of the existing Sha’eer transfer station (ICR's Annex 3).

    Efficiency is assessed as negligible.



a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
  re-estimated value at evaluation :

                              Rate Available?                            Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                      Yes                                        37%                                     84%
   ICR estimate                   No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   The relevance of objectives is rated high, and that of design is modest. The project modestly helped improve the
   environmental and operational performance of the City of Amman's municipal solid waste system, and only
   negligibly its financial performance. Efficiency is assessed as negligible.

a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Financial: GAM is committed to MSWM and continues to invest in construction and maintenance of the landfills
   (landfill cell 4 is under construction). The operation and maintenance of Cell 3 Al Ghabawi landfill constructed
   under the project is likely, however it has already reached its capacity limits and is overloaded. The risk to
   implementation of phase 2 and 3 of the DBO contract is however significant, given the disagreements between
   GAM and the Design-Built-Operate contractor in the past. Also, the GAM's expenditures on solid waste are
   growing, and the collected fees do not yet cover the costs. In addition, the GAM's budget is under significant
   pressure due the estimated 140,000 Syrian refugees housed in Amman outside of refugee camps.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank prepared a project that was responsive to the needs of the government. The project included
   lessons learned from the Bank’s experience in the solid waste management and landfill gas projects from
   around the world such as the importance of strengthening and the financial and technical capacity at the
   municipality level to ensure the sustainability of investments at that level. This was the first Bank MSWM
   project in Jordan and the only Bank loan to the city of Amman after twenty years. The project design
   combined an investment operation with a carbon finance operation aiming to increase revenues and create
   environmental benefits by reducing greenhouse gas emission. Taking the experience from other LFG projects
   into account that overestimated LFG systems performance and delivered fewer CERs, the project design
   included conservative landfill gas forecasts.

   Detailed feasibility studies were completed before appraisal, and the pre- qualification of the DBO contract
   was advertised in May 2008 before project approval. The complex process, however, to get the Project
   Design Document approved for the Clean Development Mechanism was not identified. The timeline for
   registration after project approval and Certified Emission Reductions being produced in the first semester of
   2009 was unrealistic.
   There were significant shortcomings in risk assessment and mitigation measures. The risk for finding sites for
   the transfer stations was rated moderate during preparation, however, the political controversy to build
   transfer stations in urban areas was not sufficiently taken into account. While an advisory committee was
   established to mitigate changes to the GMA management, lengthy procurement approval processes within
   the GMA and within ministries which led to delays in project implementation had not been identified as
   potential risks. The challenge to receive enough bids for the Design-Built-Operate Contract could not have
   been foreseen, however, the risk should have been identified.

   There were several shortcomings in M&E design (see section 10).
  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:


   The Bank conducted two supervision missions per year on average with relevant expertise and regular
   participation of a senior LFG expert. The Bank team continuously followed up on implementation issues such
   as advising the client on alternative solutions for the Design-Built-Operate Contract. Monitoring of fiduciary
   aspects was adequate, with regular follow-up on entity audit issues. According to the ICR (p. 17), the Bank
   supervised safeguard aspects sufficiently throughout project implementation.

   As per ICR (p. 18), performance rating lacked sufficient candor. Instead of including projected performance
   data in the Implementation Results Reports, the Bank should have used current results data to provide a
   clearer picture on slow implementation progress. The project restructuring was first discussed in 2011;
   however, the Bank was not proactive in supporting the client to restructure the project and extend the project
   closing date ( for reasons that included low disbursement rates, pending audit and consultancy issues). After
   mid-term review in 2012, project implementation was expected to improve due to signing of the DBO contract
   and registration of the PDD, though the assumptions were unreasonable to expect that the target on
   generation of 160,000 MWh electricity could be met. Overall, the ICR (p.18) finds that the Bank designed a
   complex project for GAM but did not support the client in completion of the programmed activities.

   There were delays on Bank side in approval processes (nine months after project effectiveness to approve
   the pre-qualified bidder list for the DBO contract). Also, as a result of too restrictive selection criteria on
   financial strength, there had to be re-launching of the pre-qualification process to attract more bidders.

   There were weaknesses related to M&E, in particular irregular tracking of indicator values, i.e., monitoring of
   the outcome indicator value on cost recovery started only in 2012.




  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The government was committed to improving solid waste management in Jordan and included it as one of the
   key areas in its National Agenda. An Executive Privatization Commission was set up to stimulate and drive
   private sector participation in infrastructure. The Jordan government provided a financial guarantee for the
   project and the Greater Amman Municipality was the Borrower. During project preparation, the Government
   was actively engaged participating in the Advisory Committee, established by GAM before appraisal. During
   implementation, the Government was responsible for approving large contracts under the project. The
   approval processes, however, were lengthy, which was partially due to the change in ministers. Also, the
   government did not provide timely resolution for implementation issues such as the construction of two
   transfer stations. Even though the government had been consulted on this topic during project preparation,
   the selected sites were rejected by the Ministry of Environment due to their proximity to residential areas.

   At GAM, there were three changes in mayors at GAM; while during project preparation and at project closing
   the mayors were actively engaged, this was not the case during project implementation which led to a two-
   year standstill. The technical and procurement committees took long to process procurement.



  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Project Management Unit within the GAM was established before project approval in April 2008 and key
    staff was appointed. The project manager was actively engaged in solving problems. When the Ministry of
    Environment rejected the suggested sites for the construction of the transfer stations, GAM was actively
    involved in identifying and financed an alternative (upgrade of an existing transfer station). While the PMU
    worked to advance implementation, the lack of management engagement during lengthy periods of time
    contributed to limited results

    The PMU was slow to process procurement in the project start-up phase. The project also experienced
    implementation challenges related to the Design-Built-Operate contract characterized by disagreements
    between GAM and the DBO contractor that led to substantial delays in implementation. The ICR (p.6),
    however, noted that GAM’s strategy was adequate to deal with issues that arose. Due to weak PMU's project
    management capacity, there were delays in the approval of the strategic sector study and the implementation
    of the MSW M&E system. Also from 2011 onwards until project closing, the audits of all GAM accounts were
    not submitted on time and the entity audit reports for 2011, 2012, and 2013 had not been submitted by project
    closing. There were several weaknesses related to M&E such as delays in reporting (ICR, p.19).



  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The Results Framework in the PAD (p. 26) included three PDO indicators and six intermediate outcome
   indicators. The Results Framework had a few weaknesses. The achievement of PDO indicator 2 on electricity
   generated through the Landfill Gas system and intermediate outcome indicator 4 on the generation of Certified
   Emission Reduction was highly sensitive to any delays in project implementation and therefore quite unrealistic.
   Intermediate outcome indicator 5 on ratio of kilometers travelled by collection vehicles was based on an estimate
   and could not be measured during project implementation. Baseline and target values were available for all
   indicators. Also, the project was designed to support implementation of an integrated M&E system that would
   provide real time data on GAM’s performance regarding MSWM’s costs, revenues, and operations.


b. M&E Implementation:

   Reporting on project progress was performed continuously, albeit with some delays (ICR, p.19). Some indicators
   were not tracked on a regular basis such as PDO indicator 3 on cost recovery which only started to be monitored
   in 2012. Also, Implementation Status Reports were rated according to estimates for future achievements rather
   than current results data due to project delays. The project- supported M&E system was not yet operational at
   project closure.


c. M&E Utilization:

   As per ICR (p. 9), data was not sufficiently taken into account when it became clear that the project would not
   achieve its objective within the original timeline and a restructuring would have been necessary.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
   The project was classified as category A and triggered two safeguard policies: OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental
   Assessment) and OP/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement). An Environmental and Social Management
   Framework, Environmental and Social Management Plan and a Resettlement Policy Framework were developed
   and found adequate.

   The two new transfer stations were not constructed, therefore no resettlement took place. The Environmental and
   Social Management Plan was implemented at Ghabawi and supervised by an environmental engineer who was
   hired by GAM for this task. The plan included the installation of ground water monitoring. Also, the issue of waste
   pickers on the landfill site was addressed through dialogue, ensuring an intact fence around the landfill, and
   adequate daily soil cover. The police building, which was on the landfill, was staffed for surveillance of the landfill.
   Furthermore, the Environmental and Social Management Plan was updated once the Sha’eer transfer station
   was upgraded. Transporters were trained to cover waste loads on the landfill. The ICR (p. 10) states that the
   Bank’s safeguards procedures were fully complied with.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management: The PCU in GAM was responsible for financial management, with FM staff seconded
   from GAM. From 2011 onwards until project closing, the audits of all GAM accounts were not submitted on time.
   By the time of project closing, the entity audit reports for 2011, 2012 and 2013 had not been submitted due to
   challenges related to a change in the financial management system in 2011 and delays in hiring an auditor. The
   project did not comply with the legal covenant on annual audit of GAM as stated in the Loan Agreement (audits of
   all GAM accounts were required as the Loan Agreement was signed with GAM as a sub-national entity).
   External audit reports were received on time, with one exception for 2011 (the final audit for 2014 was due after
   project closure, by February 28, 2015). The ICR does not specify if the external auditor opinions were qualified.
   Financial Management was rated unsatisfactory in the last Implementation Status Report due to high staff
   turnover, an inactive designated account and delays in paying contractors and submitting several Interim
   Financial Reports. No cases of fraud or corruption were identified during regular FM reviews, according to the
   ICR (p.11).

   Procurement. The PMU in GAM was responsible for all procurement under the project with procurement staff
   seconded from GAM. The project experienced several procurement challenges due to lengthy procurement
   processes and lack of qualified bidders on the main project activity (the DBO contract), as a result of complicated
   financial and technical requirements. The selection process was only concluded in November 2011, 30 months
   after project effectiveness. After awarding of the contract, the GMA and Desing-Built-Operate contractor had a
   disagreement about the condition of the landfill (slope of cell 1). This delayed signing of the DBO contract until
   January 2012. Later on, GAM and the contractor were not able to agree on changes to quantities and prices
   when the DBO contractor was asked to start work on cell 2, instead of cell 1 (the DBO contractor considered
   higher quantities were needed at higher prices, without providing justification). This disagreement continued until
   the agreement was signed in December 2013 to start the work on cell 2. As reported by the ICR (p.10), the Bank
   procurement procedures were complied with.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                  IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                    Outcome: Moderately                 Unsatisfactory          IEG agrees with the ICR on the
                             Unsatisfactory                                     negligible rating for Efficiency.
                                                                                According to the OPCS/IEG
                                                                                harmonized guidelines, the overall
                                                                                project outcome becomes
                                                                                Unsatisfactory if rated negligible on one
                                                                                criterion.
        Risk to Development Moderate                    Significant             GAM's financial risk is significant.
                   Outcome:
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR (p. 19) identifies several valuable lessons including the following:

    Innovative project designs are often linked to higher risks . Therefore, it is critical to have conservative target
     values and flexibility to make adjustments during project implementation through restructuring.

    Carbon finance is a results based instrument that is volatile to changes in the carbon market and any delays
     in project implementation . Extensive risk analysis and identification of mitigation measures, as well as robust
     efficiency analyses are required if regular investment operations include carbon finance.

    The success of the design -build-operate of the LFG -to-electricity contract depends on alignment of incentives
     of all parties and a realistic level of complexity . Under this project, the qualification criteria should have been
     lower and had a better fit with the buyer’s technical capacity, including capacity to assure full conformity of
     technical specifications and site conditions.

    It is critical to continuously track and use M &E data for informed decision making . M&E data and analysis of
     the full results chain help guide restructuring decisions.

    Decisions regarding location of solid waste infrastructure in urban areas are highly controversial and socially
     sensitive. Proper public consultations including all stakeholders should be carried out and decisions on the
     location made during project preparation.

14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

   The ICR is comprehensive, internally consistent, and outcome-oriented. The quality of evidence and analysis is
   adequate. The ICR provides an insightful discussion of implementation issues and is candid in its assessment
   and appropriately critical. The ICR identifies useful lessons learned and provides detailed economic and financial
   analyses on future benefit streams if the remaining activities planned under the project would be carried out by
   the municipality.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
