Document of
Th UWorld B]2ank
]F(0R  CI)bDCHAL USIE GNLY
Report No. P-1987-SW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
FOR A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
June 21, 1977
This docnment hnas 0 resgrDded distirlbftlon md mny be 1w' by recipients only In the perfTornnerce of
their ofIcID duties. fis contemns smay not othervise be discRosed Wlthont Wridd kBi nithorzlationi.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units                               emalangeni (E) or rand (R) 1/ (E=R)
US$1.00                                      E 0.87
E 1.00                                       US$1.15
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB                                   -     African Development Bank
EDF                                    -     European Development Fund
MOW                                    -     Ministry of Works, Power and Communications
ODM                                    -     United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas
Development
SCOT                                   -     Swaziland College of Technology
SIDA                                   -     Swedish International Development Authority
Unesco                                 -     United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization
USAID                                  -     United States Agency for International
Development
WPTTC                                  -     William Pitcher Teacher Training College
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
1/ The lilangeni (pl emalangeni) was introduced as the local currency
in September 1974; the South African rand is also legal tender in
Swaziland.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SWAZILAND
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Kingdom of Swaziland
Amount and Terms:    US$4.0 million equivalent, with a term of 20 years,
including 4 1/2 years of grace, and with interest at
8.2 percent per annum.
Project
Description:       The project will consist of:
(a) Buildings, furniture and equipment for the
following institutions:
- the extension of 13 existing junior
secondary schools;
- four new junior secondary schools;
and
-  a ''model agricultural center" containing
livestock and crop facilities and a
laboratory workshop to support agricultural
teacher training at the Faculty of Agriculture
at the University of Botswana and Swaziland.
(b) Professional services and technical assistance
for the Program Unit including preparation of
future projects.
This dcument hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlyis the perfonance
ef their eficisl duties. hs contents may not ehewiw be kclseed witht W.m Dank autholntion.



Estimated Cost:
US$ (million)              % of
Item                              Local       Foreign      Total     Total
1.  Civil works, furniture          2.20        2.49        4.69        96
and equipment
2.  Project administration
(incl. equipment) and
pre-investment studies          0.15        0.10        0.25         4
Sub-total                       2.35        2.59        4.94        100
Contingencies:
a.  Unforeseen
events                      0.20        0.23        0.43
b.  Estimated price
increases                  0.49         0.54        1.03
Sub-total                   0.69        0.77        1.46
Total Project Cost                  3.04        3.36 1/      6.40
Total Project Cost
(net of taxes and duties)         3.04        2.96        6.00
Financial Plan:      Bank:         US$4.0 million (67%)
Government:  US$2.0 million (33%)
Estimated
Disbursements:
US$ Million; Bank Fiscal Year
FY              78         79         80
Annual              0.2       2.7        1.1
Cumulative         0.2        2.9        4.0
Consultants:         The preparation of future projects is expected
to require detailed architectural and engineering
design works. Consultants will probably be re-
quired to assist the Program Unit in this work
and in any necessary pre-investment studies.
Appraisal Report:     Report No. 1417-SW
May 17, 1977
1/ Taxes and duties of US$0.40 million are treated as foreign expenditures
because it is estimated the Swaziland Government will receive this amount
in rand from the Southern Africa Customs Union for goods imported under
this project.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
FOR A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Swaziland for the equivalent of US$4.0 million to help
finance an education project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, includ-
ing 4 1/2 years grace, with interest at 8.2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Swaziland" (No. 852a-SW) was distributed to the Executive Directors on Novem-
ber 24, 1975. A special mission visited the country in September 1976 as part
of a study on regional migration in southern Africa. An updating economic
mission is scheduled to visit Swaziland in August 1977. Country data are
shown in Annex I.
3.        Swaziland is one of the smallest countries on the African continent.
Located in southern Africa, it is surrounded by the Republics of South Africa
and Mozambique. In 1976, its population was estimated at 525,000 (of which
approximately 29,000 live abroad, mainly as migrant workers in South Africa)
with a growth rate of about 3.2 percent per annum. Relative to its size and
population, the country is well endowed with natural resources and has good
potential for development. It has some mineral deposits (of which iron ore
is nearing depletion) and its soil and climate are favorable to a diversified
agricultural production.
4.        The economy is highly dualistic with about 40 percent of the land
owned by foreigners. The modern sector, which is largely foreign owned,
consists of mining (asbestos, iron ore, coal), large-scale plantations of
forestry, sugar, citrus and pineapples, and associated industries such as
pulp, sawmilling, sugar and fruit processing. The traditional sector, on the
other hand, is based largely on cattle raising and subsistence agriculture
(maize, groundnuts, sorghum) which directly supports about one-half of the
population.
5.        This economic dualism is to some extent a reflection of the Govern-
ment structure. The King rules the modern Government through an appointed
Cabinet of Mtinisters who manage the country's normal economic activities and
provide the bulk of services to the people. However, in traditional matters
and over all activities concerning Swazi-Nation land (this term refers to
almost 60 percent of the territory of Swaziland which is held communally for
1/ The entire text of this section is reprinted from the President's Report
for the DFC project (Report # P-1990-SW) which was circulated to the
'Executive Directors on April 11, 1977.



the Swazi people by the King), the King relies on the advice of the Swazi
National Council (SNC), a group of senior Swazi chiefs and leaders. When the
modern Government becomes involved in developing the Swazi Nation land's
agricultural and mineral resources, considerable deliberations by both the
Cabinet and SNC are required. Consequently, economic change has been slow
on Swazi Nation land in contrast to the modern agricultural sector's rapid
development.
6.        The Swazi economy has a good growth record.   During the 1950s and
1960s, the modern sector developed rapidly; real GDP grew at about 12 percent
a year. Apart from tourism, no major new industries have been established
since independence in 1968; however, expansion of existing enterprises and the
Government sector, together with a growing number of smaller enterprises, sus-
tained real growth in GDP at about 7 percent a year between 1968 and 1975.
Because of favorable terms of trade, particularly in the last few years, real
income grew even faster (9 percent a year). At current prices, GNP per capita
was estimated at about $470 in 1975. GDP is projected to grow at about 6 per-
cent a year up to 1980, based mainly on expanding agricultural exports (sugar,
citrus, woodpulp, beef) whose markets are expected to remain generally favor-
able over the next several years.
7.        The country's sustained economic growth has been due mainly to
private investment. Since 1968, gross private investment has averaged
about 19 percent of GDP and Government capital expenditures about 7 per-
cent. As Swazi entrepreneurship was, and still is, quite limited, almost
all modern activities have been carried out by foreign companies, under
foreign managements, and with foreign capital. This development pattern has
actually sharpened the dualism in the Swazi society and economy which the
Government inherited at independence. The modern sector now contributes
about 80 percent of GDP and wage employment and 90 percent of direct taxes.
The main sector, agriculture and forestry, accounts for close to 35 percent
of GDP and 40 percent of total wage employment, while manufacturing con-
tributes 15 percent and 12 percent, respectively. The traditional rural
sector, which accounts for about 14 percent of GDP, has remained virtually
stagnant over the years. Because wage employment in the modern sector
grew at over 10 percent a year during the 1960s, the labor force in tradi-
tional agriculture declined from 72 percent in 1960 to about 50 percent in
1974.
8.        Swaziland's Second National Development Plan (NDP) 1973-77 empha-
sizes four main objectives: (1) to create conditions for sustained private
sector growth; (2) to promote rural development and modernize traditional
agriculture; (3) to improve the relevance and usefulness of education; and
(4) to provide better housing and health conditions for low-income families
in urban and rural areas. Planned allocations to the main sectors are:
infrastructure 29 percent; agriculture and forestry 19 percent; community
services 19 percent; education and health 14 percent. The Government real-
izes that most of the momentum in the economy will be generated by the modern
sector; nevertheless it is committed to assisting the majority of the popu-
lation who remain in the traditional sector, and who have not sufficiently
shared the benefits of Swaziland's growth. The main strategy for traditional
sector development is through integrated rural development areas (RDAs).



Shortages of technical and management personnel have limited the implementation
of this program, but in the northern area, where substantial inputs have been
concentrated, increases in yields of a number of crops as well as farmers'
incomes have been encouraging. The Third NDP (1978-82), currently under pre-
paration, is expected to emphasize agricultural, educational and industrial
development.
9.        Since 1971, owing to the sharp increase in mining wages in the
Republic of South Africa (RSA), the number of Swazis recruited for mining
employment doubled. At the same time, there is a shortage of labor for
domestic modern agriculture (in particular, the sugar plantations) and of
skilled Swazis for the modern non-agricultural sector. The Government's
long-term education policy, described in detail in Part III of this report,
aims to alleviate this problem, through restructuring the educational system
and emphasizing vocational and technical rather than academic training.
Programs, assisted by the Bank (para. 15), already are underway to expand
technical institutions and accelerate curriculum reform, particularly to
better serve rural development.
10.       Together with Botswana, Lesotho and South Africa, Swaziland belongs
to the Southern Africa Customs Union. Under this arrangement, Swaziland draws
customs and excise revenue from a common revenue pool according to the value
of its total imports and production of taxable goods. Swaziland also belongs,
along with Lesotho and South Africa, to the Rand Monetary Area. In September 1974,
Swaziland issued its own national currency, the emalangeni (E) with the same
par value as the rand; both currencies are legal tender in Swaziland. A Mone-
tary Authority manages the country's new monetary system. In order to remain
in the Rand Monetary Area and be able to continue drawing on its foreign ex-
change reserves, Swaziland has agreed to maintain 100 percent of the value of
the emalangeni in circulation in a rand account with the South African Reserve
Bank. This requirement, as well as the free convertibility of the two curren-
cies, limits somewhat the scope for credit management by the Monetary Auth-
ority.
11.       Government finances have improved significantly since 1969 when the
revision of the Customs Union Agreement substantially increased revenues and
eliminated the Government's chronic budget deficits.    At the same time, the
Government strengthened the tax administration and introduced new taxes (in
particular, the hotel tax and sugar levy). As a result, recurrent revenue in-
creased from E 8.5 million in 1967/68 to E 42 million in 1974/75. Correspond-
ingly, recurrent expenditures grew from E 13 million to E 24.8 million. A re-
cent revision of the revenue distribution formula of the Customs Union Agree-
ment should help maintain the Government's favorable financial position over
the next several years, even though revenues under the sugar levy are expected
to decline.
12.       Swaziland's membership in the Rand Monetary Area has meant ready
access to the Area's exchange reserves; in turn this has made consideration
of Swaziland's foreign exchange and balance of payments matters not of much
practical significance since the Area has benefited from sizeable foreign ex-
change surpluses. In view of the current difficult economic situation facing
the Republic of South Africa, the major partner in the Rand Monetary Area,



- 4 -
it is important to examine Swaziland's external trade situation in the even-
tuality that Swaziland withdrew from the Rand Monetary Area. As regards
merchandise trade, exports have increased from US$39 million in 1968 to about
US$174 million in 1975, largely as a result of increased production and favor-
able prices on world markets of sugar and forestry products which account
for 60 percent of total export value. At the same time, imports have in-
creased less rapidly, from US$51 million to US$124 million, with the result
that Swaziland has for many years enjoyed a favorable balance of merchandise
trade. As the country sells about 70 percent of its exports to Europe, North
America and Japan, and imports about 90 percent of its requirements from South
Africa, it has been a substantial net earner of foreign exchange for the Rand
Monetary Area. Swaziland should be able to maintain a favorable trade
balance in the event it withdrew from the Rand Monetary Area.
13.       Until 1975, the United Kingdom was the major source of foreign
financial assistance, providing funds to cover Swaziland's budget deficits as
well as grants and long-term interest-free loans for development. During the
last few years, however, Swaziland has diversified its sources of foreign
assistance. In addition to ODM, several bilateral agencies, including USAID
and SIDA, as well as multilateral lenders, such as IDA, IBRD, AfDB and EDF,
contribute to financing the Government's capital budget. Because of the
slow buildup of absorptive capacity, the utilization of foreign assistance
following independence has been sluggish. A substantial technical assistance
program is now in place, and recent experience suggests that the country's
absorptive capacity is improving, as local staff benefit from training and
experience.
14.       On December 31, 1975, Swaziland's external public debt (outstanding
and disbursed) was US$46.3 million; service obligations on this debt amounted
to US$1.8 million. Swaziland's future external public debt (including undis-
bursed) is expected to increase to some US$250 million by 1985 and annual
debt service obligations will be about US$15 million, or less than 10 percent
of estimated exports in 1985. Since the Government is able to draw on the
foreign exchange earnings of the Rand Monetary Area, the debt service ratio
expressed as a percentage of exports is mainly an indicator of Swaziland's
external debt carrying capacity if the country were to withdraw from the
Rand Monetary Area. A more useful indicator of the Government's current debt
service capacity is the ratio of debt service payments to Government revenue-.
In 1975, servicing of existing public debt represented 3 percent of current
Government revenue; by 1985, we estimate this would increase to 6 percent
and should not create an unmanageable burden on the country's finances.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SWAZILAND
15.       Eight Bank Group operations have been approved in Swaziland, of
which three were before independence. An IDA credit of US$2.8 million,
approved in 1962, helped finance the construction of the first highway
project. Two loans, one for US$4.2 million in 1963 and the other for US$2.75
million in 1967, were made to assist the Swaziland Electricity Board in the



- 5 -
development of the power sector. All three projects have been completed
satisfactorily. No loans or credits were made between 1968 and 1974; an
irrigation project was appraised during that period but was found uneconomic.
Following intensified preparation work, three projects were approved by the
Board in FY75: a US$5.0 million credit for an education project designed to
strengthen vocational, technical, commercial and rural education programs;
a US$3.5 million loan to extend the water supply and sewerage facilities in
the Mbabane and Manzini areas; and a US$7.0 million loan for the second
highway project which will improve to bitumen standard two major road sections.
Implementation of all three projects is proceeding satisfactorily. In March
1977, the Board approved a US$4.0 million loan for a rural development project
which will expand the provision of agricultural services to 125,000 Swazis
living in rural areas. In April 1977, the Board approved a US$5.0 million
line of credit to the National Industrial Development Corporation of Swaziland
to help promote medium and small-scale enterprises. Both loans have been
signed and are expected to be made effective in July/August 1977. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits to Swaziland.
16.      Future Bank Group operations in Swaziland will continue to support
the Government's efforts to expand the role of the Swazis in the modern
sector, to improve the country's infrastructure and to raise the productivity
and level of incomes of those Swazis dependent on traditional agriculture. A
railways project, currently being prepared for presentation to the Executive
Directors in FY78, would assist the Swaziland Railways through the provision
of technical assistance, maintenance facilities and equipment, scholarships
and consultant studies. Feasibility studies have been completed for a third
highway project scheduled for presentation in FY79. The project would help to
improve about 100 km of Swaziland's national highway network and would provide
technical assistance for improving the Ministry of Work's road maintenance
capability. A second rural development project, planned for presentation in
FY80, would extend to new areas of Swazi Nation land the improvements in
infrastructure, extensiun and marketing currently being provided in the first
rural development project.
17.       Debt to the Bank as a percentage of total debt (outstanding and
disbursed) is projected to increase from 17 percent in 1975 to about 24 per-
cent in 1985. The Bank's share in total public debt service would increase
from 26 percent at present to about 34 percent in 1985. Increases in the
Bank's share of debt and debt service reflect the expectation that Swaziland
would continue to receive a significant amount of its external financial
assistance on grant or near-grant terms. Swaziland's exports and public
revenue prospects remain favorable and the country continues to be credit-
worthy for Bank lending. During the Fourth IDA Replenishment, Swaziland has
been a blend country, but due to the favorable growth in Swaziland's economy
in recent years and prospects for a continuation of this trend, we do not at
this time anticipate additional IDA lending in Swaziland. In Swaziland's
Third NDP (1978-82), proposed development expenditures will likely exceed
US$200 million. The Government intends to make a significant financial con-
tribution to this development program. and its favorable financial prospects
will enable it to do so. But the Government also desires to build up reason-
able budgetary reserves during this period to insulate its ongoing programs
from sudden reductions in Government revenue due to external factors such
as a downturn in agricultural prices or difficulties arising in the Southern



-6-
Africa Customs Union or Rand Monetary Area. Consequently, to complement
its own resources, the Government will seek new commitments of external aid
for its programs in the Third NDP including financing for some project local
costs. This strategy appears sound, and external assistance agencies should
be prepared to finance a significant amount of total costs including some
local costs of projects having a relatively low foreign exchange content.
PART III - EDUCATION IN SWAZILAND
Characteristics of the Sector
18.       The availability of educational opportunities in Swaziland has
improved significantly during the last decade. This is most evident in
formal education where primary school enrollments (Grades 1-7) now cover about
73 percent of the age group and attainment of universal primary education
is expected by 1985. Junior secondary school enrollments (Grades 8-10) currently
total about 38 percent of the age group and this is expected to increase to
54 percent in 1985.1/ Senior secondary school enrollments (Grades 11-12) and
enrollments in the University of Botswana and Swaziland are available to a
small percentage of the age group; this reflects both the poor quality of the
entrants who apply to these institutions, and Government's policy of limiting
these enrollments to reflect manpower requirements. In the area of technician
and vocational training, the Government has supported the establishment of the
Swaziland College of Technology (SCOT) to provide a number of craft and skill
training programs for Junior secondary and senior secondary graduates. SCOT
also operates training programs in typing, shorthand, bookkeeping and in related
commercial fields. Finally, Swaziland has a number of institutions providing
specialized educational services. These include teacher training colleges,
farmer training centers, handicraft and cooperative training centers, an
institute for training civil service staff and training programs for nurses.
19.       The rapid expansion in the education sector over the last decade
has led to the employment of poorly trained teachers in primary schools and a
heavy reliance on expatriates in secondary and tertiary education. In 1975,
73 percent of primary teachers were not qualified and 50 percent of secondary
teachers were expatriates. The Government, with the assistance of several
donors, has taken steps to remedy this problem. In the first education
project (Cr. 518, December 9, 1974), the Bank is providing assistance, inter
alia, to expand enrollment in the William Pitcher Teacher Training College
(WPTTC). The College receives considerable staff support from ODM and provides
the majority of trained primary school teachers and a significant number of
secondary school teachers. A new primary teachers' college, with assistance
from Denmark, is scheduled to graduate its first teachers by the early 1980s.
The Government expects that by 1983, some 74 percent of the primary teachers
and 100 percent of secondary teachers will be qualified Swazis.
20.       The expansion in enrollment has taken place at the expense of qual-
ity, particularly with regard to the curriculum in formal education where
literacy subjects and humanities have been stressed more than the sciences
1/ Enrollment figures exclude under- and over-age students.



- 7 -
and practical subjects. Of the 3,000 candidates for grade 12 school cer-
tificatesin 1973-75, only 86 qualified in science subjects, often with low
grades. The result of the maldistribution in the qualifications of the
secondary school graduates has been a scarcity of Swazi engineers and tech-
nicians which will take some time to remedy. The Government has begun
modernizing its formal education curriculum with the assistance of a USAID-
financed curriculum planning team, and with assistance provided by the Bank's
first education project which included funds for a curriculum development and
education materials production center. The new curriculum with its increased
emphasis on sciences and practical subjects would provide educational training
which is better suited to Swaziland's increasingly complicated economy.
21.       As part of its overall analysis of the future requirements of the
sector, the Government intends to review the role of SCOT to ensure that the
quality of the output and the relevancy of the courses offered meets the man-
power requirements. The Government has recently appointed a governing body
for SCOT with the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Education as the
chairman. The governors, in order to form a base for adequate programming
of developments in technical education and vocational training, intend to
carry out, with external assistance, a full assessment of SCOT to determine
the optimum course of future investment in technical and vocational education.
An area of importance to this project is SCOT's program for training teachers
of practical subjects. This program needs to be improved quickly to provide
the practical subject teachers for existing schools and the schools to be
funded through this project. The Government has reviewed with the Bank a plan
to improve training of practical teachers at SCOT and has agreed to begin
implementing this plan by December 31, 1977 (Section 3.03, Loan Agreement).
Management and Financing of the Education Sector
22.       The Ministry of Education is responsible for all institutions within
the formal system except SCOT which comes under the Ministry of Labor. The
shortage of skilled manpower in the teaching profession is also reflected
in staff shortages in the Ministry of Education where considerable reliance
is being placed on expatriate staff for key functions. The planning section
has external assistance from UNESCO and USAID, but is headed by a competent
Swazi and is efficient. Other- sections dealing with inspection of schools
and scientific and technical subject-development require reinforcement which
will take some years to achieve. In the meantime, some continued reliance on
expatriates is inevitable.
23.       Recurrent expenditures on education currently account for about
23 percent of the total recurrent budget and are forecast to increase by
nearly 8 percent per annum until 1986. The recurrent budget, however, may
grow at a faster pace during the same period. Consequently, recurrent expen-
ditures on education as a percentage of the total recurrent budget may be
somewhat lower in 1986 than the current level. This level of expenditures is
satisfactory and is similar to expenditures on education in other countries.



- 8 -
School fees paid by parents (E 20 per annum for primary school, and E 60 per
annum for secondary school) and contributions from other lenders and religious
movements also help to finance education.
Government's Strategy for Education and Bank Group Assistance
24.       At independence, the Government inherited a loosely defined educa-
tional system which comprised mostly missionary-controlled primary and
secondary schools providing instruction in literary subjects and humanities.
These schools were haphazardly located with the greatest concentration in
urban areas; often they were too small to be run economically. There was
little vocational instruction and no manpower information to guide the
Ministry of Education in the educational areas they should emphasize. The
Government began to correct the most obvious deficiencies in the system:
control over the missionary schools was established by agreeing to pay all
teachers salaries; new educational facilities were built, primarily in rural
areas; a multiplicity of programs to provide rural education was developed;
and an institution for craft and vocational education was opened to train
technicians and skilled craftsmen for the economy. By 1973, when the Bank
Group first became involved in Swaziland's educational system, the problems
associated with the rapid growth in the sector were just emerging. Two of the
biggest problems were the loss of quality in the teaching force which resulted
when the growth in the education system exceeded the ability of the teacher
colleges to provide quality teachers (para. 19), and the growing influence
of the traditional curriculum with its emphasis on literary subjects and
humanities when the country required manpower with technical and skill train-
ing. A third problem was the proliferation of educational programs in rural
areas and the need to fundamentally address the appropriate type of programs
in these areas and how they should be implemented. The Bank's first education
project, which became effective in January 1975, was designed to assist the
Government with all three problem areas. The project provided for improved
teacher training at William Pitcher Teacher Training College (WPTTC), for
improvements in SCOT's vocational and technical training capability, for a new
curriculum development center at WPTTC and for a new program of rural educa-
tion to be centered around rural education centers (RECs); i.e., junior
secondary schools with additional classrooms and workshops to provide practi-
cally oriented agricultural training and rural skills training to both primary
school leavers and adults. Implementation of the project has proceeded
satisfactorily with civil works at SCOT and WPTTC well underway. Nevertheless,
while earlier than forecast at appraisal the first REC will not be operational
until 1978, because of the time required to prepare the curriculum and train
specialized teachers.
25.       At the time of the first project, the Bank Group and Government
agreed that a fresh assessment should be made of the country's educational
programs to determine the direction of education in the Third NDP (1978-82)
period. The Government commissioned two studies and their reports (the
Report of the National Education Commission and the Report on Current Trends
in Education), which became available in 1976, provide the basis for the
Government's educational strategy in the Third NDP. Based on these reports,
the Government has adopted a two pronged approach for the future. First,



- 9 -
efforts at expanding vocational training and education after junior secondary
school level will be delayed until after an assessment has been made of SCOT
(para. 21) and a comprehensive manpower survey is undertaken to determine,
inter alia, the specific needs of the economy for all levels of skilled, tech-
nical and professional manpower. The results of the manpower survey which
began in 1976, should be available by the end of 1977. Furthermore, new pro-
grams for providing rural education will be delayed until an evaluation has
been made on the effectiveness of the RECs to be built in the first project.
Second, while awaiting the outcome of the manpower survey, the assessment of
SCOT and the evaluation of the RECs, the Government will proceed with a plan
to expand the basic education cycle from grades 1-7 (primary schools) to
grades 1-10 (primary and junior secondary schools) and introduce in these
schools the new curriculum which features increased emphasis on science and
practical subjects. The Government concluded that this consolidated and
restructured basic education cycle with its increased science and practical
subjects orientation is required now to form the proper base for further
educational needs. The Government's strategy is sound and it is proposed that
the expansion of the basic education cycle be supported through this project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.       The proposed project was identified in early 1976 during the course
of a Bank mission to review developments in Swaziland's education sector.
Following preparation and the Government's request to consider the project,
a Bank mission appraised the project in October-November 1976. Negotiations
were held in Washington from February 22 to 25, 1977. The Swaziland delegation
was led by Mr. E. V. Sikhondze, Under-Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Eco-
nomic Planning. An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of a Second Education
Project in the Kingdom of Swaziland" No. 1417-SW dated May 17, 1977 is being
circulated separately.
Objectives and Description of the Project
27.       The principal objectives of the proposed project are (i) to support
Government policy to expand its basic educational cycle from seven to ten
years; (ii) to improve existing junior secondary schools, i.e. the last three
years of basic education, by the addition of facilities for science and prac-
tical subjects; (iii) to support Government policy of broadening educational
opportunities by building new Junior secondary schools in rural areas pre-
sently without such schools, and (iv) to enable the Government to prepare
future educational projects.
28.       To meet these objectives the proposed project would provide the
following:



- 10 -
(i) Buildings, furniture and equipment to support the
teaching of science and practical subjects in 13 junior
secondary schools whose present capacity of 2,900 stu-
dents would be increased to 3,960.
(ii) Buildings, furniture and equipment for four new junior
secondary schools. Each school would have a capacity
of 240 students.
(iii) Simple livestock buildings and equipment to support the
agricultural teacher training program at the University
of Botswana and Swaziland.
(iv) Operational costs of project administration and pre-
investment studies for future projects.
Project Items
29.       Junior Secondary Schools.   The project would provide for the expan-
sion of 13 junior secondary schools and the construction of four new junior
secondary schools, all in rural areas. The improvements to the 13 junior secondary
schools consist of science laboratories and practical subjects workshops.
Included among the practical subject workshops would be "model agricultural
centers" containing livestock facilities, crop facilities and a laboratory
workshop. Curricula and syllabi have already been developed with assistance
from the USAID curriculum development project (para. 20). Following the
evaluation of the rural education centers (para. 25), the Government may
propose to develop some of the junior secondary schools in this project into
rural education centers.
30.       It is expected that 35-40 percent of future junior secondary school
leavers, unable to continue on in senior secondary schools, would look for
employment in agriculture, small-scale industry or services. Therefore, the
emphasis on science and practical subjects is essential to provide them with
the attitudes and background on which to build on-the-job training and ex-
perience. Science and practical subjects would account for about 40 percent
of the weekly timetable.
31.       Agricultural teacher training facilities.   The Faculty of Agricul-
ture of the University of Botswana and Swaziland, located at Manzini, is
generally well equipped for its agricultural teacher training program. The
Faculty does need, however, a "model agricultural center" similar to the type
which is being included in junior secondary schools.
32.       Program administration, operating expenses and pre-investment
studies. The Program Unit formed for the first education project has operated
satisfactorily and the Unit, working in cooperation with the Ministry of
Works, would be responsible for implementing the proposed second project. The
Unit's operating expenses, currently financed through the first project, would



- 11 -
be increased with the additional responsibility for implementing the second
project. These additional expenses would be for furniture, equipment, print-
ing and additional staff; they would be financed as a part of the
project. Following completion of the ongoing manpower survey in late-1977
and clarification of the country's need for middle- and higher-level manpower,
the Government wishes to prepare a third project for possible Bank financing.
This project is likely to incorporate training programs for agricultural,
commercial and technical manpower. Since the design of the physical facilities
would be somewhat complex, existing standard drawings and equipment lists
could be used only to a limited extent and project preparation may require
consultants to prepare detailed architectural and engineering designs.
To enable necessary pre-investment studies and design work for a future
project, US$100,000 has been set aside in project funds.
Project Cost and Financing
33.       The total project cost is estimated at US$6.0 million, excluding
taxes and duties amounting to US$0.4 million. About US$3.0 million or 50
percent of project costs, would be for expenditures on goods and services
outside Swaziland. The proposed Bank loan of US$4.0 million would cover
foreign expenditures plus US$1.0 million of local costs. In discussing
project local cost financing earlier in this report (para. 17), it was sug-
gested that external assistance agencies should support the Government's sound
economic policies by financing not only foreign costs of projects, but also
some local costs were the foreign costs are relatively low. In this project,
the relatively low I/ foreign exchange costs (50 percent) are due to the rural
location of the proposed schools and their small size which makes it unlikely
that foreign contractors would bid on civil works. The project also encour-
ages local small-scale enterprises to manufacture school furniture and equip-
ment, a practice which has begun with the first project and should expand
with the proposed project. In view of these factors it is proposed that the
Bank contribute about 67 percent of total net project costs, which includes
some local expenditures. The Government would finance the balance of project
costs. A detailed breakdown of the costs and proposed financing plan are
given in the Loan and Project Summary.
Project Implementation
34.       The Program Unit established for the first project would also be
responsible for implementation of the proposed second project. The Unit in-
cludes a Program Director, a local counterpart for the Program Director, an
Accountant and a Procurement Specialist. The Government has agreed to con-
sult with the Bank on any new appointments to the position of Program Director
1/   In the four projects in Swaziland approved by the Board in FY75 and
FY77 (excluding the DFC project), foreign exchange costs have averaged
about 65 percent of net project costs.



- 12 -
(Section 3.02(b), Loan Agreement). The Ministry of Works would provide the
Program Unit with architectural and engineering assistance for all the con-
struction in the proposed project. Standardized designs and master equipment
lists have already been developed for most of the project schools.
35.       Procurement.  Civil works contracts costing less than US$250,000
each (total estimated at US$2.15 million), furniture and equipment contracts
costing less than US$50,000 each (total estimated at US$150,000), and locally
procured transportation services for moving furniture and equipment (total
estimated at US$50,000) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. All other contracts for civil works, furniture and instructional
equipment would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement. Based on
experience under the first project and on the expected size of the contracts,
it is anticipated that civil works contracts will be won by local firms.
Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preferential
margin of 15 percent of the CIF price of competing imports or the total
applicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower. Standardized
sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master lists of furniture and
equipment have been reviewed by Bank staff. Proposed grouping for tender
would be reviewed by the Bank staff. Items would be grouped, to the extent
practicable, to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement.
Review of tender evaluation documents by the Bank prior to award would be
required only for contracts of US$250,000 and above for civil works and of
US$50,000 and above for equipment and furniture.
Disbursement
36.       Disbursement would be on the basis of:   (a) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for directly imported equipment and furniture or 80 percent of
the cost of locally manufactured equipment and furniture; (b) 60 percent of
total expenditures for civil works, locally procured equipment and furniture;
and (c) 80 percent of total expenditures for program administration and future
project preparation. Disbursements for program administration including
preparation of future projects and local transport services would be made
against certificates of expenditure, documentation of which would not be
submitted for review but would be retained by the Borrower and would be
available for inspection by the Bank during project supervision. All other
disbursements would be fully documented. Procurement is expected to be
completed by April 1979, and the project by October 31, 1979.
Benefits and Justification
37.       The main project benefit would be the expansion of Swaziland's
basic education cycle from seven to ten years and the improvement in the
cycle through the introduction of science and practical studies. The
timing is appropriate since this expanded cycle is part of the proposed Third
Plan educational strategy which the Government seeks to implement as quickly
as possible. Another important project benefit would be the rural location



- 13 -
of the new and expanded junior secondary schools. Thus, this project would
assist the Government to redress the imbalance in educational opportunities
between rural and urban areas as well as support the Government's overall
program of rural development.
38.       This project would complement the Bank's first education project
which is providing assistance for teacher training, vocational and techni-
cal training and for an innovative program of rural education. While these
programs are being evaluated and new manpower data are being analyzed, the
Government seeks to establish a solid basic education program which would
provide the initial output for rural or vocational programs. Future Bank-
assisted education projects are expected to address the needs for technicians
and high level manpower.
39.       The 17 junior secondary schools in the proposed project, when built
and fully operational by about 1983, would produce an output of some 1,400
graduates per annum with a well-balanced humanities-science background. The
graduates would be suitable not only for formal education but also for on-
the-job training and associated part time training at the Swaziland College
of Technology and other institutions. It would be these graduates, after
some years of industrial and commercial experience reinforced with appropri-
ate courses, who would replace the expatriates in Government and the private
sector and become the skilled manpower upon which Swaziland's economic devel-
opment depends.
Risks
40.       In view of the Program Unit's satisfactory performance under the
first education project and its good coordination with other ministries,
prospects for physical implementation of the proposed project appear excel-
lent. Fulfillment of the project's educational objectives, however, will
be more difficult. In many Bank Group-assisted educational projects, intro-
duction of science and practical subjects into secondary schools has not
met with immediate success, usually because of a lack of appropriate trained
teachers. In this project there are reasonable prospects that teachers will
be produced in adequate numbers to meet school expansion needs except perhaps
for the practical subject teachers, and to meet this need the Government
intends to implement a plan for training practical subject teachers at SCOT by
December 31, 1977. A possibility exists that the demand for individuals with
commercial and technical skills might cause teachers in these areas to leave
education for higher paying employment in the private sector. To counter this
problem, the Government has agreed to review from time to time the conditions
of employment of teachers trained in commercial and technical skills to ensure
that secondary schools are adequately staffed (Section 4.03(b), Loan Agreement).
Altogether, the above risks are acceptable and should not impede the project
from achieving its objectives.



- 14 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
41.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Swaziland and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of the draft Resolution approving
the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
42.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred to
in Section III of Annex III of this report.
43.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
44.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 21, 1977



v;
tro    a   mt       am        -'M -  ip
E                                                      .1.  .4b                      W.           4b                   lb a   we^-%          '00       tm                                0
Z     12
S
4:t    4a       O in A                                                                                               O.. I
Maks-ft-     mm                                                                  4D 43- ID  a 4.0              .0
m                                             Z%'z                                                       o M., M
M                                                                   as                                         to-
-lb 00
a:   -.t- vvt     t
4,4be     AD V%          Z.;     IP
-W 4m  a                                                                           or-
-WOR
C2
1.0
to
dw&   dp tt                         .10WOR  M                                                                   000                     1%a
Vi:.
M    am      a                                      Za,                                   r,
1 M
a
we   V a                          .-on    r-V               It 1!                                                                     ltlt CL q: 't
Z
Mia
-0 0                                                                                        a                                                        It It Ir .1 a,
CP a,                                                        -P%
Om
Z
Oftw        M      41I.-                                               C3 AL,
: 0                       dm                               Mc&
W4,                   0-1 ZZ             E
93              a 0      In _J_*  aa   ID       ...O                                                       =`LI aa- 0 C,
OU      wa-                                     m-                  0             'L -                                                       13 ' 11 I 0
x Z Z N     n                                                                     x
N   0       Z Z       Z
7                                                                        ---      aft 7.             Zr f-               Mw
OT093                       0                                        -MZ-
V.         :.Vl 7 a .                                                     a
Z
_A4sxx__        -0
W    7                   _Ia,         1-5              &_7
S.        sz,      W a    m          0  -&M        a                                                                                          3,
00 0 C     a                                Ick
:,-.            '  - V  Al 91                :  Z V%Cl
0       V___ d'a         Z
&A                     00
4i 3t W.A                $M
da                                                                                                           .10
MO                                                                           6                                 ,..4L, x7t
Z
a    ID C)                                                           ILa Moi
:                           ,  0- 11 11 a`lll a' I =             0 - L,     43                     .0 W.0'7.ft, C,  a a,. af  W
IS, M x                                                                01012
a'u     "TIZIZ                                                  a  0,                                                                      _Ill Z
- 'r,   .  m"     .     .     IC 'C'            to,            0 0     I  Z  x am "I                       60       -0
a.              M..      -ft                           W           n .W"                                   Z   WZ &                                     UW t : 0  1
a - ! -             'O'        __                            V                 W   Z fc)x       W aon
0                      0      a           .6    a                                                                                        ej          M     M
a                                         IL       0  -1                 11           w    T    IL WV   6.1



ANNE I
Page 5 of 4 pages
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for PaInt Recent EstImate between
1975 and 1975.
Differen-s between UR rate of natural increase and IBRD population growth rate due to different consus bases.
Selection of Gabos so the objectivo coutry is based on its         isldlarity In population nice. and economIc strutur, although Gabon in at a higher
level of d-evelpment,     Both countriso hav     -eeU-diversified econoies, are endowed with natural resono-en and have advaned, active private
SWAZIIANDI    1_960     A   Rstio of population onder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;             A1  1962.
1970 A1966, Ab Rntlo of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force.
MOST RECENT ETIMAiTE:      La   African population only;        Ab  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;
ft   Including assistant nurses;       fd   1972.
BCTSWANA       1970     L.  1964-70.
MAURITIUS      1970     A.  fai to emigration population, growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;               fb  Ratio of population under 15 and
65 and over to total labor force;         ft  Sugar land only.
GABON          1970     /a  Rstio of populetion unfer 15 and 65 and ove        to labor force age 15-49 year,         ft   Entlanted actIve population defined
so 15-49 years of age;       ft   Income recipienta;      ft   Including mldwlves and ansistant nornro;          ft  Govermnent
hospital estsblishnets onl,y;        If   1964-66.
07, June 8, 1977
DEFINI5TIONS OP SOCIAL. SOfICATORS
Land Area (Rho,,   1                                                                         Paniatios sac -urame    peros - Popalatian dieided by susber so practiciog
Total -Tonal sarfane area comprising ma.d area sand Ised waners.                               male sad Rfsal   graduate aas,        -risad' or  neratified  nurse., and
aorta.  M- st re...cn  .t ali-ce of agri-ltora1 area used tmspscrarly or Pena-                 anailisry paraaaa    stab training or-   prLne
nannty far crops, pas cares,   arktn i hitches gardens ar e    Iia fslil,.                 PsP.1ation sacr hoesitel bad - Pspalatian diwided hy nosier oR haspinl bad.
availobie is poblia sad private g.. serl aod apacisitad hsapictl and
CNP pac narita  (S$R) - tNP Par capita nlti-tane   an nareoc market prices,                    rehsbilitatitaa caters, -soldne s-rasg henn       and as-bltabhsaeat far
aeIclnale d by earn  -ov-ris    - tehod as Wseld Bash Atlsa (1973-75 basis),                 nutadis1 and praetlee oas..
1960; 1970 and 1975 dana.                                                                  Per saPita saPP1Y of eara         -ftarstren)- Caspated from esargy
aqueaIcat at set fsad soPpliss    -vllabla is naantry Par aepita per day;
roeslatin and vital sa ttiatic,                                                                a-alabla sapplies cspries desnanic produasias, kaPorns les        escorts, cad
PonoIatisa (mid-yea   million)    As of July firet,   if sat   -alabla, avarags                chagas is stank,..st .op,li. las enlua   asisil Read, sasda, q-aaitiaaueed
of tw   and-year as tlastna; 1 h0, 1970 sad 1971 date.                                       in Road proonee. og asd lenses in distir~ihuio;     qur         --n wr  estimated
hy FAO base.d as physiaigioa1 sends for -sse      nctiviny asd haa1th osasid-
Pspolation deneino - ear square ha - Mid-year population par aquer       kilseeter              racig eavirom   ula   tperatura, body seighta, ego and sea distrihbtians of
(10hiars  f tonl ara.ppuaiss                                                                      asd  llsia    15% fsr wat    e   oabldlv
...siatia  dan   y t-nan assre ha of aarie     Isad - Capunad as above far                  Prsnasnl            feaan(rascdy                    rti     ae       tprapt
agrinalt-rl lead only.                                                                       oat supply of food per day; ant sapply of Road is defisad as above; rqulc-
seats tar all no,"trias aa.tahlibed by 50D     E-ot      R esseeth Iereocas
Vital stanianics                                                                               provido foe a s.is-     aloas     of 60 gras oftoa       Protei. par day, and
Crude birth eel tsar th-sand_ aer!Sa      - Annua  lIve births par thoussd of                  20 gras of ..i-a     and pulsa protnin, of which 10 gres    shold ha ..i-ial
mid-year population; ceo-y_ar eritLsmtic sorgas ending in 1960 sand 1970,                    prtois; thase   tanadards see lowr then chose oR 75 gras of total protein
and fivo-yae    --nsge endin,g ia 1971 for ens erase..at aetnste                             sand 23 gras of asSes1 protein as an -esrage Roe the world, prapseed by PAO
Cndo dasoh rate oar thau.and. av-SEe - Assual dastha per thouaad of mtd-yasr                   is tba Third World road Sarvy.
popalanion; tan-year aritlearnic averages    nding is 1960 end 1970 asd flea-              Par ,anin, sea.teRsapnlv frc      animal and palsa - Pretain sopply of fned
year -verega ending is 1971 for mast reasont astiaata.                                       darivad fern        1 ao aaend polss. in grass par day.
1. fnt aartality cans C/thai; - As-u.I darhs of infests u-dar on       yar of ago            loath race C/thea) ae.s 1-4 - Annual deonha par nhousend is age grep 1-4
Par ths-a     linbrh.years, n                                                                           ahildras in thia ega group; saggeatadase       inditoaer of
ita soatso  st birth (yea) - Averaga suaer of years of lita reeting at                   se-atrito
bsrth; sa_ally RI va-yaar --srgae amding in 1960, 1970 sod 1972 fsr dovalop-
ing co_nira.                                                                              Edonation
cross reorodctios rate-vraanonker atlicsesdaghtars a oe                  ill baar            AdJusted.asrolinent canto - ociasre cahl - E-r1llat of oll agoa as Pa-
is hsr norma   reproduct ive partod It she   rcreanna    pres...t oge-spatifi                sanRage so Primar   soh1-aga populattion; ialadan       hitldra aged 6-11 year
ferilit'y rto; as saly fiv-yea        sveragea ending to 1960, 1970 and 1971                 hat adjutad tar difforent lengths oR peiary adunation, tar -ontrisa sinh
for davoloplng nannreias.                                                                     -nt-rol adoction, asro11ant nay osseod 100% stince eespupils era hal,
Pponlation groA    rsa t       tonal -Compound annua     grawth rtaise oR  id-year             orabov    thaoffintaIshool ego.
population far19106-60,1960-70 sad 1970-75.                                                Adjusted enrallnsast rantio-saaondscy sohol - Computed aoboes, ce-ondary
oaltestan    raIn Mt  - urbee - Computed like growth nate of tota                       dantion raqutre      tlas    Roa  yersrof approved pr Imar     Inlnanlo;
population; difra9aisioeo                 rsaae       a    fec     aprb      ty of            p    ied.s garal, vocationa.lfor tyaahe    trating issironti.m for puptis
dots among nautries.                                                                         at 12 to 17 yaarn of ann; oares,pondsa         c,, narse ror  gnaralIy easluded.
Orbas nanulanion ft oftotal) - Ratio of urban no tonal popultton; different                  Yaars of scabooling nrot-ded (fiest ad    _son   lsolsl   - Ita .1Y.sre of
definttias of urban areas nay affect comparabiliny at data asag nucehs sboling; an secosdary le-nl                             tosit,osl imatr,tin sey ha partislly or
taplataly smolded.
ga  tronra (Percentn    Childon (0-14 years),    -kintg-sgr (15-64 yasra)                Vacatoa1 enarolboa     ft at sanndarl-)     Ronatioml inatitotti-     iacluds
Asdn  ritred (65 years a ad oe)apaenaa              ofmdya      pesltontnhol,industrial or                                thrs prngraa     hiah oparte imdepesdently or a
Age depenod...y ratRio - Ratio of popalat on under 15 and 65 end ovr to thosa                  daparem,ant  at secondary inatinotioma.
of ags1     thr-gh h4.                                                                     Sdale Itearno.-   rot .%t)- 1itneratoadolts   (able to read sad -its) as per-
o-cagsat  d daeaen,y ra tie - toic of population undar 13 and 65 and over to                    Iatg     Poa       daln  popletito  aged 15 yeara ad ovr.
the labor torte is apga group of115-hi y55c..
Penile   I . plnis-a_ctors (oso_aive. nha) - C-omltice snhar at ancapnors                    Hoesmin
of birnh-nonteo1 devicse wader aoa pin.. of national fatly planntng pro.gra                Pereapsa       cor  (urban) - A-arages,nbsr of person    par corn I   a-pied
aio  atio.                                                                              eovatioml dw-l1tsga in orban areas; dweIlitga e-olde non-pa-sm...nt
fatly elaning -           Csraf  of martied wmn  -Pr"ateges of married ,aaa       of            seotorest and ona.apied perta.
child-basring age (15-4    years)   h.a use blrthp-aaro1 de-cas to all macrod              Ocoapiad dllisga sithont stood manor Cl) - Ocoapiad        --vettona    dwellings
sastoens .  age grap.                                                                     in uebaa ad cral areas without insaide or otaide piped saner fasiliniss
asparoetage ot all onopiad dwellings.
EPzlsymeat                                                                                               "'cstoscteait    f   I o  l dwlllias) - Con-sati-I dwIlitaga with
Total labor terse (thosasad) - Econoicslly active parsons, isoading cond                        ee-tracity is livingqu-t!rnsr    eePeoent of tsia1 dwellings In orbee and
forcas and amaplayad bat sanlading bhcoawi-n, atdesta, eta. ; definition-ualscs
Lis varios   onteia. arc son nmpareble..                                                      - Rura dwcltsn   aaaacttd to elantrinity   1)    Caponed as above for cora
abortooeisarica1ture fCX        - Agela1teuraI labor tacos (ia f.-aeig, tareatry,              dasalinga only.
hastIng ad tihing) as parnontage at total        bsr ftorte.
'nslydC  f labor terse) - Osaplayd are asmlly defined as prsone who                   Csmaptio
are abla ad willing to take a job, ont ofajob on a givas day, r-asiasd an                  Radio rc..teers (pc th- real - A11 tyfesn at raneivera for radio broadcasts
at a Job, and cashking work f or a spanitid misbive    pariod sot an..eeding one              to general pablic par thoveond at popnlstio; ...a1ados oliaensed re..alevra
week;-ny at ha caparable hatwea        Rantries doe no different defnnitions                  in nonstrlos and In yeses    h.. registrati-onfa radio sets wa    is   ffatfn;
at u_pIoyd and sa       e. at data, a.g., -playsst offiae       nt.tatts, .aP.e               dens for recnet pear   may son be anpacoble stacs moan -ontrtos       bk1isbed
asess,npolcory aneplaysst imua          .Itn_m ing.
Passaner 0cta         huno        P-Passeger oars ncsPriso motor sa-    Ssattsg
1soriedinbr.ibstion - Parnontags at pri-ete incas (both in sashb and kind)                      leas Stbaa aighlt pess      slades abslsee, ba-ses asd mIlitary
ressdbtinhast It, rinbost 20%, pooreat 20%, ad poorsn At o0       f honas-             vhiales..
holds.                                                                                      Eletirta    (ks/a/y  ea ass) - annul t      oPtio    o f tad-tria, a.cotia1,
psblin end private ea-tr"is ty in ki'lowtt hare par a.pit., gonaral1y
DOtstibatin of lend     --rhip - psrn...tagca    of 1ond ease  by saclthiest 10%                bead   n   r    tanbo  dana, vithoot a         feasatr I-s.. in grids bun site--
and p-erst 10% sf land                                                                            frr.le o  imports sad amprta at elentrlnity.
NasasrIat (km/yr sac taP) - Per       apto sansl casmaspton to, kilogras,
Realah and Nutrition                                                                            senteatad tras doatia pradasnios plu seat asporna of assprint.
Poesalttn sc eysnia  -Ppulation divided by sibkr of prancticing
pksoim  qaitted Rca a rdiaal enksl at university leve



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 197/175                                     AmNNAL. RATE OF GROWTH (%M constant prices)
US$ Mln.       j..                             1971/72-73/74                  1974/75_/
GNP at Market Prices          240.9        100.0                                   7.0                       6.0
Gross Domestic Investment      62.2          25.8
Gross National Saving          76.2          31.6
Current Account Balance        14.0           5.8                                  9.5
Exports of Goods, NFS         192.1          79.7                                  8.5
Imports of Goods, NFS         161.3         67.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTImITY IN 1974/75
Value Added                   Labor Force3/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Hln.      %_                 NMl _f                          U   $         ^
Agriculture                    72.0         31.7               .157       78                   458           41
Industry                       60.4         26.6               .015         8                4,026          357
Services                       94.6         41.7               .029       14                 3,262          288
Unallocated                                                     . .
Total/Average            227.0        TR.o                .20       IO.                 1,10
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                              Central Government
(  Nln.)     %Of GDP                      (Emal.Hln.)        % of GDP
197           197         lTw-7                  19775      1974/73               5
Current Receipts                                                                     41.9       22.5            28.5
Current Expenditure                                                                  24.8        133            16.9
Current Surplus                                                                      17.1        9.2            11.6
Capital Expenditures                                                                  9.5        5.1             6.5
External Assistance (net)                                                            10.4        5.6             7.1
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                  1970          1971        1972         1973        1974         1975
(Million Emal. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                       ..           ..         39.5         43.6        56.3         82.3
Bank credit to Public Sector              -1.2          -1.5        -2.0          2.8        -5.3        -13.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             17.1          18.2        17.4         22.6        29.3         42.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP          ..            .,         34.6         31.1         30.2
General Price Index (1963 - 100) 4/      109.1         111.3       113.9        127.1       151.6        170.3
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         2.2          2.0         2.3         11.6        19.3         12.3
Bank credit to Public Sector                ..         -25.0       -33.3        140.0      -189.3
Bank credit to Private Sector               ..           6.4        -4.4         29.9        29.6
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Estimated on basis of national accounts data for period July to June. Not strictly comparable with balance
of payments figures which relate to cAleadAr year.-
2/ Provisional.
7 laorforceis definedras persos emoyed in the mnodern seetor plus those whose main occupation was
in the traditional aector;   excludes 25,000 absentees mainly in South Africa    (29,000 in 1976).
/ No general Price Index is availahle; index relates-to-the-ma-, -cties oftMbabane and Manzini only.
not available
not applicable
February 1977



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADB PAIMENTS AND CAPITAL FLWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974       19752/                                              US $ Mln     %
(MillionsUS $)
Exports of Goods              109.3    178.3      173.6              Sugar                               63.5      42.0
Imports of Goods               83.3    112.5      123.8              Wood Products                       28.1      18.6
Trade Balance                  26 0        g  -z--8 49.8Fruits (mainLy citrus)                           10.3       6.8
Non-factor Services (net)     -5.0      -2.6      -2.7               Iron Ore                            15.3     10.1
Interest Payments (net)         ..        *         *                Asbestos                            10.5       7.0
Workers' Remittances            ..        ..        ..               Meat & Meat Products                 3.5       2.3
Other Factor Payments (net)   -30.4    -36.0      -53.4
Net Transfers                   5.5      11.6      12.1               All other commodities              20.0      13.2
Balance on Current Account    - 3.9      38.8       5.8                    Total                        151.2    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       ..        *-        *-              EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31, 1976
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                *-        *-        *-                                                          US $ Mln
Amortization
Subtotal                     ..        ..        ..                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                46.0
Capital Grants                   .        *                           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Govt. Capital (net)             14.6     15.3       10.9              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i             -12.9     -26.8      18.3
Increase in Reserves (+)       -2.2      27.3      35.0             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976 3
Gross Reserves (end year)       ..
Net Reserves    (end year)      ..        ..        ..                Public Debt. incl. guaranteed                 2.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                      83.3     112.5     123.8
of which:   Petroleum       8.4      15.7      17.6
Exports                      109.3    178.3      173.6
of which:  Petroleum         ..       ..         ..       IBRD/IDA LENDING, (April 1977) (Million US$)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                         IBRD         IDA
1971  1972    1973   1974    1975   1976      'Outstanding & Disbursed               17.3         3.1
US$1.00 = E       0.71  0.76   0.69    0.68   0.73    0.87      Undisbursed                             6.3        4.5
E1.00 = US$    1.40   1.29   1.44    1.47   1.37   1.15       Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         23.6         7.6
1/  IMF staff estimates.
2/ Provisional.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Government Current Revenue.
.  not available
not applicable
May 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SWAZILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at April 30, 1977)
Amount (less cancellations)
US$ million)
No.     Year   Borrower      Purpose                   Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Two loans and one credit                                 7.0     2.8      -
fully disbursed
1058-SW   1975   Kingdom of   Water Supply and           3.5             2.6
Swaziland    Sewerage Facilities
518-SW    1975   Kingdom of   Education                          5.0     4.5
Swaziland
1108-SW   1975   Kingdom of   Highways II                7.0             3.7
Swaziland
1375-SW   1977   Kingdom of   Rural Development 1'       4.0
Swaziland
1409-SW   1977   Kingdom of   NIDCS 1/                   5.0
Swaziland
Total                                26.5     7.8    10.8
of which has been repaid            2.9     0.2
Total now outstanding                23.6     7.6
Amount sold                     2.2
of which has been repaid      1.1   1.1
Total now held by Bank & IDA 2/      22.5     7.6
of which is undisbursed             6.3     4.5    10.8
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1058-SW      Water Supply and Sewerage:   US$3.5 Million Loan of
December 9, 1974; Effective Date: March 12, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After some initial delays the project is progressing reasonably
well except on one contract (construction of sewers in Mbabane) of which
the liquidation of the contractor led to retendering of part of the works.
Completion of the project is now expected by July 1978 instead of October
1977. Latest project cost estimates indicate that there will possibly
be an unused balance of the Bank Loan of US$0.9 million (mostly due to the
devaluation of the South African rand in September 1975). Discussions
are in progress on identifying possible additional works which could be
considered for financing with the unused funds.
Credit No. 518-SW     Education:  US$5 Million Credit of December 9, 1974;
Effective Date: March 11, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project is continuing to make good progress. The Program
Implementation Unit is operating satisfactorily; architectural design, con-
struction and procurement are proceeding well. If implementation continues
at the present rate, the project could be completed ahead of schedule. Costs
are within the original estimate.
Loan No. 1108-SW      Second Highway:  US$7 Million Loan of May 5. 1975;
Effective Date: October 13, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Construction of the Tashaneni-Mlaula and Helehele-Phuzumoya roads
is progressing well, and is expected to be finished by the contract comple-
tion date. At Government's request, the loan agreement was amended (R76-232,
September 15, 1976) to permit utilization of US$1.8 million of an estimated
US$2 million surplus in the loan account. The surplus resulted partly from
the 1975 rand devaluation and partly from savings in physical contingencies. The
amendment will enable the Helehele-Phuzumoya road to be extended 25 km to Big
Bend.
Loan No. 1375-SW      Rural Development:   US$4   Million Loan of April 6, 1977,
Effective Date: (expected in July 1977); Closing Date:
November 30, 1982
Loan effectiveness is expected in July 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the un-
derstanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



Page 3 of 3 pages
Loan No. 1409-SW     National Industrial Development Corporation of Swazi-
land:  US$5   Million Loan of May 12. 1977; Effective
Date: (expected in August 1977); Closing Date:
December 31. 1981
Loan effectiveness is expected in August 1977.



ANNEX III
SWAZILAND
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: six months
(b) Preparation by: Government of Swaziland assisted by the Bank
(c) Initial discussion with Bank: January 1976
(d) First Bank mission: January 1976
(e) Appraisal mission departure: October 7, 1976
(f) Negotiations: February 22-25, 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1977
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Borrower shall implement, starting not later than December 31,
1977, a plan for improved training of practical studies teachers
at the Swaziland College of Technology (para. 21);
(b) The Borrower shall consult with the Bank on future appointments to
the position of Program Director of the Program Unit (para. 34); and
(c) The Borrower shall, from time to time, review the conditions of
employment of teachers in commercial and technical subjects to
ensure that secondary schools are adequately staffed (para. 40).



IBRD 12579R
e'i                                                             FEBRUARY 1977
0         10       20         3
SWAZILAND                                     MILES
-   Main roads-tar SECOND     EDUCATION          PROJECT        ?           KILOMETERS
Main roads-gravel
-____ Minor roads
Railways         To                   To Hectorspruit  _ JUNIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS
*  Important airfield  Neispruil To Kaopmuiden        [ * AGRICULTURAL TEACHER TRAINING
Aerial ropeway   9H5 /                 Fgr,o.R, FACILITY
Rivers               FarCILIaTY
Irrs Ia1;on schemes                  Ngor..n t,         See list of schools in report onnexes.
L1~ IProm ana gum forests                    J ~'                    o'
REGIONS                                                      To ~  \Komoatipoort
HighveId- overage height  iiiiIe           ''8
above sea level 1,200 mff,  . Iave ock .i.},. .o                    rgate               T TO
Middleveld-average height              l\          -                          Lomahasha Louren;o
6'  above sea level 600m.  AB  S    PIPgs Pak I'                                           Marques
26     LowveId-overage  height                                   Tshan----.r' 
above sea level 200m                                  016 /
=3jLubombo-overage height  /           oHHrm
above sea level 550m.  /          Korncj,
   National capital                                                  nr    \,
International boundaries
\~~~~~~~~                                                       ~~~ .  4  Mp7akaStn 
A`   y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
Ditrc      b ound A C    7h  bounheriss  honn  on thi  map do nror  A  .5e  ,  'k \   .  .
,*.,,.*F,      ':  2'  4 0 1  :4h .* " r' '. ]Z',, re.1'.  by tbe  .  1T)nom  To  * 1)  /uTzomb
To Johannesbur~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~onoa                      ubo'   *     #bob



