                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 33721

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                (TF-26052)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$17.4 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                                 FOR A

                                          HOUSING FINANCE




                                           September 29, 2005




Finance and Private Sector Development
Middle East and North Africa Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective September 24, 2005)

                              Currency Unit = Israeli New Shegalim
                                       ILS 1 = US$ 0.22
                                      US$ 1 = ILS 4.60

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
CMA     Capital Markets Authority
CMHC    Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation
HAF     Housing Assistance Fund
IDA     International Development Association
IFC     International Finance Corporation
NGO     Nongovernmental Organization
PA      Palestinian Authority
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PHFC    Palestine Housing Finance Corporation
PMA     Palestinian Monetary Authority
PMIF    Palestine Mortgage Insurance Fund
PMHC    Palestine Mortgage and Housing Corporation
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SMF     Secondary Mortgage Facility
WBG     West Bank and Gaza




                             Vice President:    Christiaan Poortman
                           Country Director     Nigel Roberts
                             Sector Director    Hossein Razavi
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Lawrence M. Hannah

                                 WEST BANK AND GAZA
                                 GZ-HOUSING FINANCE


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24

Project ID: P043338                                                  Project Name: GZ-HOUSING FINANCE
Team Leader: Lawrence M. Hannah                                      TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: GZ-HOUSING FINANCE                                       L/C/TF Number: TF-26052
    Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Housing finance and real estate markets (82%); Housing
                            construction (10%); Central government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P); Regulation and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/31/1995                                     Effective: 03/27/1998                03/27/1998
     Appraisal: 06/17/1996                                         MTR: 06/05/2003                  06/05/2003
      Approval: 04/08/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/Palestine Mortgage and Housing Coorporation;
                                           PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY/Ministry of Finance and Housing Ministry
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan Poortman                            Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Nigel Roberts                                  Odin K. Knudsen
Sector Director:                Hossein Razavi
Team Leader at ICR:             Lawrence M. Hannah                             Lawrence M. Hannah
ICR Primary Author:             Lawrence M. Hannah; Anita
                                Correa


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes


In the early years of implementation this project was declared "at risk" for a period of more than one year.
The reason was the establishing PMHC and addressing the issues which discouraged primary lenders

(banks) from making mortgages took longer than anticipated. These matters were however successfully
addressed and once the intifada was understood to not be ending in a short time, PMHC commenced
business and eventually managed to refinance mortgages for the entire amount allocated under the project.
This project was not considered "at risk" in the latter years.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context: As the international community turned its attention to the development of Palestine
following the Oslo Accords, housing was always present on the agenda. This was because of the
very visible poor conditions for many refugees in camps as well as the restrictions on building and
expanding urban boundaries imposed by the Israeli's during occupation which had prevented the
growing population from improving their housing for 25 years. Despite the general optimism,
there remained a great deal of uncertainty about the forces that would shape the housing sector,
viz. would demand be strong, would there be significant numbers of returnees, could the private
sector respond and supply more housing, etc.

By the time this project was being prepared, the Bank's strategy in West Bank and Gaza (WBG)
emphasized restoring and further developing basic and social infrastructure, building policymaking
and institutional capabilities and supporting the emergence of the private sector. These concerns
resonated with information available on the housing sector leading to the identification of four
priority concerns: (1) the need for institutional and policy development in the sector, (2) the poor
functioning of the land market, (3) the cash financed nature of housing, and (4) the absence of
direct mechanisms to assist the poor. It was clear from consultations at the time, both with
families wanting more housing and with those who could supply it, that the availability of long
term finance was the key constraint in the sector. The project's objectives were thus derived in
terms of the broad solutions to each of these problems, viz. building capacity for the housing
ministry to support its leadership in crafting and implementing better housing policy, initiating the
development of a mortgage market to improve affordability and supporting measures on the part
of the public sector to improve the functioning of the market for residential land.

The project's development objectives (PDOs) were to: "1. Put in place institutions, policies and
actions necessary to build and sustain a well-functioning housing sector. 2. Make housing more
affordable by initiating the development of a competitive, market-based mortgage system,
accompanied by well-targeted assistance to lower income households. and 3. Reduce house prices
for lower income households by (i) reducing obstacles to land availability; (ii) promoting a
competitive development process for lower cost alternatives; and (iii) providing assistance for the
capital costs of the infrastructure."

Not only did the PDOs reflect the overall assessment of the key problems in the housing sector,
they were also informed by the Bank's experience with housing policy in many other countries.
The fundamental lesson from that experience is that without the ability for households to pay over
time for such a large asset as housing, affordability concerns can never be addressed. Further the
PDOs emphasized that the housing finance system had to be competitive and market-based. This
was in direct contradiction to the plans of some officials who promoted the creation of a
government housing bank as the best way to start a housing finance system in WBG. Despite
being second in the list of PDOs, this objective was always understood to be the principal task for



                                                     - 2 -

this project. Originally two-thirds of the Credit proceeds were allocated to this objective but
following a restructuring 98% was actually used for this purpose.

The other PDOs addressed two additional problems in the housing sector identified at the time.
One was the obvious need to help build capacity in the new Ministry of Housing to develop
housing policy and to implement it and monitor performance. The other objective addressed an
aspect of the poorly functioning land market by proposing a system of developing housing for
low-income families on public land.

The PDOs might be thought of as ambitious objectives at the time however well focused they
were on the major issues in the sector. The capacity to address the problems was also unknown
which made the market-based model of a housing finance system more attractive because the
incentives it created.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no changes to the PDOs during the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
Just as the project had three PDOs, it had three components. Each PDO was primarily addressed
by a specific component, sometimes divided into subcomponents. The ICR finds that the
components directly contribute to achieving the project objectives and that the key
implementation agency, PMHC, had full capacity to implement as projected.

The institutional and policy development component focused on policy development and the
creation of institutional capacity in the sector. When the project was designed several NGO's
were active in the housing sector, with much more experience than the nascent Ministry itself,
thus the reference to public and private institutions. The process of developing and monitoring
housing policy was also recognized as inter-ministerial within the public sector and requiring the
active collaboration of many private entities in construction, land development, banking and so
on. The component prescribed a process, led by the Ministry and supported by consultants and
funding for studies, equipment and training. This component was also designed to serve as the
principal vehicle for policy dialogue with the government on housing. It is worth noting that the
major institutional challenge in this project was in fact the creation of a viable Secondary
Mortgage Facility (SMF) but that is addressed in the housing finance component.

The housing finance component was designed to activate mortgage lending for Palestinian
households by assisting the commercial banks to manage the risks of entering this new business.
The concept of a financial intermediary working between the capital markets and the retail lenders
was well understood and deemed the best alternative. This component was designed recognizing
two primary risks facing potential mortgage lenders - maturity mismatch and credit risk -
therefore containing subcomponents to address each risk.

Although market-based finance itself greatly enhances affordability, the third subcomponent, the
Housing Assistance Fund (HAF), was proposed as a way to accelerate the downward penetration
of mortgage finance. HAF was designed as a scheme for lower-income households wherein they
would received a grant to match their savings for a down payment thus reducing the size of loan


                                                  - 3 -

needed and hopefully making them a better risk in the eyes of commercial lenders. The design of
the subsidy was to be non-distorting since the mortgage loan was still to be on commercial terms.
Since funding had been committed for this purpose by another donor (no Credit proceeds were
ever allocated to this subcomponent) it was listed as a borrower-financed component.

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) describes the institution at the core of the housing finance
component in the rather generic language of a SMF and promises simply that private banks had
been invited to become shareholders. It also noted that IFC was prepared to become an investor if
the transition to a sustainable commercial institution could be achieved within a reasonable period
of time. In fact just prior to presentation to the Board of the World Bank, the borrower had
committed to initiate this financial institution as a private business (with minority public
ownership) which is why IFC signaled their support at this point.

Jumping ahead a little in time, the SMF immediately took on two characteristics. Under IFC
leadership private investors were sought. Second, Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation
became the technical partner for the SMF (hence the name Palestine Mortgage and Housing
Corporation (PMHC) and the structure adopted was a liquidity facility called Palestine Housing
Finance Corporation and a credit risk sharing company called Palestine Mortgage Insurance
Company. Thus, the component quickly emerged as an aggressive vote for directly building a
modern housing finance system on the basis of the solid commercial banks in WBG.

The housing development component was the answer to several questions prominent at the
time. Since it was not clear whether private landowners would make land available for housing
construction and whether developers would be able to supply the type and price range wanted by
households this component outlined a demonstration scheme using public land. That scheme was
actually a single, rather large, site in Gaza and the component included all aspects of developing
that site including a process of competitively bringing private developers to the project. In some
sense this component was addressing a more traditional perspective on housing policy, namely
that it is the role of the public sector to supply housing as needed by the population although it
should be thought of as a market-modified version of that policy. Given the uncertainty at the time
about the supply response in the housing market this, rather cautious, component seems
appropriate. When the market responded much more vigorously than anyone had imagined, the
borrower requested cancellation of this component to which the Bank agreed.
3.4 Revised Components:
As noted above the housing development component was dropped. Soon after the project was
approved, it became apparent that the private sector did not have a problem building low-cost
housing and they normally did so with their own land. In requesting cancellation of the component
the borrower made it clear that they had not abandoned the goals of this PDO. Therefore, in
agreeing to the cancellation of the component, the Bank did not revise the PDO but rather noted
that it had been successfully accomplished.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR finds the quality at entry satisfactory because the events and accomplishments outlined in
the SAR were achieved. There was no formal assessment of the quality of entry as is now
common. However, despite the sense of urgency surrounding the preparation and processing of
projects for WBG at the time, the project included extensive preparation on all components and


                                                   - 4 -

was designed with a number of specific features to mitigate implementation risk. There were nine
detailed annexes in the SAR solely devoted to component design and implementation guidance.
The risk mitigation feature for the main component, housing finance, specified that the SMF
would require a "technical partnership with an existing similar institution". Canada Mortgage and
Housing Corporation, generously funded by CIDA to assist PMHC, fits this definition well and
did effectively guide PMHC in activating their business. The other risk mitigating factor was the
role that shareholders would play as they made the decision to invest in the company. IFC took
responsibility for recruiting the shareholders which also gave a level of comfort in terms of the
steps between project approval and the commencement of business by PMHC. Both the decision
by CIDA to fund the technical assistance to PMHC (their largest grant to the PA at the time) and
the recruitment of shareholders took more time than anticipated but neither could have been
begun in earnest had the IDA credit not be approved and the funds available. It is possible that
this process would have been quicker if PMHC had been created as a public entity from the outset
but that would likely have made the project objective of a market-based housing system a very
long term goal. The implementation plan did not anticipate the intifada and its severity and
duration was a surprise to everyone. Nevertheless, PMHC weathered this storm with the only
damage being a slow start, in part because of the robust business plan created as a result of the
implementation arrangements.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the overall objective for the project, " to establish institutional and financial
mechanisms needed for the long-term development of the housing sector" is rated satisfactory.
The core mechanism to improve the housing sector, supported by the project, is the initiation of a
market-based housing finance system and the core institution is PMHC. As of the closing date,
approximately $17 million of residential mortgages had been made to buyers in WBG for houses
whose selling prices totalled about $28 million. These approximately 300 loans were made on
market terms by commercial banks. During the process of initiating the mortgage market the
project stimulated broader reforms in the area of cadastre, property registration, finance, banking
regulation and construction thus more generally contributing to the development of the housing
sector. The project also served to promote institutional and policy development in the public
sector although that process was repeatedly disrupted by events within the Palestinian Authority
and within the country.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The institutional and policy development component, although spending only 2% of the Credit
proceeds, did provide the agreed support to the Ministry of Housing, the key public institution in
this sector. The major output of this component was an extensive exercise conducted on behalf of
the Ministry by a senior international consultant. He produced a first rate report that solidly
reflected the reality of WBG and the situation within the Ministry. His report was based on a
careful consultative approach involving officials and others with interests in the housing sector.
The Ministry of Housing did organize internal discussions on this report's recommendations and
acted on those deemed most useful at the time, for example by restructuring the beneficiary affairs
department to more effectively address the needs of families with housing distress. Staff also
received training in Palestine and abroad. Unfortunately, internal differences within the Ministry,



                                                - 5 -

the escalating tension related to the intifada, and the virtual isolation of Gaza-based ministries,
such as Housing, made systematic sector wide reform difficult, if not impossible. Nevertheless,
this component has provided the vehicle for Bank dialogue with the Palestinian Authority on
housing issues which continues to today under the leadership of the new president and minister
who took office in 2005.

The housing finance component, utilizing 98% of the Credit proceeds, was designed to achieve
its goal of initiating a mortgage market by assisting commercial banks to manage their risks of
entering this new line of business. Specifically, the liquidity facility of PMHC allowed banks to
manage the maturity mismatch between their short term liabilities and these new long-term assets,
mortgages. The insurance facility (incorporated as a freestanding insurance company under the
laws of Palestine to protect the integrity of PMHC, for the purposes of bond issuance) permitted
banks to buy partial credit risk insurance for the mortgages which they granted. PMHC opened its
doors for business precisely at the outset of the intifada but despite this highly adverse
environment, within about three years, the project managed to initiate the mortgage market where
none before had existed. This is testament to the solid business preparation on their part and a
tribute to the highly skilled management team that the owners recruited. Together with the
reforms that accompanied the establishment of PMHC, it could be said that all of the essential
building blocks of a sustainable mortgage market were put in place as a result of this project.
Although the HAF was not essential for the initiation of the mortgage market in WBG, it was
described in the project as an already-funded way to expand downward the availability of
mortgages. Unfortunately because the funding never materialized the component was not
implemented, although in retrospect it is clear that matching the savings of otherwise non-credit
worthy borrowers would not have been sufficient to get them mortgages during this initial phase.

The housing development component, as noted earlier, was canceled at the request of the
borrower. It was clear during the initial phase of the project that the private sector was able to
acquire land and produce housing in all price ranges without direct intervention from the
government. This meant that the need to demonstrate approaches, the strategy for this
component, became unnecessary and the Bank agreed to the Borrower's request for cancellation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In the Staff Appraisal Report there was a full annex on the economic benefits of housing finance
institutions (Annex 13) but there was no quantification of the rate of return because the benefits
of more efficient intermediation are diffuse and difficult to quantify. Even today there is no
standard methodology for estimating the economic rate of return of adding one more institution to
the financial architecture of an economy. Nevertheless, it is clear that all of the anticipated
benefits, as described in that annex, were produced in WBG, as a result of this project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial rate of return was not calculated at appraisal because the Credit proceeds were
simply a loan from the borrower to PMHC. However, PMHC did regularly prepare business plans
for the company to show its owners the return on their investment and to underpin key business
strategies related to pricing and fund raising. The forecasts, periodic financial reports and audited
financial statements of the company are available in the files. All costs associated with establishing
the company, including wages for its staff, have been covered by the owners, and not from the


                                                  - 6 -

Bank Credit. PMHC remains a highly capitalized company with a still small volume of business.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As described earlier, there were two streams of institutional development supported under this
project. First, the Institutional and Policy Development Component had as an explicit goal the
strengthening of the key institutions in the sector including the then new Ministry of Housing. As
discussed in the earlier section on this component, there were specific exercises to be undertaken
according to the project description. These were completed successfully as agreed. In addition to
the reports produced by consultants the Ministry did adopt, both informally and formally, a
number key policies. A notable example is a written declaration by the Minister to stop in-kind
exchanges of public land for housing units because it was not sufficiently transparent as a
mechanism. What can not be confirmed, however, is whether the effort was sufficiently large and
sustained to have a measurable impact on such a large ministry in such tumultuous times. The
Minister in office for most of the project period made it clear on a number of occasions that his
interest lie more in building "houses" than capacity. The new Minister of Housing (which is now
part of Housing and Public Works), appointed early in 2005, has indicated his intention to
re-engage the Bank and others on institutional development questions. This component used only
2% of Credit proceeds.

The second, and much more extensive, institution building exercise of this project has been the
founding and operationalization of PMHC. Although the project was undoubtedly the catalyst to
create PMHC, the actual intuitional development with the company has been driven both by the
owners and their advisors and consultants. To set up and attract investors to PMHC and to
actually get (ultra conservative) commercial banks to take on this line of new business has been an
enormous and successful task. A series of business plans were prepared, reviewed (by senior
international consultants as well as Bank supervision personnel), revised and rewritten. This sort
of iterative process is typical for a market-based institution where changing circumstances must
constantly and quickly be taken into account. It is hard to imagine a business environment with
more (usually adverse) changes taking place than WBG during the period of this project,
especially with the intifada. There are so many notable accomplishments that only a few can be
mentioned here. Early in the process, the staffing, the strategy and practice for PMHC was
recognized as model of modern management where all staff were hired in a transparent fashion for
the skills and experience they had, not for their connections. Second, when the Credit was
extended, very detailed and demanding action plans were prepared and agreed with the Bank.
PMHC delivered results. Finally, when it came time to prepare the prospectus for a first bond
issue there was the need for PMHC to revise its charter and close off any possibility of the
institution taking on additional risks that would raise the cost of issuing bonds. This was handled
smoothly both from a technical and governance point of view. Since the mortgage business
requires significant reforms in the way of property registers, courts, permits issues and others
work, the project has also had a significant effect on the development of the responsible
institutions but this is still unfinished business. The real institutional development of this project is
the creation, from scratch, of PMHC as viable commercial entity going forward, serving as a
cornerstone of financial sector development in WBG.

IFC contributed substantially to PMHC's successful development.



                                                    - 7 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor which adversely affected the implementation of the project was the intifada.
Because it disrupted incomes, as well as communications and internal travel, it made all of the
actions related to building and financing new housing much more difficult than anticipated.
Perhaps its greatest effect, however, was on the perception of risk in WBG, especially on the part
of commercial banks.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In general, the government was supportive of the project and the institutions created under it. The
one exception is the delay by the Borrower in resolving the regulatory issues surrounding
PMHC's planned bond issuance. PMHC was created and is registered under the companies act
which is supervised by the Ministry of Economy. PMHC was not deemed to need a bank license
since it does not engage in retail finance activities and does not take deposits. In fact, as the
Capital Markets Authority (CMA) law and regulatory body were developed, PMHC was put
under their jurisdiction which is considered appropriate but CMA even today exists only in name.
Thus a regulatory dispute arose wherein the Palestinian Monetary Authority claimed the right to
inspect PMHC as a bank and to authorize the bond issue. On advice of their council and advisors,
PMHC asked the Ministry of Finance to clarify jurisdiction because the PMA proposal seemed, to
them, to be not consistent with prevailing legislation and regulation. In the meantime PMHC
prepared a prospectus for a bond issue which has been well received in early discussions with
investors but has, to date, not received instructions from the Ministry of Finance on how to
proceed. PMHC's sustainability is not in immediate jeopardy because they have adequate capital
and reflows with which to continue their operations but the long delay in coming to market with
the bonds is not conducive for development of the financial markets.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
PMHC, without exception, took measures to ensure effective implementation of the project and
good outcomes. Their standard of reporting and its timeliness was exceptional.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Costs would only have been measurable for the component which was cancelled. Financing plans
were otherwise fulfilled or exceeded including the equity paid in to PMHC. The borrower met all
their obligations.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The principal creation of the project, the housing finance system in Palestine, is rated sustainable.
The commercial banks have indicated that they are in this business to stay and some have actually
commenced lending for housing out of their own resources as well as those that borrow from
PMHC. PMHC itself is also rated as sustainable because it has committed shareholders who have
paid in capital of approximately $20 million. PMHC has established a viable business model and
holds a portfolio of seasoned loans that are performing well. The unexpected delay in PMHC
issuing bonds into the local market to finance its lending is not an immediate issue of sustainability
since PMHC has reflows and its own capital sufficient to finance its operations for some time. The
bond issuance is rather an issue of momentum which, when accomplished, will solidify PMHC's


                                                     - 8 -

position of the leading market maker in the financial system.

On the public sector side, the Ministry of Housing and Public Works will, of course, be sustained
and have responsibility for housing policy. Under the government of President Abu Mazen, a new
Minister of Housing has been appointed. He has re-engaged the Bank on housing policy and
institutional issues largely based on activities started under this project. As a result, the Bank's
contribution to housing policy in Palestine is expected to be sustained.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There is no issue of transition to regular operations because that is what PMHC has been doing
since the day it opened its doors for business. Once the first bond issue is successfully placed it
should be straightforward for PMHC to tap the local capital market for funds as needed to
conduct its business. The strength of PMHC's balance sheet, both equity and assets, make it a
resilient financial institution even in the uncertain environment of WBG.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory based on the close correspondence between project objectives and components and
the conclusions of prior analytical work. The project design is also considered satisfactory in that
it permitted implementation in circumstances of dramatic changes in the environment without any
significant modifications. In addition, the risks of relying on a private sector response (although
the project did not promise when the private sector would invest in the SMF) were taken with
caution but in the end, well addressed by the project design and preparation. This model for
starting a housing finance system is now considered the conventional approach of the World Bank
and IFC throughout the world.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory based on the involvement of the Bank team in resolving the many issues that arose
during project implementation. There was high continuity in the World Bank team who worked
over a long period of time with IFC and the Borrower to guide the project to a successful
conclusion. Supervision of this project was intense and proactive which was recognized explicitly
by QAG in its reviews of supervision. Perhaps the most intensive periods were associated with the
preparation and follow-up on actions plans prepared in conjunction with extensions of the credit
closing date. These turned out to be effective vehicles both for monitoring and motivating project
implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The borrower played an active role in the preparation of this project. Initially the
Ministry of Housing led borrower activity but as the PMHC came into being it was those
members of the government who represented the public shareholders on its Board who took the
lead. They were flexible in their approach and tireless in their support for the project. The
agreement on a sound concept for the project is a tribute to the collective support that high level


                                                   - 9 -

officials of the Borrower gave to the project at the preparation stage.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory. There was considerable variation in the performance of government during
implementation. As mentioned, under the institutional development component, the Housing
Ministry effectively led the process until their ability to function was disrupted by events related to
the intifada. Early support from the highest levels of the PA for PMHC were effective. However,
more recent differences concerning the regulatory environment in which PMHC would issue the
first local bond in Palestine have not been effectively addressed by the Borrower. While the bond
issuance was not an explicit obligation under the project, the failure, to expeditiously resolve the
problem has complicated the long-term outlook for PMHC.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. The main implementing agency for the project has been PMHC whose performance
has been exemplary. They have created a business where none existed before, have worked
effectively with numerous partners in the public and private sector and have built a sustainable
institution using the assistance of their advisors and their technical partner, CMHC.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

Since PMHC is the centerpiece of the project it may be appropriate that the main lessons have to
do with building a project around a private institution. The constraints to initiating a new business
like mortgage lending are far more daunting if private, rather than public money, is at risk, as it
was for the investors in PMHC and for the commercial banks that retained a significant share of
the credit risk for the loans they made. The strategy to have investors own and run PMHC, while
having commercial banks as retailers, did correctly allocate the risks. However, the project could
have benefited from a more nuanced understanding of the impediments that private actors faced
and might have been able to devise more efficient strategies to address them. For this project,
those issues included property registration, laws and regulations concerning the pledging of
property and the entire regulatory environment for the mortgage business. However, it is clear
that actual reforms would not likely have been successful without the imminent prospect of real
loans waiting to be made. In the same vein, projects with private entities at their core need to be
structured recognizing that neither the World Bank and nor the borrower can control the pace of
implementation. As was often noted during this project, the World Bank does not sit on the credit
committee of commercial banks (neither does PMHC) and does not try to influence them.

A second lesson from this operation is about how to maximize the synergy among Bank
operations. On a subject as broad as housing policy, there is a great need for a coordinated
message, not only to the Housing Ministry, but to Finance, the Central Bank, the Planning
Ministry, the Local Government Ministry, the Justice Ministry and more. Although the Bank had
operations and dialogue with all of these parties, there was no mechanism to coordinate or
integrate advice for the purpose of improving project outcomes. This is probably a significant
missed opportunity to improve the pace if not the quality of product implementation.




                                                 - 10 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Minister of Finance, representing the Borrower has reviewed the draft ICR and has informed the
Bank that they have no further comments.

Since the Minister and senior officials of the Ministry of Housing changed recently there is no one there to
prepare a submission.

PMHC's submission for the ICR follows:

The idea of the creation of PMHC emerged from lack of a credit system that enables Palestinians
to obtain long-term housing loans at reasonable interest rates. PMHC was established in 1997
through a joint initiative led by the Palestinian Authority, World Bank and International Finance
Corporation (IFC).

PMHC's share capital is US$20 million has been fully subscribed by 10 institutional investors, the
Palestinian Authority and two international organizations (DEG and IFC). Shareholders were
requested, at the inception of the company, to pay 75% of the value of their shares, while the
remaining 25% to be called in 4 years. The 25% were called, so PMHC's capital is fully paid. The
six main shareholders (PA, IFC, DEG, CCC, PADICO, Arab Bank) constitute the Board of
Directors, they meet on quarterly basis and they provide continuous support and guidance to
PMHC.

To facilitate operations, PMHC established two operating divisions, Palestine Housing Finance
Corporation (PHFC) and Palestine Mortgage Insurance Fund (PMIF). PHFC specializes in
wholesale lending to participating commercial banks (primary lenders) who have already lent the
funds to final borrowers. This helps the primary lenders in their asset-liability management and in
matching their maturities. As for PMIF, it provides credit insurance against default by final
borrowers. Credit insurance is a precondition for approving requested financing. PMIF covers
70% of the loan amount and the primary lenders assume the remaining 30%. This helps the
primary lenders in mitigating their credit risk and allows them to make loan available at reasonable
rates, longer terms and higher loan-to-value.

In addition to equity funding, PMHC procured a line of credit from the World Bank in the amount
of US$ 17 million to finance its activities. PMHC, despite the start of the Intifada and the unstable
political and economical situation, was able to disburse the full amount of the World Bank line of
credit. The company is currently pursuing alternative forms of financing such as the issuance of
the bonds and the procuring of a line of credit similar to the World Bank's line of credit.

The World Bank offered continuous consultations and support to PMHC since inception. Their
consultations were not limited to the lending and their line of credit. They were on the overall
performance of the company and if it is achieving the objectives set out at establishment.
Currently, the World Bank is playing a major role in assisting PMHC issuing its first bond and the
first bond in Palestine. PMHC has completed the entire process for preparing the bonds.
However, the regulatory jurisdiction prevented issuance. The World Bank is trying to clarify the



                                                    - 11 -

regulatory body of PMHC, and help PMHC license its bonds issuance. This delay was pricy for
PMHC, since the interest rate increased from September 2004 till September 2005 by around 200
basis points.

Technical assistance of the project was provided by Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation
(CMHC) and was financed through the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).
CIDA's sub-contractor CMHC, which is a reputable company with well-known experience in
developing housing finance systems all over the world, assisted PMHC in setting the company.
CIDA's technical assistance is expected to expire by the end of the year 2006.

After five years of operation, the company is considered one of the chief Palestinian companies. It
is a commercially viable organization that improves the affordability of home ownership for all
Palestinians by increasing access to financing.

The objectives of the company are:
-        Increase the affordability of home ownership for all Palestinians by providing access to
mortgage financing.
-        Spearhead the development of a structured primary mortgage market by facilitating the
flow of capital into mortgage lending by means of a            secondary mortgage market
-        Develop the property registration process in Palestine, and promote property rights.
-        Develop the Palestinian financial market by issuing and listing the first Palestinian bond
-        Develop the Palestinian institutions by partnering with commercial banks to originate the
primary loans
-        Introduce to the Palestinian financial sector the concept of credit insurance.

The company's achievements up-to September 2005:
-        The legal framework to register and subdivide apartments did not exist before PMHC was
established; the condominium law has only been                 enacted because of PMHC.
-        PMHC played a critical role in the lowering of the property registration fees, currently the
fees 1% of the appraisal value of the property paid            wholly by the buyer. While the fees in
Jordan is 10%, 4% paid by the seller and 6% by the borrower.
-        When the company started operations, there were only 44 housing units subdivided and
registered. Currently, there are around 3,343.
-        PMHC partnered with eight commercial banks in lending and nine in insurance.
-        PMHC was able to finance and insure housing loans for around 285 Palestinian families.
The lending amount is US$ 17 million and the insurance         amount is US$ 18.95 million.
-        Despite the adverse environment PMHC is operating within, there is no single default in
PMHC loans.
-        PMHC conducted several training workshops to train the land registration department
staff all over Palestine on the implementation of the new law. -       PMHC conducted several
training workshops for different stakeholders whether the commercial banks, municipalities and
government bodies, or            developers and contractors.
-        PMHC is considered a catalyst in the housing sector and the housing sector policies in
Palestine.
-        PMHC is considered an information resource center on housing policies and housing



                                                 - 12 -

finance, land registration, and construction. The information          also includes statistics.
-       PMHC conducted several researches and studies, either on its own or through consultancy
companies and institutions. The studies touched on              several topics, including but not
limited to; property rights and gender, properly registered lands in Palestine.
-       The introduction of the housing finance concept in Palestine combined with the extensive
awareness campaigns led by PMHC, started to change              people's behavior towards financing
the owning of a housing unit instead of renting and waiting till saving money or wining the lotto
or "the death of         the rich uncle".
-       The introduction of the housing finance concept in Palestine by PMHC increased the level
of home-ownership. Not necessarily through PMHC                        housing finance programs.
Since the introducing of the new concept stimulated competition. Several banks introduced their
own housing finance              programs. Developers created another method of housing finance
which is the direct selling, where they sell housing units directly. This method has its drawbacks,
since the majority of housing units are not properly registered, which means that the buyers are
not fully entitled to the housing units'        ownership.
-       The introduction of the housing finance concept stimulated the residential construction
industry, since many people are moving towards owning their            housing units than renting
them.
-       The introduction of the housing finance concept had an impact on several other segments
and industries within the Palestinian economy. It helped in the creation of more jobs and to
stimulate growth in interrelated activities to construction such as kitchens, air and heat. It also
stimulated growth        and created competition within the life insurance companies. Since life
insurance is a condition to receive housing finance and credit insurance.
-       PMHC does not only finance individual housing units, they started an initiative in Gaza,
where they financed he construction of housing units for a co-operative, however on individual
basis. The first phase was accomplished successfully. PMHC is looking more in financing projects
as such,                 these projects will targeted to lower income groups, however the
Palestinian Authority's input is required (providing the land at subsidized rates or granting it).

PMHC faces several challenges in its operations and in the developmental role it is playing:
-       Only 30% of the available land is registered properly. The Palestinian Authority has
responsibility to zone and survey and starts the proper                registration of property.
Based on a study conducted by Financial markets International (FMI), the value of the
unregistered land is between            US$20- US$40 million and that once the land is properly
registered, the value will increase by 10%-15%.
-       The adverse environment PMHC is operating in (Intifada and the unstable political
situation), which disrupted income generation and any growth           potential and the closure
system implemented by the Israelis.
-       The mortgage concept and the housing finance programs are new to Palestine. PMHC
carried out and is still carrying out great efforts to create          awareness about the new
concept. However, there is a considerable lack of awareness for PMHC housing finance
programs.
-       Banks are passive, and regard PMHC programs as external to their own.
-       Housing co-operatives proved to be a non-reliable source of business. The Palestinian
Authority has to have an input with the housing                        co-operatives.



                                                  - 13 -

-        The World Bank line of credit expired; PMHC is seeking alternative funding resources
such as the issuance of bonds or procuring of a line of               credit similar to the World
Bank's line of credit. The bonds' issuance has been delayed due a failure by the Palestinian
Authority to identify the              regulatory body over companies such as PMHC.

PMHC was created to stay, it a commercially viable institution. It is looking ahead at the
opportunities within market and the challenges faced. This all can be achieved by the hard work
that they are doing and have been doing and by building capacity of their staff.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The following contribution to the ICR was received from IFC:

This joint IDA-IFC project was one of 3 such joint projects implemented in the West Bank and
Gaza during the Peace Process of the '90s. It is an example of how the Bank and IFC can
successfully work together and leverage each others' strengths to bring a highly complex project
to fruition in a very difficult environment. Similar joint IDA-IFC projects are being envisaged in
Sub-Saharan Africa which could benefit from the lessons learnt here.

Leveraging the strengths of IDA and IFC:
IFC could not have pursued this project without the World Bank.        Indeed, the Bank's
concessionary funds were necessary to make the economics of the project work for IFC. Also,
the Bank's presence encouraged CIDA to contribute some $3million to the technical assistance for
the project, without which the project would not have been able to attract the technical partner
needed to transfer the necessary know how to the project.      Similarly, the Bank benefited from
IFC's presence. IFC's business network in the region allowed the project to be capitalized by
private sector investors who gained comfort by IFC's presence in the project. Also, IFC's
knowledge of the West Bank and Gaza private sector and banking sector allowed the design and
structure of the project.

In partnership, IFC and the World Bank were able to address the whole range of issues related to
the development of the mortgage markets in the West Bank and Gaza, which would not have
been possible for each institution on its own.

IDA-IFC Cooperation:
This project has also allowed each of IFC and the Bank to gain a better understanding of their
respective strategies, systems and procedures. Similar joint projects are being envisaged across
the Sub-Saharan region, and it is important to learn from precedents such as the PMHC, in order
to better align procedures, systems, and objectives, not only during the project preparation phase,
but also during the implementation and beyond.       Because IFC and the Bank have different
monitoring criteria, and different investment instruments, synchronizing strategies becomes very
important in order to positively impact the results of the sister organization.

Project going forward:
The Bank loan has now been fully disbursed, yet IFC remains in the project as an equity investor.
The difficulties in the West Bank and Gaza have meant that the project did not ramp up as rapidly
as expected, nor did the project have the expected geographic coverage. IFC as an equity



                                                - 14 -

partner in the project has been concerned about further sources of funds, and has begun
discussion to determine whether another Bank loan could be extended to PMHC.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                              - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
More effective Ministry of Housing and better Well functioning MoH and more responsive     Training and new staff recruitment
housing sector outcomes                       housing supply
Market-based mortgage system and              Sustainable HFS and continuous operation of Functioning and growth of HFS and
assistance to low-income buyers               assistance program on a scale suitable for   implementation of assistance policy.
                                              policy targets
Improved function of land market and better   Typical level of transactions and less price Significant increase in transactions and
supply of infrastructure for residential      volatility                                   registration of land.
construction measured by increased level of
transactions and more stable prices.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Although not defined in the SAR, PMHC has None                                             Target of refinancing of USD$17 by end of
prepared regular reports on their results                                                  project was achieved.
which are the key project outputs. Key
variables have been number of participating
banks, volume and number of loans.




1End of project




                                                                  - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Institutional and Policy Development                         2.00             0.40              20
Housing Finance Component                                   17.00           17.00              100
    - Secondary Mortgage Facility
    - Housing Assistance Fund
Housing Development                                          6.00                                0
     - Infrastructure and Facilities
     - Construction Finance

Total Baseline Cost                                         25.00           17.40
                          Total Project Costs               25.00           17.40
                   Total Financing Required                 25.00           17.40


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            4.00         0.00          0.00         4.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.00         0.50          0.00         0.50
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         1.25          0.00         1.25
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00        17.00          0.00         17.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         2.00          0.00         2.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.25          0.00         0.25
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.00            4.00        21.00          0.00         25.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB           NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.10         0.16           0.00        0.26
                                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00



                                                - 17 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00             17.00             0.00             17.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.14             0.00              0.14
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.10             17.30             0.00             17.40
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Institutional & Policy          2.00                                  0.40                               20.0
Development
Housing Finance                17.00         5.00                    17.00                               100.0     0.0
Housing Development             6.00                                  0.00                                0.0




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

See discussion in Section 4.3




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/31/1995                2    ECONOMIST (1);                   S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/15/1995                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/17/1996                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SOCIAL HOUSING (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL DEV. (1);
                                             REGULATIONS (1)
              09/09/1996                4    LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL (1);          S               S
                                             LEAD OPERATIONS OFF. (1);
                                             HOUSING FINANCE SPEC.
                                             (1); SOCIAL HOUSING SPEC.
                                             (1)

 Supervision

              07/20/1998                2    ECONOMIST (1);                   S               U
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              12/14/1998                2    ECONOMIST (1);                   S               U
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              06/01/2000                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SOCIAL HOUSING (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL DEV. (1);
                                             REGULATIONS (1)
              02/08/2002                4    LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL (1);          S               S
                                             LEAD OPERATIONS OFF. (1);
                                             HOUSING FINANCE SPEC.
                                             (1); SOCIAL HOUSING SPEC.
                                             (1)
              10/31/2002                1    LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL (1)           S               S
              10/30/2003                1    LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL (1)           U               S
              04/16/2004                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SECTOR SPEC.
                                             (1); HOUSING FINANCE
                                             SPEC. (1)
              10/28/2004                3    LEAD ECONOMIST/TTL (1);          S               S
                                             LEAD OPERATIONS (1);
                                             SENIOR HOUSING FINANCE
                                             (1)


 ICR




                                              - 20 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation     unidentified                       148.19
  Appraisal/Negotiation          unidentified                       410.42
  Supervision                        110.96                         555.43
  ICR                                       4                          25.0
  Total                                                            1139.04




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

West Bank and Gaza Housing Project, Staff Appraisal Report, Urban Development Division, Transportation,
Water and Urban Development Department, World Bank, March 18, 1997.




                                                    - 24 -

- 25 -

