Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15926-WBGZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
March 18, 1997
Urban Development Division
Transportation, Water and Urban Development Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 13, 1997)
Currency Unit New Israeli Shequalim (NIS) and Jordanian Dinar (JD)
US$ 1.00 = NIS 3.144
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.709
JD 1.00 = NIS 4.430
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I m = 1.09 yd
I m2 = 10.76 sq. ft.
I km = 0.62 mi.
I km' = 0.38 sq. mi.
I ha. = 10,000 m2
I dunum = 1,000 m2
ABBREVIATIONS
ERP            -       Emergency Rehabilitation Project
HF             -       Holst Fund
IAPSO          -       Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
IBRD           -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            -       International Competitive Bidding
IDA            -       International Development Association
IFC            -       International Finance Corporation
IMF            -       International Monetary Fund
NCB            -       National Competitive Bidding
MIF            -       Mortgage Indemnity Fund
MOH            -       Ministry of Housing
NGO            -       Non-Governmental Organization
NIS            -       New Israeli Shequalim
PA             -       Palestinian Authority
PU             -       Project Unit
PECDAR         -       Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
PLO            -       Palestine Liberation Organization
PMA            -       Palestine Monetary Authority
SA             -       Special Account
SMF            -       Secondary Mortgage Facility
SMFOC          -       Secondary Mortgage Facility Organizing Committee
SOE            -       Statement of Expenditures
TATF           -       Technical Assistance Trust Fund
TFGWB          -       Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
UNRWA          -       United Nations Relief and Works Agency
WBG            -       West Bank and Gaza
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Vice President       Kemal Dervi~
Country Manager      Odin Knudsen
Country Officer      Nigel Roberts
Task Manager         Lawrence Hannah
Legal Counsel        Hadi Abushakra
Peer Reviewers       Bertrand Renaud
Margret Thalwitz



WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
TRUST FUND CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..........................................i
1. SECTOR BACKGROUND .
A. HOUSING SECTOR ISSUES AND STRATEGY                      .3
B. WORLD BANK GROUP STRATEGY                            .3
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION                             .4
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES                             .5
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS                              .6
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION                             .7
D. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT             .1
3. PROJECT FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS .1
A. PROJECT FINANCING .11
B. PROCUREMENT .1....................................                             13
C. DISBURSEMENTS ..................... 1 3
D. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING .14
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                  .15
A. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES               .15
B. SUPERVISION REQUIREMENTS AND MONITORING .............................................................. 16
5.  ENVIRONMENTAL, CULTURAL HERITAGE AND RESETTLEMENT ASPECTS                          17
A. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS .17
B. RESETTLEMENT AND ANTIQUITIES .. .........................18
6. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY, BENEFITS AND RISKS .18
7. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION .19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the West Bank and Gaza in
June 1996. The team was led by Lawrence M. Hannah and the appraisal and previous missions consisted
of the following members: Kingsley Robotham, George Gattoni, Hadi Abushakra, Manuel Sevilla and
consultants: Michael Lea, Taher Kanaan, Reinhart Goethert, Robert Losey, Achim Dubel and Hisham
Zagha. Peer reviewers were Bertrand Renaud (PSD), and Margret Thalwitz (EC2AU). The Preparation
was guided by Anthony Pellegrini (TWU). The Program Manager and Resident Representative for the
West Bank and Gaza is Odin K. Knudsen, (MNCWG) and the Regional Vice President is Kemal Dervis.



ANNEXES
Annex I      Housing Policy Letter
Annex 2      Institutional Arrangements for Implementation
Annex 3      Management Structure of Ministry of Housing
Annex 4      Features of the Housing Development Component
Annex 4a    The Demonstration Site
Annex 4b    Land for Lower-Cost Housing
Annex 5      Developers' Prospectus
Annex 6      Features of the Housing Finance Component
Annex 7      Housing Assistance Fund
Annex 8      Features of the Institutional and Policy Development Component
Annex 9      Procurement Arrangements
Annex 10     Disbursement Forecast
Annex 11     Indicators of Project Progress
Annex 12     Supervision Plan and Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 13     Economic Analysis
Annex 14     Environment, Cultural Heritage and Resettlement Aspects
Annex 15     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP:         IBRD 28224



WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Trust Fund Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) for the Benefit of the Palestinian
Authority
Implementing Agency:   Ministry of Housing, Secondary Mortgage Facility
Beneficiaries:         Ministry of Housing, Secondary Mortgage Facility
Credit Amount:         US$25 million equivalent.
Terms:                 IDA credit terms with 40 years maturity, including 10 years grace.
Financing Plan:
Source
(US$ millions)
|ne-nA                 TFG      PA      Total
WB
A. Institutional & Policy            2.0              2.0
Development
B. Housing Finance
- Secondary Mortgage Facility    17.0            17.0
- Housing Assistance Fund                5.0      5.0
C. Housing Development
- Infrastructure & Facilities    4.0              4.0
- Construction Finance           2.0              2.0
Total    25.0    5.0    30.0
Project Objectives:    The proposed project establishes institutional and financial mechanisms
neededfor the long-term development of the housing sector. The goal is to
have housing production and financing carried out by private sector
developers and financial institutions. Lower-income households will benefit
from all project components.
Project Description:   The proposed project has three components:
a)  Institutional and Policy Development support through a program of
institutional capacity building to install and facilitate the development
of appropriate policies and institutional mechanisms for the housing
sector;
b)   Housing Finance, to establish the Secondary Mortgage Facility
(SMF), initially as a conduit for donor funds to commercial banks
making mortgage loans, to be developed at an early date as a market-



ii
driven intermediary, inter alia, through the recruitment of private
investors (IFC could become a shareholder when this transition is
complete) and a technical partnership with an existing similar
institution; a Mortgage Indemnity Fund (MIF); and a transparent and
well-targeted Housing Assistance Fund (HAF) to provide direct
assistance to lower-income buyers; and
c)   Housing Development, by introducing procedures and construction
finance, starting with a demonstration site, to encourage private
developers to produce lower-cost housing units.
Benefits and Risks:      The main benefit of the proposed project will be to put in place an
institutional and policy framework for the housing sector. During the initial
phase of the housing finance component, household borrowers will benefit
directly through the ability to access mortgage credit to purchase housing.
Lenders will benefit by the provision of long-term loans and through a
reduction in their liquidity risk. An increased flow of funds to housing may
increase employment in construction. Suppliers will also benefit from
increased certainty of demand. Although donor funds are the only resources
available to the SMF at the outset, technical work on both the SMF and the
regulatory environment for long-term savings during the project are
anticipated to lead to a subsequent conversion of the SMF to a full market-
driven refinance intermediary. Efforts are already underway to seek
investors for the SMF and to establish a technical partnership with a
successful similar institution in another country.
The project seeks to introduce policies and mechanisms which will
encourage a responsive flow of private resources to the housing sector and
the production of more, lower-cost dwellings. The risks associated with a
strategy based on voluntary participation by private entities are substantial.
They are: (a) those risks associated with developing and implementing
sound public sector policies and institutions, (b) the financial and business
risks inherent in the highly uncertain economy of the WBG, and (c) the
technical and institutional risks associated with project specific options.
Public policy and institutional development is necessarily the core of a
project whose objective is longer-term sustainable development of the
sector. The particular risk is that the consensus building and decision-
making required for successful implementation will take longer than
expected. The robustness of the project concept based on experience in many
countries and the lack of credible alternatives make this risk worth taking.
Similarly, the banks and developers may from time to time be reluctant to
play the expected role in the time-frame forecast. Anticipating changing
circumstances, the project has been designed with the flexibility to adjust the
incentives to private business. The technical and institutional risks of the
project design are largely related to unknown reaction of the market to the
proposed solutions. Again, the incremental nature of project outputs allows
for adjustment and mitigation of this risk.



iii
Poverty Category:       The project is not a part of a core poverty program but will support Palestinian
efforts to alleviate poverty by creating lower-skilled jobs in urban areas where
poverty is most widespread.  Moreover, improvements to infrastructure
networks and services will also have a positive impact on surrounding
neighborhoods and city-wide reduction of health-problems associated with
poor sanitation services, which most often affect the poor.
Economic Rate of Return: Although it is not possible to estimate an IRR for this project, the initiation of
mortgage lending potentially creates substantial benefits. For lenders, the
SMF offers an opportunity to reduce the liquidity risk of mortgage lending.
For household borrowers, the availability of mortgage loans creates a benefit
equal to the substitution of lower cost debt for equity. For those without
adequate equity, it provides access to higher quality housing sooner.
Broader significant external benefits may be generated by the SMF as an
increase in the demand for housing spurred by mortgage lending, stimulates
the economy more widely.
Environmental Impact:  "B"
Map:                    IBRD No. 28224
Project ID No.:         GZSF 43338






WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.1      With the signing of the Cairo agreement in April 1994, Gaza became relatively autonomous.
As a result of signing the Interim Agreement on September 28, 1995, similar autonomy has now been
extended to parts of the West Bank. These agreements open up new opportunities for Palestinian
development, but they also pose new challenges. Among the more important of the opportunities is the
chance to begin systematically addressing critical economic, social, institutional and infrastructure
problems. The challenge is to do so efficiently and equitably, and in a manner which best promotes long-
term economic and social development objectives.
1.2      The Economy. Using a "poverty line" of annual earnings of US$650 per capita, about half a
million people (one-fifth of the population) live in absolute poverty, on less than US$2 per day. This
includes approximately 40% of Gazans. Despite some recent easing the Palestinian economy is currently
under severe pressure. During the last months of 1995 and into early 1996, the economic situation had
begun to improve. A mini-boom in construction was in progress, particularly in Gaza. However, the
closure imposed on Gaza and West Bank beginning February 25, 1996, following a series of bombings in
Israel, has changed this picture dramatically. The IMF's latest projections' suggest a decline of GDP and
GNP of 4.6 and 6 percent respectively for 1996 as a whole, which translates into a loss of per capita
magnitude of about 7 and 10 percent respectively. A fiscal deficit of US$127 million is forecast
(compared with US$108 million for 1995). This scenario is based on two main assumptions: that
restrictions on merchandise trade with Israel will not be a factor in the latter part of the year, and that an
average of 25,000 workers in Israel will be employed in Israel from July 1 through December 1996
(currently 32,000 permits have been issued by Israeli authorities though actual employment still falls
short of this).
1.3      Employment. According to surveys conducted in October 1996, unemployment stood at 21%
with a further 12% of the workforce severely under-employed. These figures represent a modest
improvement from data collected six months earlier but unemployment is still very high. About 55,000
permits have been issued for Palestinians to work in Israel as of January 1997 although Palestinians
estimates suggest that due to the presence of guest workers in Israel, only about 45,000 Palestinians are
currently finding employment.
1.4      Demography. The West Bank and Gaza (WBG) comprises some 6,000 sq. km with a
population estimated at 2.5 million in 1994. This population has been growing at a rate of about 4
percent per annum. The West Bank and Gaza differ in demographics, infrastructure and economic
status. About 65 percent of the WBG population resides in the West Bank. More than 50 percent of the
combined populations are 15 years old or younger. High birth rates, relatively low mortality rates and
changing migration patterns are contributing to the rapid rise in population in both areas.
1.5      The West Bank population is widely dispersed among 422 small towns and villages. The
West Bank has only six larger urban centers and a population density of 267 persons per square
kilometer. The Gaza Strip, by contrast, has a density of 2,225 persons per square kilometer, with 16
larger cities (municipalities) and towns, and only a few small villages. Registered refugees represent 32
"Report on Fiscal Developments during the first half of 1996 and revised macroeconomics and fiscal projections for the second half of
1996", IMFIPA, June 1996.



2
percent of the West Bank population, of which only one-quarter live in refugee camps. In Gaza, 72
percent of the population are registered refugees, of which about 55 percent live in camps. GNP per
capita is significantly lower in Gaza than in the West Bank. Gaza was previously administered by Egypt,
while the West Bank was an integral part of Jordan. As a result there are differences in legal regimes,
land tenure and transfer procedures, service provision, and even housing types and preferences.
1.6      The Housing Sector. In the past twenty-five years the construction of new housing has been
severely constrained both by formal restrictions on land and housing development and by low and
uncertain incomes. Strong restrictions were imposed on the transfer of funds into WBG and on the
establishment and development of local banking and credit institutions. Housing construction during
occupation did not keep pace with needs. Even those with resources faced administrative and legal
difficulties in buying or building better housing.
1.7      As a result, Palestinian housing, particularly in the Gaza strip, is characterized by high
occupancy densities, poorly functioning land markets and deficient infrastructure. It is estimated that
around one-third of all Palestinian households live in situations where there are more than 3 persons per
room, and that almost 10 percent live with more than 5 persons per room. About one-quarter of all
households have no running water, one fifth have no electricity and over one third have no sanitation
facilities. Unlike other countries with housing shortages or populations unable to afford housing,
Palestinian families do not usually opt for informal housing such as squatting on public land, renting in
slums, etc. Rather, the norm is to expand nuclear households, creating highly crowded conditions.
Another problem is the lack of investment in infrastructure and services such as schools, transport, and
maintenance to serve existing communities and areas of cities which are expanding with new house
construction.
1.8      Until the start of the peace process, the political, economic and institutional constraints
affecting the West Bank and Gaza precluded formulating a housing policy or strategy. Palestinian
authority over key aspects of the housing sector, such as land markets, regulation, finance, etc. did not
exist. Palestinian institutions responsible for the planning, implementation and management of the
housing sector are newly established. Their capacities are limited and their policies, regulations, norms
and processes are nascent. The Ministry of Housing, established in 1994, has identified the priorities and
elements of a housing strategy and policy which are communicated to the Bank in a letter of policy
development attached as Annex 1. However, much needs to be done to put the institutions, policies and
financing in place so that the housing sector can begin to operate and make progress.
1.9      Since the signing of the Declaration of Principles in 1993 there has been somewhat of a boom
in residential construction, especially in Gaza. Although precise data are not available, the total value of
new residential construction may be as high as 13.4% of GDP in recent years2 and the total number of
new units built in Gaza may be as high as 2,000 per year in 1994 and 1995. This represents a
considerable increase over previous periods and reflects in part the uncertainty concerning other
investments and business opportunities. The characteristic of much of the new housing is cash-financed,
multi-family structures often built in anticipation of demand from returning Palestinians. As a result new
units are typically large with high standards and selling prices from US$40,000 to over US$100,000.
Most observers of the real estate industry believe this phenomenon to have run its course and that
broader stable demand with term financing will be necessary for a healthy housing industry.
2/ Source: Stephen K. Mayo, Housing Sector Perfor-mance and Housing Strategy in Gaza and the West Bank, IBRD, June 1995
unpublished report.



3
A.    Housing Sector Issues and Strategy
1.10       The main housing sector issues fall into four categories:
a. the role and structure of the public sector in policy formulation and implementation;
b. the high price of housing; the absence of a well-functioning land market; and the limited
housing choices available to lower-income households;
c. the absence of forrmal financing for the construction or purchase of housing; and
d. the need for mechanisms to assist the poor to improve their access to housing.
1.11       Although the need for more and lower cost housing is large and obvious in the West Bank
and Gaza, there is considerable uncertainty as to how and when that will be translated into effective
demand. The major unknowns are the number and timing of returnees, the disposition of those now
living in refugee camps and the general stabilization and growth in incomes for all Palestinians.
Although internal migration may not be a significant factor in the housing market given the small
geographical area and many established settlements, the demographic pressures both from high birth
rates and delayed family formation will continue to stress the housing sector.  The deteriorated
conditions of many units may also lead to considerable repair and expansion of existing units as is
already visible in many areas of the WBG.
1.12       Given the widely varied estimates of the demand for housing, the strategy must necessarily
concentrate on creating strong and flexible public and private institutions rather than on planning for a
specific output target. In particular, the capacity to finance the sector must be augmented. A well-
functioning housing sector will require, in addition to the creation of new institutions, an intensive
upgrading of the administrative, managerial and technical capabilities of the local authorities in order to
increase their capacity to plan, implement and administer infrastructure extensions and improvements.
1.13       World Bank Strategy. Since 1993, the Bank Group has been actively involved in a broad-
based donor effort to assist the WBG. Apart from lending $150 million for 7 projects to date from IBRD
profits and net income through the TFGWB, the World Bank has received well over $500 million in
cofinancing pledges or trust fund commitments from other donors. The World Bank's strategy for WBG
as outlined in the Board paper "Replenishing the Trust Fund for the West Bank and Gaza'" (R96-25 1)
focuses on three priority areas: (a) restoring and further developing basic and social infrastructUre: (b)
building policy-making and institutional capabilities; and (c) supporting the emergence of the private
sector. This project is consistent with these strategic objectives.
1.14       The past year has demonstrated the need for a flexible strategy so that if events require it, the
Bank can expand the emergency components of its program. However, the primary goal remains the
establishment of a basis for sustained growth in the medium term. In line with the above strategy
objectives, the current fiscal year's program and the pipeline of projects for future years focuses on
developing infrastructure, capacity building and private sector development. In addition to the efforts
already made to-date by the Bank to provide for an enabling environment for private sector development,
a significant portion of the US$90 million replenishment of the TFGWB approved in February of this
year by the Board of Governors will fund initiatives to further promote the environment necessary for
private sector development and developing basic physical and social infrastructure in WBG.
1.15       The Palestinian Authority's Public Investment Programs (PIP)3 which included about
US$780 million in physical infrastructure for the 1995-98 period reaffirmed the centrality of basic
31   West Bank and Gaza: Outlook For Public Investment and Associated Funding Needs, July 25, 1995.



4
physical and social infrastructure rehabilitation, but pointed to the urgent need to rationalize service
delivery; establish the policy and institutional arrangements for greater private sector participation; and
reduce dependence on external funds to finance recurrent costs.4 The Bank supported this program with
a set of five key infrastructure projects: Municipal Infrastructure Development (FY96); Water and
Sanitation Services (FY97, focused on Gaza only); Housing Project (FY97-this project); Industrial
Estates (FY98); and Electricity Sector Investment and Management (FY98). The first two of these
projects are already under implementation; together with a second Emergency Rehabilitation Project
(ERP II), they have been funded through a US$90 million replenishment of the TFGWB in 1995. A
second US$90 million replenishment was approved by the Governors in February 1997, and the Housing
Project will be financed out of these proceeds.
1.16      The severity of the economic crisis which began in late February 1996 also required an
immediate emergency response. This was necessary to relieve unemployment, minimize social hardship,
and avoid permanent damage to the peace process. In response to the crisis, an emergency employment
generation program was developed which created some 15,000 to 20,000-full-time equivalentjobs. This
program has been financed through the Holst Fund and more recently by ERP II.
1.17      The Bank has had a continuing relationship with the authorities on housing sector issues.
The study, Developing the Occupied Territories: An Investment in Peace, includes a chapter on housing.
Bank staff and consultants have led the substantive work on these issues funded by the Technical
Assistance Trust Fund (TATF). The assistance provided on housing finance issues directly underpins the
present proposals and the policy development work provided the enabling framework adopted by the
MOH. This leadership and experience should be an advantage in mobilizing donor financing for this
project and for the housing sector. The proposed project is central to situating and linking housing sector
policy to key aspects of economic management. The role of the public sector must be consistent with the
fiscal realities for the economy. The development of a competitive market-based housing finance system
can strengthen and accelerate the development of the financial sector rather than introduce unmanageable
risk as often occurs. Bank leadership on housing issues can facilitate these objectives.
2. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.1      Sector and Project Strategy. The present cash-financed production of new housing targeted
to wealthy returning Palestinians is not a good long-term basis for a stable and healthy housing sector. A
sustainable level of investment with less volatility will materialize if the considerable existing capacity
and vigorous output of the private sector is able to shift some production to the construction of lower-
cost products and if households wanting to purchase are able to obtain long-term financing. Since
increasing the purchasing power of low- and moderate-income households is essential to stimulating the
private production of lower-cost housing, some carefully considered incentives are necessary to start this
process. The initial phase of the housing finance initiative provides the mechanisms and incentives for
formal financing to begin to flow to the housing sector.
2.2      In order to define and launch a Palestinian housing policy, the proposed project seeks to
demonstrate that appropriate, lower-cost housing options can be achieved and that financing can be made
available on a sustainable basis. The PA has made known its policy toward housing in a number of
official documents including a recent communication from the Minister on sector policy and a previous
letter to the Bank concerning financing issues, both available in Annex I and other documents listed in
Annex 15. At the same time this project initiates a process of policy development and institutional
strengthening which is urgently needed to sustain the housing sector in the longer-term. This project is
41 To date these costs have been supported by the Bank Group managed Hoist Fund, a component of EAP.



5
part of a larger strategy to address different aspects of the housing problem in the WBG. The target
beneficiaries for new housing construction and support under this project are the households who can
reasonably be expected to save for downpayments and make payments on mortgage loans. This group
can also include some households whose income is somewhat below that level that are provided with
appropriate but modest assistance. The housing conditions of even lower-income families will be
improved through a program of upgrading infrastructure in lower-income neighborhoods supported
under the Municipal Infrastructure Development Project, FY96 (Project No. 43339, Report No. 15400-
WBGZ).
2.3      The PA requested that the World Bank Group, donors and commercial banks finance 10,000
dwelling units. However, the financial requirements and implementation capacity are currently not
available. Therefore, the PA and the Bank have agreed to proceed with a Housing Project funded, in
part, by the Bank that over a four-year period will put in place a sustainable system to produce lower-
cost housing. To do so the proposed Project is phased to a) establish the institutional and policy
environment for the sector, b) install and build the financial mechanisms for starting mortgage lending
by commercial banks and assistance for lower-income households, and c) develop an initial
Demonstration Site of 1,000 housing units, with a goal of developing an additional 3,000 dwelling units.
2.4      In the absence of established policies, norms, financial instruments, and institutions, the
proposed project provides donors, local institutions, and private developers a strategic framework for: a)
a quick response to the needs of lower-income households; and b) installing the foundations for building
and guiding the housing sector. The physical investment components aim at quickly producing needed
housing and supporting urban infrastructure, while demonstrating that the production of appropriate
standard, lower-cost housing by private developers is viable. The financing initiative provides the
mechanisms and incentives for formal financing to begin to flow to the housing sector. The MOH will
be the coordinating and executing agency for the project, with implementation largely in the hands of
private sector developers, financial institutions and local authorities.
A. Project Objectives
2.5      The project helps launch and support a long-term  strategy and program  of financial,
investment, institutional and policy development. These actions are intended to remove specific
bottlenecks in the housing sector in order to improve the functioning of the housing market, particularly
for lower- to moderate-income households. A fundamental goal of the project is to put into place a
financial system for mortgage lending through the existing commercial banks. Complementary actions
include encouraging land development and construction of new lower-cost housing by private
developers, providing infrastructure related to the development of new housing, and strengthening sector
policies and institutions.
2.6      The project improves access to shelter for lower-income groups by encouraging the
construction and acquisition of appropriately designed plots of land, basic dwelling units and apartments
based on the response of private supply to effective market demand. A structured schedule of policy
formulation and institutional capacity building will help establish a firmer institutional base and provide the
much needed regulatory and enabling environment for the effective evolution of the housing sector.
2.7      Because the project is to support the PA's first steps towards the development of the housing
sector (including policies, programs, financing, production, and markets), the specific objectives of the
project are to:
a. put in place institutions, policies and actions necessary to build and sustain a well-
functioning housing sector;



6
b. make housing more affordable by initiating the development of a competitive, market-
based mortgage system, accompanied by well-targeted assistance to lower-income
households;
c. reduce house prices for lower-income households by (i) reducing obstacles to the
availability of land; (ii) promoting a competitive development process for lower-cost
alternatives; and (iii) providing assistance for the capital costs of infrastructure.
B.    Project Components
2.8      The three project components are presented below and detailed in Annexes 4 to 8:
A. Institutional and Policy Development Component to facilitate the development of
appropriate policies and build an institutional capacity to guide the sector. The component
will fund a four-year program of policy and institutional building measures and equipment
which will promote the formulation of key physical planning and regulatory instruments,
permit the analysis and preparation of policy options, and provide a sequence of capacity-
building measures to help the newly forming public and private institutions involved in the
housing sector.
B. Housing Finance Component to activate commercial mortgage lending to WBG
households by assisting commercial banks manage the risks of entering this new business.
The component will also initiate the establishment of regulatory and institutional mechanisms
to support a sustainable system of mortgage lending, including:
(i) A Secondary Mortgage Facility (SMF), to provide liquidity and help lenders manage
term intermediation risks by refinancing their long-term mortgage loans, initially with
TFGWB funding. The SMF has been established as a private shareholding company.
Founding shareholders are the Palestinian Authority and the Palestine Monetary
Authority with board representation also from the housing sector. Commercial banks
have been invited to become shareholders in the SMF and, together with an experienced
technical partner, build the SMF as a commercially viable entity. The IFC is prepared to
join as an investor in the capital of the SMF if the transition to sustainable commercial
operations can be achieved in a reasonable time.
(ii) A Mortgage Indemnity Fund (MIF), to share credit risk with mortgage lenders in
WBG. The MIF has been established as a fund initially to be administered by the SMF.
Funding for this risk-sharing facility will come from a reserve created from the
concessionality of funding provided to the SMF.
(iii) A Housing Assistance Fund (HAF) (Funding for this component will be entirely
borne by the PA), to provide direct assistance to lower-income home buyers. The HAF
will provide subsidies to qualified lower-income households to improve their ability to
purchase a dwelling unit. The assistance will help make-up the downpayment for
modest-cost housing and 'o lower the loan repayment burden.
C. Housing Development Component to help the MOH put in place a mechanism to
encourage the production of lower-cost housing by private developers. The MOH/private
developer partnership is expected to produce dwelling units estimated to sell for an average of
US$25,000 to US$30,000 each, on either: (i) tracts of state land provided with off-site
infrastructure on which private developers will bid for the production of qualifying housing



7
units; and/or (ii) qualifying private lands on which private developers propose and produce
qualifying dwellings. In both cases qualifying dwelling units can be either single-family
houses or low-rise condominium or cooperative apartment units meeting price ceilings and
minimum specifications. This component will help finance:
(i)   the off-site infrastructure and basic community facilities, initially to a
Demonstration Site and to additional sites, as needed in Gaza and West Bank
cities, to service tracts of land on which private developers will build and market
eligible units;
(ii)   a Demonstration Site on state-owned land in Gaza City (Tal El-Hawa) for 1,000
units, including infrastructure and facilities, on which developers will design,
build and market units; and,
(iii) Construction Finance for developers.
C.    Project Description
2.9      The proposed project establishes and helps build the institutional and financial mechanisms
needed for the long-term development of the housing sector. The project will help the MOH implement
its policy of having lower-income housing production largely in the hands of private sector developers
and financial institutions.
2.10      The Institutional and Policy Development Component. The PA's strategy for improving
housing conditions in WBG is to have the public sector adopt an enabling role, while the private sector
undertakes the production and financing of housing. The private sector has already demonstrated the
engineering and financial capacity to undertake large-scale housing development in the WBG, albeit
targeted to the upper-income levels. Commercial banks have considerable liquidity in the form of short-
term deposits collected in WBG. They are ready to provide initial lending for housing with the support
features included in this project. The public sector institutions, however, are newly established. Housing
policy is largely the responsibility of the MOH, which is developing and implementing the regulatory
regime necessary for a competitive market-oriented housing system. Under the project, a program of
institutional strengthening will be provided to relevant MOH and financial institutions and their service
units on: (a) sector planning and regulatory instruments; (b) physical development standards; (c)
monitoring and supervision of ongoing projects; (d) procurement planning and contracting (civil works
and equipment); (e) training; (f) specialized information and data systems; and (g) coordination and
administration of capacity building activities. These capacity building measures will be funded by the
project in the form of a structured four-year program to develop policies and norms, and to build the
capacity of the financial institutions and the MOH. At negotiations understanding was reached on the
program's scope and structure. The first part of the plan will consist of a consultative needs assessment
to be carried out as part of the project launch and which will lead to the preparation of a Program
Implementation Plan, which will be acceptable to IDA, and finalized no later than July 1, 1997 (para.
7.1). The component includes support for: studies to help introduce institutional reform (staffing,
organizational and operational recommendations) proposals; studies and workshops to formulate and
deliberate sector policy; on-the-job staff training and specialized training courses; development standards
formulation and implementation workshops; advisory services and contracts for developing sector data
base information; and providing the MOH with equipment and vehicles needed for maintaining data
systems and for implementing the project. Annex 8 describes the program and its elements in greater
detail.



8
2.11      Activating Commercial Mortgage Lending. In order to stimulate and encourage the
provision of affordable housing to all employed households and encourage financial sector development
in WBG, the project seeks to create a sound and sustainable financial system that features an effective set
of institutional mechanisms for providing housing finance. At the core of such a system is the provision
of credit by private financial institutions to qualified borrowers. The project envisions the creation of
specialized institutions to reallocate a portion of mortgage risk and enhance the affordability of housing.
2.12      The project helps establish the Palestinian Secondary Mortgage Facilitv SMF as a private
shareholding company with the purpose of providing long-term finance to banks to reduce the liquidity
risk incurred in mortgage lending. A fund to share credit risk with banks making mortgage loans within
WBG, termed the Mortgage Indemnity Fund MIF has also been established. Both the provision of long
term loans to banks and the sharing of credit risk will facilitate the introduction of mortgage lending in
an uncertain economic, legal and regulatory environment. The activities of the SMF and the MIF will
increase the flow of funds to housing and improve the affordability of housing finance in WBG. In
addition, as the SMF moves to raising funds through the issuance of bonds it may contribute to the
development of the local capital market.
2.13      The SMF was registered as a company on March 10, 1997 (Registration # 563122563) with
authorized capital of $6 million of which $2 million has been subscribed equally by the PA and the
PMA. Private financial institutions have been invited to invest in the SMF and are expected to do so in
the near future. The institutional structure within which the SMF will operate is shown below. It will
raise funds initially through long-term loans from donors made to the PA who will make these funds
available to the SMF for on-lending to qualified' banks in W"G. The terms of the on-lending agreement
between the banks and the SMF will include the definition of qualified mortgage loans, standards for
bank documentation, loan terms, reporting and underwriting, and the extent of bank provision of
mortgage loans from own funds. The SMF will earn a spread between its funding and loan rates. A
small portion will be used to cover its administrative costs but most of this spread will be transferred to
MIF to be used to share future default losses of the banks.
2.14      The MIF is structured as a fund to share default loses on mortgage. The formula for sharing
loses is based on an advanced agreement on the division of loses, most likely on a pari passu basis.
Total claims on the MIF are limited by the transfer of funds from the SMF which will grow with SMF
operations. In exchange for MIF risk sharing, the originating banks will be restricted either by borrower
income or house price in order to encourage banks to move down market as they introduce mortgage
lending.
2.15      The SMF's activities will be complemented by a Housing Assistance Fund (RAF), described
below, that will provide up-front grants to qualified households to assist in meeting downpayment
requirements.
s The SMF Operational Guidelines will define a qualifying bank.



9
Palestinian Secondary Mortgage Facility
[  Donors  || Loans  Secon da          Mortgage
.Mortgage      -   Indemnity
Facility    Excess    Fund
T        ~~~Spread    I
Loan      
Banks    <       
Credit Risk
Sharing
2.16       The proposed Palestinian Housing Assistance Fund (HAF) will provide targeted assistance
to lower- and moderate-income households for the purchase of a primary residence. Separating HAF
from the remaining project components is essential in order to separate subsidies (a fiscal issue) from
lending (a banking issue). Beyond the scope of this initiative, the MOH intends to develop HAF as the
institution that permnanently assumes responsibility for the personal assistance programs in Palestinian
housing policy.
2.17       Families belonging to the income stratum eligible for HAF6 assistance will utilize savings
and bank loans in conjunction with assistance grants to purchase housing in the US$20,000 to
US$30,000 price range. By providing a strong incentive for saving, the fund can reduce the credit risk of
bank mortgage lending, both through increasing the downpayment for residence purchase and by
providing banks with a positive signal about the financial capabilities and discipline of households.
Table I displays the envisaged financing solution for the median recipient:
Table 1-Housing Finance (Median Recipient)
Amount          Percentage
Residence Price                  $25,000           100.0%
Loan Amount                      $13,840           55.4%
Downpayment (Savings)            $6,000            24.0%
Grant                            $5,160            20.6%
2.18       The amount of assistance will be based on need, with those at the lower end of the targeted
income range receiving the largest amount of assistance. Nevertheless, a cap is proposed in order to
minimize distortions to work incentives and to stretch funds, implying a higher effort for households
with less income. A major issue in providing housing assistance payments to residents of WBG is
equitability. As long as fully need-driven programs are unaffordable for the PA, eligibility criteria will
have to be formulated in a way that minimizes the potential for administrative arbitrariness. Parameters
will include income, a no-homeownership condition, the requirement of a financing and savings plan,
61  The envisaged stratum includes families with monthly standardized income under US$600. Standardization is a method for making the
incomes of families of different size and age structure comparable. All affordability calculations are based on the standardized income
concept.



10
and a maximum wealth limit. The strategy is to minimize public expectations, and gradually step up the
program as more resources become available.
2.19      The HAF will obtain its initial resources in the form of public land (estimated to be worth
US$5 million) for the construction of lower-cost housing. In the future, donor resources and eventually
budgetary resources will be necessary to sustain the operation of the HAF. The public land will be
included as a cost in housing production and any discount given to eligible price of the buyers will be
deemed a HAF subsidy.
2.20      The HAF will be a separate government entity under the supervision of the Ministry of
Housing. Since the initial resources are limited to public land the program can be administered with a
small staff within the Ministry. In the longer term the organizational design of the HAF will based on
the idea of task-sharing with other public entities and participating banks.
2.21      The Housing Development Component will help the MOH stimulate private developers to
produce appropriate lower-cost housing units. The key instrument for this is the Developers 'Prospectus,
(detailed in Annex 5), the model of which was agreed to at negotiations (para. 7.1). The Prospectus
helps developers identify and make housing proposals that qualify for participation in the project. It
details how developers are to participate, how proposals are evaluated and how marketing of the new
housing units relates to the financing and assistance programs. The Prospectus specifies development
norms/standards, and land clearance/review/approval procedures that must be followed by the MOH and
the developer.  Using the Prospectus, developers design, produce and market qualifying units.
Prospective buyers will apply for mortgages from commercial banks and/or assistance from the HAF, to
help finance the purchase of units produced.
2.22      In order to quickly put in place and test the procedures, as well as to show developers,
buyers, and financial institutions the type of products, a 55 dunum (550 ha.) Demonstration Site of state-
owned land called Tal El-Hawa in Gaza City will be developed. Off-site and on-site infrastructure and
basic community facilities for about 1,000 demonstration apartment units will be built, and developers
will competitively bid for developing units that meet the specifications of the agreed Developers'
Prospectus for the Tal El-Hawa Demonstration Site. Issuing the invitation to bid will be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 7.2). The infrastructure and site development plan for the Tal El-Hawa site will be
subject to IDA approval, and will be a condition of disbursement of the civil works category (para. 7.2).
Developers' construction financing will be available through the MOH (with commercial banks as
agents) to help developers enter the program quickly. These construction loans will be short-term and not
to exceed 50% of the estimated cost exclusive of the price of land (para. 7. 1).
2.23      The number and location of units that could be produced is dictated by the market and
proposals of private developers. The four-year project period provides the lead time needed for
establishing procedures and instruments and a learning period for the agencies and private developers in
applying these. Another factor determining the number of units developed is the availability of land for
lower-cost housing. State-owned land, of which the Demonstration Site is the first assigned to the
project, while limited is available (Annex 4a) in Gaza and West Bank cities. The MOH proposes to also
use land adjacent to the Demonstration Site for its Housing Cooperatives program.  About 2000
apartment units are to be developed by cooperative members. The Tal El-Hawa site can accommodate
over 3,000 apartment units. The Tal El-Hawa site (described in detail in Annex 4a) has been subject to
the required environmental and antiquities surveys, and necessary clearances have been obtained (para.
5.3). Many smaller, privately owned plots of land suitable for this type of development are expected to
be proposed by developers. Based on estimated growth and demand patterns, it is expected that about



I1
two-thirds of new housing units to be developed will be in the Gaza strip and the others in West Bank
cities.
2.24      Private developers will produce on-site infrastructure, design, construct, and sell qualifying
housing units, as specified in the Developer's Prospectus. Qualifying units will be determined with
reference to sales price ceilings based on affordability/eligibility criteria for beneficiaries (households
with monthly incomes of between US$400 and US$1,000).  The housing will be produced by
competitive bidding on tracts of state-owned land, or as qualifying proposals on developers' privately
held lands deemed eligible. Single dwelling plots (mostly in West Bank cities) will range in area from
22                                              2       2
125m2 to 250m . Condominium apartments will vary from 90m  to 130m , depending on location and
site construction cost ceilings established in the call for proposals (on state land) or invitation to
participate (for private lands). Off-site infrastructure, schools, and community facilities will be provided
through the MOH, as needed for each development site.
D.    Program Objective Categories and Environmental Impact
2.25      The project is classified mainly under the category "Private Sector Development." The
project is rated under Environmental Category "B." Since the project aims to promote increased
efficiency in the housing finance system, environmental problems derived from sub-standard housing
conditions should be reduced. The proposed project will have a beneficial impact on the environment by
contributing to the orderly development of land and construction by the private sector. New housing
construction facilitated by the project will be in established population centers, mostly on sites which the
beneficiaries themselves will select, so displacement and relocation of residents will not be an issue.
Titles will be awarded to final beneficiaries upon sale of the units. Construction standards are adequate
to satisfy building and environmental regulations. The project will support the Palestinian effort to
address the shelter needs of lower-income households, build institutional capacity, improve and protect
the environment, and create an enabling environment for sustainable private sector development. In the
short run, the Housing Development and the Demonstration Site sub-component will generate a
significant number of lower-skilled jobs in urban areas of the Gaza strip where poverty due to under-
employment is most widespread. This component should also help create and preserve public assets and
create opportunities for private consultants, contractors and suppliers.
3. PROJECT FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.    Project Financing
3.1      The project aims to: (a) establish the institutional and policy framework needed for the
sector-capacity-building investments; (b) provide the seed funding for financing housing mortgages
and buyer assistance-start-up investments for housing finance; and (c) make available infrastructure,
construction financing and demonstration units to accelerate the private sector development of lower-
cost housing units-investments to stimulate development.
3.2      The proposed project will bring approximately US$30 million equivalent of new public
resources to the housing sector (US$25 million from TFGWB) in support of the initial four-year
activities. This will establish the financial mechanisms, install the institutional procedures and capacity,
and will jump-start the participation of private developers, so that the system can progressively expand
production over time. The following table shows the sources and applications of funds.



12
Table 2-Project Financing
Source (US$ millions)
Component                  TFGWB           PA          Total
A. Institutional & Policy Development          2.0                       2.0
B. Housing Finance
- Secondary Mortgage Facility              17.0                      17.0
- Housing Assistance Fund                                5.0          5.0
C. Housing Development
- Infrastructure & Facilities               4.0                       4.0
- Construction Finance                      2.0                       2.0
Total        25.0           5.0        30.0
3.3      The project will also stimulate considerable additional private resources for housing in the
West Bank and Gaza. The allocation for Infrastructure & Facilities supports the initial demonstration
site of 1,000 new units as well as infrastructure to service additional sites in West Bank and Gaza cities
as the program expands. Construction finance, initially for the demonstration project, permits developers
to quickly and efficiently produce new housing without having to rely solely on their own equity or
presale. The HAF will offer about 1,000 grants to lower-income home purchasers with the proposed
allocation which will induce downpayments of at least an equal amount-US$5 million. The SMF (and
associated MIF) will refinance about 2,000 mortgages in the initial round which will be combined with
approximately US$10 million from the commercial banks and about US$30 million from household
downpayments (a combination of HAF grants and recipients savings).
3.4      The trust fund credit of US$25 million represents 83% of the total project funding. The PA is
unable to provide cash counterpart funding at this point. However, land representing a value of US$5
million for the new housing sites is being provided by the PA and will be used to partially fund the HAF.
The project has been designed in a modular fashion and packaged to permit parallel cofinancing for
donors after Board approval. Extensive efforts have been made to contact potential co-financiers, several
have expressed interest.
3.5      The proceeds of the proposed TFGWB credit will finance: (a) the institutional and policy
development measures; (b) start-up funding of the Secondary Mortgage Facility (SMF); the Mortgage
Indemnity Fund (MIF); (c) the incremental off-site infrastructure and facilities; and (d) a demonstration
program of land, infrastructure and construction finance. These start-up investments will cover a four-
year period.
3.6      To estimate the scope of investment needed to launch the production of new housing units,
the cost of the physical components are calculated on unit costs of housing construction in both the West
Bank and Gaza. Adjustments have been made to allow for lower costs/standard construction techniques
and finishes. The level of off-site and on-site infrastructure requirements is calculated for an inventory
of suitable state lands that could be available for the program, plus unitary estimates for providing off-
site infrastructure to private lands. The unitary costs represent the best estimates as of June 1996, for the
development of new housing, and for various types of infrastructure needed. Indicative unitary costs
(Annex 4), based on anticipated construction specifications are used to establish cost ceilings and
estimate the number of units that will be developed.



13
B.     Procurement
3.7       A large portion of the loan is to be used by the banks as intermediary institutions for SMF
mortgage refinancing and construction finance loans; these operations will follow commercial practices
accepted by IDA. Physical components financed under the project include small infrastructure works
(costing less than US$2 million per item) for which National Competitive Bidding, acceptable to IDA,
will be the most appropriate procedure, and small quantities of office equipment, fumiture and vehicles,
for which International and Local Shopping are the most appropriate procedures. Consultants will be
retained to assist and train the Project Unit (PU) of the MOH and other Project implementation agencies.
The PU of the MOH will be responsible for monitoring and coordinating the re-lending operation by the
banks, administering the procurement of the physical components and services, and collecting and
recording the appropriate documentation. Details of procurement arrangements are summarized in Table
3 below and explained and justified in Annex 9, which also includes the review requirements.
Table 3-Summary of Procurement Arrangements in US$ millions from TFGWB Credit
_ _ __  Procurement Method       _ _ _
NCB 7          Other      [   Total
Component/category
I. SMF Mortgage Refinancing                                        17.0            17.0
2. Construction Finance Loans                                       2.0 8          2.0
3. Civil Works for Infrastructure and Facilities     4.0                           4.0
4. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials, Supplies                         0.59           0.5
and Spares
5. Technical Assistance, Consultant Services,                      1.25'0          1.25
Studies, Workshops and Training Activities
6. Incremental Operating Expenses                                  0.25"           0.25
Total:                                           4.0            21.0           25.0
C.     Disbursements
3.8       The PU of the MOH will be responsible for managing disbursements. The implementation
period is four years, and the trust fund credit will be disbursed over a four-year period. The proceeds are
to be disbursed at the rate of 100%12 of all expenditures as indicated in Annex 10. The disbursement
percentage, which is the practice in previous credits from TFGWB, are justified by the current financial
constraints in WBG.
7/  National Competitive Bidding
8/  Commercial practice
9 i Intemational and Local Shopping
0  According to IDA guidelines for use of consultants
"   Varies according to expenditure (i.e., direct payment for rents, utility bills. etc.)
121  Reflecting PA's inability to bear a share of project costs at this stage.



14
3.9      Disbursements are expected to begin on July 1, 1997 with implementation completed by June
30, 2001; disbursements will be completed by December 31, 2001. Most technical assistance inputs (i.e.,
for institutional development, standards and regulations production, management support activities and
various capacity building-training, etc.), will be provided during the four-year implementation period
and will be completed in advance of the closing date. The proposed WBG Trust Fund credit of US$25
million equivalent will be disbursed against the main categories stated as follows: (i) for mortgage sub-
loans (US$16.0 million); (ii) for construction sub-loans (US$1.5 million); (iii) for works (US$3.5
million); (iv) vehicles, equipment and supplies (US$0.25 million); for incremental operating expenses
(US$0.25 million); for technical assistance, studies, workshops and training (US$0.5 million); and
unallocated (US$3.0 million). Details of disbursement categories and estimated quantity disbursements
are presented in Annex 10.
3.10      The main user of funds will be the SMF, which will withdraw funds on the basis of loans
made to banks for the refinancing of mortgages. Withdrawals will be made against documentation that
qualifying loans had been made to eligible households for the purchase of program units.
3.11      Special Accounts and Required  Documentation.   In order to facilitate quick
disbursements, three Special Accounts (SA) will be established by the MOF, which will designate the
MOH, through the PU to handle all disbursement matters: i) for the SMF and the HAF; ii) for the
construction financing loans; and iii) for the MOH to implement the infrastructure and institutional
development components. At negotiations it was agreed that these SAs will be established in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA (para. 7.1). The MOH has been designated by the MOF to manage
and operate the SAs. The total initial deposits to the three Special Accounts will not exceed US$2.0
million, representing a four-month expenditure. These SAs will be maintained in US Dollars as separate
identifiable accounts to be used exclusively for project expenditures and all supporting documentation
will be retained for ex-post review by IDA supervision missions. The MOH will provide IDA with a
monthly statement of the special accounts. Applications for replenishment will be submitted on a
monthly basis, or when the amounts withdrawn are equal to 30% of the initial deposit, whichever occurs
first. The minimum size of withdrawal applications, except for replenishment applications, will be 20%
of the authorized allocations to the special accounts.
3.12      On a monthly basis, or when one-half of the SA deposit has been utilized, whichever comes
first, replenishment requests will be submitted to IDA with the necessary supporting documentation,
including monthly bank statement of funds withdrawn from the SA. Disbursements will be fully
documented, except for the following: Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) procedures will be used for
disbursements against contracts for works and goods valued below US$250,000; those below
US$100,000 for consulting contracts with firms; and, below US$50,000 for consulting contracts with
individuals and for works carried out under force account for which the supporting documentation will
be retained for subsequent review by local IDA supervisory staff or visiting IDA supervision missions
(para. 7.2). Applications other than for special account replenishment must be at least 20% of the value
of the authorized allocation of the relevant special account.
D.    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.13      The following accounting and auditing arrangements were agreed at negotiations: for Project
Accounts, that consolidated accounts will be maintained by the MOH on a basis satisfactory to IDA for
all components of the project; and for audits, the project accounts, including the Special Account and all
disbursements against SOEs will be audited separately and on an annual basis by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and submitted annually to IDA no later than six months after the end of each financial
year. In order to ensure maintenance of annual accounts on a satisfactory basis and timely completion of



15
final accounts, the MOH will be staffed with suitably qualified accountants supported by appropriate
technical assistance (para. 7.1).
3.14      The following arrangements for project monitoring and reporting were agreed at
negotiations: that the MOH, acting in close consultation with the MOF, SMF, MIF, and HAF, provide,
on a quarterly basis, consolidated reports on project implementation progress covering (i) projections for
project financing and implementation; (ii) the status of project finances, procurement of consulting
services, goods and works; (iii) training; (iv) incremental operating expenses, vehicles and equipment
components; (v) statements of income and expenditure for the current and previous quarters; and (vi)
monthly cash flow projections for the next tw., quarters. Any major variances from budget will be
explained and corrective measures proposed. These reports will be submitted to IDA within one month
of the end of the relevant quarter, and will provide the basis for monitoring the progress of the project
and for discussions at the formal joint bi-yearly reviews (and a formal mid-term review) by IDA and the
MOH. The half-yearly reviews will be conducted no later than March 31 and September 30 of every
year. In preparation for these reviews, the MOH will submit annual and mid-year project progress
reports to IDA no later than four weeks before the date of the half-yearly joint reviews (para. 7. 1).
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Institutional Arrangements and Responsibilities
4.1      The PLO will be the Borrower for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority (PA) and will enter
into a Subsidiary Agreement with the PA with respect to the implementation of the project. Execution of
the Subsidiary Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA will be a condition of
effectiveness. The project will be implemented over a four-year period beginning July 1997 and ending
June 2001. The Closing Date will be December 31, 2001. The Implementation Schedule is presented in
Annex 12. Project implementation arrangements are summarized below.
4.2      Policy  and  Program   Guidance  and  Coordination: Overall policy  and  project
implementation guidance will be provided by a steering committee comprised of representatives of the
Ministries of Finance, Housing, Planning and Monetary Authority.
4.3      Project Implementation: Given the objectives of the project, the MOH will be responsible
for sector policy formulation and management. The responsibility for implementing specific parts of the
project will rest with the MOH, which will help establish and build the capacity of the SMF and the
HAF; and with the commercial banks, which will be responsible for their mortgage operations. To
coordinate its responsibilities for implementing the project, the MOH has established a Project Unit
(PU). The Project Coordinator (Assistant Deputy Minister) is responsible for the WBG Housing Project
and is the contact person, authorized signatory, and project supervisor for the MOH with donors. The
Deputy Project Coordinator for Development is responsible for the day-to-day administration of the
project and is responsible for project operations within the MOH, maintaining implementation schedules,
operating guidelines and project progress reporting. This PU is composed of existing MOH staff
reorganized to provide the necessary monitoring and reporting functions. The PU will be supported by
consultants and technical specialists provided by the Capacity Building Component of the project. The
PU will also draw upon the services of existing MOH departments. At negotiations it was agreed that the
PU will be provided with full-time technical and administrative support by 3-4 well qualified housing,
management and finance professionals, and by fixed term consultants to the MOH. The key senior staff
is in place and a plan to hire additional staff, as needed, has been agreed. These will be financed under
the project.



16
4.4       The functions of the PU are to provide project monitoring and reporting and to facilitate
project development and implementation with other MOH departments and with PA institutions,
municipalities, financial institutions, etc. The PU will also coordinate TA and capacity building
activities for the MOH and will organize and start operations of financial mechanisms (SMF, HAF, and
MIF). The PU will engage consultants to conduct studies and research to help define policies for the
financing and production of lower-cost housing for lower-income groups. Specifically the PU will
manage the day-to-day functions of the project's implementation. It will encourage and facilitate the
participation of private developers in the production of lower-cost housing by applying the project's
operating guidelines and the Developers' Prospectus. The PU will act as the MOH contact point and
liaison for monitoring and reporting functions of the MOH with the donors.
4.5       The SMF Organizing Committee (SMFOC), composed of representatives of the MOH, MOF
and the PMA, worked with the Ministry of Justice to prepare the articles of incorporation establishing the
SMF. The SMFOC also launched a search for a suitable individual to run the SMF who will be
appointed as Managing Director as a condition of effectiveness. Signing of a financing agreement with at
least one commercial bank will be a condition of the credit's effectiveness (para. 7.2). The SMF will
prepare and submit to IDA an annual Business Strategy which will include, inter alia, the terms and
conditions of loans to be made to banks originating mortgages (para. 7. 1 ). Similarly, an HAF Task Force
will be created at the MOH to help structure and launch the HAF operations, and will approve draft
Regulations and Operational Guidelines, eligibility criteria, the program scale and coverage, and the
points system. The PU will monitor and assist in the establishment and start up of the SMF and the
HAF, until those entities have independent status (Annex 6 & 7).
4.6       To ensure flexibility in the face of uncertain and rapidly changing circumstances, the structure
of the project and the implementation arrangements will be reviewed at formal, joint half-yearly review
meetings between IDA and the MOH. A fornal mid-term review will also be jointly undertaken, with
similar objectives. During these meetings, steps necessary to ensure effective project implementation
and ensure the attainment of project objectives will be agreed, including, if necessary, steps to restructure
and re-focus the project and the program. To help provide a framework for project monitoring and
review, a set of performance and impact indicators were agreed at negotiations. These are presented in
Annex I 1.
B.    Supervision Requirements and Monitoring
4.7       Due to political and institutional issues, implementation of the ERP and WBG  donor
assistance program incurred initial delays. Border closures, fluctuations in the numbers of Palestinians
working in Israel, as well as the slow pace of capacity building in general have led to difficulties in
absorbing assistance. Lessons from ongoing operations in the WBG were used to ensure that this project
is sufficiently flexible in that implementation can be started on a relatively small scale. In addition, the
Supervision Plan includes intensive supervision throughout the four years of implementation and
particular attention during the first year. A Bank disbursement specialist will conduct a disbursement
workshop for the MOH and financial institutions benefiting from the project. The Technical Assistance
Trust Fund (TATF) is providing technical assistance for the Ministry on the establishment of centralized
accounts and internal audit functions'3.
4.8       The project will be supervised intensively by IDA according to a plan (Annex 12) agreed to at
negotiations. Particular attention will be paid to supervision of activities leading to the procurement of
the major infrastructure and facilities to ensure that procurement starts as soon as possible. Special
3'3 Not part of the design of this project.



17
attention will be given to the launching and start-up activities of the financial institutions and
instruments. In addition, since supervision missions will be expected to provide substantial technical
assistance, mission members will be carefully selected with the requisite skills needed to respond to
issues relating to project activities under implementation.
4.9      Annual and Final Reviews. Implementation progress will be monitored on the basis of
annually formulated work plans, and reports sutmitted quarterly by the PU. During negotiations, it was
agreed that on behalf of the PLO the MOH will: (a) by September of every year, commencing September
1997, prepare and furnish to IDA an annual work program for the following calendar year; (b) by
December every year, commencing in December 1997 review that program with IDA; and (c) thereafter,
taking into account the Association's comments, implement the program in a manner satisfactory to the
Association. The Annual Review will discuss progress of project implementation over the preceding
twelve months, propose the work plan for the next twelve months, and resolve project issues.
4.10      Staff of the PU of the MOH and the financial institutions will coordinate the preparation of
the Annual Work Program and organize the annual reviews. The MOH will be responsible for all
evaluation related activities under the project, including: (a) monitoring key project indicators; (b)
collecting information on project achievements; (c) consolidating information received from the
financial institutions and other sources; and (d) summarizing information for quarterly presentation to
the PLO, the MOH, financial institutions, IDA and donors.
4.11      At negotiations it was agreed that the SMF, MIF, HAF and the financing institutions will
prepare a plan by no later than July 1, 1997 which will include proposals for: (a) standardizing data
collection according to key monitoring indicators (to be designed by the SMF and MOH with assistance
from IDA); and (b) undertaking statistical analyses of mortgages, the HAF and MIF operations. The
information and analyses prepared will be reviewed with IDA during the Annual Reviews.
5. ENVIRONMENTAL, CULTURAL HERITAGE AND RESETTLEMENT ASPECTS
A.    Environmental Aspects
5.1      The project has been placed in environmental screening category "B" and the procedures for
the environmental, cultural heritage and resettlement review of activities proposed for project support are
described in Annex 14. In establishing development norms and regulatory measures for new housing, an
understanding was obtained at negotiations that the MOH and municipalities will assure that sound
urbanization, construction and planning regulations are observed and that adequate sanitation, waste
water, and source water conservation standards are implemented. In addition, housing developments will
be located on sites deemed appropriate by the MOH and which afford adequate access to public services
and community facilities for future residents.
5.2      At negotiations it was agreed that all housing development sub-project sites (state-owned or
sites proposed by developers) will be subject to screening for potential environmental impact,
resettlement issues and the protection of cultural heritage, in accordance with local regulatory
requirements and those of IDA. Interested developers will obtain appropriate clearances according to the
requirements and guidelines specified in the Developers' Prospectus (Annex 5). They will also be
supervised during implementation by environmental specialists and representatives of the Environmental
Planning Directorate (EPD) for the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation and the
Palestinian Department of Archaeology (PDA) of the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities. Formal
clearances will be obtained from the EPD and PDA for all sub-projects proposed for funding under the
project, consistent with current Palestinian environmental and cultural heritage procedures.



18
B.    Resettlement and Antiquities
5.3      An analysis of the tract of land (Tal El-Hawa) to be used for the demonstration site for the
first phase of the project, confirmed that there are no formal title holders nor informal encroachers on the
site and therefore there will be no resettlement. The MOH presented, at negotiations, a plan for
compensation of a small number of informal fruit tree growers on the site. All necessary clearances were
obtained by the MOH from the appropriate authorities. No known archaeological or historical sites are
anticipated to be affected by activities supported under the proposed project due to the need for
clearances from the PDA. However, given the high density of archaeological and historical sites in the
West Bank and Gaza, provisions will be made in construction contracts for the use of "chance find"
procedures should archaeological or historical materials be discovered in the course of project
implementation. In order to support effective implementation of the proposed project, a series of three-
day training courses on the application of the Bank's procedures for environmental assessment,
resettlement and cultural heritage will be conducted in cooperation with the EPD, PDA and the
implementing agencies. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the MOH will certify that land to be
used under the project will be screened and cleared consistent with local regulatory requirements and
those of IDA (Annex 4). It was also agreed at negotiations that, in the event that a site may have a
resettlement requirement, the resettlement plan shall be reviewed and approved by the Bank (EMTEN),
before that site is approved for participation under the project.
6. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY, BENEFITS AND RISKS
6.1      Project Sustainability: The SMF can meet its initial objective of encouraging mortgage
lending by a number of commercial banks by refinancing their loans with donor money as proposed.
However, the sustainability of the SMF itself is critical if the project is to have a lasting effect on the
housing finance system. Once established, the sustainability of the SMF depends upon its ability to raise
funds on the domestic and even international markets at some point in the future. At least two rounds of
donor support may be necessary to build a proven record and reputation before direct mobilization by the
SMF can be achieved. With this in mind the SMF has been established with detailed oversight in respect
to its legal structure and governance provisions which will permit and encourage its development as a
commercially sustainable institution. The two key events in this transition will be equity investment by
private entities and the collaboration with an experienced technical partner.
6.2      Initially the credit risk sharing provision of SMF lending is to be treated as a special loss
reserve, created within, but separate from, the SMF's own resources. The pari passu nature of the
proposed loss sharing contract with mortgage originators establishes the correct incentives to minimize
losses. After some experience it may be possible to set up a Mortgage Insurance Fund on a financially
sustainable basis. In the meantime the MIF strategy offers a transparent way to share risks with banks.
6.3      Sustainability of the HAF depends on the fiscal health of the PA. Donor funds are required to
maintain this program at present. However, by setting the levels of assistance much lower than
previously used in donor housing programs and by requiring considerable financial effort from the
household first, the HAF may serve as the model for programs which the PA could eventually finance.
As always, the sustainability of the policies and institutions established by a donor-supported project
depend on the ownership within the host environment.
6.4      Benefits. The main benefit of the proposed project will be to put in place an institutional and
policy framework for the housing sector which will enable housing supply to efficiently respond to the
demand for more and better housing and will enhance affordability through the development of a
sustainable system of finance combined with directed assistance to poorer families.



19
6.5      Household borrowers will benefit directly through the ability to access mortgage credit to
purchase housing. Lenders will benefit by the provision of long-term loans and through a reduction in
their liquidity risk. An increased flow of funds to housing may increase employment in the construction
industry and promote stability in the economy. A future benefit of the SMF may be to enhance the
development of long-term debt markets.
6.6       Suppliers of housing will primarily benefit from the increased certainty of demand based on
the availability of loans to build and purchase new housing. The competitive private sector led process
of designing, building and selling the new units will, in an environment of minimal factor price
distortions, provide incentives to keep the economic return positive on new housing constructed in
conjunction with this project.
6.7      Risks. The project seeks to introduce policies and mechanisms which will encourage a
responsive flow of private resources to the housing sector and the production of more, lower-cost
dwellings by private developers. The risks associated with a strategy based on voluntary participation by
private entities are substantial. They are: (a) those risks associated with developing and implementing
sound public sector policies and institutions necessary for the creation of a conducive business
environment, (b) the financial and business risks inherent in the highly uncertain economy of the WBG
and (c) the technical and institutional risks associated with project specific options selected here.
6.8      Public policy and institutional development is necessarily the core of a project whose
objective is longer-term sustainable development of the sector. The particular risks are that concept
development, consensus building, decision-making and successful implementation will take longer than
expected. There is every possibility that different views and interests will alter progress along the way.
The robustness of the project concept based on experience in many countries and the lack of credible
alternatives, make this risk worth taking. Similarly, the banks and developers may, from time to time, be
reluctant to play the expected role in the time-frame forecast. Anticipating changing circumstances, the
project has been designed with flexibility in several key areas which affect the incentives to private
business. The technical and institutional risks of the project design are largely related to unknown
reaction of the market to the proposed solutions. Again, the incremental nature of project outputs allows
for adjustment and mitigation of this risk.
7. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1      Agreements and understandings were reached at negotiations on: (i) the vesting of the
responsibility for the housing finance component in the SMF and other parts of the Project in the MOH;
(ii) the submission on an annual basis, by the SMF, of a Business Strategy (para. 4.5); (iii) the details of
the Demonstration Site and its development, including selection criteria for developers and approval of
projects according to the Developers 'Prospectus (para. 2.21 and Annex 5), (iv) the terms and conditions
of construction loans to developers for the Demonstration site (para. 2.22) and (v) the process and timing
of a preparation of a full plan for institutional and policy development (para. 2.10); (vi) conditions
pursuant to which funds on-lent to participating banks will be passed on the beneficiaries (with
safeguards against the financing of land) (para. 4.5 and Annex 6); (vii) the details of procurement,
disbursement, accounting and reporting requirements including the establishment and operations of the
Special Accounts (para. 3.11); and (viii) the scope, content and modalities of the formal annual and mid-
term joint project and program reviews (paras. 4.9, 4.10 and 4.1 1).
7.2      The execution of a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to IDA, the hiring of the Managing
Director for the SMF, the signing of a financing agreement with at least one commercial bank (para. 4.1
and Annex 6), and the invitation to developers to bid for the right to develop the Tal El Hawa site (para.



20
2.22) will be conditions of effectiveness. The infrastructure and site development plan for the Tal El-
Hawa site will be subject to IDA approval, and will be a condition of disbursement of the civil works
category (para. 2.22).
7.3      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for a TFGWB Credit of US$25.0 million.



Annex 1
PALESTINIAN NATIONAL AUTHORITy                                  - -          d. . -i1 S6L1;ll
HOUSING  NKIMSTRY                                            c) amA lj9li
NO.~ ~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .  .                                            11
N O .   . ...................... ......   ............          .    ....    .........  ..............  ..  ........
DATE:  March12,1997
Mr. Kemal Dervis
Vice Prsident, Middle East and North Africa Reg,on
The World Bank, Washingtm D.C.
The purpose of this lettr is to inform the World Bank about the housing policy and the howing strattgy
of the Palestinian Autbonty.
lousing can play a major rle in the socal and economic development of Palestine. It aUeviates one ot
the mosm obvious conditions associated with poverty amd ganerates economic activily ano employment.
The successfu plhnning and managemgnt of human settlements requires, however, financial and
technical resources as well as improved capacity for positive change through institutional improvements.
We, the Palestinians, um at the initial sage of natioobuilding and, therefore, have not yet developcd a
complete or adequate framework for houing policy. However we fully acknowledge the importancet of
the housing sector in the developzental process of owr nation.
Okicedvcs f  the H=sina SeG   id  be, LMolcationis for 11gusin  yQc
Our long-term objeutive for housing policy is to provide all Palestitians with .adequate shelter at
affordable pnces even for the lower income brackets. This meaus that all people will evenru ally be able to
enjoy the stability and securty of more suitable housing and thus will be better able to make maximum
conriburion to the proslrty of Mhe nation. We expect all ctizens to be able to choose wvhere and how
they wish to be homsed. We seek an efficient and equitable housing sector. Efficiency rvcams that our
citizens get as much housing as pible for the issurcus udlized and equity means that e ^.n the po-rest
have access to decent housing.
Our strategy for achieving tbese objeclives is to adopt an enabling role for government in the housing
sector. This means that we will rely primarily an the actons and the resources of privute i"idividuals and
firms to make a stong and vibrant market for housing. Government efforts will be focmused in tbree areas.
First, to assist those mcst in need. We will do this dirctly by offering support to disadvantaged and
deserving grops and indirectly by making all housing more affordable. Second, the government will
regulate the housing sector in all necessary aspects for the benefit of all participants. The objective of
regulation will be a housing market where everyone can easily, quickly and efficiently cany out their
activities. Tird. the government wil spply citical infasutture In support of housing developmenit.



We expect this projec to be a vehicle for the further development and implemnentation of our srtlegy for
housing. In particular, we intend to use the policy and institutional component as a mechanism lo
examine. debate and strengthen our intentions ad owu ability to cny tbetn aout. We will seek the views of
all parties -with a stake in housing and provide an oppoutunity for them to contribute to the directions we
take. Ihe Ministry of Housing will develop its own ole better dough this process to citable us to guide.
lead and enable other pazties. Wc intend to focus in paicular on the coades and regulations wbich govern
housing development as well as the support which our builden and developers need to upgradc their
activities. The demonstraion site and the Developers' Prospecus approach arc both lahoratories for
tesdag these ideas in Palestine.
The sitnation of those no( able to take care of themselves in respect to bousing is of paznmount
importance to the govenment and the Ministry. 'Under this projea we intend to launch the Housing
Assisunce Fund which wfil target thos able to purchase now modest housing through their own efforts
augmented by an affordable gr_L We intend to monitor closly the impact of this progrum as a mean to
structure ur broadex' and ftzinc assistance pTogams.
We recognize that broadly avdlablh long-term fitiancr for housing will have the greatest impact on the
performance of our shelter actor. For this reason, we join with the World Bank in launching a facility
(the SMF) which wilI not only use donor rsources at the beging to stimulate mortgage lending by the
commercial banks but which can be built into a sustainable institution to serve all of our poople. Together
with the private institutions which make up our financial system, we intend to create a legal and policy
euvironsr;^nt which incouraps safe and sound investment in this sctor.
In summary, ws wish to inform you that it is our intention lo pursue a policy for the housing sector which
builds upon the strengths and resources of al participants The public role wil be to facilitate, to enable
orhers. not to replacr them We intend to use our relationship with the internadonal community to benefit
our policies and prgm  here in Palestine.
We wish to continue and expand out cooperation with the World Bank
%%Z:t '>4~     >    ^~5<   ff *               &)  cOwt 54<^<_,\ 
\I    fi9 IIbp&9- b .A.     
CE  g-_tY
9 .t 



Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Institutional Arrangements for the Project
1.  This annex summarizes the implementation arrangements for the project. It describes the
implementation responsibilities for the project in general-the Project Unit of the MOH, and the
functions and responsibilities for the financial component of the project.
Implementation Arrangements
2.  The MOH has established a Project Unit (PU) for implementing the project components. The PU
will monitor compliance with Bank guidelines, procurement, schedules, loan covenants, performance
indicators, expected costs at completion, and project accounts (including commitments and
disbursements), report on project implementation progress, keep track of historical changes, and
participate in Bank supervision missions. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, the MOH
will staff a Development Group, under the direction of the Deputy Project Coordinator for Development
and Financial Group under the direction of the Deputy Project Coordinator for Finance, which will be
responsible for the installation and development of the financial mechanisms (SMF, MIF, and HAF).
When the SMF is established with its Managing Director, PU staff will form part of the initial staffing
and operations of the SMF. The HAF will be organized within the MOH with assistance from the PU.
HAF is scheduled to commence operations in the last quarter of 1997.
3.  The Project Unit (PU) of the Ministry of Housing is established with the following objectives and
functions:
a. Identify and prepare MOH low-income project proposals for consideration of international
donor funding;
b. Provide donors with project monitoring and reporting functions;
c. Facilitate and coordinate project development, implementation and monitoring functions
with other MOH departments and with PA institutions, municipalities, financial institutions,
etc.;
d. Conduct studies and research to help define policies for the financing and production of
low-cost housing for lower income groups;
e. Coordinate TA and capacity building activities for the MOH;
f. Organize, start and develop the operations of the financial mechanisms (SMF and HAF).
4.  Specifically for the WBG Housing Project the PU will:
a. Manage the day-to-day functions of the project's implementation;



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
b. Encourage and facilitate the participation of private developers in the production of low-
cost housing by applying the project's operating guidelines and the Developers'
Prospectus;
c. Facilitate and coordinate project implementation functions with other MOH departments;
d. Act as the MOH contact point and liaison for monitoring and reporting functions of the
MOH with the donors;
e. Conduct/oversee research and pilot testing of appropriate low-cost housing development;
f. Maintain data and information center on low-income housing technologies, standards, and
case studies;
g. Establish, launch, and build the capacity of financial mechanisms such as the SMF, HAF,
etc.
5.  At negotiations it was agreed that the Project Unit have the following staff and functions:
a. Project Coordinator (Assistant Deputy Minister)
*  responsible for the WBG Housing Project;
*  contact person, authorized signatory, and project supervisor for the MOH with donors.
b. Deputy Project Coordinator for Development
-  reports to Deputy Minister;
*  responsible for the day-to-day administration of development for the project;
*  prepares and responsible for project operations within MOH, maintaining
implementation schedules, operating guidelines and project progress reporting;
-  manages Development staff of the PU.
c. Project Engineer
*  responsible for monitoring civil works and advises on engineering aspects of the project;
*  assists in the preparation of TORs, tendering processes, liaison with other relevant MOH
departments;
*  verifies quantities and cost aspects of project implementation;
*  reports on progress;
*  participates and contributes to design and implementation of studies, research, policy
recommendations, preparation of proposals, evaluations and training activities.
d. Project Architect/Planner
*  responsible for monitoring of, and advises on, site development, construction standards;
architectural aspects of the project;
*  responsible for land assessments and review of clearances;
*  assists in the preparation of TORs, tendering processes, liaison with other relevant MOH
departments;
*  reports on progress;
*  participates and contributes to design and implementation of studies, research, policy
recommendations, preparation of proposals, evaluations and training activities.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
e. Research and Institutional Development Specialist
* responsible for the technical assistance and capacity building components of the project;
* assists in the design and tendering of TA activities;
* conducts/oversees the production of studies, policy recommendations, training activities,
etc.;
* coordinates with other MOH departments and with other project agencies.
f. Project Procurement and Accounts Officer
*  assists Project Coordinator and Project Administrator to maintain project records and
prepare reports;
*  helps review and comply with procurement guidelines and procedures;
* coordinates accounts management and financial reports for project accounting;
*  coordinates information retrieval with other MOH departments.
g. Records and Data Officer
*  responsible for operating and maintaining project information, records, data and
information retrieval;
- information and office technology operator;
- assists other PU staff in their functions;
- assists with research and information retrieval, and with research and training activities.
h. Administrative Secretary for Deputy Project Coordinator for Development
* provides specialized administrative support;
- responsible for office operations.
i. Secretary
e provides support to Development PU officers;
- maintains correspondence and records files.
j. Deputy Coordinator for Finance
e reports to Assistant Deputy Minister;
- responsible for the organization of the financial mechanisms for the project;
* prepares and responsible for project operations within MOH, maintaining
implementation schedules, operating guidelines and project progress reporting;
* manages Financial staff of the PU.
k. SMF Implementation Officer
* responsible for installing and developing the SMF;
* develops plans for institutional strengthening and staffing of SMF;
* prepares operational manual.
1. HAF Implementation Officer
* responsible for installing and developing the HAF;
* develops plans for institutional strengthening and staffing;
* develops eligibility criteria, manuals, applications procedures.
m. Secretary
* provides support to Development PU officers;
* maintains correspondence and records files.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
n. PU-Project Implementation Advisors
* Provided as technical assistance to the project through the Institutional and Policy
Development Component (Annex 8), functions include procurement advisor, and
specialists in financial sector training.
6. Financial Mechanisms-Secondary Mortgage Facility (SMF including, MIF). An Organizing
Committee, under the Chairmanship of the Ministry of Housing and including representatives of the
Ministry of Finance and the Monetary Authority has been established for the purpose of founding the
SMF. Initially the Organizing Committee will received staff support from the PU managed by the Deputy
Project Coordinator for Finance and assisted by the SMF Implementation Officer and consultants. At
negotiations agreement was reached on the content of the articles of incorporation for the SMF and the
timetable was agreed for issuing a Presidential decree creating the SMF. Agreement was also reached on
the qualifications of senior staff and on a recruitment plan including timetable.
7. The Housing Assistance Fund (HAF) will be established as an official government entity under the
direction of a Task Force in the Ministry of Housing. The Deputy Project Coordinator for Finance,
assisted by the HAF Implementation Officer and consultants will support the Task Force in establishing
the HAF as outlined in Annex 7. When the HAF completes it organizational phase, expected early in
1997, the staff working on the preparation will transfer to the HAF as appropriate.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
MOH PROJECT UNIT
S  PROJECT COORDINATOR         P
I(DEPUTrY MINISTER)I
DEPUTY PROET       , VPEETTO                     DEPUTY PROJECT
COORDINATOR      .:       ADVISORS       ..     COORDINATOR
_OFOR FINANCER      (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE)   __FOR DEVELOPMENT
SMF IMPLENMENTATION                               PROJECr ENGINEER
OFFICER                                     A
HAF IMPLEMENTATION                                    PROJECT
_     ~~OFFICER                               _    ARCHITECT/PLANNER
SECRETARY                                 RESEARCH & INSTITUITONAL
DEVELOPMENT
I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPECIALIST
PROCUREMENT AND
ACCOUNTS
OFFICER
RECORDS AND
DATA OFFICER
ADMINSTRATIVE
SECRETARY
SECRETARY



Annex 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Structure of the Ministry of Housing
MINISTER
OF
HOUSING
DEPUTY
MINISTER
PROJECT
UNIT
COORDINATION                   UNDERSECRETARY
--------------------------- ._____. AND ASSISTANTS
L  PHC      _......
MONETARY
DEP
PUBLIC
RELATIlONS
DEPT.
GOVERNMENTAL
PROPERTY
DEPT.
MINISTRY
FINANCE   PERSONAL  [     PROJ ECTS                  POLICY &                  RESEARCE
& INETENT                    AFFAIRS                                              URBANhDELOMN
_ ~    ~            ~            ~             ~            ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ I   PLANNING _
Fin~ cDept                  Penoal                   Enevt                 |      U6bn                     Dep of
1 nvtment h Projec             L%Wl                    Supeiviion h &               Pokiyh &             |       0 Enittr
|A=t.on Dept|                 Affunh                   Mdteatnmc l                R.S.ul6..            -     L b. Dep
Bdnifir-i                    Supply               | sniK                    |    T-9iK                    Sp--tctdwsh  |
L-    Affai. Dep L         _       Dept     l        _         eo,     l        A       Dp                  |     Cnm
Dept
Public                                            Dept of L4W ,                  Computer
Depl  l                  1  Insdtudoncl Affain |    1    ~~~~~~~B nk D.PL



Annex 4
Page 1 of 14
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Features of the Housing Development Component
The Housing Development Process
1.      The project aims at quickly putting in motion a process to test and demonstrate viable options
in the special political, institutional and developmental constraints facing Gaza and the West Bank. The
Housing Development Component helps the MOH put in place a mechanism that encourages private
developers to produce lower-cost housing. The MOH guides the process of housing development on: (i)
tracts of State-owned land provided with off-site infrastructure on which private developers will bid for
the production of qualifying housing units-either low-rise condominium apartment units or single
family houses; (ii) qualifying private lands with apartments and/or single family houses proposed and
produced by private developers, (iii) single plots of private land for either single-family houses or low-
rise condominium apartments or cooperatives.
2.      Because the Housing Project launches the process without the benefit of a full set of tested
policies nor with experienced institutions, the project's approach is one of learning-by-doing. The
concepts, and options proposed are intended to: (a) quickly respond to the urgent need to provide
affordable, appropriate housing to lower- and middle- income households presently without options; and
(b) test the options with a view to helping shape policies and capacities to attend to the growing process.
3.      The development of land and houses will be done entirely by the private developers. Houses
and condominiums will be sold, not leased nor rented, on the basis of installments or final sales,
depending on the availability of buyer finance and mortgage collateral. The goal is to have lower cost
units and sales prices that reflect full cost recovery. Complementary and parallel to these objectives is
that of helping define policies and strategies that will encourage and foster a vigorous housing market.
4.      The role of PA Institutions. The Ministry of Housing will supervise the fulfillment of the loan
obligations and implement the project on behalf of the PA. The MOH will oversee the operation in terms
of consistency with general sector policies. The MOH will guide the process by which developers
produce housing units on state or private lands that qualify under the project's financing and assistance
programs. To do so the MOH will use a normative instrument called the Developers' Prospectus, in
issuing specific calls to developers for proposals to develop specific state lands or to make proposals on
developers' own lands (the model document is in Annex 5).
5.      Municipalities. will have a supporting role, regulating and approving zoning, construction
activities, and in providing maintenance and municipal services to the completed project areas. The
Municipal Infrastructure Development Project, FY96 (No. 43339) is providing technical assistance to
municipalities to build their capacities to provide this support.
6.      The Role of the Developer. The types of private developers operating in Gaza and the West
Bank range from very large international firms with the capacity to produce over one thousand
apartments per year to small, family-led operations building a few dozen units annually. The bulk of
housing construction aimed at the lower end of the housing market is presently covered by the smaller
developers (building up to about 100 units, and a very large number of single-site developers building or
expanding existing apartments). The project will encourage the participation of all developer types. For
this reason the Developers' Prospectus will have editions geared to each site and type of developer.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 14
7.      Development options. Developers are encouraged to test a combination of dwelling types, such
as partially finished core dwellings and low-rise condominiums-all ways of reducing the purchase price
of a unit, while making it more adaptable to the buyer's preferences. There are considerable differences
between Gaza and West Bank cities with respect to land availability, land costs, topography and
traditional housing practices/preferences. The program will be flexible in developing options for each
locality, based on those considerations, but also intends to demonstrate the viability of housing types and
development options. The type of units and condominiums and their proportional distribution will vary,
based on local demand and land/ characteristics as determined by the developers. There is a tradition of,
strong market preference for, condominium apartments in the Gaza strip. This is linked to land scarcity
and cost, as well as to a desire for extended families to live in close proximity. On the other hand,
preferences in the West Bank cities are likely to be for single household core units that can be expended
and completed over time by the buyer. The distribution of units and types will respond primarily to
market forces.
8.      The developer will market and sell the units.  The developer will propose designs and
marketing strategies using the Developers' Prospectus as a guideline. Qualifying design proposals
(based on sales price, minimum structural and design characteristics, and responsive to good
development practices), will be eligible for buyer financing, the housing assistance fund, etc., making the
marketing features more attractive to developers and buyers. The size of core units will be determined
by the developer based on a knowledge of market preferences, but apartment buildings will not to exceed
5 stories. Tracts of developed land will likely have a mix of plot/unit types. This will encourage
maximizing densities and land values within each site, and increasing the efficient use of scarce land.
9.      Role of the purchaser. Households have the option to buy either apartments or single-family
units as produced by the private developers. Depending on the type of unit marketed, a buyer may want
a unit which an be expanded or completed over time, as household income allows. Individual
households purchasing a single-unit plot with basic infrastructure (water, sewerage and storm drainage,
and electrical connectors), core dwellings or condominium units which could be partially finished to
allow for immediate owner occupancy and completion/expansion in stages, depending on the owner's
ability to pay for improvements. Basic partially-finished units adopt more easily to individual needs and
preferences. This also provides the option of self-help construction or contracting to small construction
firms.
10.     Compatibility with on-going programs. Certain elements of the proposed housing component
will lend themselves to complement or be logical extensions of on-going donor programs, and could be
funded as such. Specific sites and/or components such as community facilities could be earmarked for
funding and development of donors on agencies presently active in these areas.
Land for Development
II.     Developers will be offered to make bid proposals for specifically selected, reviewed and
cleared and tracts of State-owned land for development. Alternatively developers may make proposals
on privately-owned land, which will meet specific review and clearances as described below. For
purposes of the project, MOH will not use lands which have formal title holders or informal encroachers
which will require relocation , nor will it use lands which have graves. Therefore it is not likely that sites
will involve involuntary resettlement nor the relocation of graves. In the event that such a condition
arises, all activities which require involuntary resettlement will be reviewed by both the World Bank.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 14
Site Review and Clearances
12.    For each tract of land to be used under the project, the MOH the following clearance procedures:
a.     An assessment of the off-site infrastructure needs for each site. This investigation will
take into consideration the infrastructure and services needs of the adjacent communities
as well as the plans which the corresponding municipalities have for developing the
surrounding areas.
b.     The MOH, in consultation with the relevant municipalities will prepare a report on each
site containing the site location and characteristics data, topography, boundaries,
special features/constraints, off-site infrastructure requirements, etc. Maps and
development costs estimates for infrastructure servicing will be prepared.
c.     A review concerning environmental, resettlement and cultural heritage issues as
outlined in the documents: (a) Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment;"
(b) Operational Directive 4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement;" and (c) Environmental
Assessment Sourcebook Update Number 8, "Cultural Heritage in Environmental
Assessment.". The requested review of the sites will determine the suitability of each
proposed site for housing development, as formally reviewed and cleared by both the
Environmental Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation and the Palestinian Department of Archeology of the Ministry of Tourism
and Antiquities. The IDA will also require detailed information on possible resettlement
of residents, businesses and/or agricultural operations at these sites whether the affected
parties have a formal or informal right to the use of these lands. This information will be
used by the IDA, supplemented by site visits and consultations by affected parties, to
determine measures which will be incorporated into the Project supported activities to
address these concerns.
13.     Required additional actions. Prior to approval by IDA of state lands to be used in the project,
the following actions will be undertaken by the concerned cooperating Palestinian organizations with
regard to the proposed sites:
a.     Consultation with Physical Planning Department. Consultations will be conducted with
the Physical Planning Department of the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation to assure the proposed actions are consistent with the principles of the
Physical Master Plan for the Gaza Strip and the Special Physical Master Plan for Gaza
City. Information will be provided to IDA concerning the outcome of these
consultations.
b.     Environmental Review and Clearance. The Environmental Planning Directorate of the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation will be contacted and requested to
conduct an environmental review of proposed Project activities to be undertaken at both
sites to assure they are consistent with current Palestinian requirements. The preparation
of this review may require a field visit by representatives of the Environmental Planning
Directorate to the concerned sites. It is requested that a formal record of this review
concerning the acceptability of the proposed activities be obtained from the
Environmental Planning Directorate.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 14
c.     Resettlement and Compensation Issues. Under the provisions of the IDA the potential
impact of the proposed Project activities on parties with both formal and informal land
use rights at all sites need to be evaluated. Compensation may be required for parties
with informal rights as well as for those with formal rights. It is requested that the
following information be collected and made available for IDA review:
d.     Legal Status of the Site. Information will be provided which evaluates the official land
ownership status of the proposed site and identify any outstanding claims or disputes
concerning title to all or any portion of this site.
e.     Survey of Current Land Use on the Sites. A map will be prepared for each of the sites
which shows the current land use, including both authorized and unauthorized activities.
This will identify areas which are being used for informal housing or have structures,
locations of grape and fruit trees, sand excavation and waste disposal sites, and other
uses.
f.    Identification of Formal and Informal Users. A list will be made which will be keyed to
the map which will identify to the fullest extent possible the names of the formal and
informal users and provide information on the basis for their land use activities on the
sites. To the extent they are available information or copies of leases or other
authorizations for agriculture or other activities will be collected.
g.     Estimation of Potential Compensation for Formal and Informal Users. Preliminary
information will be prepared concerning potential costs of compensation for parties with
either formal or informal land use rights. This will include costs for the relocation of
squatters, relocation of structure, payment for trees and grape vines, etc.
h.     Archaeological Review and Clearance. The Palestinian Department of Archaeology of
the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities will be contacted and requested to conducted an
archaeological and historical sites review at the proposed housing development sites. It
should be anticipated that this will require a preliminary field survey to be conducted by
archaeologists acceptable to the Palestinian Department of Archaeology. It is requested
that a formal record of this review concerning the acceptability of the proposed activities
be obtained from the Palestinian Department of Archaeology.



Annex 4a
Page 5 of 14
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
The Demonstration Site: Tal El-Hawa
1.      Land for Phase 1: the Demonstration Site at Tal El-Hawa. The MOH has identified three
tracts of State-owned land in the Gaza Strip that are suitable and reserved for the project. The sites could
accommodate approximately 6,000 units, depending on type and design. The largest site called Tal El-
Hawa (described below), is located in Gaza City, has a capacity of about 3,800 units, and is planned for
an incremental development and including the MOH program of Housing Co-operatives, which are
invited to apply for financing and assistance under the project. A first development phase of about 1,000
units is programmed for the Demonstration Site, where the development process will be tested and the
first call for proposals by private developers will take place. The other sites, as well as those in West
Bank cities, could be available at a later stages of the project.
2.      Tal El-Hawa. The site has an area of 406 dunums (40.6 ha.) and located about 3.0 kms. south
of Omar Al-Mukhtar street inside Gaza municipal boundaries. The site has an irregular shape but due to
its large size and having main streets surround it from three sides make the site very good potential for
development. It is also possible to adjust the irregular boundary form the north side by making some
trade-off with land owners on that side. The original site topography is fairly flat, but due to sand
extraction and excavation activities has created large areas which will require filling and leveling at the
time of development. The Demonstration Site will be about 55 dunums within the Tal El-Hawa site.
MOH plans to also develop a program for housing cooperatives at Tal El-Hawa, which will be planned
and developed so as to assure complementarity.
3.      The off-site infrastructure needed to service the site requires some additions and improvements
to existing nearby water and drainage mains. The access road adjacent to the site from the west needs
paving and upgrading of existing high tension power lines. Some water wells are also being dug next to
the site to supply Gaza city with water, which will also supply the site.
4.      The site has a potential of accommodating over 175 one-dunum plots, each capable of housing
16-20 apartments ranging in area between 100-130 m2. Total site capacity is estimated at about 3800
families, or about 26,000 persons, when fully developed.
5.      Planning And Design Criteria For Tal El-Hawa Site. The following are special features of the
preliminary designs of the Tal El-Hawa site, that assure development efficiency, appropriate land use,
provision of amenities and integration to the surrounding city fabric. These are to serve as a guide in
preparing the final designs as well as guide of future developments.
6.      The fundamental efficiency criteria is the design of the circulation network, utility
infrastructure and plot subdivision, while reserving sufficient area for necessary schools, clinics, and
other public uses. The individual plots will be allocated to other entities either co-ops or private
developers who will undertake the detailed design and construction of the buildings. Approximately
4000 units are planned for the site. The reserved open space for public uses will be designed separately.
7.      Road Categories. Roads are grouped into 4 categories, instead of 6. The right of way (ROW)
widths lOim and 14m are not used in this scheme. The road widths recommended are:
a.     30 m: Main highway Route #8, planned by municipality on south side of the site.



Annex 4a
Page 6 of 14
b.     16m.  Main N-S and E-W internal roads structuring development and connecting to
outside of site. These will contain the main infrastructure lines, and they are presumed
attractive to commercial uses parallel to the roads.
C.     12m. Internal circulation roads.
d.     8m. Secondary access roads to plots, considered with parking and small open spaces.
8.      Parking.  The interior streets (8m  ROW) include parking spaces for abutting buildings.
Additional spaces will need to be provided on the ground floors of the buildings to accommodate future
automobile ownership.
9.      Slope of the E-W central access road. A deep depression results in a 8% slope on the spine, the
maximum for vehicular traffic. This pit requires a booster pump to drain properly. Fill was considered,
but will be costly and a booster pump will still be required.
10.     Four Categories of Plot Sizes are considered:
a.     a one dunum plot: Standard 1000 m2. plots (30x33m or 25x40m), as customary in Gaza.
These will be located along wider streets.
b.     3/4 dunum plot. An alternative 'standard' in the range of 750 to 850 m2. (24x35m,
22x35m, etc.) to test the acceptance of smaller, more economical plots. They are located
in lower value, interior locations, on smaller streets.
c.    large plots. Prime location plots, increased for anticipated additional commercial
demands; generally located on corners. Area and size varies, generally over 1 dunum.
The plots also provide the flexibility in the land subdivision geometry.
d.     special plots. Odd plots resulting from the irregular shape of the site. The target is to
keep the area greater than 750 m2., preferably larger to facilitate fitting buildings into
the irregular plot.
11.     Allocation of Plots for Co-operatives. A bidding process is proposed for plots that are not the
standard one-dunum plot, with a premium price set for special location; larger sizes; 3/4 dunum plots; the
odd sized plots, etc. All plots will have a pro-rata cost premium added for infrastructure development
cost, added on a per square meter basis.
12.     Infrastructure Service Connections. Water and sewer service connections are recommended to
be brought to each property edge in the initial infrastructure contract. The added cost is justified because
of the anticipated rapid development, and the avoidance of digging up the street for connections;
connection costs will be paid for by developer/co-operatives.
13.     Connection to Adjacent Developments. The internal streets have been extended to allow future
connection to streets in adjacent developments. The goal is to maintain a network integrity to facilitate
circulation at the city scale. Future developments should be encouraged to accept the improved road
alignments. The extensions of roads on the site are unpaved with only ROWs demarcated. As adjacent
development occurs, infrastructure will be extended through these ROWs and the surface paved.



Annex 4a
Page 7 of 14
14.     Design of Public Areas. For the areas designated for the housing co-operatives, the large
public open spaces require detailed planning to accommodate the schools, parks, planting reserves and
commercial areas. This may be done by the MOH in the continued development of Tal El-Hawa.
15.     Staging. Four areas of staged development are designated (site plan).
a.     The first requires the installation of a major infrastructure line connecting the 30m road
with the existing networks on the north side, and installation of interior networks for an
initial 46 plots. This stage defines the large public open space, with areas for a school
and clinic, and defines the commercial areas for sale at market rate. The commercial
areas are largely located in site depressions, which can provide for the additional costs of
building foundations.
b.     The second stage requires only interior infrastructure networks, paralleling interest by
developers in the demonstration portion.
c.     The third stage requires extension of the main infrastructure line as well as interior
networks. This stage assumes that allocation mechanisms, financing, etc. have been
satisfactorily tested in the initial stages and the largest number of plots can rapidly be
provided (86).
d.     The last stage completes the network with connection to the adjacent areas. Only 14
plots will be allocated, in addition to schools and other services necessary at the final
densities.
16.     Increasing Heights of Buildings.  Initial considerations limited the height to 5 stories as
customary throughout Gaza. However, in order to increase the number of units on the site, and to
maximize value of certain plot locations, it is advisable to zone the site for multi-story buildings to adjust
to the size of co-operatives - from 16 members (5 stories) to 32 members (9 stories). The ground floor of
each co-op will be reserved by parking or commercial uses. A table is attached which indicates the
maximum number of units in the Tal El-Hawa site according to height of building.
17.     Allocation of these higher rise buildings is suggested along the 16m ROW streets. The wider
streets provide extra space to accommodate the effects of the increased height.
18.     Elevators will be necessary if over 5 stories, despite 1) the extra cost; 2) the irregular electricity
supply, and 3) the lack of repair services. Considerations also need to balance the added cost of
construction with building height.
19.     Density. Appropriate density for development is difficult to determine and subject to much
debate. Five stories are customary in Gaza and thus considered providing acceptable densities. The
setbacks of 2m, 3m and 4m (if enforced) provide sufficient 'breathing space' between units - a 3m
sideyard results in 6m of space between buildings, a 4m backyard results in a 8m space. The higher
buildings will be limited to the 1 6m ROW streets and in many cases fronting the larger open spaces, both
which provide extra space between dwellings on the front. The large amount of open space in deference
to the existing plantings provides additional relief from a too high density.
20.    Comparison of Preliminary Layout Options. The preliminary infrastructure calculations, costs,
and road profiles, for the preparation of the tendering documents is the "first Plan". The "second plan"



Annex 4a
Page 8 of 14
prepared by the MOH has essentially a similar main street structure, but the design requires more study
for a more cost effective interior plot/street arrangement.
MOH first Design                        MOH Second Design
Number of Plots                       202                                     150
(approximate values)
Total Street Length               5,400m.                                12,121 m.*
(approximate values)          (1 27m/Ha.)                               (285m/Ha.)
Note: Calculations are approximate but sufficiently accurate to give a general indication of project
layout efficiency and preference. Total street lengths include all public access circulation.
* Elimination of the interior block streets lowers the total length to 7, 621m.
21.     Beit-Lahia (El-Atatra). The site that could b used by MOH for developers' participation is
composed of two separated large parcels, the first has an area of 195 dunums and the other 55 dunums.
Both parcels are near each other in the same locality within Beit-Lahia municipal boundaries. Both sites
have fairly flat slopes but some squatting has started on the smaller plot. High tension power line is on
the site boundary. A number of water wells are available in the area and supply the area as well as Gaza
city with water. Total site capacity is estimated at 2300 families.



Annex 4b
Page 9 of 14
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Land for Low-Cost Housing
1.      The availability and use of land is one of the critical issues facing WBG development. How
land is used allocated and planned for are central to the housing sector. Politically, economically, as well
as technically, land management is the most difficult function facing the sector.
Land Inventory
2
2.      Gaza Strip. Gaza Strip has a total area of 360 km  and a population estimated at 1,050,000.
There are four major urban centers namely Gaza, Dir El-Balah, Khan Younis and Rafah. Due to high
density of the population, the urban centers (areas within Municipal or sub-municipal jurisdictions) are
often linked or interconnected. Refugee camps and settlements of makeshift (temporary types or
squatter) housing dwellings have been in place for decades. According to IJNRWA estimates some 65%
of Gaza Strip inhabitants are registered UNRWA refuges of whom more than half live in camps and have
an income of around $200 per household per month. Within urban centers, undeveloped land is scarce,
commanding very high prices, out of reach of low income households. Outside municipal boundaries
there are about 250 hectares of State-owned land, most of which could be earmarked for housing
development. However at the present time, development approval for these lands requires lengthy and
difficult approvals from Israeli authorities. The total land distribution for the Gaza Strip is shown in
table 1, below.
Table 1
Land Distribution-Gaza Strip
Land category                              Area (ha)      _
State-owned land                            11,000                        30
Privately-owned land                        19,500                       53.5
Beer EI-Saea' (un-zoned, unused)             6,000                       16.5
Total                                       36,500                     100.00



Annex 4b
Page 10 of 14
The 11,000 ha. of State lands are allocated to different uses as follows:
Table 2
Use of State Lands
Category                                  Area (ha)         %
Israeli settlements + security zones      4,600              42
Roads and Public Areas                    2,500              23
Rafah land (1)                            1,400              13
Amer + Nasser project (2)                 1,000               9
Government facilities and camps           1,000               9
Squatter settlements (3)                   250                2
Unused (available) (4)                     250                2
Total                                     11,000            100
(1) Squatted upon for a long period of time but tenure and title is contended and not registered.
(2) Plots assigned to beneficiaries prior to 1967 war but full cost not recovered from some and title not
transferred.
(3) State land squatted upon in 23 sites (localities).
(4) Land available for new development.
3.     Summary. In Gaza Strip, only about 250 ha. of State-owned lands are available for development.
Of those, only about 180 ha. are within present municipal boundaries. The largest share (460 ha.) of land
for potential housing development is privately owned. The vast majority of those lands are small plots-
below 8 dunums. There are very few large tracts of undeveloped lands (private of State-owned)
available within existing municipalities.



Annex 4b
Page 11 of 14
Table 3
Gaza Strip Potential Sites for New Housing
City         Name of Site  Area    Cost       Ownership   Comments
(ha)    $ /m2
Gaza SI      Beit-Lahya    35       110       State/      Vacant land suitable for mixed
(B)                              outside    new   developments  (plots  +
Al-Atatra                        municipal   condominium  low rise building
West                             boundary   apartments total 1000).
S2       Beit-Lahya    30      90         State/outsid  Green fields, suitable for mixed
Al -Mazraa                       e municipal development. Can accommodate
boundaries  1000 new units.
S3       Beit       - 19.6    150         State/inside  Some squatter but suitable for
lahya(A)                        municipal   new   development  of  600
Nazla                            boundaries  plots(S+S).
S4       Near         80       150        State/      Vacant land suitable for mixed
Nitsareem                        outside     development of serviced plots
(H)                              municipal   and low rise condominium (about
boundaries  3000 units)
Khan Younis  Hai Al-Amal  10        120       State/Inside  Suitable for low rise apartments
S5                                        municipal   or sites and services of 600 units.
boundaries
Rafah S6     Tal-EI-Sultan  52      90        State/      Vacant land suitable for mixed
(M)                              outside     development (1000  plots). 33
Municipal   hectare available now, rest needs
boundaries  Israel Consent.
S7       Beit -Lahya  7        100        State/      Vacant  land   suitable  for
(C)                             inside       condominium low rise apartments
municipal   4-5 floors (1000 apartments). or
boundaries  for demonstration.
Potential Land for the Project-Gaza
4.      The MOH identified the State lands that will be suitable and available for the proposed project.
Three sites were agreed to, and reserved for the project, in a letter from the Minister of Housing, dated
Oct. 15, 1995. The sites are:
a.    Tal El-Hawa, located in Gaza Municipality, totaling 406 dunums (see Annex 4a).
b.    Two sites in El Atatra, located in Beit Lahyia Municipality, one totaling 195 dunums and
one totaling 55 dunums.
5.      These sites, if fully allocated for use under the Project, could accommodate a large share (over
6000 units) of the project. However it is understood that there will also be new housing units developed
in several West Bank municipalities. It is also anticipated that developers participating in the project
could propose private lands for development in any of the municipalities. The distribution of units will
therefore depend on sites made available during the implementation of the project.



Annex 4b
Page 12 of 14
6.      The Tal El-Hawa site will be the focus of the first phase of the project. Therefore the technical
preparation of the site includes a plan for the staged development of the site is prepared, along with the
development plan for the first 1,000 units.
Potential Land for the Project-West Bank Cities
7.      Three main urban centers in the northern part of the West Bank are considered by MOH
potential sites for housing development (primarily for single-family schemes).  These centers are
Toulkarem (population 40,000), Jenin (population 40,000) and Nablus (population 150,000). These three
towns are among the first major urban centers turned over to PA for self-rule. Other urban centers in the
West Bank include: Ramalla (40,000), Beireh (40,000), Jericho (20,000), Bethlehem (20,000), and
Hebron (80,000). A survey of the most appropriate lands for development is summarized below.
8.      Toulkarem. Toulkarem consists of the city center built on a flat terrain surrounded by four
distinct areas that were villages in the past but are now part of Toulkarem Municipality. Green fields
separate some sections of the city but are privately owned and under cultivation. These sites are not
2
suitable for low cost housing because of their agricultural use and high cost ($200/m ). Fairly good
water, electricity and road networks are available all throughout. The four areas surrounding the center
lack sewerage system but this service is to be handed under a separate program. Land new few housing
schemes is available in sufficient quantities along side the main artery crossing the town from cost to
West just before entering Municipal boundaries coming from Nablus. One site has over 100 hectares of
2
state land estimated at 415/m . The main constrains are: steep slopes of 20% and the forestation on the
upper edges of the site. The other identification site is smaller in area (17 hectares) and owned by
Muniicipality of Anabta. Access road and electricity are within 100 meters from the sites but water-
mains and sewer truck lines are 5 km. away. (The sites are opposite each other.) The site in Anabta site
2
has a similar value of $15/mr
9.      Jenin. In Jenin, two sites were identified. One is called "M\arah Sa'ad" with an area of 12.5
hectares with reasonable slopes but with thick forestation. The site is state owned and off site main's are
within 300-1000 meter distance from site. Cost of land is $40/m2 because it falls within municipal
boundaries. The other site, El-Hadaf, is also within municipal boundaries it has a total area of 20
2
hectares and are estimated cost $ 1 0/mr
10.     Nablus. The city is built on two opposite mountains with the city center located in between.
The main highway crosses the from cost to West passing through the center. The city has 150,000
people with fairly raped expansion as it is considered the main urban center in the northern region of the
West Bank. The city dwellings seem to have sufficient basic infrastructure services basically water,
electricity and access roads. Sewerage networks cover areas of the city. Hence upgrading schemes seem
to be non-existent. As regards new sites development, four sites were identified-two on each mountain.
The price of land ranges between $70-170/m . One site has thick forestation and very steep slopes
reaching 30%. The other sites have no forestation but also have steep slopes ranging from 30-40%.
However, all sites within Municipal boundaries have steep slopes but these are the only parcels of
substantial size for housing development and are also state land.
11.     Ramalla/Biereh. Both towns are joined together forming one urban center of 80,000 people
(split equally between both towns). Ramalla spreads westward towards Beir Zeit but has very small
amounts of State lands. Vacant land between Ramalla and Beir Zeit has steep slopes and slopes away
from the city which makes it difficult to drain its sewage by gravity towards Ramalla. Provision of off-
site infrastructure in terms of roads and water will also be very costly and hence area west ward from
Ramalla is not suitable for large housing schemes. However, east of Biereh, There are few state and



Annex 4b
Page 13 of 14
Wakf land (administered by Ministry of Religious Affairs ) suitable for housing. The most suitable
location is known as Shiban site located (2.0) kms. east of Biereh center. The site area is 29 (ha) which
makes it feasible for a housing project of 1000 new units. The site slopes into two wadis draining
towards Beireh. Estimated cost of land is $2/m2.
12.     Jericho. The Jericho self-rule area has a potential of 2125 hectares of state land located in
Jericho, Ouja, Duke and Nweimeh areas. Most sites are under 10 hectares and few are above. The most
suitable site recommended for new housing schemes is located in Duke which is 1.0 km north-east of
Jericho city center. The site area is 26 (ha) and has a flat terrain. Off-site access road and water main is
1.0 km away, and sewage can be drained by gravity towards Jericho in the future (when Jericho and
surrounding localities will be served with sewerage system). The site is suitable for development of
about 800 housing units. Estimated cost of land is $5/m2.
13.     Bethlehem. Bethlehem has a population of 20,000 people and located south east of Jerusalem
by about 5 kms. There is no State land available within municipal boundaries. There is one site of 7
hectares of state land located south of town on the way to Hebron close to Dheisheh Refugee Camp. The
land has a slop of about 15% and has an estimated value of $ 30/m2. All basic infrastructure services are
passing near the site. The site will be appropriate to house 300 units.
14.     Hebron. Hebron has no state land either inside nor outside municipal boundaries. However
there are a few privately owned lands suitable for housing development. Further investigation will be
made to assess other possibilities. There are three potential sites. The first site is owned by The Russian
church which is willing to lease to the Municipality of Hebron for 99 years. The City Mayor stated that
lie would pursue the matter. The site has an area of 10 hectares outside Hebron located in Beit Ummar
10 kms. north of Hebron. No services are available near the site. The other potential site is privately
owned by one family and has an area of about (15-20) hectares. Cost of land is estimated at $8/m2.
Infrastructure mains are away from site by about 600 meters. No sewerage system is available in the
area. Slope of site is about 20%. The site is called Kabrah (Beit Kahel land) 3.0 km outside Hebron
municipal boundaries. The third site is called Ukbet Ingeel, 2.0 kms south of Hebron. The land is owned
by one family and has an estimated value of $9/m2. All basic infrastructure mains are 2.0 kms. away
from the site. The site has a rocky land and slopes of 10%. Total site area is about 15-20 hectares
suitable for a housing project of 450-600 housing units.



Annex 4b
Page 14 of 14
15.    In summary, the sites identified are in the following tables:
Table 4.
West Bank-Potential Sites for New Housing
City     Name of Site    Area      Cost   Ownership                    Comments
(ha)     $ /m2
Toulkarm     El-Horsch      100       15       State    Outside municipal boundaries, 20% slope with
some forestation could easily accommodate 1000
serviced plots
Anabta       Anabta        17        15     Municipal  Outside municipal boundaries, 20% slope, could
accommodate 500 plots
Jenin     Marah Sa'ad     12.5      40       State    Inside municipal boundaries, 20% slope with thick
forestation can accommodate 400 plots.
El-Hadaf       20        10       State    Inside municipal boundaries, 30% slope, next to
potential neighborhood development scheme, can
accommodate 600 plots.
Nablus      Rafidya       3.5+       170      State    Inside municipal boundaries, 30% slope, may be
extended into neighboring state land outside
municipal boundaries, can accommodate 300 plots
if extended to 10 (ha).
El-Horsch     8.5+       65       State    Same as above. Not recommended due to thick
forestation.
Balata       6.5+      130       State    Same as Rafidya
Askar         15       65        State    Same as above but can accommodate 500 plots.
Ramalla/      Shiban        29        2        Wakf    outside municipal boundaries, 20-30% slope, 2km
Biereh
east of Biereh center suitable for new sites and
services scheme of 1000 units.
Jericho      Duke          26        5        State    Outside municipal boundaries but within Jericho
self-
rule area. Flat terrain 1.5 km north-west of Jericho
_________center suitable for development of 800 new units.
Bethlehem      Near          7        30       Private    Outside municipality. Slope 15%, can
Dheisheh                                   accommodate
250 housing units.
Hebron    Beit Ummar       10      99 yrs    Russian   Church proposed leasing it to Municipality
lease    Church   although it is outside municipal boundaries, can
accommodate 300 units.
Kabrah       15-20      8       Private    Outside municipal boundaries, 10% slope. Can
owned    accommodate 450-600 housing units.
Okbet -      15-20      9       Private    Outside municipal boundaries. 15% slope. Can
Ingeel                          owned    accommodate 450-600 housing units.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 13
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
The Developers' Prospectus and Procedures for Developer Participation
I.    The agreed draft model documents of the Developers' Prospectus are to be used by MOH to
invite participation of private developers, or to call for private developers to present housing proposals
on private lands. These documents will be the instruments used by the MOH to guide developers in the
production of housing for the project. The draft prepared is for developers who will bid on tracts of State
land such as the Tal El-Hawa site. There are similar documents prepared for cases where developers put
forward proposals with their own land. There is also be a document for use by smaller developers. These
are in the project's file.
2.     The prospectus is the document that will invite developers to participate in the project and that
spells out the rules, responsibilities, and roles of the MOH, the developers and other agencies such as the
municipalities. The prospectus provides guidelines on eligibility, pre-qualification, proposal submission
(forms, etc.) and evaluation criteria.
Summary Description
3.     The Developers' Prospectus is the instrument used by MOH to encourage the participation of
private developers in the Housing Project; explain the process for participating, and facilitate their
application to participate in the production of housing on a tract of State-owned land, proposed by the
Ministry of Housing for this purpose.
4.     The prospectus is a call for proposals from development companies for the production of low
cost housing through a competitive bidding process involving a partnership with private developers
and the MOH. Therefore private development firms are asked to submit recommendations for designs,
preliminary engineering plans, cost estimates, specifications, and implementation plans for tracts of state
land which the MOH will make available for development.
5.     The various sections of this document are intended to help the developer understand the process
and to prepare and submit a proposal to participate in the project.
6.     There are three types of documents (i) a Prospectus for inviting bids on large tracts of State-
owned land; (ii) a Prospectus that invites developers to submit qualifying proposals on private land;
and (iii) a highly simplified version for small developers using small or single building sites of private
land. The Draft Prospectus for use with State-owned lands follows.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 13
HOUSING PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HOUSING
DEVELOPERS' PROSPECTUS
For Producing Lower-Cost Housing on
STATE LAND
For the <NAME> SITE
<DATE>
THIS PROSPECTUS IS A GUIDE FOR DEVELOPERS ON HOW TO
PARTICIPATE IN THE HOUSING PROJECT
The Housing Project offers:
Land and construction financing for developers, and advantageous mortgages for buyers. Financing
is provided through commercial banks.
This Prospectus invites:
Developers to build housing for lower-income families in the West Bank and Gaza costing from
about US$15,000 to a maximum of US$27,000.
This Prospectus provides:
* an overview of the offering
* eligibility and application procedures
* proposal guidelines
* the necessary forms for preparing and submitting a bid
The Project is administered by the PA Ministry of Housing



Annex 5
Page 3 of 13
CONTENTS
Executive Summary
Part 1: Guidelines for Developer Participation
Definitions
Registry of Developers and Prequalification Requirements
Eligibility Criteria
Part 2: General Guidelines for Preparing Proposals
Design Standards, Parameters
Price, Costs and Financing
Marketing
Land Cost, Acquisition, and Resale
Part 3: Specific Site Requirements
Scope of Work and Output
Site Location
Site Description
Development Requirements
Development Regulations
Part 4: Instructions for Submitting Proposals
Summary of the Process
Submission Instructions
Part 5: Review and Evaluation
Process to be Used
Evaluation Criteria
Appendix A: Form 1: Developers and Development Team Information (provided separately)
Appendix B: Application and Proposal Forms (provided separately)
Form 2: Application
Form 3: Design Concept Summary
Form 4: Housing Development Budget



Annex 5
Page 4 of 13
THE HOUSING PROJECT
OF THE MINISTRY OF HOUSING
Program Overview
I.    There is a growing need to help the lower income families of Gaza and West Bank cities to buy
appropriate, affordable housing. There are obstacles to making suitable land, infrastructure and financing
available for the construction and purchase of low cost housing units. There is a need to draft and update
existing laws, regulations and procedures concerning the development process to make it easier and
advantageous for developers to produce housing for lower income Palestinian families. The Ministry of
Housing and the municipalities are taking measures to stimulate and guide a process to encourage the
efficient production of affordable and appropriate housing for households with monthly incomes between
US$400 and US$1,000. To do so, the MOH is seeking private developers to participate in a program that
will test a system of design, construction and financing appropriate to existing circumstances in the West
Bank and Gaza-The Housing Project.
The Housing Project
2.    The PA Ministry of Housing (MOH) is the implementing agency for The Housing Project,
supported and funded by the World Bank and other donors. The main objective of the housing project is
to remove obstacles in the production and purchase of low-cost housing for low- and middle-income
Palestinian households.
3.    To accomplish this the project seeks to stimulate and guide investment for low cost housing by
making land and infrastructure available, finding ways to make the housing affordable, providing
financing for buyers and developers and to make it worthwhile for private developers to produce
appropriate housing for these households.
4.    The MOH is also:
*  making recommendations for revising relevant regulations and procedures and
encouraging the rapid development of lower-cost housing;
*  applying appropriate, least- cost housing designs for the lower- income groups;
*  involving local techniques, materials and contractors;
*  encouraging cost-lowering options such as the provision of partially finished units that
could be finished by purchasers.
5.    The overriding goal of this program is to provide sound, appropriate housing that is affordable to
low- and moderate-income households. There are two ways which this housing is made affordable: a) by
reducing total development costs; and, b) by packaging financial resources for the buyers, such as
financing and access to the Housing Assistance Fund.
6.    This prospectus describes in detail (Part 4), the steps to be taken by the MOH and the
participating Developer to produce housing units.



Annex 5
Page 5 of 13
Part 1: Guidelines for Developer Participation
This section provides the requirements that the participating developer must meet. It explains how
developers will be deemed eligible to participate in the project..
Definitions
1.    For purposes of this project a Developer is considered to be a private company established and
chartered to operate in Gaza and the West Bank, for the purposes of financing, designing, building and
selling housing units. Consortia of contractors, investors, land owners, and architectural and engineering
firms are also considered to be Developers.
Registry of Developers
2.     The first step for a Developer to participate in the program is to register with the PA Ministry of
Housing (MOH). This registry describes the Developer's experience, capacity, and financial solvency.
By registering with the MOH developers will be informed of future development opportunities for
producing housing on state lands.



Annex 5
Page 6 of 13
Part 2: General Proposal Guidelines
This section provides the participating developer proposing to submit a bid to develop a tract of State-
owned land witl information on wlhat considerations must be addressed in the proposaL It explains
what can and cannot be included in the proposaL
Design Standards and Parameters
1.    The site should be developed with the following general requirements:
* The site is to be developed for residential use, mixed residentisi and commercial uses, and
other associated uses, such as limited commercial, community facilities, parking, and open
spaces.
*  A minimum  density of   _   units, or _        persons per-hectare is recommended.
(Buildings should maximize the number of units that can be developed.)
* Land for residential use (areas to be sold) should be no less than 60% of the total site area.
* Land areas circulation (streets, etc.) should be no more than 25%, with a target of 20%.
* Land for public facilities, open space, etc. should be a maximum of 20%, with a target of
10%.
* Efficiency of land use, innovation and appropriateness to buyers needs, functionality of the
site plan, building configuration, and parking and other amenities is encouraged
* All open space should be delineated legally and accurately and relate directly to the
individual buildings/units.
* Plot proportions should be in a minimum ratio of 2:3, with the narrow dimension fronting the
access street.
2.    Buildings (houses and apartments) should be designed with the following general guidelines:
* Apartment buildings should be a maximum of five floors.
* Plot coverage ratio should be no more than 70%.
* Viability and requirements of off-site infrastructure needed.
3.    Other desirable features of the proposal are:
* Strong emphasis on a well defined marketing plan.
* A mix of unit sizes, costs and types attractive to a range of family sizes and incomes.
* Provision of community facilities or amenities to enhance the quality of the dwelling
environment.
Zoning Guidelines
4.     All construction on the site is subject to the Zoning Regulations of the Municipality of in which
the development will take place. For example the code mandates the maximum height, number of stories,
sizes of plots, building coverage, etc. Selected proposals must either satisfy the zoning regulations or
obtain a variance. MOH will help coordinate and expedite the application of zoning variances, if needed.
5.     For all tracts of land (sites) being proposed, developers should first assess the most efficient and
appropriate parcellation layout, types of units (and their mix), and the numbers of units to be developed.
This should be done with preliminary site designs (plot layouts, circulation/access networks, public
spaces, community facilities -  if any- , infrastructure to be provided on the site, connections to
existing networks, etc.). In addition proposals should be presented for the types of housing units to be



Annex 5
Page 7 of 13
developed on the site, options in terms of sizes, costs, development methods (contractor/owner built or
finished, etc.), construction specifications, schedules of materials and finishes, etc. Unit prices (house or
apartment type) and complete site development cost estimates and sales price estimates should be
prepared based on the preliminary engineering studies. Developers should also review existing laws,
rules, regulations, standards, including those proposed in this call for proposals, to make
recommendations that might improve or make more appropriate the designs and layouts proposed. Using
those, Developers may make recommendations to adjust the development standards for the site.
Developers may analyze alternative changes to zoning considering, inter-alia, existing development
densities and uses, infrastructure loading issues and consistency with overall city development plans,
including expected patterns of social and economic growth.
Calculating Price, Costs and Financing
6.     Total development costs for all proposals will be compared and evaluated. Proposals that provide
the best product for the lowest selling price will be most competitive.
7.     The developer will market the finished buildings and apartments as owner-occupied housing.
Buyers may apply for buyer financing to [names of commercial banks] and apply for the Housing
Assistance Fund through the Ministry of Housing. However developers can also propose alternative
financing resources which could be used to make these projects more affordable. For example, if a
developer has access to financing which can be used, this can be proposed for the project. Alternative
financing plans should clearly describe the financing source, ownership structure, project time lines, and
what affordability levels will be.
Guidelines for Defining the Selling Price
8.     The following assumptions should be used for calculating the total development cost and
proposed selling price of a housing unit.
* If your proposal is selected and you are requested to build a different number of buildings
and/or number of apartments, the MOH will then negotiate a new final price.
*  For the specific site the land price is: $_   per square meter.
* Include the costs for any technical evaluation such as sub-soil tests, etc. that may be to
design and build the project.
*  Identify and include the cost of any problems or unusual costs associated with connections to
off-site infrastructure.
* Include costs for all survey work. Survey work should include costs for any engineering
plans required to obtain permits and approvals to sell complete units.
* Include all legal fees associated with the project, including obtaining the necessary permits,
and selling the units.
* Include all fees associated with obtaining construction financing (if needed).
* Include all carrying costs for the construction period plus 30 days.
* Include all other development fees such as architectural, utility hookups, permit fees, etc.
* Include any costs for marketing the units.
* Review Part 3, Specific Proposal Guidelines, for specific building requirements and
standards, and include costs for these items.
* If your proposal /price contains any conditions or constraints, specify those.
9.     The total development costs quoted are made up of all physical (construction) costs, the given
price of the land, development/license fees, overheads, fee or profit, and any premium or allowance paid



Annex 5
Page 8 of 13
for timely or advance completion, etc. This total development cost should also reflect the delivered sales
price of each finished apartment unit, and the whole building, including its share of the total site
development, including profit and contingencies. Successful applicants will sign a contract with MOH to
sell the units/buildings at that price. Developers should make sure the price is one that they can deliver
on.
-Profits or losses are the developers'-
Pricing and cost-lowering guidelines
10.     To ensure that the units produced are affordable to the intended income groups (households
earning about US $ 400 to US $ 1,000 per month) the Developer is encouraged to explore design options
that lower the selling price of a unit. One options that could be used is to offer construction options as
follows:
option tvrpe                                                         approximate costL $S/m
(a) Skeleton  (to be owner finished)                                        under 100
(b) Minimum  Finish3                                                               150
(c) Basic4                                                                         200 (maximum)
As a guideline for the design of the proposal, the following price guidelines are suggested:
Unit size                                                 Skeleton            Minimum  Finish             Basic
2
a)       m  , 2 bedroom  unit:         maximum  cost          $                    $                     $
2
b) ___m  , 3 bedroom  unit:            maximum  cost          $ ____$ ____$ __
2
c)       m  , 4 bedroom  unit:         maximum cost           $                    $                     $
Proposals with lower prices will receive priority by the review committee.
Marketing and Housing Finance Initiatives
11.      The PA  has created  a Housing  Financing  Initiative with  the objective  of stimulating  and
encouraging the provision of affordable housing to all employed households in the West Bank and Gaza.
The Housing Finance Initiative provides:
* Home buyer financing for qualified borrowers through private financial institutions-
[participating commercial banks to be listed here].
cost estimates are based on mid-1995 prices of larger scale projects, including on-site infrastructure, net of the cost of land; and on a
I OOm2 unit.
21  Skeleton is a building with foundations, structural columns, beams, roof and about 50% of intemal block walls. Included are
infrastructure connections and fees (water and electricity) and building permit fees. This option is marketed for families or co-
operatives that want to complete the unit to their own specifications over time, as they can obtain the financing to do so.
31  hlininuwn Finish is a unit as above, plus lowest-cost extemal finishes, doors and windows; some intemal doors, basic plumbing,
electrical conduits, and drains in bath and kitchen. Families that want a lowest-cost unit that they can move into, and upgrade or
develop the interior finishing and room configuration to their specifications over time.
X   Bsic includes the features of the Minimum Finish, plus modes quality tiles for all floors, all internal doors and partitions, power
receptacles and fixtures, interior paint, and exterior plastering and painting.



Annex 5
Page 9 of 13
Improving the affordability of home buyer financing through a Housing Assistance Fund
(HAF). The HAF is a program to transfer assistance to eligible households to enhance their
ability to buy housing. The program improve the affordability of housing by reducing the
down-payment constraint and size of financial obligations necessary to buy housing,
particularly for Palestinian families with relatively low incomes. The HAF is administered
by the MOH.
12.   For purposes of this project, and of the developers' marketing plan, potential buyers can apply to
the financing and Housing Assistance programs. In developing a marketing strategy for the proposal,
developers should refer to: [institutions to be specified here].



Annex 5
Page 10 of 13
Part 3: Specific Site Requirements
This section provides the participating developer with information on the specific site development
requirements. It explains what development concepts, standards, specifications and cost targets can
and cannot be included in the proposal.
NOTE: For purposes of developing State-owned land such as the Tal El-Hawa Demonstration Site,
the MOH has conducted the required land suitability and clearances, according to guidelin-s and
requirements of the PA and the IDA. For all State-owned sites, the MOH must conduct consultations
with the Physical Planning Department and the Municipality of Gaza to confirm that the proposed
development conforms to the relevant planning guidelines such as the Physical Master Plan for Gaza
Strip and the Special Master Plan for Gaza City, or equivalent reviews for other West Bank and Gaza
cities. MOH must also obtain environmental review and clearance form the Environmental Planning
Directorate of the Ministry of Planning and Environmental Cooperation ; Archaeological review and
clearance from the Palestinian Department of Archaeology of the Ministry of Tourism and
Antiquities; and has prepared a report on clearances for the legal status, existing clains and
compensation offormal and informal users of the site. The developer should alert and review with the
MOH any issues that may arise in the design and development of the site regarding the above.
Site Location
1.    Developers are asked to prepare proposals for the development of lower cost housing for the site
, located at          . [Complete description and site plans, maps etc. here]
Site Description
2.    The site for development is __, a tract of land owned by _____, located in __, totaling
dunums. The plot and registry information is presented on maps _ . [detailed description here-
varies with site]
Specific Proposal Requirements
3.    The site development proposal should contain (also see Forms 4 through 10 of Appendix B):
(a) proposed designs and housing types (including options, if desired) for each site that
will cost no more than [cost caps here];
(b) parcellation layouts, infrastructure/services networks and their designs for each site;
(c) report on the financial viability of the development, by presenting cost estimates (all in)
for the entire site to be developed, including the proposed sale prices to purchasers; and,
(d) proposed marketing strategy and procedures for plot/unit sales.
Development Requirements
4.    [to be determined by specific site]
Development Regulations:
5.    [to be determined by specific site]



Annex 5
Page 11 of 13
Part 4: Instructions for Submitting the Proposal
This section provides the participating developer with information on the steps and requirements for
submitting the proposed It explains what is neededfor each step, whatforms are neededfor each, and
how to present the proposal.
Summary of the Process
1.    The following are the steps anticipated:
-  STEP                                                            TIME FRAME
1. MOH advertises Housing Program
2. Developer submits pre-qualification and registers
3. MOH issues letter of invitation and Request for
Proposals (RFP) for a specific site                               start-up date
4. MOH conducts bidder's question/answer meeting                      2 weeks after (3)
5. MOH arranges site visit                                            1 week after (4)
6. Developer responds in writing of intention to participate          I week after (3)
7. Developer prepares proposal (technical and financial)              6 weeks after (6)
8. Developer submits proposal-physical and financial                  8 weeks after (3)
9. MOH evaluates proposals and approves/rejects submittal             3 weeks after (8)
10. MOH/Developer negotiate                                           I week after (9)
11. MOH awards contract                                               2 weeks after (10)
12. Developer obtains permits and approvals                           2 weeks after (9)
13. Developer submits a bond                                          with (8)
14. Developer markets units                                           with (I I)
15. Developer secures, construction financing, if necessary           with (8)
16. Developer constructs project                                      as needed
17. MOH and municipality check construction                           during construction
18. Upon completion Developer gives municipality initial delivery
of infrastructure for compliance and conveyance.                   upon completion
19. Buyer signs purchase/sale agreement                               after ( 11)
20. Buyer secures financing (with or without subsidy) from
commercial bank                                                    own arrangement
21. Developer/buyer transact sale agreement
22. Buyer takes possession of unit                                    upon completion



Annex 5
Page 12 of 13
Part 5: Proposal Review and Evaluation
This section provides the participating developer with information on how the specific proposal will be
evaluated. It explains what considerations, criteria and ranking will be assigned in selecting the most
appropriate proposaL
Process to be Used
1.    The PA and MOH will establish an inter-ministerial Review and Evaluation Committee for the
purpose of evaluating proposals, ranking and selecting proposals, negotiating with finalist and awarding
contracts for developing the project.
Step I: Threshold Criteria
2.    This step is the first cut. Applicants who do not meet these requirements will not be considered
further: The following must be met:
* First: Only a complete application can be considered. Incomplete applications will be
rejected. Applications must be typed. Ten copies must be provided (English and Arabic).
* Second: Applications must meet all of the requirements described under Eligibility Criteria
in Part 1. Please note that the basic eligibility requirements include: an ability to finance and
manage the project, successful past experience, and screening by other government
departments.
Step II: Development Criteria
3.    Only applications that meet the threshold criteria of Step I will move to Step II. The following
criteria will be used to evaluate the product and the development team:
(a)   Price and affordability of the product. For guidelines, please review Part 2,
Guidelines for Preparing the Proposal. To hold costs down, trade-off on space,
amenities, finishing and choice of materials may be necessary (see par. _ ).
Proposals selected will be the ones that best strike the balance between quantity,
quality and price.
(b)   Quality of the design and the product. Innovation and provision of amenities at lower
price will receive bonus points. Applicants should carefully review the sections on
Design Guidelines and Building Standards and Requirements. MOH is looking for
quality in materials and workmanship, energy efficiency, low maintenance costs, the
quality of the living environment created, and the quality and compatibility of the
design.
NOTE:
-The MOH is encouraging applicants to creatively use design, technology
and efficiency to increase affordability-
(c)   Development team track record and capacity. Only applicants who demonstrate that
they can deliver the product, at the stated price and on time, will be considered. The
developer's must also demonstrate the capacity to finance the project.



Annex 5
Page 13 of 13
Step III: Negotiation of Contract
4.     The following information is given to acquaint the Developer with the manner in which the
contract will be negotiated. The Ministry of Housing will aim at reaching an agreement on all points with
the development firm and initiating a draft contract by the conclusion of negotiations.
Evaluation Criteria
5.    Proposals will be evaluated considering the following items with their relative weighting:
(a)    The design and suitability of the site development, and response to required standards
for the housing unit and compatibility of design to parameters of efficiency and
functionality; including site planning and targeting of beneficiaries.
(30 points)
(b)    The bid sales price. A breakdown describing unit size, materials used leading to sales
price is required. Development costs by unit rate, overhead costs, and profits should
be specified and included in the final unit sales price.
(30 points)
(c)    The adequacy of the proposed work plan and approach in responding to the call for
bids. Includes review of Work Program, Project Manager, Staff, and Cash Flow
assessment.
(30 points)
(d)    Overall responsiveness of bid to client requirements and general impression.
(10 points)
(e)    Bonus items (if applicable), including use of small builders, provision of extra
amenities (communal center, etc.)
(varies, from 10-20)
Only proposals scoring 60 points and above will be considered acceptable.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Features of the Housing Finance Component
Purpose
1.    In order to stimulate and encourage the provision of affordable housing to all employed households and
encourage fnancial sector development in WBG, the project seeks to create a sound and sustainable financial system
that features an effective set of institutional mechanisms for providing housing finance. At the core of such a system is
the provision of credit by private financial institutions to qualified borrowers. The project supports the creation of
specialized institutions to reallocate a portion of mortgage risk and enhance the affordability of housing.
2.     The project helps establish the Palestinian Secondary Morgage Facility (SMF) as an private shareholding
company with the purpose of providing long-term finance to banks to reduce the liquidity risk incurred in mortgage
lending. The operations of the SMF will also produce an excess interest rate spread (described below) tha will
facilitate credit risk sharing with banks making mortgage loans to qualified borrowers within WBG. The excess
spread, termed the Mortgage Indemnitv Fund (MF), will be operated by the SMF apart from its normal refinancing
operations. Both the provision of long term loans to banks and the sharing of credit risk will facilitate the introduction
of mortgage lending in an uncertain economic, legal and regulatory environment. The activities of the SMF and the
MIF will increase the flow of funds to housing and improve the affordability of housing finance in WBG. In addition,
as the SMF moves to raising funds through the issuance of bonds it may contribute to the development of the local
capital market.
3.     The institutional structure within which the SMF will operate is shown in Figure 1. It will raise funds initially
through long-term loans from donors which will be made to the Palestinian Authority, the official borrowing entity.
The borrower will make these funds available to the SMF which will on-lend the funds to qualified banks in WBG.
The terms of the on-financing agreement between the banks and the SMF will include the definition of qualified
mortgage loans, standards for bank documentation, loan terms, reporting and underwriting and the extent of bank
provision of mortgage loans from own funds. These terms and conditions are discussed in more detail below. The
MWF will use the excess spread from SMF operations to provide credit risk sharing to banks.
Figure I
Palestinian Secondary Mortgage Facility
T  Donors    Loans  Secondary          Mortgage
(through official   Mortgage       -   Indemnity
borrower)           Facility    Excess    Fund
Spread
Loans
Banks    >- --
Credit Risk
Sharing



Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
Structure
4.     Organization. The SMF has been registered on March 10, 1997 (# 563122563) as a shareholding company
for the purpose of providing long-termn finance for qualified mortgage lenders. The two founding shareholders are the
PA and the PMA. Each has subscribed $1,000,0000in equity and the initial authorized capital is $6.0 million.
5.     The SMF will have a Founding Board of Directors appointed by the PA. In its initial configuration, the
SMIF will have five directors:
Public Directors One representative of the Ministry of Finance, one representative of the
Ministry of Housing and one representative of the Palestine Monetary Authority; and
Private Directors Two senior representatives. One from a financial institution qualified to do
business with the SMF and one from the housing sector to be nominated by the Minister of
Housing.
6.     The founding shareholders will invite private institutions, commercial banks in particular, to invest in the
SMF at as early a date as possible. Private shareholders shall be able to vote their shares as soon as their capital is paid
in and the board shall be restructured as soon as the equity paid-in by private investors is double than of the public
owners (i.e. $4 million from private investors and a total capital of $6 million). At that time, envisioned to occur
within 18 months of creation, the shareholders will elect representatives to the Board of Directors. The Board will be
reconstituted as follows:
Public Directors One representative of the Ministry of Finance, one representative of the
Ministry of Housing and one representative of the Palestine Monetary Authority; and
Private Director Four Directors elected by shareholders and the Managing Director, appointed
by the Board.
7.     Regulatory and Tax Treatment. As a unique and specialized institution in WBG, the treatment of its loans
and securities, lending and investment authority and tax status must be determined in advance. The regulations should
ensure that the SMF operates in a safe and sound manner and that qualified banks have an incentive to use the
services of the institution. SMF advances should be exempt from any future PMA reserve requirements as they
represent a source of liquidity and long term finance. SMW debt securities, when issued, should be eligible
investrnents for banks and institutional investors, reflecting their high credit quality. The securities should be accorded
a lower risk-based capital weight of 20 percent as interbank debt obligations. As a financial institution, the SMF will
be supervised by the Palestine Monetary Authority. The PMA will establish capital adequacy requirements for the
SMF and monitor both the financial condition of the SMF and its adherence to its charter powers.
Sources of Funds
8.     Donor Fun. The initial source of funds for the SMF will be long termn loans from donors. These funds will
be available on a variety of terms and conditions (and currencies) ranging from heavily subsidized loans (e.g., World
Bank TFGWB on IDA terms) to near market-rate loans. In general, it is anticipated that donor funds will be long term
in nature (i.e., over 10 years) at fixed rates of interest.
9.     Own Funds. The SMF will generate own funds through the repayment of principal and interest on its loans
and eventually through the issuance of debt and obtaining bank loans. The SMF will obtain equity from investors.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
10.    Ban*ing. The SMF will need to establish normal banking arrangements (i.e., having deposits in and
receiving a line of credit from one or more local banks).
Uses of Funds
11.    Loans. The primary activity of the SMF will be the provision of long term loans to qualified mortgage
lenders. The terms of the loans can be simple (e.g., non-amortizing term) or complex (amortizing, prepayable)
depending on the needs of its customers. In general, its loans will be long term (e.g., 7 to 10 years or more) facilitating
liquidity risk management of mortgage lenders. Initially, the loans will be secured by an assignment by the bank to
the SMF of all or part of the bank's right to the security underlying the bank's loan together with a general obligation
of the bank to repay the SMF.
12.    The terms and conditions of the loans will specify the requirements for the participating banks. The
requirements will include (but not be restricted) to the following:
a.     registration of a mortgage against the home of the borrower;
b.     definition of an eligible mortgage;
C.     specification of a set of standard loan terms, documentation and underwriting
requirements;
d.     requirement that the bank match SMF loan funds (e.g., 70% SMF funds and 30% bank
funds); and
e.     specification of the reporting and servicing requirements of the banks.
13.    An example ofthe lending relationship between the banks and the SMF is shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2
SMF Operations
Funding                      Representative
Allocation                   Interest Rates
70%           SMF
Loan              75 %
30%          [ank
Loans             10%
rrw r



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
14.    In this example, the SMF will provide 70 percent of the funds made available to borrowers and the
participating bank will provide 30 percent. The SMF will make a loan to the bank at a fixed rate of interest (e.g., 7.5
percent) and the bank will add a fixed margin (e.g., 2.5 percentage points) to cover its administrative costs, risk and
profit.
15.    Investments. The SMF will invest in high quality government issued or related securities in order to manage
its liquidity risk and enhance the MTF.
16.    The SMF will earn a spread -between its funding and loan rates. This spread will be used to cover its
administrative costs and risk. In order to fund the Mortgage Indemnity Fund (NM) (discussed below) most of this
spread will be transferred to the MIF as a reserve against future default loss.
Mortgage Indemnity Fund (MIF)
17.    The MIF is structured as a facility to share default loses on mortgage lending. The formula for sharing will
be agreed in advance, most likely on aparipassu basis. Loans eligible for MIF risk sharing will be restricted either by
borrower income or house price in order to encourage banks to move down market as they introduce mortgage
lending. The MIF will be segregated from the operations and capital base of the SMF. Total claims on the NI4F are
limited by the transfer of funds from the SMF which will grow with SMF operations.
Palestinian Secondary Mortgage Facility: Organization Structure
18.    Structwue. In general, because the SMF will be a purely wholesale, institution, dealing in relatively few but
large financial transactions, its staff and expenses should be much smaller relative to assets employed than the typical
retail deposit-taking bank. The suggested basic organization of the SMIF is shown below.
Figure 3
SMF Organization
Supervisory
Board
Chief
Executive
Accounting      internal
AuditJ
Legal
Credit      Treasu       Marketing    Operations    Research
The loans may also be on a floating rate basis, depending on market demand. For lower income borrowers, a
fixed interest rate may be preferable so as to reduce the potential default risk of variable payments.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
Staffing
19.    Managing Director. This individual will be responsible for creating the organization. He/she should be an
experienced banking executive with strong knowledge of finance financial markets in particular, strong
entrepreneurial and marketing drive and the necessary personal standing for political and capital market credibility.
Education Graduate degree in business administration or economics with an emphasis on finance
or accounting.
Experience At least five years of experience at a senior level with a financial institution. The
candidate should have considerable administrative and decision-making experience and at least
five years of experience with a financial institution in an Arab country.
20.    Staff Functions. The legal department reports to the Managing Director (MD). The Legal staff should
include expertise in both real estate and banking law. In the early stages of development, the Legal department may
also include the human resources function of the SMF. Internal Audit reports functionally to the Board and
administratively to the MD. Internal Audit needs to be a strong function, reflecting the high credit quality of the
institution and the need for strong internal controls (e.g., credit risk and asset-liability management).
21.    Line Functions. Three principal line functions are suggested:
a.     Credit. Conservative and effective management of credit is essential to the success of the
SMF. The Credit department must provide thorough analysis of financial institutions,
including developing information sources to monitor the performance of and trends in
and comparisons across its bank borrowers. The SMF must obtain on a timely basis
financial information on the performance of its borrowers and their mortgage portfolios.
One aspect of the Credit function will be to conduct field audits of its borrowers (e.g., to
check on documentation, underwriting and performance of mortgagc portfolios). The
Credit department will have the immediate responsibility to create the Credit Policy of
the SMF which will require the approval of the Board. The Credit Policy will contain,
among other items, appropriate documentation, underwriting and servicing guidelines
for bank mortgage lending funded by the SMF, appropriate reporting requirements from
the banks to the SMF, and the appropriate collection and loss documentation procedures
of the banks. In addition, the Credit Policy will set the standards for qualification of
individual banks as a borrowers of the SMF (e.g., staffing, capital adequacy,
procedures). The Board will approve all on-lending contracts with individual banks. The
head of the Credit function should have significant experience in the analysis of and
extension of credit to financial institutions as well as the underwriting of loans to
consumers (in particular housing loans).
b.     Finance. The key Finance function is the management of the SMF's own investment
portfolio, liquidity, exchange rate and interest rate risk and, in general, the maintenance
of a well controlled, conservative balance sheet. Finance will have the immediate
responsibility to create the Asset-Liability Management Policy of the SMF, which will
require approval by the Board. In the future, if the SMF begins issuing its own debt
securities, Finance will be responsible for management of relationships with investors,
capital market regulators, underwriters, market makers and rating agencies. The Finance
function includes both financial accounting and the preparation of public statements, and
managerial accounting including budgeting, cost analysis and performance
measurement. The head of the Finance department should have significant banking and



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
capital market experience.
c.     Operations. The Operations function has the responsibility for transaction processing
which keeps the SMF functioning day-to-day, as well as various support services. Thus
its responsibilities include funds transfer, safekeeping, collateral administration,
information technology development and data processing, loan processing, purchasing,
management of the physical premises, security, internal and external mail and
telecommunications, etc. Its top priorities are efficiency, control and cost effectiveness.
A key role will be to develop the data processing systems that will allow the facility to
obtain and analyze real time information from its customers. The head of the Operations
department should be an individual with significant operational experience in a banking
institution.
22.    Transition Staff It is not expected that the SMF will be fully staffed prior to making its first loans. At a
minimum, the SMF must have hired a Managing Director, obtained office space and administrative help, retained
local counsel to structure its initial contracts with borrowers, and hired both a credit analyst to assist in reviewing bank
mortgage lending procedures and developing a database to track performance and a financial analyst to begin
developing the SMF's intemal asset-liability management reports and guidelines.



Annex 7
Page I of 14
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Housing Assistance Fund: Organization and Operations
Introduction
1.    The proposed Palestinian Housing Assistance Fund (RAF) is designated to provide targeted
assistance to low- to moderate-income households for the purchase of a primar7 residence. Households
will utilize their own savings and loans from banks in conjunction with grants from RAF to purchase
housing in the $20,000 to $30,000 price range. The HAF will provide funds (or reduced priced inputs
such as land) directly to households, thereby maximizing the transparency and equity of the program.
Direct provision of funds allows the Ministry of Housing to target those households most in need of
support and ascertain that benefits flow to the intended recipients. The grants will be conditioned on the
savings performance of Palestinian households, thus leveraging scarce donor funds and providing a
transparent basis for allocating funds. By providing a strong incentive for saving, the fund can reduce the
credit risk of bank mortgage lending, both by increasing the downpayment for residence purchase and by
providing banks with a positive signal about the financial capabilities and discipline of households. The
amount of assistance will be based on need, with those at the lower end of the proposed income range
receiving the largest amount of assistance.
2.     Beyond the scope of the present housing project it is intended to develop RAF as the institution
that permanently assumes responsibility for personal assistance programs in Palestinian housing policy.
Future HAF functions could include housing allowances for rental tenants, support of savings that
households could devote to housing, and support for the renovation and upgrading of homes. RAF will
thereby exercise a core function of Housing Policy; following the guidelines of the Ministry, but
operating independently.
3.     The structure of the HAF is shown in Figure 1. It will raise funds from donors, through both
direct grants and the concessionary portion of loans, and from the Palestinian Authority through the
contribution of land and funds. Using guidelines developed by the Palestinian Ministry of Housing, the
HAF will allocate grants to qualifying households. Qualification for and level of assistance will be based
on household characteristics, such as saving a necessary amount, and on obtaining a loan from a
mortgage lender in West Bank and Gaza (WBG).
Since the only resource available to HAF at the outset is public land, the initial grants will be in the form of reduce
charges for land to households deemed eligible. The full procedure discussed here will be put in place as other
resources become available to the HAF.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 14
Figure 1
Palestinian Housing Assistance Fund
FnsHOUSINGPLETIIA
DONORS    FnsASSISTACEATORT
(Future)         FUND          Land l
Grants  <    uidelines      RYUSIN
MORTGAGE             HOUEHLD
|LENDER5S              OSEOO
Loans
Purpose and Benefits
4.     By all accounts, there is an enormous demand for housing among the residents of the WBG. A
majority of the residents of these areas live in overcrowded units, particularly those living in the refugee
camps. Much of the problem can be attributed to extended, multi-generational families that share a single
dwelling unit. A core issue is therefore to enable the families of the second and third generations to
finance a home, thereby alleviating the overcrowding of the remaining families and at the same time
catering to the demand for homeownership. These so-called nuclear families (couple and unmarried
children) are typically not the homeowners of the dwellings they share; their head of household will be in
his twenties or thirties and have a strong motivation for initiating a continuous process of savings
towards purchasing his own dwelling.
5.     Although there is a strong desire among these families for their for own homes, it is difficult to
translate this desire into effective demand due to low and unsteady income. Under the present level of
house prices, a standard unit which costs $50,000 would only be affordable for families with a net
income over $1,200, provided there is 70% loan-to-value debt finance available. As a consequence of the
unavailability of both formal finance and housing assistance, large amounts of personal savings of
families in the low- and middle-income ranges remain unmobilized. The HAF is intended to help tap
these resources by assisting those families who in principle could get a bank loan for the purchase or
construction of a home. It is envisaged that eligible households will fall within a target income range for
support that will allow them access to the homeownership market.2 Starting from this point, the intention
is to push down the threshold for formal financing among families ranked by their income as far as the
limits of available funds for housing assistance allow.
6.     Because present economic and administrative circumstances in WBG limit the number of
families with formal income documentation, care must obviously be taken over whether income is
feasible as the main parameter for assistance. In principle, altematives are available: for instance,
limiting the maximum house price, or restricting assistance to certain, well defined groups. If funds were
less limited, giving a flat housing assistance to all prospective homeowners will be a feasible strategy.
However, the strategy is to develop the foundations of an economically sustainable program with
minimal susceptibility to political and economic intervention. This approach requires necessarily the
2 Lower-income households will continue to have access to other assistance programs, including rental assistance
and home improvement grants from agencies such as UNRWA and USAID.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 14
continuous development of standard income documentation in cooperation-operation with the PA entities
involved. There are numerous approaches to providing personal assistance for housing. Experience has
shown that a very effective approach is the provision of cash assistance directly to families to support
their downpayment or periodic housing expenses. Cash based assistance can be targeted most effectively
to those in need, is transparent to donors, and can be managed on a cost effective basis (particularly
relative to in-kind assistance wherein housing units are built for recipients). Furthermore, cash-based
assistance to households does not distort financial institutions or markets and need not distort housing
markets if production is relatively free to respond to demand. The assistance will most likely be given as
an up-front subsidy as a substitute for bank loans, thereby reducing the threshold needed to obtain formal
finance. Substituting bank loans rather than buying down the interest paid on the loan has the further
advantage of maximizing the financial return on the assistance while reducing administrative costs for a
limited assistance program.
7.     A major issue in providing housing assistance payments to residents of WBG is equitability.
Ideally, benefits should be distributed to those most in need based on a consistent demand oriented
program that does not discriminate among families other than by setting some general guidelines. A fully
demand driven program will presuppose a steady source of budgetary financing for housing assistance
which is not available at this point in time. Eligibility criteria for the program will therefore be
formulated in a rather restrictive way, so that all further administrative steps taken by HAF will have the
character of queuing up families rather than creating a second, non-transparent selection mechanism.
This strategy has the advantage of minimizing public expectations and reducing the potential discomfort
of families that devote much time and effort to applications. Eventually, eligibility criteria will be
reformulated in order to broaden the range of families who will be considered for assistance. The
institution building aspect here is to establish the principle of self-selection of applicants, breaking with a
long standing tradition of administrative discretion.
8.     The eligibility criteria for assistance will rely on the subsidiary principle, enabling families that
can contribute some of their own resources for housing to leverage scarce donor funds, while
maintaining a maximum income limit. A program that makes use of existing savings and the
accumulation of new savings for housing can expand the pool of long-term resources in the economy. If
such resources are accessible to financial institutions, they can support increased lending and reduce
funding risks. In order to qualify for assistance, families must present a finance and savings plan for the
planned investment, thereby fostering a substantial commitment to housing finance that further reduces
the risks of mortgage lending.
9.     The amount of savings will be the primary basis upon which households are prioritized to
receive assistance. In a first phase, sufficient downpayment capacity for the fulfillment of the financing
plan will be required in order to start the program. This restriction will soon be relaxed, allowing for a
period of 9-15 months over which the household can accumulate funds for downpayment in a formal
savings plan with the participating banks. The households that demonstrate a stable savings behavior
over the required period will be given priority. Requiring potential beneficiaries to generate savings
provides several advantages:
a. The accumulated savings used toward the down payment will lower the need for assistance,
thereby stretching donor funds;
b. If the savings are to be deposited in a bank account over a period of time, the household
shows his discipline to set aside money on a regular basis, providing a signal about the
creditworthiness of the household;



Annex 7
Page 4 of 14
c. Generating savings over a period of time assists in managing the time sequencing of the
program. Because housing will become available only gradually, the phased savings plan
assists in matching housing availability with the eligibility of program beneficiaries.
10.   In addition to savings performance, the family size and income as well as the housing situation
of the family will be taken into account. Prioritization will also reflect special social situations, such as
single parenthood or special groups defined by the PA, as far as these families are eligible for formal
sector finance. HAF will develop a limited capacity to survey the applicants on a random basis, in order
to minimize a misuse of the program.
l.    Families selected for housing assistance that can produce the necessary downpayment will be
given grants which, when combined with a loan from a financial institution, will allow them to purchase
a modest cost house. HAF will play the role of an intermediary between the family and the participating
banks in case of disagreement. The assistance will be accessible to the customers of any bank lending to
qualified families. Banks will play the role of assisting the borrower's application for housing assistance
in order to realize the envisaged financing plan.
Structure
12.    Organization. The Housing Assistance Fund (HAF) will be an official government entity
charged with providing cash grants to assist households in obtaining housing. The HAF will be
administered by the Ministry of Housing according to guidelines developed jointly between the Ministry
and donors based on information on surveys of WBG households. These guidelines will be reviewed
annually. HAF will, however, operate and select beneficiaries independently from the Ministry.
13.   Procedures. The most important design element of HAF from a political and an institution
building point of view is the application procedure. There are two competing sequences:
a.    Direct HAFApplication. Families may apply directly to the HAF, bringing all necessary
documentation. HAF will maintain an extensive customer relations service, which will
assist families in applying. HAF will register the application, establish the total number
of points for the household, and decide upon eligibility and priority. After appropriation
of the subsidy, the household will receive a voucher and then approach a bank for a loan.
In the first stage of the project, banks contracting with the SMF will also have to check
the eligibility criteria for benefiting from an SMF-refinanced loan.
b.    Pre-Screening by Banks and Consequent HAFApplication. Initiating the application
procedure in a bank that contracts with the SMF will be the principal alternative. Based
on a specific contract structure with SMF (which requires a minimum lending to low-
income households), banks will advertise the program, thereby announcing both the
existence and guidelines of HAF. During the first stage of the project, while the
availability of SMF refinancing is limited, banks will select borrowers by dividing their
family income into three baskets:



Annex 7
Page 5 of 14
*      families not eligible for an SMF-refinanced loan (basket A);
*      families eligible for an SMF-refinanced loan, but not eligible for HAF assistance
(basket B);
*      families eligible for an SMF-refinanced loan and HAF assistance (basket C).
14.    The bank and the prospective client belonging to basket C will strive to agree on a financing and
savings plan, stating the financing deficit that will occur under the condition of an affordable debt
service. Borrowers will be handed HAF applications to submit together with the financing and savings
plan. HAF will then survey and prioritize applicants for a subsidy voucher.
15.    The first alternative will give the HAF considerable discretion about the selection of families.
The threshold needed for the household to approach HAF will be lowered, as no formal negotiation with
a bank is required in the initial stage of the process. However, eligibility requirements will have to
include the existence of savings/downpayments in a bank. Also, the application effort and costs for the
applicant will be high in dealing directly with the HAF as it has a limited infrastructure. Most
importantly, HAF cannot force banks to lend if the selected families are not acceptable credit risks.
16.    Pre-screening the application through participating banks will instead give a signal of principal
creditworthiness to the HAF that may be the only reliable way to select the target group. Banks will
receive an administrative fee for this duty. Not having selected beneficiaries according to a feasible
financing plan has been a serious shortcoming in previous housing projects in WBG, leading to an
undesirable high level of subsidies. Sharing the screening tasks with participating banks will also serve to
minimize HAF's administration. Banks will certainly do their own technical and financial examination of
the applicant's project, a service which will be very expensive for HAF to perform. HAF could thus
minimize its administrative functions. In the unlikely case of every single one of the participating banks
declining to develop a financing and savings plan with the applicant, it should be left open to the
borrower to appeal with HAF. The likelihood of such an event will be reduced by accordingly adjusting
the contract over SMF refinancing (e.g. condition of splitting between basket B and basket C).
17.    The RAF will organize its application procedures around four principal tasks: (1) setting
program eligibility guidelines and communicating them to participating families and banks; (2)
surveying, prioritizing, and selecting beneficiaries; (3) providing funds to selected beneficiaries on the
basis of a complete financing plan; and (4) monitoring beneficiaries to ascertain whether funds were
spent as intended. For these operations, HAF will have to coordinate with banks, as well as with central
and local government institutions.



Annex 7
Page 6 of 14
Figure 2
HAF Application Procedure
APPLICATION
Reception ofthe
application through bank
ELIGIBIIJTY        rnoteligible I       F  eligible  |                I  SocialAdministrator&
Head of Social Affairs Div.
[out                              '    1
SOCIAL SURVEY                                Social Survey                  Social Surveyors
ApplicantNopasd                        Pse
appeals   befor I
fLniv Heapd -         
PRIORITIZATION                           Prioritization through Point      Social Admiistrator
System
Re-ranking for               ,/
next drawing                           IPassed
REVIEW OF FINANCING PLAN                                                  Social Administrator &
Final Review ofFinancing        Head of Social Affairs
Plan     Div. & Program Manager
No/S                Insufficient down-  All finance  com
bank loan           payment             ponents in place
e 13tlStIon 0  F Re-ranking for
with btlk fHF     Inext drawing
BREACH OF COVENANCE
Reminder, final reminder      [   Social Admninistrator
(coordinated with bank)
Borrower resumes          Reclaim of subsidy,
i payments       |        | opening       of
_________________        Lforecloste       I          Social Administrator &
Head ofSocial Affairs
Div. & Program Manager
Settlement   with'            __
other creditors



Annex 7
Page 7 of 14
18.   Setting Eligibility Guidelines. Eligibility criteria serve to effectively select the envisaged target
group while limiting the number of applications and the related administration costs for HAF. In order to
target the assistance in line with the objectives of the program:
a.    the standardizedfamily income level for assistance will be limited to $   . To facilitate
comparisons of affordability between families, a standard method is to deduct
consumption equivalents for each family member from the family income
(standardization). Consumption equivalents are calculated and updated by the Palestinian
Central Bureau of Statistics (PCBS) based on its on-going, 4,800 household
Consumption and Expenditure Survey. In the case of banks and HAF, standardization
will only require the number and age of family members as additional information to
income. The HAF will update information in cooperation-operation with the PCBS;
b.    the family shall not be homeowners already. As a default, it is assumed that nuclear
families living with their parents are not homeowners. Homeowning families living in an
overcrowded situation will be eligible as well, after a procedure of how to measure
overcrowding has been established. Housing quality will not be considered as a criterion,
as other programs available already address the issue of home improvements;
c.    the family should not have received other benefits from PA, or donors, over a specified
limit;
d.     being full aware of the constraints on measurement, the family should not possess
financial wealth over a limit of $   . Methods of measurement shall be developed over
time. Real wealth in the form of land should not be restricted, if the size does not exceed
the needed size for an single-family house;
e.     afinancing and savings plan for the targeted house price, including the envisaged
subsidy, shall be produced as an addendum to the HAF application. A technical
assistance program to train banks will be set up as a part of the initiative. In the initial
stage of the program, evidence of the complete downpayment (20-25%) will be required.
In the final stage, this will be replaced by a short-term savings plan over 9-15 months.
19.    Surveying, Prioritizing and Selecting Applicants. As a principle, prioritization and selection
should be done through an equitable, understandable system. This is necessary as available resources
have to be matched with demands. This queuing up of applicants does not entail a second selection
process. Before prioritization, eligible applicants are socially surveyed on a random basis (10-25% of
applications) by HAF social surveyors in order to counter fraudulent applications and update the
accuracy of the eligibility criteria/point system. No technical surveys will be undertaken by HAF, as
banks (with technical assistance from HAF) will take over this task as part of their normal mortgage
lending business.
20.    A point system can be used to prioritize potential beneficiaries. The point system must serve the
dual purposes of encouraging conformity with Housing Program goals and queuing up potential
beneficiaries.
a.     Social cases. These should be given a low weight in prioritization in order not to distort
the probability of a normal applicant being selected. Points will be given to handicapped
persons, families that suffered losses under Israeli occupation, and single parent families,



Annex 7
Page 8 of 14
Larger groups of social cases, as returning policemen, must be addressed under a special
programs.
b.     Overcrowding. Housing density will be evaluated by a persons-per-room figure of the
applying nuclear family. The number of nuclear families per household, being the main
incentive for a nuclear family to build its own dwelling, will be considered as well. For
both criteria, a simple documentation procedure, based on the forthcoming PCBS
housing census, and administered by municipalities will be developed.
c.     Standardizedfamily income. Will be given a low weight, reflecting the trade-off between
available funds and affordability.
d.     Savings and rent payments. Savings are weighted heavily in prioritization as they
demonstrate the ability of the applicant to achieve financial goals. Savings effort will be
measured in the final stage of HAF through three indicators:
*      Length of savings period: Beginning with application, 9-12 months, if savings
are larger than 20% of income. In the initial phase, because full downpayments
are required, the length of the savings period will be canceled as an item on the
point list.
*      Amount of savings: Any additional savings over the required minimum over the
established time period will yield additional points, up to a limit.
*      The amount of current housing expenditure establishes both a cost-push
motivation for building a family owned house and an indication of housing
related effort. The level of rent plus utility payments will be considered.
e.     Downpayment effort. The points will relate downpayments to income, as banks will
require an absolute minimum downpayment. The number of points here will be low for
the same reasons as income.
21.    The HAF will exist in order to assist households to purchase a residence. To do so will require a
combination of the grant, savings, and a loan. After prioritization, a final review of the financing plan
will be performed that decides the appropriation of the subsidy. If the downpayment is missing or
insufficient, the applicant is requeued for the next prioritization round. If no loan has been approved
despite the financing and savings plan, a negotiation process with the participating bank will be started.
In the initial stage of the program a central matter will be to develop a case-by-case settlement
mechanism in dispute cases.
22.   Disbursement. The actual provision of assistance can be through a voucher. A voucher is a
certificate reflecting contractual obligation of the HAF to pay a part of the purchase price of a residence.
As housing becomes available, vouchers can be awarded to those who have fully qualified for assistance,
which requires that they are high in the point system queue and have qualified for a loan. The voucher
can be delivered to the mortgage lender at settlement as a supplement to the participant's contribution to
the down payment. It can then be redeemed by the participating financial institution for cash with the
HAF.



Annex 7
Page 9 of 14
23.   Follow-up. The final task will be to develop a system for enforcing HAF standards. Funds must
be used for the construction or purchase a qualified house. Beneficiaries should be expected to live in
their residences. Rules about selling a residence that has been subsidized have to be established; standard
rules existing in other countries prohibit sales within 3 to 10 years after purchase.
Sources of Funds
24.   The HAF will obtain its funds from donor grants or from concessional loans provided by donors.
In addition, the PA will contribute public land for the construction of low cost housing and, in the future,
budgetary resources to sustain the operation of the HAF. HAF funds can be channeled directly from
donors or through the Secondary Market Facility (SMF). To the extent that donor loans to the SMF are at
concessional (below-market) rates, the difference between the concessional rate and market rate can be
provided to the Housing Assistance Fund.
25.   Under the proposed structure of the subsidy scheme, an amount of $20 million can facilitate
home purchase by approximately 4,000 low-income households. The funds will be needed as qualifying
units are produced. Interest rate buydowns can serve to spread out a portion of the assistance payments
over the lives of the loans and can be combined with up-front grants.
Uses of Funds
26.   The HAF's role is to provide funding to help bridge the affordability gap for low- to moderate-
income households in WBG. The envisaged family income range to qualify for assistance is $350 to
$600 per month Without assistance, the small denomination mortgage for which such a household could
qualify will not enable it to purchase acceptable housing. The household will be expected to apply
approximately one year's income toward the down payment on a residence.
27.   The subsidy will be given to fund the deficit in the proposed financing plan, based on the
assumption of a house price of US$25,000. The deficit is calculated on the basis of a norm effort ratio,
which will vary to a limited extent with income (between 25%/$600 and 35%/$350) in order to stretch
donor funds. The contract between SMF and banks will be designed accordingly in order to cushion the
additional credit risk exposure of banks.
28.   In addition, the assistance grant will be capped at a level of US$6,000 in order to control the
subsidy-to-income relation, thereby minimizing disincentives to work and rent-seeking behavior. The
assistance has to be capped in the first stage of the program in order to reach as many households as
possible. A target is an average grant volume of under $5,000. For very low-income families the cap will
require a combination of additional debt service effort and more than one-year's income in
downpayments. This drawback trades off against a higher number of low-income families that can be
reached. This aspect is particularly important with regard to future financing of HAF from the PNA
budget. Table I shows how a median recipient household will finance a residence:



Annex 7
Page 10 of 14
Table 1
Housing Finance (Median Recipient)
Amount         Percentage
Residence Price               $25,000           100.0%
Loan Amount                   $13,840           55.4%
Downpayment (Savings)          $6,000           24.0%
Grant                          $5,160           20.6%
29.   In this example, the median recipient household, assumed in the first stage to have a monthly
income of $500, purchases a $25,000 residence. If the borrower obtains a 15 year loan at 9 percent in
dollar terms and pays a maximum of 27.5% percent of income to service the mortgage, the monthly
payment would be $138. The maximum loan the borrower can obtain is $13,840. Thus, the household
would have to raise an additional $11,160 to purchase the house. This monthly payment may be feasible
for many households earning $500 per month, but the down payment of could be unreachable. To make
this purchase feasible for a household earning $500 per month, assistance with the down payment is
necessary. Assuming that the borrower has an initial downpayment upon HAF application of 10% of the
house price ($2,500) he would have to save 27.5 percent of his salary for two years, in order to
accumulate $6,000 towards the downpayment. The required assistance for this household to purchase the
residence would be $5,160.
30.   The relative proportions of loan, grant, and savings will depend on the income of the household.
Appendix 1 contains examples of the grant, loan, and savings amounts for households of differing
incomes in the program. A household choosing to buy a more expensive home will be expected to cover
the full incremental expense of the higher priced residence out of its own funds (savings). The results of
this analysis are shown in Figure 3. The following general principles are evident:
a.    As income increases, a beneficiary should provide more savings toward the down
payment;
b.    As income increases, a beneficiary should obtain a larger mortgage;
c.    As income increases, a beneficiary should receive less donor assistance;
d.    Regardless of income variation, subsidies should remain capped in order to stretch donor
funds, raise work incentives and reduce rent-seeking behavior.



Annex 7
Page 11 of 14
Figure 3
Components of Home Purchase Price (Case: $25,000)
$16,000
$14,000
$12,000 X*l                                                 X Loan Amount
$12,000                     
$10,000 _Assistance Grant
$8,000    l
$6,000                           [                           _ r L L L < z Downpayment
$4,000
$2,000                                     *
$0 
$600    $550    $500    $450    $400    $350
31.    An equivalent amount of subsidy can be given either as a lump-sum subsidy; i.e., a once-and-for-
all payment that reduces the necessity for other financing sources such as loans, or as an interest buy-
down subsidy; i.e., a subsidization of current debt service payments. The advantages of a lump-sum
subsidy strategy are that:
a.    it alleviates the credit rationing problem of the borrower by reducing the loan volume
and thereby the loan-to-value level, which helps targeting low-income borrowers.
b.    it yields a financial return equal to the market loan interest rate as the loan is substituted.
c.    it is easy and inexpensive to administer.
32.    A disadvantage is that, given as cash subsidy, a lump-sum grant is difficult to recover in case of
fraud, i.e., the cost of monitoring is higher. The advantages of an interest buy-down are that:
a.    it allows control of the borrower, as subsidies can be withdrawn (relevant if the lump-
sum is a cash subsidy);
b.    it can mean a reduced subsidy if income growth is taken into consideration. It remains to
be seen whether HAF will be able to continuously review income under minimum
administrative costs.
33.    The disadvantages of interest buy-down include an inferior financial return as unused funds can
only be invested at deposit rates, i.e., the interest buy-down finances the spread of the banks.



Annex 7
Page 12 of 14
Furthermore, it will entail higher administrative costs. Ultimately, a buy-down strategy will require a
higher loan volume, with adverse effect on HAF's ability to target low-income families.
34.    Under the present high spreads of the banking system and the difficulties to monitor beneficiary
incomes, interest-buy-down is certainly an inferior financial strategy. However, the borrower's covenants
may be more effectively controlled than in the case of a lump-sum, where RAF might lose the whole
subsidy amount. Therefore, HAF, in cooperation with lenders, must vigorously control the borrower's
creditworthiness in a lump-sum procedure. Alternatively, HAF could finance a combination of a grace
period for capital repayments and lump-sum subsidies. This will lead to a deferment of scheduled
amortizations under the fixed-rate annuity and will allow for a better matching of lending and income
conditions.3
Organization
35.    The HAF will be a separate government entity under the supervision of the Ministry of Housing.
It will have a Director appointed by the Minister of Housing with complete responsibility for
administering the fund, screening and monitoring beneficiaries, and appropriating the assistance grants.
The proposed organization structure of the HAF is shown in Figure 4.
36.    There will be two main divisions of the RAF. The first, Social Affairs, will be in charge of
developing and administering eligibility guidelines and the point system for prioritization. As Figure 2
shows it organizes the entire application process and prepares the dossier for final decision making. In
addition, it will be responsible for cooperation with banks on all relevant issues. The Finance and
Operations division will be in charge of disbursing funds (both up-front grants and subsidy payments to
lenders in the case of interest rate buy-downs) and following up to determine that HAF funds were spent
properly. An important responsibility of the Operations division will be to develop a computer system to
track household eligibility and Fund disbursements. An External Auditor reporting to the Minister of
Housing, not displayed in this chart, will provide an independent review of how households are qualified
and funds are disbursed.
3 A well-known disadvantage of constant annuity loans, as a typical fixed-rate mortgage, is that under the
assumption of positive nominal income growth the effort ratio is highest in the beginning of the loan term. As
graduated payment mortgages will remain unavailable in WBG for the foreseeable future, introducing grace periods
for repayment could well reduce the maximum effort ratio, and hence will allow for a reduction of the lump-sum
subsidy.



Annex 7
Page 13 of 14
Figure 4
HAF Organization Chart
lExecutive Director
Secretary 
MIS/computer
Legal affairs
Head of Social                   Head of Finance &
Affairs Division                 Operations Division
I    Social                           Accountant/
Administrator                       Controller
3 Social Surveyors                  Personnel Manager
Data Entry                     [ Service Clerk  l
Clerk(s)    j
37.    The organizational design of HAF is based on the idea of task-sharing with other public entities
and participating banks, as well as of administrative parsimony. HAF needs to concentrate scarce funds
on genuine social policy issues, such as design of program guidelines and priorities, social surveying,
review of applications, and administration of funds. HAF also needs pre-screening of applications by
participating banks in order to minimize its workload while maintaining a high level of control. The HAF
will therefore conduct its business only out of two central locations (Gaza City and a West Bank city).
Risk Mitigation
38.    There are three principal risks of HAF operation. The first is program risk is that funds are not
channeled to beneficiaries in accordance with the guidelines determined by the HAF. There may be
several sources of that risk, among other things:
a.     Mistargeting of families due to insufficient income documentation and lack of other
relevant information; and fraud.
b.     Political intervention in the beneficiary selection process due to a lack of independence
of HAF. Politically important groups or government employees could be given priority
over the normal applicant. Conversely, political intervention might lead to an exclusion
of camp dwellers from assistance.
39.    The second risk is the discomfort of the population with the initially reduced scope of HAF,
following the misperception of HAF as a comprehensive solution to Palestinian housing problems. HAF
can only be developed over time as donor funds are limited, and the scope of the program is to enable
mortgage lending; i.e., accessing the complete range of sources for housing finance. The potential
negative outcome of overstretched expectations commands a defensive communication policy.



Annex 7
Page 14 of 14
40.    The third risk is operations risk, meaning that the HAF has too high an operating cost ratio (i.e.,
too small a fraction of donor funds actually end up in the hands of beneficiaries) or that beneficiaries
misuse donor funds. It is up to the Director to ensure that the HAF runs efficiently. The role of the
External Auditor is to provide a check against program risk and the risk of funds misallocation.
Conclusion
41.    The HAF can be an important component of the housing policy in WBG. Donor funds, when
available, can be channeled through the HAF directly to beneficiaries to assist them in their housing
purchases. Fundinig of the HAF can increase the effective demand for housing among low and moderate
income Palestinian households. By linking grants to savings the HAF can provide positive incentives for
funds accumulation and provide banks with a powerful signal about the creditworthiness of such
households.
42.    The HAF will become a reality as a result of the work of a preparation task force and as funding
is secured. The staff responsible for creation and administration of the HAF will develop statutes,
operations manual and job descriptions for the entity. The HAF will require the administrative
cooperation of other government entities. This cooperation will cover elaboration of a strategy together
with MOF to enhance permanently the share of employees with formal income documentation, in
particular througlh the handing out of income tax receipts to individual employees. Documentation on
noni-lhomeowniership and overcrowding will be required from municipalities. A formal work relations
with the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics, including an exchange of information, and a regular
submission of statistical material and feedback on needs of the ministry is also required. Collection and
preparation of all statistical material that is relevant for the empirical quantification of target groups,
special social groups, etc. will be undertaken.



Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Features of the Institutional and Policy Development Component
Building Normative and Regulatory Capacity for the Housing Sector
1.      There is no official regulatory structure for the housing sector. To facilitate the development of
appropriate policies, as well as a strong institutional framework to guide the sector, the project includes
funds (the Institutional and Policy Development Component) for a program to develop policy and
regulatory measures. This would help formulate key physical planning and regulatory instruments, would
permit the analysis and preparation of policy options and implementation of the regulatory instruments,
and would provide a sequence of initiatives to introduce appropriate standards with the institutions
(public, municipal, private and developers) involved in the housing sector.
2.      General sector policy as well as sector norms such as physical development standards and
development practices, either by the public or private sector is ad hoc, and based on imported (mostly
Jordanian and Egyptian) codes/models. At the outset, design standards, zoning and physical design codes
must be flexible and experimental in order to allow the proper testing of these concepts. This is
particularly key in the area of urbanization (land sub-division) design. Given land scarcity and high cost
layouts will need to be highly efficient with regard to land use densities, plot sizes, etc. to maximize the
use of costly and scarce land --one of the key future issues in Gaza and the West Bank
3.      The bulk of the capacity building work will be carried out as part of the project's
implementation. However the analysis and search for appropriate local standards has been initiated in the
project preparation stage. Because appropriate design standards for infrastructure, land subdivision,
circulation design, and housing construction is critical to least-cost housing production and future
infrastructure maintenance, a Standards Workshop was organized in Gaza during the project's
preparation to review issues and advance the preparation of standards. A draft paper on standards was
produced (listed in the project's files) and will be updated to serve as a guidelines for developers, the
MOH, and other normative institutions in establishing official development standards for Gaza and the
West Bank.
4.      The project will help develop of procedures for use by the MOH for resettlement and land
acquisition. The development of these procedures would be undertaken in coordination with
development of laws and regulations by the recently elected Palestinian Assembly. This process would
be complemented by project-supported training courses concerning environment, cultural heritage and
resettlement issues.
Building Capacity for the Housing Finance Institutions
5.      A critical element for the stability and health of the housing sector is a sustainable system of
finance both for buyers and suppliers. The project begins this process by establishing three institutions -
the SMF, MIF and HAF. The institutional strategy and specific implementation plan for each of these
institutions is discussed in the relevant section of this document. There are however associated policy
and institutional issues which need to be addressed for the whole system to mature and function in a
sustainable fashion. The main activities to accomplish would be:



Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
a.  a review of the legal and institutional framework for debt recovery in WBG. Since a
system of collateralized mortgage lending depends on the ability of the lender to
efficiently access the collateral this topic is at the core of building the housing finance
system. The review will assess the shortcomings of the present legal and institutional
frameworks, identify the main constraints and impediments facing creditors in WBG in
connection with the recovery of debt, especially those arising from the use of real estate
mortgages as collateral security, propose appropriate solutions to overcome such
constraints and impediments and provide detailed proposals, including justification, for
any new law or regulation, or amendment of any existing law or regulation, that may be
proposed.
b.  the commercial banks who will be the retail lenders to households will need to
considerably strengthen their capability to assess credit worthiness of households and to
process and manage this new type of financial product. An exercise to jointly assist all
banks joining in the housing finance scheme will be designed and implemented. Some
aspects of this program may be carried out in collaboration with other small scale credit
programs.
c.  the successful implementation of the Housing Assistance Fund depends upon
cooperation and close working relationships with a number of public and private bodies.
A program to develop the work-sharing arrangements will be implemented for statistical
agencies, local governments and participating commercial banks.
The Institutional and Policy Development Program (IPDP)
6.      The institutional and policy development measures would be carried out over the four-year
period as an organized and sequential program of capacity and policy enabling activities. Therefore a
four-year Institutional and Policy Development Program (IPDP), based on an initial needs assessment,
would be developed. An IPDP Steering Committee would be established to guide the program.
Objectives of the IPDP
7.      The general objective of the IPDP is supporting the long term development of the housing
sector through policy formulation and institutional development.
8.      The specific objectives are:
a.  to contribute to the physical and financial success of the "housing finance and
development" components, ensuring in the process that their expected demonstration
effect materializes;
b.  developing the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Housing, the private sector, and
local governments;
c.  developing key policy elements.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
Priority Areas and Clients of the IPDP
9.      First, the IPDP is intended to build capacity of relevant institutions just by supporting the
process of inception and operation of the newly created institutions and/or units: the Project Unit (PU),
the Secondary Mortgage Facility (SMF), the Mortgage Insurance Fund (MIF), and the Housing
Assistance Fund (HAF). Also, the IPDP will help in assessing the performance and elaborating proposal
to ensure the sustainability of these same institutions. The IPDP will assign high priority to supporting
the definition, follow-up and revision of procedures for secondary mortgage operations, the extension of
risk protection against defaults, allocation of subsidies, and construction finance management
10.     The IPDP will also support the Ministry of Housing in the process of business planning, the
development of appropriate coordination mechanisms with other central and local government
institutions, and the operation of mechanism for policy consultation and consensus building. As part of
its work in the institutional area, the IPDP will work with the PU and other institutions of the housing
sector, including local governments, in identifying needs and delivering activities that increase their
administrative, managerial, and technical capacities. The IPDP will also support the Ministry of Planning
in its role of regulating and planning land utilization.
11.     Another area of priority for the IPDP is policy development. the focus will be on the regulatory
framework, property rights, title registration and procedures for transfer of titles; debt recovery, land
markets, provision and management of infrastructure and basic services; property taxation and user fees,
and the operation of the construction industry.
12.     One issue that needs special attention is that of developing the regulatory framework:
standards, codes, and regulations for land development, sub-division, infrastructure provision, housing
construction; and the construction industry. Existing practices in both Gaza and the West Bank, as well
as other international experiences require analysis, study, and debate. A system of registering the
experience and disseminating lessons from the Tal El-Hawa demonstration project will be put in place by
the program. A major output of the IPDP will be the preparation of options concerning the future
regulatory framework in Palestine, and alternative strategies for adopting the selected framework. Within
this area, the IPD component will support increased capacity for policy formulation as well as increased
capacity for policy management by MOH, and local governments. The application and supervision of
standards, codes and regulations is a local issue, involving municipalities.
13.     In spite of the financial strength and the experience in other types of operations, mortgage
financing is a new business area for the financial institutions currently operating in Palestine. In addition,
successful operation of the HAF, and MIF calls for support and technical assistance to private sector
financial institutions, expected to perform functions of risk analysis, and prescreening of low income
candidates needing special assistance from the HAF. The construction industry also requires support to
increase their volume of operations and increase their level of efficiency. The IPDP will contribute to the
development of the private sector, in both the financial and construction sector, by helping develop
procedures, administrative procedures, organizational arrangements, and the management skills required
by primary and secondary mortgage operations.
Operation of the IPDP
14.     The IPDP will operate under the guidance of a Steering Committee that will ensure that
activities respond to clients needs, and facilitate proper coordination with other projects and capacity
building initiatives. The PU Project Coordinator will be the Steering Committee's Secretary. The



Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
Steering Committee will include a representative of the Ministries of Local Governments and Planning,
and individual Palestinian housing experts and/or practitioners.
15.     The Institutional and Policy Development Program will prepare an "annual plan of activities"
in a participatory manner. It is anticipated that the plan will be prepared during the project launch
workshop. In preparation for the workshop, "needs assessments" will be organized to identify problems,
needs, priorities, as perceived by the main clients.
16.     In parallel with the needs assessment and the preparation for the planning workshop, the IPDP
will begin working in a "core set of activities", whose design and implementation cannot be delayed. The
core set of activities responds to problems critical for the Palestinian Housing Initiative, the newly
created institutions, the demonstration project (Tal El-Awa), and/or the Ministry of Housing.
17.     Core activities will be selected from the following list prepared on the basis of discussions
during the project's preparation.



POTENTIAL COREACTIVITIES FOR THE INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICYDEVELOPMENTPROGRAM
No.    YlE OF            DESCRIPTION                                                      CLIENTS & BENEFICIARIES   DATI E
CTIVITY
I.-    Sttidy           Needs Assessmenit of public sector instittitionis related to the  Main clients are: the Ministry   M id- 1997
I lousilig Sector. Activity will seek to identify problems, priorities,  of I lotusilig, and local
and actions required to improve performance. Activity will be    govermieiets. Other clienits
carried out by local experts, in consultation with clients and   and/or participants:
beneficiaries.                                                   Ministries of Planininig, Local
Governments, Environmenit.
2.-    Stuciy            Needs Assessment of institutionis related to housinig finance.   The Secon(dary Mortgage          Mid-1997
Activity will seek to identify problems, priorities, and actions  Facility,
required to improve performance. Activity will be carried out by    the [-lousinig Assistance Fund,
local experts, in consultation with clients and beneficiaries,   and private financial
Design and implementation of this activity will be made in       institutions.
partnership with the International Training Program in Ilousing
Finanice of the Wharton School of the University of Peninisylvaniia.
3.-    Study             Needs Assessment of private developers, both the large          lPrivate Developers               Mid-1997
international firms currently operating in Palestine and the small
family owned companies. Activity will seek to identify problems,
priorities, and actions required to improve performance, executing
and management capacity. Activity will be carried out by local
experts, in consultation with clients and beneficiaries.
4.-     Workshop         Planning Workslhop. The activity will use as main inputs the     The main client and              Two parts:
results of the Needs Assessmenit Studies. Representatives of all  beneficiar-ies will be the     a) lIroject Launci
institutionls and sectors will discuss results and ar-ive at a plan of   Ministi-y of I lousing, the SMF,  Workshop
activities to be supported by the IIPDP durinig its first year of  I IAF, and tlhe Program Unit.  b) detailed session
activities.                                                      larticipation in the activity will    in mid-1997
include all institutions and
sectors related to the Palestinian_
I-lousing Initiative.
> 



POTENTIAL CORE ACTIVITIES FOR TIHE INSTITUTIONAL AND POLICY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
No.    YPE OF           DESCRIPTION                                                     CLIENTS & BENEFICIARIEIS   DATE                        a  =
ClIv V IT Y
5.-    Direct Support   Trainiiig Workshop, "Developiig thelTal El-Awa Demonstration    Ministry of I lousing, Local   June 1997
Site: the implications of alternative regulatory fraimeworks and  Governments, private
private developers decisions".                                 developers, Palestinian
universities and professional
associations.
6.-    Workshop         Assessing Critical issues in Project Design and Implementation:    Ministry of hlotising, Planning,  Junie 1997
impact on the environment, resettlement, and cultural-historical    Tourisimi and Antiqtuities; the
preservation.                                                  I'alestiniani Departmenet of
Archeology, and Local
Govermllenits
7.-    Direct Support   Sttidy Tour of selected coutliries witli financial systemils andl/or  The Ministry of I lotisinig, thle  Latc- 1997
institutionis relevant to the Palestinian I lousinig Initiative. Prliority   SMI, I IAF, and pl ivatc
issues for study during these trips: mortgage financinig, secondary  finanicial institutionis.
mortgage operations, housing subsidies.
8.-    Policy Study     Policy Study, "The Legal and Regulatory Framework for          The Ministry of I lousing, the  Late- 1997
Mortgage Lending".                                             SMF, I IAF, and private
finanicial institutionis.
9.-    Direct Support  Creation of "Low-Incomile I-lousinig Tecihinologies and Standards    Ministry of Flousing        Late-1997
Informationi Center". Creation of the Center will be made in
partnersihip with Palestiniani Universities and similar ceniters in
other countries.
10.-   Policy Study     A study and seminar will be organized to prepare policy        Main client of the activity is the  January 1998
and dialogue     recomimlenidationis about standards, codes, and regulationis for land   Ministry of I lousinig, and local
developmenit, sub-divisioni, infrastrticttire provision, hotisinig  goverinimienits. Benerits however
construction; and the constrLtiCotll in(ltistry. Recomimienidationis  will extenid to private
will be based on a study of existinig practices in botli Gaza and the  developers.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
1.      The project elements, their estimated costs, and the procurement arrangements for the
components to be financed by IDA are summarized in Table 1. A General Procurement Notice will be
published in the UN Development Business. With reference to the project components described in the
project description in Section 1.C., the procurement arrangements will be as follows:
a.     SMF mortgage financing made by the participating banks (typical maximum mortgage
will be about US$15,000, of which the SMF would match about US$10,000) will use
commercial practices and will not involve procurement procedures;
b.    construction finance loans (not likely to exceed US$400,000) will be awarded following
applications submitted to the PU of the MOH and channeled to commercial banks which
will act as agent; these operations will also follow commercial practices;
c.    infrastructure and facilities works for the demonstration sites and the off-sites
infrastructure and facilities will be administered by the PU of the MOH. These works are
many, widely dispersed geographically, and small scale, costing no more than US$2
million each. Procurement will be packaged and scheduled taking into account the nature
of the works, the stage of preparation, and the implementation capacity of local
contractors. Procurement will follow National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
based on the pre-1967 procurement laws of Egypt (with some elements of the Palestine
Mandate Law and Israeli Civil Administration regulations ) and Jordan Law, which are
in force in Gaza and the West Bank, respectively. The procurement procedures described
by these laws are being followed by the MOH. These are satisfactory to IDA with the
following provisos: (i) tenders will be advertised for at least two consecutive days in a
local newspaper of wide circulation; (ii) prospective bidders will be allowed a minimum
of 30 days between the first appearance of notification and bid submission; (iii) bidding
documents will follow the forrnats of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents; (iv) if
interested, foreign bidders will be allowed to submit bids, and will not be required to
have local agents to be able to participate in bidding; (v) bids will be submitted in sealed
envelopes, and both mailed and hand-carried bids will be accepted; (vi) all bids will be
opened at the same time in public; (vii) contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated
bidder; (viii) bidders will not be asked, nor allowed, to change the substance of their bids
after the bid closing date, and price negotiations with the lowest evaluated bidder will be
confined to those cases listed in IDA's Procurement Guidelines; and (ix) in the absence
of prequalification, postqualification criteria will be explicitly stated in the bidding
documents;
d.    equipment supplies, vehicles and spares for the project, to be procured by the PU of the
MOH, will consist of small quantities of computer systems and peripherals, software,
simple telecommunications equipment, office equipment, books, training aids and other
related supplies. Vehicles will be needed by the PU for project management and site
supervision. Procurement will be in small packages likely to be won by agents or local
suppliers. Therefore, International Shopping (IS), with at least three quotations from two



Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
eligible countries, will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000
each, and not to exceed US$1,000,000 in the aggregate, and Local Shopping (LS) with at
least three quotations, will be used for off-the-shelf, locally available items costing less
than US$25,000 per package and not to exceed US$500,000 in the aggregate. Direct
Contracting (DC) will also be allowed for items of a proprietary nature or requiring
compatibility with already installed equipment;
e.    the Institutional and Policy Development component will be administered by the PU of
the MOH and will include consultancy assignments for studies, technical assistance, and
training services to the MOH, banks and other agencies for housing and urbanization
policy studies and implementation advice, detailed technical aspects of off-site
infrastructure (water, wastewater, sanitation and roads), as well as assistance to the
MOH and the banks in dealing with the mechanisms of the participating commercial
banks. There are several local consultants and trainers (including the management and
engineering departments of the universities) with the requisite experience and
background which are likely to participate in the above mentioned assignments.
Consultants and trainers will be selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency
(August 1981), using IBRD's standardized Letter of Invitation (LOI) and Sample Form
of Contract for Consultants' Services;
f.    incremental operating expenditures will include MOH salaries, payments for office rents,
and bills for utilities and vehicle operating costs. These will be disbursed on a declining
basis during the four-year period of the project.
2.      In addition to its role in coordinating and monitoring all procurement activities of the
implementing agencies, and procuring items under paragraphs c), d), and e), above, the PU of the MOH
will (i) take actions required by the Grant Agreement's prior or post review provision, and (ii) maintain
records required for accountability in the use of the Grant funds. In addition, all civil works contracts
about US$250,000, all consultant appointments over US$]00,000 for consulting firms and US$50,000
for individuals, and the first two contracts of each implementing agency will be subject to prior review
by the IDA. These conditions are imposed due to the number and small size of contracts in\olved in the
project. All other contracts will also be subject to selective ex-post review by the IDA in order to cnsure
that IDA's Procurement Guidelines have been followed.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
Table 9.1
Summary of Procurement Arrangements in US$ millions
Procurement Method
NCB'                 other               Total
Component/category
1. SMF Mortgage Refinancing                                              1 7.02               17.0
2. Construction Finance Loans                                            2.0 2                2.0
3. Civil Works for Infrastructure and                4.0                                      4.0
Facilities                                                                                               l
4. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials,                                        0.53                0.5
Supplies and Spares                                                       .
5. Technical Assistance, Consultant                                      1.254                1.25
Services, Studies, Workshops and
Training Activities                                                                                     l
6. Incremental Operating Expenses                                        0.255                0.25
Total:                                             4.0                 21.0                25.0
National Competitive Bidding
21   Commercial practice
3/  International and Local Shopping
4/   According to IDA guidelines for use of consultants
5/   Varies according to expenditure (i.e., direct payment for rents, utility bills, etc.)



Annex 10
Page 1 of2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
PALESTINIAN HOUSING INITIATIVE
Disbursement Schedule
1.    The project will be implemented over a four-year period from the estimated date of loan
effectiveness, with a completion target date of June, 2001. The commitment deadline for the credit line will
be April 30, 2001. The loan Closing Date will be December 31, 2001, six months after the project
completion date. The disbursement period of about 4 years or 16 quarters is short, but appropriate and is
deemed achievable because: (a) there are no complex, major civil works or equipment contracts; (b) the
institutional reforms should be completed within a planned four-year program; and (c) the subsidiary loans
(mortgages) and construction finance loans are small relative to anticipated demand.
2.    The proposed Bank credit will be disbursed against the project components as shown in TablelO.1
The projected disbursement profile for the Bank loan is shown in Figure 10.1. Disbursements for mortgages
of the SMF will be made against SOEs submitted by the SMF and participating banks evidencing that the
mortgages being refinanced are for new housing or for new renovations of existing housing. For this
purpose, participating banks will be required to separate out and certify to the SMF, those mortgages for
new or renovated housing that are included in the packages of mortgages that they submit to the SMF for
refinancing.
QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
T:                               Cumulative      Cumulative
FY            Quarter      Disbursement   Disbursement   Disburseineint
.___   (USSM)        WUS$W)    i  Percentage
98               1             0.1             0.1              .4
98               2             0.7             0.8              3.2
98               3             0.8             1.6              6.4
98               4             0.9             2.5             10.0
99               1             1.0             3.5             14.0
99               2             1.0             4.5             18.0
99               3             1.3             5.8             23.2
99               4             1.5             7.3             29.2
2000              1             2.2             9.5             38.0
2000              2             2.4             11.9            47.6
2000              3             2.6             14.5            58.0
2000              4             2.0             16.5            66.0
2001              1             2.0             18.5            74.0
2001              2             2.0             20.5            82.0
2001              3             2.0             22.5            90.0
2001              4      l      2.5             25.0            100.0



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Figure 10.1
Disbursement Schedule
Al Z5    i       , -  T                      -  -  -  -     --  -
: I10    -   - - r---    T  - - - - X    r     I - Ir--- - T  -; -i-
;  ____                          r__I_ _;_I_ _;_I _ _I _I
_
Quarters
Table 10.2
Disbursements Against Project Components
(US$)
Amount of                       Percent of
Loan                         Expenditures
Category                            Allocated                     to be Financed
(US$)
1. SMF Mortgage Refinancing               16,000,000   100 percent
Programl
2. Construction Finance                    1,500,000   100 percent
3. Civil Works for Infrastructure and      3,500,000   100 percent
Facilities
4. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials,          250,000   100 percent
Supplies and Spares
5. Incremental Operating Expenses'          250,000   100 percent
6. Technical Assistance, Consultant         500,000   100 percent
Services, Studies, Workshops and
Training Activities
7. Unallocated                             3,000,000
Total:                                 25,000,000
Includes salaries, office rents, utilities and vehicle operating costs for four years.



Annex 11
Page 1 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Indicators of Project Progress
1.   A comprehensive mid-term review involving the government and the bank will be carried out no
later than December 31, 1998. If necessary, adjustments to project components and procedures will be
made to improve project implementation.
2.   Performance of the project in meeting its objectives will be measured against selected key
development impact indicators for each of the project components as follows:
Key Progress Indicators
Indicator                                  Date
Institutional and Policy Development
*  IPDP Steering Committee formed to oversee program planning        May. 1997
*  Workshop to plan for year I program                                June 1997
*  Workshop on land use, standards, planning and building regulations  Sept. 1997
*  Draft proposal and TOR for Development Standards study and proposals    Oct. 1997
*  Studies on standards reviewed at workshop                          Jan. 1998
*  Review training plan for MOH                                       June 1998
*  Review training plans for SMF and participating banks              June 1998
Secondary Mortgage Facility (including Mortgage Indemnity Fund)
*  Establish Organizing Committee                                     Aug. 1996
*  Managing Director contracted                                       May 1997
*  SMF senior staff contracted                                        May 1997
*  On-lending contracts signed with banks.                            May 1997
*  Refinancing of first mortgages                                     Sept. 1997
*  Complete Lenders' survey                                           Dec. 1997
*  First implementation, audit and accounting report                  June 1998



Annex 11
Page 2 of 3
Housing Assistance Fund
*  Establishment of MOH Task Force                                  Aug. 1996
*  Assignment of key staff                                          May 1997
*  Adoption of operational guidelines and policies                  Dec. 1996
*  Signing of understanding with commercial banks                   July 1997
*  Issuing of first grant commitment to household                   Sept. 1997
*  Payment of first grant to household                              Dec. 1997
Development Component
*  Complete staffing of PU                                          June 1997
*  Award of Tal El-Hawa bids, part A.                               Sept. 1997
*  Completion of off site infrastructure                            Jan. 1998
*  Completion of first Demonstration Site units                     Jan. 1998
3.   In relation to the project's objectives as described in the staff appraisal report, the indicators of
project performance are:
FOR THE OBJECTIVE, "PUT INTO PLACE INSTITUTIONS, POLICIES AND ACTIONS NECESSARY TO BUILD AND
SUSTAIN A WELL-FUNCTIONING HOUSING SECTOR" THE INDICATORS SHALL BE:
creation and operation of new institutions: SMF, MIF and the HAF;
formal declaration of sector policy by Ministry of Housing and development introduction of
specific measures to implement such policy.
FOR THE OBJECTIVE, "MAKE HOUSING MORE AFFORDABLE BY DEVELOPING A COMPETITIVE, MARKET-
BASED MORTGAGE SYSTEM, ACCOMPANIED BY WELL-TARGETED ASSISTANCE TO LOWER-INCOME
HOUSEHOLDS"; THE INDICATORS SHALL BE:
issuance of mortgage loans measured relative to the expansion of all credit from the banks. (The
benchmark for this indicator will be derived from the Housing Indicators Program where the
volume of mortgage credit is measured for 60 cities in the world and compared to total credit
and to the value of new housing output);
delivery of grants from the HAF to home buyers and the income range served.



Annex 11
Page 3 of 3
FOR THE OBJECTIVE, "REDUCE HOUSE PRICES FOR LOWER-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS BY (I) REDUCING
OBSTACLES TO THE AVAILABILITY OF LAND; (II) PROMOTING A COMPETITIVE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS
FOR LOW-COST ALTERNATIVES; AND (III) PROVIDING DONOR ASSISTANCE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE" THE
INDICATORS SHALL BE:
the price of the least expensive new units produced relative to incomes and the general price
level;
the relative price of urban land and a comparison of the value of serviced and unserviced land
using the methodology of the Housing Indicators Program.



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Supervision Plan and Project Implementation Schedule
1.  During the project implementation period, it is estimated that about 12 supervision missions will be
needed, with one large project inception mission initially to launch the project (a Project Lunch
workshop is planned). Total staffweeks for supervision is estimated to be on the order of 60 staffweeks
distributed among a project team (task manager; housing finance specialist; financial analyst; economist;
architect/urban planner; municipal engineer) and other specialists. Project supervision will be based on
an agreed set of project monitoring and development impact indicators. Bank field supervision inputs are
indicated in Table 12.1 below. These inputs are in addition to regular supervision needs at headquarters
for handling correspondence and reviewing/commenting on procurement actions, disbursement requests,
progress reports, annual audits, consultants' inception/draft final/final reports, etc., which are estimated
to require about 12 staffweeks in total, comprising about 7 staffweeks during the two first years of
project implementation and about 5 staffweeks during the remaining years. The other specialists
indicated in Table 12.1 who may participate in supervision missions could include a mortgage market
specialist, a financial markets specialist, and an institutional development/training specialist. This level
of supervision inputs is considered necessary because of the expected complexities associated with the
start-up and operations of the SMF, and also by the importance of close collaboration with the
Government and MOH in the implementation of the institutional and policy development component.
Table 12.1 - Forecast of Field Supervision Inputs (Staffweeks)
FY:
Specialists:                                     97    98    99    00    01   02   Total
Task Manager                                   4     4     3     2     2      -    15
Housing Finance Specialist                     3     5     3     2     2      -    15
Architect/Urban Planner/Municipal Engineer     2     4     2     1      -     -      9
Financial Analyst                              1    2      -    2       -     -      5
Disbursement Specialist                        1     1     -      -     1     1      3
Sub-Totals                                    I 1    16    8     7     5      1    47
Environment and Resettlement Specialist        I     I     -      -     I     1      3
Other Specialists (unallocated)                                                        10
Total                                                                                  60
Supervision Missions                             (1)   (4)   (3)   (2)   (1)   (1)   (12)
Project Implementation Schedule
2. Table 12.2 shows the project implementation schedule.



WEST BANK ANI) GAZA
HOUSING IROJECT                                                                                                                             =
Figtire 12.2: Project implementationi Schdulec
CYST   |               ~~~~CY22                             CY99                |CYtE                                                CYOI
Key Processing and Review Date:
Board Presentation
Effectiveness
Project Launch Workshop
Hag-.yearly Review
Project Implementation:
Financial Components
I. SMF
a. FIrst Year Investment
b. Second Year tnvestment
c. Third Year Investment
d. Fourth Year Investment
II. HAF
a. First Year Investment
b. Second Year Investment
c. Third Year Investment
d. Fourth Year Investment
Housing Development
1. lnfrastnicture
II. ConstructIont Finance
Institutionial and Policy Development
L. Consultant Services, Studies and Training     _
II. Vehicle, Equipment, Supplies and Spares



Annex 13
Page 1 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Housing Finance Institutions
Introduction
1.    The project envisions the creation of two specialized Housing Finance institutions to provide
long-term funds and reallocate a portion of mortgage risk for providers of housing finance in West Bank
and Gaza (WBG). The entities are a secondary mortgage facility (SMF) that will provide long term
finance to banks and other lenders originating mortgage loans in WBG, and a mortgage indemnity fund
(MIF)l that will provide partial default risk insurance for lenders.
2.     The SMF will provide liquidity and long-term finance to primary mortgage lenders in order to
reduce the liquidity risk incurred in their provision of long term loans for housing. The activities of the
SMF will stimulate a flow of funds to housing, improve the affordability of housing finance in WBG and
reduce the liquidity risk of the banking sector.
3.     The MIF will share potential default loss on residential mortgage loans with lenders in WBG.
The MIF should stimulate greater lending for housing in WBG by providing lenders with partial
protection against mortgage default loss. The activities of the MIF will stimulate a flow of funds to
housing, the development of mortgage credit risk management skills and techniques and in the future
allow for a degree of pooling of credit risk among lenders.
4.     Household borrowers will benefit through the ability to use mortgage credit to purchase housing
and through more favorable terms on mortgage loans. Lenders will benefit through higher portfolio
returns and diversification. An increased flow of funds to housing may increase employment in the
construction industry and promote stability in the economy. A future benefit of the SMF may be to
enhance the development of long term debt markets.
Anticipated Benefits of the SMF
5.     There is virtually no formal financial sector lending for housing in WBG. Banks operating in the
region cite two major reasons for the lack of such lending; the high perceived liquidity risk of extending
long term loans in a volatile climate and the high perceived credit risk of extending long term loans in an
environment with uncertain property rights and lack of information about or experience with potential
mortgage borrowers.
6.     The liquidity risk of mortgage lending arises from the fact that in order to be affordable and
match the anticipated benefit stream of housing, mortgage loans must be relatively long-term (e.g., 15 or
more years). The banks currently fund themselves with a mix of short-term deposits (approximately
95%) and equity (approximately 5%). They are reluctant to provide mortgage loans funded with deposits
because they perceive a significant risk that instability in WBG could lead to a substantial outflow of
deposits. If a substantial portion of their assets are in the form of long-term loans, they may have
insufficient funds available to meet depositors' demands. Although shareholder equity is a longer-term
source of funds, the banks are unwilling to invest such funds in an activity that they believe offer a low
risk-adjusted rate of return.
I/ Initially the MIF will be introduced as a separate account within the SMF.



Annex 13
Page 2 of 3
7.      The benefits of the SMF for lenders arise from  the reduction in liquidity risk for mortgage
lending. If a bank uses SMF loans to finance a portion of its mortgage portfolio, it can achieve a duration
match between its mortgage assets and liabilities. Furthermore, if the SMF is perceived to be a source of
liquidity (i.e., a lender of first resort) the banks may be more likely to extend mortgage loans funded by
deposits. Banks offering mortgage loans may be able to earn a higher risk-adjusted rate of return on their
asset portfolios (i.e., arising from  switching from  other assets to mortgage loans) and provide a more
compete range of services to their customers.2
8.      The benefits for household borrowers arise from the availability of mortgage loans. The value to
consumers currently depends on their ability and willingness to borrow for the purchase of a home. As
there is no mortgage lending in WBG, it is impossible to formulate the willingness to pay for home
mortgage loans. For some households, the benefit will be the substitution of lower cost debt for equity
finance. However, we have no information on the investment choices or returns on Palestinian
households. For other households with no savings, the value of the loans will be in the form of access to
higher quality housing. Presumably this could be measured by the difference in the housing consumption
before and after receiving the loan. This is also very difficult to measure as many households share space
and expenditure with extended family members. Over time, as more lenders enter the market, borrowers
should also benefit from competition among lenders in the form of more favorable mortgage loan terms
(lower cost of funds and a longer term on loans being offered).
9.      In addition to the benefits for lenders and households, there are also potentially significant
external benefits generated by the SMF. An increase in housing demand spurred by mortgage lending
can lead to expanded employment in the construction industry. This benefit may be substantial given the
high rates of unemployment in WBG. Developing a private sector housing finance system will take the
pressure off the PA to develop its own sources of housing finance, resulting in a greater ability to focus
scarce subsidy resources on lower income households. A steady supply of mortgage finance could lead to
increased stability in WBG if housing overcrowding is reduced. Finally, the SMF could be a catalyst for
bond market development in the future.
10.     Lenders in WBG  also view  mortgage lending as a business with potentially high credit risk.
There are several reasons for this perception. First, most Palestinians have been without banking services
for over 25 years. Thus, they have no track record of having serviced and repaid debt, and no customer
history that banks can draw on to assess ability or willingness to pay. Second, the legal system
supporting mortgage lending is untested. Although the legal basis for property ownership, mortgage and
foreclosure exists, the property registries are incomplete (many transactions are not consummated with a
definitive transfer of title) and the ability of the court system to have claims enforced against owners is
unknown. A third factor is the political instability in the area. Both the West Bank and Gaza are subject
to frequent border closings that disrupt the income earning ability of residents.
11.     The high perceived level of credit risk is at least a strong deterrent to mortgage lending as the
high perceived level of liquidity risk. Thus, term loans from the SMF are currently perceived as
insufficient to stimulate mortgage lending in WBG. The MIF provides additional risk reduction to
2/  It is envisioned that the initial loans from the SMF, made with donor funds to selected banks, will specify the terms and conditions of the
mortgage loans made by the banks to ensure that the benefits of both the credit and liquidity risk reduction are passed on to borrowers. A
related benefit to the banks is the reduction of political risk. Currently, they are facing significant pressure from the govemment to expand
their lending in WBG, particularly in the area of housing. By agreeing to the terms and conditions of SMF loans, the banks may reduce
the risk of regulations requiring them to provide a certain amount of mortgage loans, at terms and conditions specified by the govemment.
3/  Mortgage loans are available, in limited supply, in Jordan. The economic analysis of the proposed SMF in Jordan valued the ability of
constrained Jordanian households to expand their loan-to-value ratios by 20 percentage points (e.g., from 50 to 70 percent) at 50 basis
points. This estimate is likely to significantly understate the value to Palestinian households who currently have no access to mortgage
finance. Reference



Annex 13
Page 3 of 3
participating lenders in the form of a default risk sharing arrangement. The benefits of the MIF are
conceptually the same as those of the SMF. Lenders will benefit if the risk adjusted returns on mortgage
lending are higher than their investment alternatives and borrowers will benefit through the availability
and eventually through reductions in the cost of mortgage finance. The MIF may be a catalyst for the
introduction of mortgage credit risk underwriting and management techniques and in the future facilitate
the pooling of credit risk among lenders.
Costs of Intermediation
12.    The SMF's and MIF's costs of operation must be accounted for in determining net social
benefits. The costs of operation are difficult to estimate with certainty as both organizations will be new
with uncertain volumes of activity. Unlike the Jordanian SMF, the Palestinian SMF would incur no
expenses to issue bonds in its early years. Thus, its operating expenses should be lower (approximately
100 basis points per annum in years 3 through 5).
Net Social Benefits
13.    Because the benefits are so difficult to quantify for this project, the net social benefit of the SMF
and MIF are almost impossible to determine. However, it is almost unquestionably large in WBG. The
housing needs of Palestinian households are enormous with ample evidence of overcrowding. The
preference for homeownership in the Palestinian culture is also quite high. The political pressure to
stimulate affordable housing development in WBG is substantial.
14.    The only feasible way to provide resources for housing is by mobilizing the savings of
Palestinians, through the financial system and abroad. The most effective way to do so is through the
banking system, which has achieved remarkable results in acquiring deposits in recent months. The
activities of the SMF and MIF will get the banks to enter this business with the thought that as political
stability is established, the carrot of donor funds for refinance and loss sharing can be reduced with the
banks accepting more of the responsibility on their own. The ultimate objective is the creation of a
sustainable housing finance system, an integral part of the financial system of all modem economies.



Annex 14
Page 1 of 12
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Environment, Cultural Heritage and Resettlement Aspects
Overview
1.    Objective. The objective of the Project is to support the Palestinian Authority (PA), working
through the Ministry of Housing (MOH), in removing obstacles in the production and purchase of low-
cost housing for low- and middle-income Palestinian households. To accomplish this the Project seeks to
stimulate and guide investment for low-cost housing by making land and infrastructure available, finding
ways to make the housing affordable, providing financing for buyers and developers and to make it
worthwhile for private developers to produce appropriate housing for these households. Two ways to
make housing affordable are by reducing total development coats and by packaging financial resources
for the buyers, such as financing and access to the Housing Assistance Program which will provide
support to targeted households. Preparation of the Project has included the integration of measures to
address environment, cultural heritage and resettlement issues under investment and institutional
strengthening activities.
2.    Preparation Process. A series of International Development Agency (IDA) missions prepared the
Project during late 1995 and early 1996. These missions included the participation of a World Bank
environmental specialist who worked with representatives of the MOH in the review of potential
environment, cultural heritage and resettlement issues associated with the Project. MOH and World
Bank/IDA staff conducted field visits to Tal El-Hawa and El Atatra to assess environment, cultural heritage
and resettlement issues associated with the proposed use of these sites under the Housing Development
Component as demonstration areas. Consultations were conducted with representatives of the
Environmental Planning Directorate (EPD) of the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation, the
Palestinian Department of Archaeology (PDA) of the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities and the Ministry
of Culture (MOC) to review current and proposed Palestinian Authority policies and procedures with regard
to environment and cultural heritage. Current land acquisition procedures were also reviewed with
representatives of the MOH.
Applicable Environmental Procedures and Review Process
3.    Applicability of Environmental Procedures. The following environmental procedures will apply to
the review and implementation of the proposed project: (a) World Bank/IDA procedures concerning
environment, resettlement and cultural heritage as outlined in Operational Directive, 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment; Operational Directive, 4.30 "Involuntary Resettlement; and the guidance of the Environmental
Assessment Sourcebook and it's Updates, especially Update No. 8, "Cultural Heritage in Environmental
Assessment;" (b) for Gaza, the pre-1967 legislation of the Government of Egypt concerning water quality
inspections by health authorities and the protection of antiquities and historical monuments; and (c) for the
West Bank, the pre-1967 legislation of the Government of Jordan concerning water quality inspections by
health authorities and provisions for protection of antiquities and historical monuments.
4.    Development of New Procedures. The procedures of Egypt and Jordan will be phased out of use
as environmental procedures and guidelines are developed and issued for use by the Palestinian Authority.
The development of new environmental legislation and procedures, including environmental standards and
environmental assessment guidelines for use by the Palestinian Authority, is currently being undertaken by



Annex 14
Page 2 of 12
the EPD. The PDA and the MOC are developing complementary legislation and procedures for the
conservation of cultural heritage. The Bank supported Technical Trust Fund (TATF) and a number of
donors are supporting these activities.
5.     Applicability of Other Directives. A review was conducted concerning the possible application of
Operational Directive, 4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement" to activities to be supported under the proposed
project. At present, there are no sub-project proposals whose implementation is anticipated to result in
involuntary resettlement; however, a number of activities could require purchase by local authorities of
privately-held land from its owners or compensation of parties with informal use rights for agricultural or
other purposes. No known archaeological or historical sites are anticipated to affected by activities to be
supported under the proposed project due to site specific review by PDA. However, given the high density
of archaeological and historical sites in the West Bank and Gaza, provisions will be made in construction
contracts for the use of "chance find" procedures should archaeological or historical materials be discovered
in the course of project implementation.
6.     Activity Review Process. The primary instruments to address environmental and cultural heritage
aspects of the type of small-scale investments to be supported under the Project are the effective use of
planning, zoning and environmental and cultural heritage regulations in the review and permitting process
used for activities supported under the Project. IDA environmental assessment procedures will be used for
the review process until the Palestinian environmental assessment procedures are available for use, at which
time both sets of procedures will be in effect for project activities. Proposed activities to be supported under
the Housing Development Component of the Project will be subject to an environmental review process
which will be coordinated by the environmental specialist assigned to the MOH in cooperation with
representatives of EPD, PDA and MOC. To facilitate effective coordination with EPD, PDA and MOC
direct contacts will be established with their representatives based in Ramallah for the West Bank and Gaza
City for Gaza.
Environmental Screening of Project Components
7.     Environmental Screening Category. The Components of the Project have been reviewed
consistent with the provisions of Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." The activities to
be included in the proposed project have been placed in the following environmental screening categories:
a.   Institutional and Policy Development Component (Category C). The Component will support a
four year program of policy and institutional building measures. This wili promote the
formulation of key physical planning and regulatory instruments, permit the analysis and
preparation of policy options, and provide a sequence of capacity building measures to help the
newly forming public and private sector institutions involved in the housing sector. This
component has been placed in category "C" as the activities will not result in adverse
environmental impacts.
The Component will include activities to assist development of low-income housing in a manner
which is environmentally sound, minimizes adverse impacts to cultural heritage and addresses the
concerns of parties which may be subject to involuntary resettlement or face the loss of informal
land use rights. It will support the development of procedures for use by the MOH for involuntary
resettlement and land acquisition. Under the Project a series of short-termn training courses will be
conducted for MOH and other parties conceming the management of environmental, cultural
heritage and resettlement issues in the Housing sector. These courses will make use of the



Annex 14
Page 3 of 12
recently completed Arabic translation of the Environmental Assessment Sourcebook and related
materials concerning environment, cultural heritage and resettlement.
b.   Housing Finance Component (Category C). The Component will support: (i) Secondary
Mortgage Facility (SMF); (ii) Mortgage Insurance Fund (MIF); and (iii) Housing Assistance
Fund (HAF). The SMF will provide long-term, market rate loans to the Housing Bank and
commercial banks to refinance their mortgage loans and the Mortgage Insurance Fund (MIF) will
provide limited credit risk insurance to mortgage lenders in the West Bank and Gaza. The
Housing Assistance Fund (HAF) will provide subsidies to qualified low-income households to
improve their ability to purchase or upgrade adequate shelter. The assistance will be in the form
of grants to eligible households to assist in the downpayment for modest-cost housing to lower
the loan repayment burden. This component has been placed in category "C" as the SMF, MIF
and HAF will not result in adverse environmental impacts.
c.   Housing Development (Category B). The Component will support the MOH to encourage the
private sector to produce lower-cost housing through: (i) development of off-site infrastructure on
State-owned lands on which private sector developers could bid for the production of qualifying
housing units; (ii) qualifying private lands with apartments and/or single family houses proposed
and produced by private developers; and (iii) single plots of private land for either single-family
houses or low-rise condominium apartments or cooperatives. These housing units will be
provided with infrastructure services for water supply, sewage, solid waste and stormwater
drainage. The use of improved layouts will allow for high density housing and more efficient use
of scarce land.
This component has been placed in environmental screening category "B" due to its limited
scope and the restricted nature of its potential impacts; all sub-projects under the Component will
be subject to screening for potential environmental impacts, cultural heritage concerns and
resettlement issues. All use of State-owned lands and development of private land will require
formal review and clearance procedures in consultation with the environmental staff of the
Resident Mission. Implementation of mitigation actions resulting from these reviews will be
monitored by the MOH and reviewed as part of Bank supervision for the project. Issues at the
proposed demonstration site at Tal El-Hawa in Gaza is reviewed in Attachment A.
8.     Special Issue - Construction Materials Industry. Implementation of the Project will require the
extensive use of local construction materials. Currently in both the West Bank and Gaza the illegal
quarrying of rock, gravel and sand is a serious problem which is resulting in serious damage to public and
private property. The illegal removal of massive quantities of sand in Gaza has been identified by the EPD
as a major environmental management problem in coastal and inland sites. The PDA has also identified
these operations as a major cause of destruction, especially in Gaza, of antiquities. In addition, inadequately
supervised rock, gravel and sand operations could result in locally significant air pollution from dust, water
pollution from improper disposal of lubricants from heavy equipment, and localized flooding during storms
due to the transport of poorly controlled sediment from excavation sites into surface drainage features.
While the proposed project will not directly fund these operations, measures will be taken with local
authorities and contractors to attempt to minimize these problems. To support this objective, measures will
be adopted under the Project to assure that, to the extent possible under local conditions, that construction
materials used are being collected from authorized sites.



Annex 14
Page 4 of 12
Review of the Housing Development Component
9.     Main Issues. Development of affordable housing in the West Bank and Gaza is critical for the
long-term development of these areas and for the improvement of living conditions, including
environmental health. Large numbers of Palestinians are living in inadequate shelter which often has no
direct access to reliable water supply, no or inadequate connection with the sewage system and generally
unacceptable solid waste management. At the same time due to the extremely high density of population in
Gaza, the critical need to protect already seriously degraded environmental values, especially critical
groundwater supplies; and the need to maintain a rich cultural heritage the development of housing must be
undertaken in a manner which effectively integrates environment, cultural and resettlement issues.
10.    HDC Design Approaches and Review Procedures. The Housing Development Component
(HDC), has adopted a series of design approaches and review procedures to address environmental, cultural
heritage and resettlement aspects of housing development. The approaches adopted for the HDC are
consistent with the policies and objectives of the concemed agencies of the PA. These procedures have been
incorporated into the Prospectus for Investors for public land and private land which will be used by the
MOH to give guidance to private sector developers participating in the Project.
Il.    Design Approaches. The design approaches used in the HDC will focus on the cost-effective
development of land parcels suitable for development of housing by the private sector. These sites will be
required to be consistent with the general zoning provisions and to have proper access to water supply,
connections to the sewage system, provision for solid waste storage and collection and proper designs for
the management of stormwater. The HDC will also assist in the use of innovate lay-out and design
approaches which will allow for the more effective use of limited land while providing for safer and more
accessible public areas for use by extended families and neighbors. These layout innovations will reduce the
current tendency toward urban sprawl in the West Bank and Gaza.
12.    Overview of Review Procedures. In order to integrate environment, cultural heritage and
resettlement issues into the normal review and approval process for proposed activities under the HDC, the
following procedures will be used:
a.   State Owned Lands. The MOH will obtain for activities to be undertaken on state lands
formal clearances from the EPD and PDA on environment and cultural heritage issues prior
to making these plots available to the developers. The MOH will also obtain formal
clearances from the Ministry of Culture for any proposed actions on state lands which
involve the modification and/or demolition of historical structures which are 50 years or
older. The MOH will also conduct a site visit to determine if the proposed development
would require the involuntary resettlement of parties with either formal or informal land use
rights. The MOH will take measures, in coordination with the Resident Mission, to assure
that these are resolved in a manner consistent with World Bank/IDA Operational Directive
4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement." The relocation of any graves will be done in consultation
with religious authorities and the Resident Mission.
b.   Privately Owned Lands. In the case of activities to be undertaken on private lands, the MOH
will certify that the developer had obtained formal clearances from the EPD and PDA. The
MOH will also certify that any proposed actions involving the modification and/or
demolition of historical structures, 50 years or older, had obtained a formal clearance from
the Ministry of Culture. The MOH will also conduct a site visit to determine if the proposed



Annex 14
Page 5 of 12
development would require the involuntary resettlement of parties with either fornal or
informal land use rights. The MOH will take measures, in coordination with the Resident
Mission, to assure that these are resolved in a manner consistent with World Bank/IDA
Operational Directive 4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement." The relocation of any graves will be
done in consultation with religious authorities and the Resident Mission.
Specific information on the required review procedures is provided Paras. 13-19 (below).
13.    Consultation with Physical Planning Department. Consultations will be conducted with the
Physical Planning Department of the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation to assure the
proposed actions are consistent with the principles of the Physical Master Plans for the West Bank and Gaza
Strip and special physical master plans which are being developed for Jericho, Ramallah and Gaza City
among others. The findings of this consultation will be provided as an element of the approval package for
the proposed activity.
14.    Consultation with Municipality. Consultations will be conducted with the Planning Department
and Infrastructure Departments of the concerned Municipal Government. These consultations will include
review and formal clearance of the proposed site with regard to zoning. The consultation will also include a
review of current and required access to municipal infrastructure services including water supply, sewage
systems, solid waste collection and storm water management. The municipality, MOH and private sector
developer will be required to reach an agreement on the services to be provided, which parties will be
responsible for their funding and installation, and the timing of the installation of these services. The
findings of this consultation will be provided as an element of the approval package for the proposed
activity.
15.    Environmental Review and Clearance. The Environmental Planning Directorate of the Ministry
of Planning and Intemational Cooperation should be contacted and requested to conduct an environmental
review of proposed Project activities to be undertaken to assure they are consistent with current Palestinian
requirements. The preparation of these reviews may require a field visit by representatives of the
Environmental Planning Directorate to the concerned sites. It is requested that a formal record of these
reviews concerning the acceptability of the proposed activities be obtained from the Environmental
Planning Directorate and made part of the review process and project record.
16.    Archaeological Review and Clearance. The Palestinian Department of Archaeology of the
Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities will be contacted and requested to conduct an archaeological and
historical sites review at each site proposed for support under the HDC. It should be anticipated that this
will require a preliminary field survey to be conducted by archaeologists acceptable to the Palestinian
Department of Archaeology. A formal record of these reviews concerning the acceptability of the proposed
activities be obtained from the Palestinian Department of Archaeology. In addition, all contractors retained
by the MOH and private sector developers will be required to used "archaeological chance find procedures"
given the potential for unknown archaeological materials to be uncovered at sites in the West Bank and
Gaza.
17.    Historical Buildings Review and Clearance. The Ministry of Culture will be contacted and
requested to conduct an on site review of any proposed activity under the HDC involving the modification
and/or demolition of any historic buildings over 50 year old. A formal record of these reviews conceming
the acceptability of the proposed activities be obtained from the Ministry of Culture.



Annex 14
Page 6 of 12
18.    Relocation of Graves. Religious authorities and the relatives of the buried persons will be formally
consulted prior to the relocation of any graves. A formal record of these consultations and the decision of
the religious authorities will be provided to the MOH and Resident Mission for review and approval prior to
the relocation of graves. Design measures will be used to the fullest extent possible to avoid the relocation
of graves under the HDC.
19.    Resettlement, Land Acquisition and Compensation Issues. The evolving status of the
Palestinian administrative procedures and determination of lines of authority, including operational
differences between West Bank and Gaza, requires that proposed activities under the HDC be reviewed for
resettlement aspects by the MOH on an individual basis, with the close supervision of the Resident Mission
and support of EMTEN. This will involve site specific reviews and preparation of proposed compensation
packages which will require Bank review and approval. A condition of the loan will be that the Palestinian
Authority, acting through the MOH, will agree to use the following review process for activities to be
supported under the Housing Development Component of the proposed Project:
a.  Legal Status of the Proposed Site. Information will be provided on the official land ownership
status of each proposed site. This review will identify any outstanding claims or disputes
concerning title to all or any portion of the site.
b.  Survey of Current Land Use on the Site. A map should be prepared for each site which shows
the current land use, including both authorized and unauthorized activities. This will identify
areas which are being used for informal housing or have structures, locations of agricultural
activities, sand or rock excavation, waste disposal sites, and other uses.
c.  Identification of Formal and Informal Users. A list will be made, keyed to the map, which
will identify to the fullest extent possible the names of the formal and informal users and
provide information on the basis for their land use activities on the sites. To the extent they are
available, information or copies of leases or other authorizations for agriculture or other
activities will be collected. Under the provisions of World Bank/IDA resettlement procedures,
compensation may be required for parties with informal rights as well as for those with formal
rights.
d.  Consultation with Formal and Informal Users. In the development of sites larger than 20
dunums in area, the MOH will organize a public consultation process with formal and
informal users of the proposed site. This consultation will include a review of the proposed
activity, the rights of the affected parties, and the procedures to be used for compensation. The
process will provide for an opportunity for potentially affected parties to express their views
and preferences with regard to compensation. A record will be made of these consultations by
MOH which will be maintained in the Project files and provided to the Resident Mission.
e.  Estimation of Potential Compensation for Formal and Informal Users. Preliminary
information should be prepared concerning proposed costs of compensation for parties with
either formal or informal land use rights. A review will be prepared which will provide
information on the value and replacement costs of structures, outbuildings, fences, vines, trees
and other non-moveable assets. Preference will be given to the provision of altemate housing
for parties subject to involuntary resettlement and all compensation will be based on real
market rates which reflect real market value and replacement costs.



Annex 14
Page 7 of 12
f.   Review of Proposed Compensation and Payment. Given the wide variations in costs
between the different sections of the West Bank and Gaza, determinations for all proposed
compensation packages, including the provision of alternative housing, will be made on a
case-by-case basis in consultation with the MOH, municipal government, and affected
parties. In addition, the payments will be made in a transparent and public manner in which
the affected parties receive payment in a public location with a public notice being given of
the compensation and the individual who received the award. All proposed compensation
activities will be formally reviewed and approved by the Resident Mission with the support
of EMTEN as required.
20.    Review of Proposed Demonstration Site in Gaza. A review of environment, cultural heritage and
resettlement issues at the proposed Tal al Hawa demonstration site in Gaza is provided as Attachment A.
This site has been subject to a field survey by representatives of MOH and IDA which has confirmed that it
does have any known formal or informal housing which would require involuntary resettlement.
Development of Palestinian Resettlement Procedures
21.    Under the Institutional and Policy Development Component of the Project support will be provided
for the development of procedures for use by the MOH for involuntary resettlement and land acquisition.
The development of these procedures be undertaken in coordination with development of laws and
regulations by the recently elected Palestinian Assembly. This process will be complemented by Project
supported training courses concerning environment, cultural heritage and resettlement issues.
Institutional Strengthening
22.   In order to support effective implementation of the Project, as an element of the Institutional and
Policy Development Component, a series of short training courses on environment, cultural heritage, and
resettlement issues related to the HDC will be conducted for public and private interests in cooperation with
EPD, PDA and MOC. These courses will be conducted in Arabic and make use of the recently completed
translations of relevant Operational Directives, the Environmental Assessment Sourcebook (3 volumes) and
selected updates to the Sourcebook, including procedures concerning cultural heritage. Additional materials
will be prepared in Arabic concerning resettlement and land acquisition issues.
Monitoring and Supervision
23.    Monitoring of the implementation of environment, cultural heritage and resettlement aspects of the
Project will be conducted by the MOH with the support of the Resident Mission. These issues will be
elements of the routine supervision missions to be conducted for the Project and IDA staff andlor
consultants with expertise in environment and resettlement issues will participate as members of the
supervision missions. EMTEN will provide specialized support to the Resident Mission, as required, in
undertaking monitoring and supervision activities.
Agreements
24.    Project Agreements. It is recommended that the Project include the following agreements between
the MOH and IDA:



Annex 14
Page 8 of 12
a.   Assurances will be provided by the MOH, that both public and private sector organizations
implementing the Housing Development Component will obtain formal clearances for
Project supported construction activities from the Environmental Planning Department of the
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation and the Palestinian Department of
Archaeology of the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities. In the case of proposed activities
which concern the modification and/or demolition of historical buildings, more than 50 years
old, formal clearances will be obtained from the Ministry of Culture. While the relocation of
graves will require formal approval by religious authorities.
b.   Assurances will be provided by the MOH, that both public and private sector organizations
implementing the Housing Development Component will follow the provisions of World
Bank Operational Directive 4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement" in cases when Project
supported activities may involve the resettlement of parties with either formal or informal
land rights, including the agricultural use of lands. The World Bank/IDA will be formally
consulted conceming all proposed Project funded activities which may involve involuntary
resettlement or the relocation of graves.
c.   Assurances will be provided by the MOH, that it will prepare as an element of the Project a
set of procedures for involuntary resettlement which could be implemented by the Palestinian
Authority for this and other projects.
Coordination with Ongoing Activities
25.   Implementation of the Project will be coordinated with, but not limited to, the following on-going
activities:
a.   Physical Planning Study. The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation is
preparing a physical planning study for the West Bank and Gaza, including special studies
for Jericho, Ramallah and Gaza City, with support from the Government of Norway;
b.   Tourism Development Program. The Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities plans to undertake
preparation of a tourism development program from the West Bank and Gaza. This activity is
to be supported under the Technical Assistance Trust Fund (TATF);
c.   Cultural Resources Management Plan. The Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities, in
coordination with the Ministry of Culture, plans to undertake preparation of a cultural
resources management program for the West Bank and Gaza. This activity is to be supported
under the TATF;
d.   Gaza and West Bank Environmental Profle Process. The Environmental Planning
Directorate of the Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation is preparing an
Environmental Profile for Gaza with support from the Government of the Netherlands. In
addition, an Environmental Profile for the West Bank is planned to be prepared by EPD with
donor assistance;
e.   Coastal Zone Management Program. The Environmental Planning Directorate of the
Ministry of Planning and International Coordination plans to undertake preparation of a



Annex 14
Page 9 of 12
coastal zone management program for Gaza. This activity is to be supported under the TATF;
and
f.   Bethlehem  and Jericho Environmental Profiles. The Applied Research Institute in
Jerusalem (ARIJ) has prepared an Environmental Profile for Bethlehem and has an
Environmental Profile of Jericho under preparation.



Annex 14
Page 10 of 12
Attachment A
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Housing Development Component
Tal El-Hawa Demonstration Site
Environment, Cultural Heritage And Resettlement Review
Overview
1.    Introduction. Under the Housing Development Component (HDC) of the Palestinian Housing
Project (Project) it is proposed to implement a demonstration activity at Tal El-Hawa in Gaza Municipality.
Consistent with procedures adopted by the Ministry of Housing (MOH) of the Palestinian Authority and the
International Development Association (IDA) this site has been the subject of field based reviews of
environment, cultural heritage and resettlement issues.
2.     Field Survey. To support the review process a field survey was conducted of the sites by
representatives of the MOH and IDA (MN2WG, TWURD, ENVLW). This inspection covered the entire
area of the site by the team which was assisted by the chief surveyor for Gaza. The inspection of the site
was done on foot, local residents were consulted and sketch maps were prepared of the site. The survey
confirmed that the proposed site does not have any known formal or informal housing which would require
involuntary relocation.
3.     At the request of IDA, the MOH is having detailed maps prepared of the location which will show
current land use and identify the parties involved. The project team is working with the MOH and the
concerned municipal governments to develop proposed compensation measures for parties which are
engaged in agriculture on a formal and informnal basis. The proposed compensation packages and their
method of payment will be subject to review and approval by the Resident Mission and EMTEN as a
condition for negotiation of the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and payments will be made to affected parties
prior to undertaking the demonstration activity.
4.     Review by Palestinian Agencies. The demonstration site has been subject to field visits by
representatives of the Environmental Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation and the Palestinian Department of Archaeology of the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities.
Both these organizations have provided formal clearances for the proposed demonstration activity. No site
visits were required by representatives of the Ministry of Culture since the proposed activities did not
involve any historic structures.
Tal El-Hawa Demonstration Site
5.     Tal El-Hawa. The Tal El-Hawa site is located in the southern part of Gaza Municipality and covers
and area of 406 dunums. The field review indicates that the area is suitable for development for housing
under the HDC. The site is surrounded on all four sides by existing housing and is bordered by three sides
by large roads which provide adequate access to the site. Current land use at the site includes areas which
are used, under both formal leases with the municipality and under informal use rights established during
the Israeli occupation, for the cultivation vegetables, vines and trees. A portion of the site is covered with



Annex 14
Page 11 of 12
trees, brush and other vegetation. Several sections of the site are being illegally excavated for sand and used
as solid waste disposal sites. The site does not have any housing units which will be subject to voluntary or
involuntary resettlement.
6.     Potential Impacts. The potential impacts from implementation of the proposed activity are limited
in their scope and can be addressed through implementation of mitigation actions and monitoring. The
primary impacts include:
a.   Conversion of Open Area. The site will be converted from an open area into a housing
development which will include planned public and family use areas. Trees, brush and other
types of vegetation will be removed from most of the site and the topography of the site will
be altered to allow for development of the land and to assure proper stormwater drainage.
The change in land use will be irreversible.
b.   Loss of Areafor Cultivation. The site will cease to be used for the low intensity cultivation
of vegetables, vines and fruit trees. The site is composed of mobile sand and does not
possess valuable soil types which should be conserved for agricultural production.
c.   Control of Unauthorized Sand Excavation and Waste Disposal. A major positive benefit
of the proposed activity will be the ending of extensive unauthorized excavation of sand
from two extensive pits which have been illegally established on the site. These are up to 15
meters deep and create a hazard for local residents and result in seasonal ponding of water
resulting in the creation of breeding habitat for mosquitoes. It will also result in the ending
of the use of the site for waste disposal purposes by a wide range of unauthorized parties.
7.     Mitigation Actions. Proposed mitigation actions for this activity are:
a.    Conservation of Acacia Trees. Field review of the site by the Environmental Planning
Directorate resulted in a formal request that the design for the site include provision for the
protection of an area of acacia trees located in the central and eastern portion of the site. The
MOH has agreed to this proposal and adopted it as a mitigation for development of the site.
b.    Compensationfor Agricultural Users. A compensation package, acceptable to IDA, should
be provided to those parties which have established formal and informal land use rights at
the site and have established trees and grapevines on portions of the site. The compensation
package should be developed following the procedures outlined in the next steps section in
Para. 9 (below).
c.    Use ofArchaeological Chance Find Procedures. The MOH will require its contractors and
private sector developers to use "archaeological chance find procedures" given the potential
for unknown archaeological materials to be uncovered at this site during the excavation and
construction process.
8.     Monitoring Actions. Implementation of the proposed activity will be monitored by the MOH and
Resident Mission. Both parties will assure that no construction activities will be undertaken until the
activities outlined in Para. 9 (below) are completed.



Annex 14
Page 12 of 12
9.     Next Steps. Prior to approval of the proposed activity the following actions should be taken by the
MOH to resolve the compensation of parties which have formal and informal land use rights at the site as
follows:
a.  Complete Review of the Legal Status of the Site. The MOH should complete the review of
official land ownership status of each proposed site. This review will identify any outstanding
claims or disputes concerning title to all or any portion of the site.
b.  Complete the Survey of Current Land Use on the Site. A map should be prepared for each
site which shows the current land use, including both authorized and unauthorized activities.
c.  Complete the Identifcation of Formal and Informal Users. A list should be made prepared
which will be keyed to the map which will identify to the fullest extent possible the names of
the formal and informal users and provide information on the basis for their land use activities
on the sites. To the extent they are available information or copies of leases or other
authorizations for agriculture or other activities should be collected.
d.  Conduct a Consultation with Formal and Informal Users. The MOH should organize a
public consultation process with formal and informal users of the proposed site. This
consultation will include a review of the proposed activity, the rights of the affected parties,
and the procedures to be used for compensation. The process will provide for an opportunity
for potentially affected parties to express their views and preferences with regard to
compensation.
e.  Prepare an Estimate of Potential Compensation for Formal and Informal Users.
Preliminary information should be prepared concerning proposed costs of compensation for
parties with either formal or informal land use rights. All compensation will be based on real
market rates which reflect real market value and replacement costs.
f.  Payment of Compensation. The MOH, in consultation with the municipal government and
affected parties, will prepare a proposal for payment of compensation which will be formally
reviewed and approved by the Resident Mission with the support of EMTEN as required.
Following IDA approval the MOH will make payments and the site will be available for
development under the HDC.



Annex 15
WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.  Discussion Points: Lowering Costs of Housing and Issues for Standards: The West Bank-Gaza
Housing Project, November 1995.
2.  Terms of Reference for Tal El-Hawa Site in Gaza.
3.  Palestinian-Norwegian Fact Finding Mission: Housing and Building Material Sector, March 1995.
4.  Comments from Stephen Lintner on Environmental, Cultural Heritage and Resettlement Aspects of
the Project, June 18 and April 1, 1996.
5.  Draft Aide Memoire for Appraisal Mission. July 9, 1996.
6.  Appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report Outlining Conditions for Negotiation, July 23, 1996.
7.  Secondary Mortgage Facility: Organization and Operation.
8.  Mortgage Insurance Fund: Organization and Operation.
9.  Housing Assistance Fund: Organization and Operation.
10. Developers Prospectus: Guide for Developers to Participate in the Housing Project.
11. Developers 'Prospectus: Prequalification Forms and Application and Proposal Forms.






MAP SECTION






34~50'     T.H Oaf.    IT. G-`               l yoq-o-oo '3s lo,    roKoo,0             i. r                         33
550                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WEST BANK AND GAZA
HOUSING PROJECT
3230'-
* TAL EL HIAWA DEMONSTRATION SITE (GAZA CITYI
UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
.Oooboi,o~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~IRAL STLEET
BUILT-UP AREAS
ARMISTICE DEMARCATIGN IINES, I 949
NO MAN'S [AND AREAS,
3220-          ~~ARMISTICE DEMARCATIGN LINE, 1949
-32'29'                                                                                                                               3220
Tubas    -   ,~~~~~~~~~                    JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
Tb~~~~~'~~~~ ~EXPANDED BYIRE JUN o                                       67
Tukr   A..plo   *il                                                                                           THEN ANNEXED JuLY 30, 1980
I                  3                                                               I                     ,o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~AIRPORT
uJiI 4C`AIM P,                                              -Tamu                                                   AIRFIELDS
03  LI!      q                                      -~~~~~~----- ~~HIGHWAYS
10005)   '                     (                   '----- ~~~~~~REGIONAL ROADS
*                                                                 ----- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
J                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VILLAGE ACCESS ROADS
3210'    /                                     ~~ ~~~~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~N *A'DB.  L                                     -0--2' 0-RAILROADS
I                                                                                              0                                - ~~~~~~~~~~AINTERNATIONAL EOUNDARIES
End                    -                                                                                                          TO, booodooIo,h-  . h, ob-p  d. --o,ooo, i hopoId  Thy Wsl,,d ,obo, G-,
tAIroa          1.0ooIdo,e,000 IeoIool  loy o,,o-   oot e00oo,o
ISRAEL                               ~~       ~~~~~                ~~       ~~~~~B A4   N  K  A.   3"'                    230         ~        'oo,il 30
0SELECTED CITIESAr  P,ooopOII
0.I              W                            so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.I..     .p-ll
*3..   I                                            0  ~~~~~           ~          ~    ~ ~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~32,30'  0. -
-     H                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ir
"IF    ,  I-                    ~~~~~TEL AVI-YWES T
,~AfSBIroI1~r                 Jericho',- -20' -Io                                                                oL        ~       r
3 I'50                                                                                                       31'50'                                                        AMM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  00,0
0- ~~~~_l            t                          A           Aohq,o                        ohoo
31 30'                                             3' I  0
O A   S R A EL          00
~~Re,t Scjhour ~           (                                                             Zho
31'40                                                                                                      /                          3 140'330                          35 00                        300
M.ditor.......
-                  to,>      ~~~~~         ~~~~~~Deadi  Alm ....oh                                *o lboo
O                                                                            Sea                           ~~~~~~~~                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31 30'0rI3
I - -              13J                                                          ~~~~~~~GAZA,"
-31'30                                      A                                               T. Eo ~                                   3 I'30/
Zohqr                          / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IS R AE L
-31            ,U~31 20'
-31 20                                                                                             )                                  3 120'-         -
K                                              .. /                                        -                  ~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARAB  0  3  0.  15-01,0EIIS4
34.35.000o'o                         -                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~REP. OF'00 
0  IBeo,oOoSo,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 10'                                      35 30''                      3530'                       EGYPT              30030 30                                   -









IMAGING
Report No.: S126   GZ
Type:     SAR



