Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22039
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39240; TF-21396)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF
BRAZIL
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION & REHABILITATION (CVRD) PROJECT
October 2, 2001
ESSD Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Real
R$1.00 = US$ 0.549
US$ 1.00 = 1.822
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BASA               Bank of Amazonia
CVRD               Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
EMS                Environmental Management Systems
EMS                Environmental Management Systems
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
FUNAI              The Brazilian National Indian Foundation
IBAMA              Brazilian Institute for Environmental Protection and Renewal Resources
ISO                International Standards Organization
MTR                Mid-Term Review
PGC                Grande Carajas Program
PIFI               Forest-Industry Management Plan
PPAR               Project Performance Audit Report
PSR                Project Status Report
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
SUDAM              Superintendency for the Development of the Amazon
Vice President:    David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Daniel R. Gross



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
Environmental Conservation & Rehabilitation (CVRD) Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             18
6. Sustainability                                                                21
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                 22
8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Note: Please find footnotes under Section 10.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006512                                      Project Name: Environmental Conservation &
Rehabilitation (CVRD) Project
Team Leader: Daniel R. Gross                             TL Unit: LCSEO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: October 3, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Environmental Conservation & Rehabilitation   LIC/TF Number: SCL-39240; TF-21396
(CVRD) Project
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: VI - Environmental Institutions
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/09/1991                              Effective:                    03/04/1996
Appraisal:  03/16/1991                               MTR:                       10/06/1997
Approval:  07/11/1995                              Closing: 06/30/2000         06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: CVRD/CVRD
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Gobind T. Nankani                         Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:      Maria Teresa Serra                        Stephen J. Ettinger
Team Leader at ICR:   Daniel R. Gross                          Dominique Babelon
ICR Primary Author:   Daniel R. Gross and Samuel
Taffesse
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU-Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project had three major objectives: "(a) to support the high priority investments of the environmental
program of CVRD; (b) to support changes in CVRD's systems and procedures needed to reinforce sound
environmental policies and management; and (c) to mitigate some of the environmental and social adverse
impacts of the operations of CVRD, in particular in the Carajas Corridor, and of the Executing Agencies in
certain portions of their direct area of influence." Although the SAR' identified the three distinct objectives,
they all were directed at supporting and improving the environmental activities of CVRD.
Background:
CVRD is one of the largest mining companies in the world. With operations that span Brazil,
from Minas Gerais in Central Brazil to Para in the Amazon region in the North, CVRD owns or
controls major iron mines and ore processing facilities in the State of Minas Gerais, with a 900 km
Vit6ria-Minas rail line operated and maintained by CVRD, linking the mines to the Port of
Tubarao in Espirito Santo. At the Tubarao site, CVRD operates four ore pelletization plants and
ore handling facilities. Together these operations are known as the "Southern System". CVRD's
Northern System comprises a mine and ore processing facilities in the Carajas Mineral Reserve in
the State of Para, linked to port facilities by a 900 km railway built and maintained by CVRD.
This Project covered both the Northem and Southern Systems. Project activities in the Southern
System were related to mines and tailing deposits in the interior, the transport infrastructure, and
the port facilities in Vit6ria.
This project was the Bank's second operation with CVRD. A previous Bank Loan (Carajas Iron
Ore - Loan Number 2196-BR, approved on August 10, 1982) focused on CVRD's Northern
System in the Amazon region of Brazil. It helped finance construction of a large open-pit mine in
Para State and a 900 km. railway leading to the Port of Itaqui in Sao Luis, Maranhao State. This
loan of US$ 304.5 million of which US$ 73.6 million was cancelled (due to lower-than-expected
costs) was made at the dawn of the Bank's safeguard policies. The 1982 operation, cofinanced by
a consortium of private Banks and the European Union, was not subject to environmental impact
assessment under Bank guidelines nor was it subject to the Bank's Indigenous Peoples policy
because these policies were not yet in place. Nevertheless the Bank's supervision encompassed
these topics and considerable effort was devoted to assessing the environmental and social impact
of this project. In 1982, CVRD set aside some US$13 million of its own funds to support
indigenous peoples in the vicinity of the Carajas mine and railway. It also took numerous
measures for environmental protection in the area of the mine and along the Carajas railway.
Review of Carajas project. CVRD's performance within the context of the project was considered
satisfactory by OED's Performance Audit Study . The Bank conducted a review of environmental
management in the Carajas area in 1992' concluding that the project had significant direct and
indirect impacts on the physical and human environments in both its immediate and its larger areas
of influence. The study concluded that the Bank's approach to the identification and mitigation of
the potential environmental consequences of the Carajas was too narrow. One of the factors
motivating the Bank's involvement in the CVRD project under review here was a perception that
there had been some undesirable social and environmental outcomes to the earlier Iron Ore Project.
The main project-related environmental damage, in areas outside CVRD's control, was
deforestation along the immediate rail and road corridors allegedly caused by the iron ore
operation. In addition to deforestation, erosion and a rapid loss of soil nutrients, the proliferation
-2 -



of secondary-growth vegetation, water course contamination, and loss of biological diversity were
observed. The project's social impact included increased pressure on Amerindian reserves;
increased migration, rapid and often unplanned rural land occupation and urban settlement; and
land concentration, land conflict and rural violence. In OED's view, the Bank could help set right
some of these issues by financing an environmental project in the region. However, this issue
requires some clarification as regards: (a) collateral effects of the CVRD Iron Ore Project; and (b)
other influences in the region. Also, as pointed out below, many of these impacts predated the
implantation of the Carajas mine and were set in motion by other projects.
Not all the development and migration in the Carajcis region was stimulated by the CVRD mine
and railway. Other large-scale projects that had a major effect on migration, forest clearance and
encroachment were the Belem-Brasilia Highway built in 1973 (first opened in 1960 and paved in
1973), the Tucurui Hydropower Dam completed in 1984, and the TransAmazon Highway (1973)
(see map, Fig. 1). Well before the Carajas project got underway, levels of violence related to
grilagem in the so-called Parrot's Beak region (encompassing parts of Para, Goias (now
Tocantins), and Maranhao - see Fig. 1) had reached epidemic proportions. As a response to the
escalating violence and the struggle for land, in February 1980, the then military government
created a special land commission to adjudicate disputes and maintain order. Another major
influence in the region was a gold rush that began in the early 1980s to Serra Pelada in the Carajas
region where thousands of wildcat miners, using hand tools, excavated a deep open pit mine under
extremely harsh conditions.
Social and environmental impacts of the Carajtis project. The CVRD Iron Ore Project was
embedded in a government-sponsored program known as "Grande Carajas" (PGC) including the
entire area of the States of Para and Maranhao most of which was neither under CVRD's control
nor directly influenced by CVRD's operations. The PGC was coordinated by an interministerial
Council which was able to allocate resources from regional development programs targeted to the
North and Northeast. Some of the activities, planned and unplanned, carried out in the Carajas
corridor were environmentally damaging and problematic from a social point of view. These
included expansion of ranching, farming, and other activities some supported by federal tax
incentives targeted to the States of the North and Northeast.
With relatively few controls, many squatters and wildcat miners moved into the region from coastal
regions and the semi-arid Northeast in search of land for subsistence and extractive production.
Some of them illegally occupied areas along the right-of-way of the Carajas railway, while others
used penetration highways and logging roads to facilitate entering unoccupied forest areas. Better
capitalized ranchers, often using subsidized credit, cleared large areas of native forest to plant
pasture. In some cases, grileiros used fraud and intimidation to gain control over land from
small-scale untitled rural producers (the systematic application of such techniques is known as
grilagem). In some areas, encroachment on traditional lands of indigenous people and increased
contact with outsiders brought increased disease risk and other problems to indigenous populations.
FUNAI was slow to delimit and demarcate indigenous lands in the region although some progress
had been achieved under the special initiative linked to the 1982 Carajas Iron Ore Project.
In connection with its iron mine, CVRD built a model urban settlement in Carajas to house
employees. However, this city did not accommodate much of the population that flooded into the
area, Cities such as MarabA and Parauapebas outside CVRD's Mineral Reserve (see Fig. 1) grew
rapidly but did not benefit from planning and the careful controls maintained by CVRD in Carajas.
- 3 -



However, before, during and after the project implementation period, CVRD assisted these
communities by financing and supervising construction of hospitals, schools, basic sanitation
works and other infrastructure. CVRD, along with other companies and government agencies has
assisted many people in the region, through job training, medical care, small-business development,
etc. In summary, the CVRD mine and railway came on the scene after the process of frontier
settlement was well underway. While it surely added to the complexity of the situation, and to the
intensity of environmental and social impacts, CVRD was not the only influence on social and
environmental trends and its influence was often positive.
Pig-iron smelters contributed to deforestation. Fiscal incentives under the Grande Carajas
program were authorized for six pig-iron smelters installed along the Carajas railway Ipresently
eleven smelters are in operation along the corridor). These smelters receive iron ore from Carajas
delivered by CVRD, using charcoal made from native timber as a coking fuel. CVRD is not
presently associated with any of these companies although their presence in the region is clearly
related to CVRD's mine and railway. The charcoal is produced in local forests and from sawmill
residues, thus contributing indirectly to forest clearing in the vicinity. These sawmills and smelters
filed the legally required forest utilization plans (Plano de Integracao Floresta-Industria -- PIFIs)
under which consumers agree to reforest areas equivalent to those they have cleared or to harvest
wood products from managed woodlots. PIFIs are filed with IBAMA and their tree cutting plans
with the State Environmental Agencies. In practice, there has been little monitoring or enforcement
of these plans. Pig-iron smelting is not the only contributor to deforestation in the Caraj.s region;
timber high-grading and clear-cutting for pasture are the major factors.
A recommendation for Bank involvement.  Having described the social and environmental
problems that were due to the Carajas operation, albeit indirectly, the OED Project Performance
Audit recommended continued involvement of the Bank in ameliorating this problem. 'Given its
participation in the iron ore operation ... the Bank should be open to the possibility of providing
additional assistance for socially and environmentally -- as well as economically -- sound
development projects in the region." Accordingly, one of the objectives of the project was to
address problems related to the Carajas Iron Ore Project. Specifically, the new project sought to
correct some of the negative indirect environmental and social impact of CVRD's operations in
sensitive portions of its areas of influence, in particular in the Carajas Corridor.
The Bank's participation in the CVRD project was influenced by the perception that CVRD was
largely responsible for social and environmental problems in the region and that CVRD alone could
mitigate or reverse this damage. However, as discussed above, while these social and economic
problems may have been exacerbated by CVRD's expansion, the region's problems are complex
and cannot be attributed exclusively to CVRD's presence. Consequently, a project aimed at
reducing forest destruction, disorganized urban growth and encroachment of indigenous lands
would have needed to have a scope beyond CVRD and its operations. One can debate at great
length whether, as some argue, CVRD, as a parastatal should have assumed greater responsibility
for social and environmental problems in its area of influence, especially given the fragility of
public institutions in the region. Generally speaking, CVRD was scrupulous about maintaining
environmental quality within the areas directly under its control and including some areas outside
its control, such as indigenous health in its area of influence. During the implementation period
CVRD was privatized as had been foreseen during appraisal. This was to have significant impact
on the rate of project implementation and perhaps on the commitment of CVRD's management to
the project's objectives. However, throughout the implementation period, CVRD's management,
concerned both with its bottom line and its reputation, carefully limited CVRD's commitments with
regard to environmental and social protection outside the areas under its direct jurisdiction. This
- 4 -



concern was heightened after privatization since, at this point, the public managers had much less
leverage over decisions in the company.
Partial Mismatch regarding objectives of the new project. In 1989-90, CVRD's management
canvassed its various divisions to identify their environmental investment needs. The result was a
project that was primarily oriented to reclamation and pollution problems in CVRD's Southern
System, not to social and environmental problems in the Carajas region which were questions
uppermost among the Bank's concerns. As a consequence, there was a partial mismatch between
the Bank's view and CVRD's view of the key problems the project ought to address. The Bank
was not adverse to strengthening CVRD's environmental management capacity, nor was CVRD
opposed to correcting environmental problems in the Northern System. However, the relative
importance attributed to these issues by the two institutions was different, leading to some
difficulties during implementation.
Key Issues: Two key issues that are indicative of this mismatch arose during preparation and
persisted throughout implementation. The first concemed regularization of indigenous lands
(official demarcation and registration) in Northern System in CVRD's area of influence. There are
a number indigenous peoples in the general vicinity of CVRD's operations. The Xikrin of Catete
occupy a reserve directly adjacent to the Carajis Mineral Reserve, and the Carajas - Sao Luis
Railway runs directly through the Mae Maria Reserve of the Gaviao people. These two groups
have long received significant assistance from CVRD including investments in housing, vehicles,
etc. Other groups, not directly in the path of CVRD's operations, were also affected by CVRD's
operations. Some of these groups lived on reserves that have not yet been regularized (demarcated
and titled to the Federal Government). Some such areas were regularized with assistance from
CVRD under a special agreement in the 1982 Loan. In the Loan Agreement for the current
project, CVRD agreed to "assist FUNAI . . . to complete demarcation of the Krikati, Awa and
Govemador indigenous lands" [Schedule 2, Part C 3(b)]. The Bank's intention was that CVRD
would use its power and influence to bring about regularization of these indigenous lands that had
been identified during the first CVRD Project. However, FIJNAI was not a party to this
agreement, neither was there any specification of an event of default in the legal agreements that
could have led to suspension or other measures in the event of non-compliance. Thus the
agreement was difficult to enforce. CVRD's position, repeatedly stated, was that it could not be
held responsible for discharging Government responsibilities.
Second, there has long been concern that pig-iron production in the Carajas corridor contributes to
deforestation. Several smelters installed along the CVRD railway receive iron ore from CVRD and
use charcoal as a coking fuel. This charcoal is derived from native timber from areas cleared from
local forests. Although some of this charcoal is produced from otherwise unusable sawmill
residue, even this source contributes to deforestation by enhancing the profitability of sawmill
operations. CVRD agreed in a side letter (referred to in the Loan Contract as "The Pig Iron Plan"),
to take actions to help the pig-iron producers in the Carajas corridor (in the Northern System) to
reduce their consumption of native timber as a coking fuel. However, CVRD was unable to
unilaterally enforce public policies for environmental protection. In the Pig Iron Plan, CVRD
agreed to cut off the supply of iron ore to smelters if they were found by the environmental
authorities (IBAMA and State Environmental Agencies) to be out of compliance with their legal
obligations. This agreement was also ratified by each of the pig iron smelters then in operation.
But in view of the lack of enforcement, CVRD was not legally required to act against these
companies. In effect, the language of the legal covenants could not oblige CVRD to implement the
- 5 -



components of the project that were of the highest priority from the Bank's perspective because
they were beyond the scope of CVRD's authority. It appears that none of the smelters has
replanted enough trees to replace those cut and some have not even begun.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No change in project objective was made during implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following components:
A. Pollution control and recuperation of degraded areas: This component was expected to
constitute 58% of the total project cost through financing of subprojects designed to control pollution
and recuperate degraded areas in CVRD's facilities, primarily in the Southern System, consisting of (a)
dust control; (b) gas effluent treatment; (c) industrial liquid drainage, treatment and discharge; (d)
liquid effluent minimization; (e) sewage treatment; (f) mining waste and tailings disposal; and (g)
industrial solid waste.
B. Natural resources protection & recuperation: Comprising 6% of project costs, this component
consisted of subprojects to: (a) protect ecosystems, consisting mostly of the preparation and
implementation of management plans in the forest and biological reserves under CVRD's oI any other
Executing Agency's management; (b) reforest degraded areas, consisting mainly of the establishment of
green belts along railways and around mining sites, industrial plants and ports of CVRD; and (c) carry
out other activities and studies aimed at improving the knowledge of, and protecting and conserving,
natural ecosystems (including fauna and flora inventories), sustainable management of natural forests
and environmental education, primarily in the area of Linhares, Espirito Santo.
C. Socially oriented investments: Comprising 19% of the project costs, this component consisted of
1.  (a) Subprojects for installation of basic water supply and sewerage infrastructure in the
municipality of Parauapebas, in the State of Para; and (b) subprojects for installation of sewerage
infrastructure in the municipality of Itabira, in the State of Minas Gerais; 2. A subproject consisting of
the construction and management of a small business technical assistance center in a community to be
selected by CVRD: (a) Subprojects to provide to the Amerindian communities of Xicrin do Catete,
Gaviao de Mae Maria and Awa, and other Amerindian communities located in the Carajas Corridor: (i)
basic sanitation infrastructure; (ii) preventive health services; (iii) informal training; (iv) basic
education; and (v) technical assistance for the development of forest management techniques and other
self-sustainable economic activities; and (b) Subprojects to provide the necessary infrastructure and
services to assist FUJNAI: (i) in the protection of Amerindian communities in the Borrower's direct area
of influence; and (ii) to complete the demarcation of the Amerindian areas of Krikati, Awa, and
Govemador, in the State of Maranhao.
D. CVRD corporate environment information monitoring & audit systems: Comprising 2% of
total project costs, this component supported extemal environmental audits throughout CVRD's
operations and subsequently provided support for CVRD's implementation of ISO 14001 certification
for certain parts of its operations.
E. Studies: With 3% of the total project cost, this component was expected to support: (a) monitoring
of pollution at the Timbopeba and Itabira mines; (b) a consolidated environmental impact study of the
Tubarao marine terminal, in the State of Esprito Santo; (c) review and testing of alternative low-cost
systems for better sanitation in low-income communities near the Ponta da Madeira maritime terminal,
- 6 -



in Sao Luis, State of Maranhao; (d) a diagnostic study to review the economic and social situation of
the municipalities in CVRD's direct area of influence; (e) monitor and control the environmental and
social aspects of CVRD's operations and to report inadequacies and recommend remedial actions; (f)
carry out periodic environmental audits of such operations; (g) review the environmental impact
assessments of the new Subprojects to be carried out by the Borrower, its Subsidiaries and the
Executing Agencies, and monitor the implementation of the mitigation activities, when necessary; (h)
identify the environmental and social risks in the implementation of CVRD's operations and take the
corrective measures, when necessary; and (i) monitor and evaluate the impact of the other Subprojects
under Part C.3.
F. Sub-projects (unallocated): With an allocation of 12% of the total project cost, it was planned to
identify sub-projects aimed at reducing pollution and environmental degradation; improving knowledge
of and protecting natural ecosystems (including fauna and flora inventories); sustainable management
of natural forests; environmental education; and social programs aimed at improving the welfare of
communities in CVRD's area of influence. As subprojects were identified, they were classified into one
of the above categories.
Discussion
CVRD had the capacity to finance the operation using its own resources. From the outset of the
operation, CVRD had the financial and technical capacity to carry out substantial portions of the
project without Bank assistance. Some of the activities supported were required as conditions of
CVRD's environmental licenses, or they were necessary to continue operation of the company's
facilities. An example is the Doutor tailing pond which extended the life of CVRD's ore processing
facility in Itabira but did not bring any direct environmental benefit. The principal value added of the
Bank's partnership with CVRD consisted of promoting and orienting a systems approach to
environmental management, rather than the previous more reactive approach.  While CVRD's
management was becoming increasingly sensitive to environmental issues and had created an
environmental department, the Bank helped to focus this interest on a more comprehensive
Environmental Management Systems (EMS) approach. The Loan went to a company that could have
undertaken most of the same measures without Bank support. The Bank's support helped the process
move faster and in a more systematic fashion than would have been the case without Bank support.
CVRD used the project to develop EMS. During project preparation, CVRD made a number of
changes to strengthen its environmental capacity and during 1995, after the project became effective,
CVRD's management embarked on a program to develop EMS based on ISO 14.001 norms in all of its
operations, with the assistance of Bureau Veritas with financing from the Project. As a result of these
efforts, the CVRD Technology Center (SUTEC) received ISO 14.001 certification in 1997 and the
Carajas iron ore and manganese mines were certified in 1998. Activities leading to certification in
other units in CVRD were also begun, although they were significantly slower in the Southem System
where conditions were different, having developed over decades without the benefit of an EMS
perspective or periodic environmental audits.
Pollution control activities. In Minas Gerais, the project financed recovery of old mine sites including
stabilization of tailing piles, construction of a new tailing pond, and erosion control along the CVRD
railway. In Vit6ria, the project supported pollution control at the Port of Tubarao including control of
airbome particulate emissions from ore   processing  (pelletization) facilities, and   control of
pollutants originating in CVRD's locomotive maintenance shops, in its ore-storage and handling patios,
ship-loading facilities, and sanitary sewers. These activities involved the development of complex
engineering designs which were also financed under the project.
- 7 -



The impact of privatization: During implementation, CVRD was privatized. Under its new
management, CVRD went through an extended period of reorganization, cost cutting, and expansion
through acquisitions. These changes caused a slowdown in implementation of EMS and other
components of the Project as evidenced by much slower procurement and contracting.
The total cost of the project by the closing date is given below.
Table 1. Cost of components and ratings (in US$ million)
Actual     Actual/
Component              Appraisal   Estimate    Appraisal %    Rating
estimate
A. Pollution Control & Recuperation of   58.4        58.5         100.2       U
Degraded Areas
B. Natural Resources Protection &        6.0          7.3         120.8      UI
Recuperation
C. Socially Oriented Investments         19.1        18.2         95.1       UI
D. CVRD Corporate Environment Info       2.0          1.8         89.4        S
Monitoring & Audit Systems
E. Studies                               3.0          1.7         56.3        S
F. Subprojects                           12.1         0.3          2.5       NR
Total                                  100.7*        87.8         87.2
* Refers to the total cost before tax.
3.4 Revised Components:
No revision to the components of this project was made.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Unsatisfactory.
Environmental issues as the main issue of CVRD operations. According to the Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 14585-BR) environmental issues were becoming increasingly important in the Bank's program in
Brazil. It was held that sustainable and efficient economic development could only be assured if
development programs in Brazil were based on sound natural resources management. The report stated
that the Bank was concerned with the impact of environmental problems on populations, including on
indigenous people, and the potential global impact of deforestation of the Amazon basin, the extinction of
unique species, and the threats to other vulnerable ecosystems. The Bank made it part of its strategy and
program to assist Brazil in the resolution of these problems.
The project objective was consistent with the Brazil Country Assistance Strategy'. The CAS for Brazil
included (among others) the following objectives: (i) poverty alleviation and human resource development;
and (ii) protecting natural resources and the environment. The project was designed to contribute directly
to these two long term development objectives of the CAS. Bank involvement through this project was
expected to contribute to: (i) the preparation and implementation of a comprehensive environmental
- 8 -



program in one of the largest industrial firms in Brazil; (ii) ensure the continuity of efforts to protect and
assist Amerindian communities; (iii) contribute to the alleviation of poverty in communities near CVRD's
facilities; and (iv) improve knowledge of sustainable development in the Eastern Amazon and Mata
Atlantica regions. These justifications for the Bank involvement are still valid under current thinking in the
Bank. Thus, the project was well conceived as a plan to improve the environmental activities of CVRD
and the expected benefits from the related activities.
The project objective and activities are also consistent with the most recent CAS for Brazil (March 6,
2000)6. According this recent CAS one of the development challenges of the country is environmental
management focusing on environmental policies that help reduce poverty and contribute to renewed
economic growth. "This includes the effective management of Brazil's natural resources and its pollution
problems,... and the protection of important ecosystems".
CVRD was considered an efficient organization. The implementing agency, CVRD, had an earlier
experience in implementation of Bank supported project -- the Carajas Iron Ore Project (See section 3.1).
Although this Iron Ore project had some unexpected environmental effects, it was, in OED's view, "very
efficiently managed by CVRD". However, the PPAR concluded that: "The ERR. . . was reestimated at
3.7% on completion as opposed to 13.9% at appraisal. Thus on the basis of a traditional economic rate of
return criterion, regardless of its impressive dimensions and implementation experience, the Carajas
operation cannot be presently judged to be a successful project." This appears to be a consequence of
depressed iron-ore prices, and not due to problems in project implementation. In addition to the Carajas
Iron Ore Project, the project design also took into consideration lessons learned from the Sao Paulo
Industrial Pollution Control Project (Ln. 1822-BR). The PPAR for this industrial pollution control project
stressed the importance of Bank's involvement and investment in environmental improvements, "even if they
appear nonproductive."
Environment in CVRD's organizational structure. CVRD was a pioneer among large Brazilian
companies in building its EMS capacity, particularly in the Northern System. The Environment
Department that existed prior to the project was oriented to the Carajas Iron Ore project. At the time of
project identification (April 1991), the headquarters environmental structure was limited to a small
advisory coordinating unit, reporting to the Superintendency of Environment and Forestry (SUMAF), an
operational section responsible mainly for pulpwood operations and projects. This unit was a task force
and did not have a formal departmental structure. During preparation, this unit was upgraded to a central
coordinating unit for all CVRD Group externally financed environmental activities. This unit was
transformed in 1992 into a formal division (Gerencia) and later to a Department (Gerencia    GeraT.
The functions of this Gerencia Geral were strengthened in September 1992 to include developing
environmental policies; and the design and implementation of a management system to ensure consistent
application of corporate policies pertaining to environment throughout the group. In May 1994, this
department was transferred from SUMAF to the corporate group in charge of business development,
eliminating conflicts of interests between the environmental function and forestry and cellulose operations
of SUMAF. The Environmental Department now reports directly to the Executive Director at the
Corporate Center and occupies an organizational rank equal to other directorates.
Explaining unsatisfactory project design.  Considering CVRD's experience in implementing Bank
supported projects and the efficiency with which it implemented the project, the company was expected to
implement this project efficiently. However, the Bank may not have fully taken account of CVRD's
complexity and its increasing emphasis on bottom-line accounting that was accentuated at privatization.
These factors, and the fact that the Bank did not have a strong comparative advantage, particularly in the
-9-



EMS area, could possibly have been anticipated. It should be added that, by 1995, privatization was
already anticipated.
The SAR correctly stated that, to ensure that the environmental programs are effective "a long-term and
broad based environmental program, strong political commitment at the state level and a strong
environmental agency are essential." However, the project design did not reflect a long-term program
partly because it would have made the project unwieldy and partly because other projects then under
implementation were addressing some of these issues. In addition, mainly because of the difficulty of
working with them, it was decided not to include other institutions, such as IBAMA and FUJNAI. CVRD
strongly resisted any conditionality that could have put the project at risk because of non-compliance by
IBAMA or FUNAI.
Thus, the project design was grounded on lessons leamed from implementation of other Bank projects, the
prevailing environmental strategy of the Bank at the time and the country's priorities. While there was
ownership on both sides, the key issues for the Bank were social and environmental deterioration in the
Carajas corridor, while, for CVRD, the key issue was the mitigation of environmental liabilities,
particularly in its Southem System, and strengthening the corporate capacity for environmental
management. The two major issues that arose during implementation could have been foreseen at
appraisal: (1) CVRD's inability to assure compliance with the most sensitive (at least from the Bank's
perspective) issues (see Section 3.1 "Background), and (2) delays in procuring and contracting some of the
more complex engineering designs and works. The Bank may not have taken fully into account CVRD's
complexity, the fragility of public agencies in CVRD's areas of influence, the lack of a comparative
advantage on the Bank side for EMS, and the mismatch between the Borrower's and the Bank's key
objectives discussed above. Because the Bank did not adequately take account of these factors, the quality
at entry of the project is rated unsatisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall Rating: Unsatisfactory.
Satisfactory: support the high priority investments of the environmental program of CVRD: The project
achieved some significant results. The Loan financed a new tailing pond in the Itabira region of Minas
Gerais and enlarged an existing tailing pond at the Carajas iron mine.  The project also financed
improvements to the Tubarao Port to reduce water pollution and works to reduce beach erosion. In
addition the project supported important works to reduce pollution from old mine sites, stabilize old tailing
piles and reduce erosion along its railway line, all in the Southern System were carried as part of this
project. However, important activities, particularly several relating to collection and treatment of effluents
in the Tubarao Port, were not completed upon project closing.
Satisfactory: support changes in CVRD's systems and procedures needed to reinforce sound
environmental policies and management:   The main achievement expected from this project was
strengthening and systematization of CVRD's environmental management. To date, the Company has
implemented an Environmental Management System (EMS) according to ISO 14001 standards in some key
operating units of the company. The Technology Unit (GETEC) became the first of its kind in the world to
obtain independent certification. The Carajas Iron Ore and Manganese mines become the first iron ore and
manganese mines in the world to be IS014001 certified. These certifications were accomplished with
- 10-



support from the project. Several major operating units, particularly in the Southern System, did not
implement an EMS or achieve ISO certification during the life of the project, although progress on
certification continued after the project closed.
Satisfactory: Mitigate some of the environmental and social adverse impacts of the operations of CVRD,
in particular in the Carajas Corridor, and of the Executing Agencies in certain portions of their direct
area of influence: The project financed air pollution control devices in the Tubarao Port and a
state-of-the-art air-quality monitoring system for Vit6ria.  CVRD used the project to improve its
conservation activities in the Linhares Forest Reserve in Espirito Santo and to carry out master planning
and environmental protection plans for the Municipality of Itabira, Minas Gerais, and the Carajas National
Forest. The project financed the design and installation of modem water and sewage system for the city of
Parauapebas, adjacent to CVRD's Mineral Reserve in Para State, although management and financing of
this system are precarious and are likely to experience sustainability problems. The project financed
support for sustainable development of small farming in the APA do Gelado, also adjacent to CVRD's
Mineral Reserve. CVRD adopted humane policy regarding indigenous people living in its vicinity, and it
continued to carry out important health and economic development programs benefiting indigenous people.
However, CVRD was unable to deliver on the components of greatest concem to the Bank regarding
indigenous lands and pig-iron production in the North, and it underwent long implementation delays in the
Southern System particularly following privatization.
Unsatisfactory achievement of project objectives. The two most contentious issues faced by CVRD
during preparation are the use of native vegetation for charcoal and the indigenous lands issue. Both are
discussed in detail under 4.2 B and C below, respectively. In February 2000, less than five months before
the project closing date, while an extension of the closing date was under consideration, the Bank seriously
considered suspension of disbursements over the lack of progress on demarcation of the Awa Indigenous
Land. However, this consideration was also prompted by unsatisfactory performance by CVRD in several
areas for more than two years. The principal areas where CVRD did not implement agreed components of
the project were:
a. Implementation of CVRD's indigenous policy; although the Company adopted a progressive policy
statement aimed at supporting structural changes that would strengthen self-determination and
economic self-sufficiency, its activities with indigenous groups were not consistent with this policy;
also CVRD did not partner with other agencies and institutions that could have provided better
services to indigenous groups. On the other hand, CVRD continued to invest its own funds in
medical assistance and other benefits; however, use of Loan funds for indigenous groups was
practically zero apparently because CVRD disagreed with the Bank on issues of policy and
partnerships;
b. Long delays in the design and implementation of pollution control and Environmental Management
Systems in CVRD's Southern System particularly with regard to liquid effluent control at the
Tubarao Port;
c. CVRD did not use its full leverage to induce the Municipality of Parauapebas to operate the water
and sewage system financed under the project in a financially sustainable manner;
d. Little progress in implementation of the Pig Iron Plan.
- 11 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Pollution Control & Recuperation of Degraded Areas - Satisfactory
CVRD implemented the following works that reduce particulate emissions from CVRD's ore loading and
pelletization facilities at the Port of Vit6ria: including (a) installation of electrostatic precipitators in all the
pelletization plants contributing to a 95% reduction in particulate emissions; (b) expansion of systems for
collection and treatment of sanitary and industrial effluents in the CVRD Port area; (c) expansion of
systems for the collection and final disposition of solid waste; (d) expansion of dust control and effluents
from storage patios; (e) installation of an automated air-quality monitoring system in greater Vit6ria
providing real-time data on air quality.  The project also financed (f) erosion control along the
Vit6ria-Minas railways; (g) improvements in effluent control in maintenance shops along the railway; (h)
environmental restoration works at former mine sites; (i) a new tailing pond at the Timbopeba mine in
Minas Gerais; (1) stabilization of tailing piles near Itabira, MG; and (k) master planning for conservation
units in Itabira, MG, and other areas. Some of these works, particularly at the Port of Vit6ria experienced
long delays in design and contracting, partly because of disagreements among operating divisions of the
company regarding the design and cost of such works.  These problems were exacerbated after
privatization because of the strong mandate to cut costs.
The picture of implementation compared to appraisal estimates is complex. Many of the works planned at
appraisal were cancelled or not completed. Of those works that were completed, costs were generally
higher than appraisal estimates. This was partly a result of exchange fluctuations: during the first years of
implementations, the Real gained in value, but after 1998 it was sharply devalued. CVRD and the Bank
agreed that, rather than the usual cost-sharing procedure, the Loan would finance 100% of selected project
works (net of taxes) up to the total loan value for this component, while the company would finance 100%
of other project activities. This was done, in part, to reduce the burden of the Bank's procurement
guidelines which CVRD  found cumbersome and unnecessarily restrictive.  In spite of this, the
Bank-financed activities moved ahead faster than non-Bank-financed activities, possibly because the cost of
Bank loan funds may have been perceived as lower than the opportunity cost of capital using CVRD's own
funds.
This component could be regarded as satisfactory because of the positive tasks completed. However, it left
a number of important tasks unfinished due to the problems described above. On balance, the component
can be considered only marginally satisfactory only because the unfinished tasks are likely to be completed
in the final analysis (see Section 6 below).
Component B: Natural Resource Management: Unsatisfactory
Under this component, subprojects with the aim of correcting environmental degradation and reducing the
external costs imposed by CVRD's operation in the Southem System, and preventive subprojects in
preservation of primary ecosystems and research aimed at protection and rational use of natural resources
in the Northem System, were planned.
Using Grant resources from the Japanese Trust Fund (TF 21396), CVRD contracted a consultant to
prepare a management plan and specialized studies for the APA do Gelado. CVRD also used its own
resources to provide technical support to the small farmers of this conservation District, and as a result,
large portions of the area have been successfully protected against clear cutting and other forms of
degradation. Over the past 30 years, there has been widespread deforestation in Southern Pari, in the areas
- 12-



adjacent to the Carajas Mineral Reserve. Millions of hectares of forest have been converted to cropland,
pastures, and degraded forest, crossed by roads and polluted streams. The Carajas Mineral Reserve itself,
the APA do Gelado and the Xikrin Indigenous Reserve (see below) present a stark contrast to the general
picture, clearly visible on satellite imagery, of some 1.1 million continuous hectares of nearly untouched
forest cover, despite the presence a large-scale mining operation at its center. This level of protection is
clearly a result of CVRD's stewardship of these areas over the past twenty years. However, the project did
not contribute significantly to this achievement aside from financing a Master Plan for Carajas National
forest.
Other significant environmental activities implemented under the project in the Southern System were the
Master Plan for Itabira Conservation Units; and Implementation of a Master Plan for the Linhares Forest
Reserve in ES. CVRD has built the Linhares reserve into a model of forest management and has provided
many valuable services to the adjacent Sooretama National Reserve including fire prevention and
suppression. These subprojects have produced results of interest to many outside CVRD because of the
endangered status of the Atlantic Forest. The Project contributed to this success. It is likely, however, that
most of these activities would have been carried out by CVRD using its own resources.
In one key area, however, the project did not achieve success. In 1992, three years before Loan
effectiveness, CVRD signed a side letter with the Bank entitled the "Pig Iron Program" and, in the Loan
Agreement, pledged to implement this Program. This Program consisted of a feasibility study of plantation
forestry for charcoal production in the Carajas corridor which was financed by the Japanese Grant
(TF21396). In this agreement, CVRD agreed to cut off the supply of iron ore to smelters that were found
by the environmental authorities to be in violation of environmental obligations including the PIFIs. Before
negotiations, CVRD signed an agreement to strengthen IBAMA's capacity to enforce environmental
legislation in the Carajas area, but this agreement was not implemented by IBAMA. Under the
circumstances, there was little chance that these industries, the largest employers in the region, would be
exposed to enforcement actions by the responsible State or Federal agencies.
The agreed study, after long delays, was sent to the Bank early in 2000. The study indicated that, without
subsidies, plantation forestry for charcoal production would not be financially viable, although it could be
feasible in conjunction with pig-iron production at certain price levels. CVRD held that its actions were
compatible with the Pig Iron Program, and that it was not obliged under the Loan Agreement to apply
direct pressure on its customers to comply with environmental laws. In any case, the Project closed in June
2000 without further action by CVRD. After project closing, however, CVRD supported (but did not
directly participate in) an arrangement with the Pig Iron Producers Association and the Bank of Amazonia
(BASA) to create a fund with voluntary contributions to finance plantation forestry to reduce the
producers' dependency on native timber. This may be considered an indirect benefit of the project but is
too early to judge the effectiveness of this fund.
On balance, in view of the lack of progress on the Pig Iron Program during Project implementation, the
Component is rated as unsatisfactory.
Component C: Social Components - Unsatisfactory.
Although the total expenditures made for this component almost matched the appraisal estimate, it did not
achieve the goals set at appraisal. The cost of Parauapebas sanitary works went well above appraisal
estimates, consuming much of the budgeted resources, and almost nothing was disbursed from the loan for
indigenous peoples.
- 13 -



Municipal Improvements: The largest component of the social program was municipal improvements
which included the development of a modem water and sanitation service for the City of Parauapebas,
which stands at the gateway to the CVRD reserve and houses many workers and businesses that provide
services to CVRD operations. Another planned component was the collection and treatment of domestic
sewage in Itabira. Out of the total cost allocated for this component, the municipal improvement
sub-component accounted for 71 percent.  During the MTR, a proposal to change the scope for
Parauapebas was agreed by the Bank. The project was expected to finance the provision of water to about
66,000 people (originally 55,000 ) and sewage collection for 22,100 (originally about 49,800). About
10,000 households have benefited from new water service and some 8000 hydrometers have been installed.
Some 2000 sewer connections have been made and many have been connected to sewage treatment plants.
Although CVRD always supported payment of water bills (through public campaigns), most of the
customers have been in arrears since the system was installed and this percentage rose during election
periods. Bank missions worked closely with CVRD and the Municipal administration to strengthen
financial management, and an eventual concession or privatization of the water and sanitation system, but
political dynamics in the Municipio worked against these measures and, at project closing, they had not
been implemented. During the MTR, it was ascertained that this sub-component suffered from inadequate
on-site project management. Communication problems between the local team and the Project coordinator,
resulted in delays and inaction and finally a rise in costs and some friction between CVRD and the
Municipal administration. In summary, this subproject was implemented successfully, but the lack of cost
recovery (through water tariff payments) left its future operation and expansion in doubt .
During the MTR, the Itabira Sewage Treatment Plant subproject, was cancelled by agreement of CVRD
and the Bank due to the omission of the Municipal Government of Itabira to make a firm commitment to
the operation and maintenance of this subproject by placing management in the hands of a third party or
even by collection of tariffs.
Among the successful project actions taken in Vit6ria was the restoration of Camburi beach a once-popular
downtown beach that was negatively impacted by the Tubarao industrial seaport including CVRD's
facilities. The project resulted in the restoration of an important amenity. As mentioned above, air quality
in Vit6ria improved considerably after installation of air cleaning equipment on CVRD's ore processing
plants, some of which were financed by the project.
Assistance to Indigenous People: The OED study of 1992 alluded to the need for an active role by the
tribal population in the definition of priorities, the delivery of basic social services and the implementation
of economic development projects and to realize that the provision of funds to an agency can not guarantee
that the resource would be used for the intended purpose. The study also recommended continued
assistance by the Bank in this area. CVRD was unwilling to assume a greater role in indigenous affairs,
reluctant to assume FUNAI's role, but, at the same time, was unable to ignore the indigenous people in its
immediate area (primarily the Xikrin and the Gaviao) who could exact high costs in terms of CVRD's
reputation or even disrupt CVRD's operations.
Due to slow progress in implementing the forest management program under this component, in 1992, the
Xikrin indigenous community conducted a protest blocking the CVRD railway. (Similar blockades
occurred in 1995 and 1998). One of the outcomes of the protest was the guaranteed commitment to the
project by the community to participate in inventories, harvesting, and marketing, among other things. The
OED study also pointed to the need for mobilizing professionals with expertise in regional planning and
natural resource-cum-environment management, social scientists, among others, in undertaking projects
with broader social and ecological impacts. While anthropologists participated in Bank missions for
- 14-



project preparation and sporadically during supervision, it is true, as QAG pointed out in its 1999 review
that social scientists have had relatively little role in this project. However, the problems encountered were
of a legal and institutional nature and anthropological skills were not more relevant to solving them than
those of other disciplines. The Task Manager who took over in December 1999 is an anthropologist, but it
is questionable how significant anthropological expertise could have been for improving the project's
impact on indigenous people due to the nature of the problems. The same TM who took charge in 1999
had participated in project preparation and had reviewed and approved CVRD's indigenous policy.
However, CVRD apparently saw implementation of this policy as relinquishing control over a highly
sensitive and risky issue crucial to maintaining its reputation and financial position.
In the Loan Agreement, CVRD agreed to develop a special policy to govem its relations with indigenous
people in the vicinity of the Northern System and to make selective investments consistent with this policy,
according to a plan developed with the assistance of the indigenous people themselves and specialists in
indigenous affairs. CVRD adopted a policy statement, satisfactory to the Bank, committing the company
to phase out direct interventions in indigenous affairs and to seek to reduce the direct dependency of
indigenous people on CVRD in its area of operation. However, CVRD found this policy difficult to
implement, partly because a dependency relationship had already been formed by the late 1980s and neither
the company nor the indigenous groups found it easy to change the terms of this relationship. This
dependency was actually reinforced by some of the agencies and specialized consultants that CVRD
retained to work with indigenous people. CVRD had particular difficulty in encountering suitable partners
to carry out programs of assistance and development for indigenous people. The exception to this is
CVRD's contract with the Socio-Environmental Institute (ISA) which, after a slow start, implemented
CVRD's pioneering timber harvest program with the Xikrin.
CVRD feels particularly vulnerable regarding its domestic and international reputation concerning its ties
with indigenous groups. The indigenous groups in the area have occasionally blockaded the rail line
between Carajas and Itaqui in order to protest alleged failures to fulfill agreements or to extract additional
benefits from the Company, creating potentially costly delays in ship loading. Many of CVRD's activities
were not consistent with the policy adopted by the Company. CVRD made direct interventions in the
villages immediately surrounding its mines and railway and relations with the indigenous groups were
occasionally tense because of the lack of clarity of the claims each has on the other. The official
environment was not conducive to successful implementation of CVRD's policy, especially considering
FUNAI's weakness. As a result of FUNAI's inaction, CVRD was constantly thrust in the position of
taking responsibility for taking actions that are legally in the province of FUNAI.
CVRD never prepared the agreed plan for indigenous investments although it continued to make
investments in indigenous welfare using its own resources, particularly through the provision of health
services, both emergency and preventive.
Among the positive achievements of the project, CVRD, using resources from a Japanese Grant associated
with the loan, its own resources and other resources, developed a unique forestry project with the Xikrin
Kayap6 who are the immediate neighbors to the West of the CVRD mine in Para State. During the 1980s,
the Xikrin were manipulated by unscrupulous sawmill operators to enter into deals to extract high value
timber from the Xikrin Reserve. The deals struck were illegal; the sawmills practiced predatory,
unsustainable harvesting methods; and the Xikrin had no control over the amount of timber actually cut and
sold. The CVRD project, implemented by ISA, promises to bring steady income to the Xikrin through
sustainable management of timber and a gradual increase in indigenous management capacity. The first
harvest of logs began in 2000. CVRD, with its own funds, also promotes development and sales of
- 15-



handicrafts and manufactured goods using Xikrin decorative motifs, again using its own resources, not
project resources.
Although it was contractually committed to assist FUNAI in the demarcation of indigenous lands in its area
of influence, little progress was made in this activity during this project. In particular, the demarcation of
the controversial Awa land, pending for more than ten years, has not been concluded. Both the State
Government and CVRD declared their support for the demarcation of the Awa area, but this was not
sufficient to bring about the demarcation of the area. The demarcation of this reserve is a locally
contentious issue and has been tied up in court proceedings for several years. During 2000, the Bank made
yet another effort to help resolve this matter after several previous attempts in the context of other
Bank-supported projects, but again was unsuccessful.
CVRD has consistently maintained that it could not be held accountable for actions legally in the
government domain, such as demarcation of indigenous reserves which is exclusively FUNAI's
responsibility. The Bank's position has been that CVRD and the State of Maranhao should use their
considerable influence to promote a solution to the Awa demarcation. It is noteworthy that the Bank has
been able to assist in the resolution of other intractable land disputes in the same region. The Bank has
continued to monitor the situation and to seek a solution through regular contacts with the primary
stakeholders. There was, however, no assurance that, even with a stronger stance by all the parties that the
legal case against the proposed demarcation of the Awa Land could have been successfully resolved.
While CVRD continued to support important activities in the area of health and community development,
these activities were not consistent with the policy statement adopted by CVRD, which called for reduction
of direct dependency on CVRD and the development of greater self determination for indigenous groups.
The sensitivity of CVRD's role vis a vis FUNAI was a complicating factor. Time and again, CVRD
provided resources to FUNAI to carry out specific activities with few or no results. In hindsight, it was a
major design flaw not to have bound FUNAI and the Ministry of Justice to which it is linked more closely
into the project either through a project agreement or through the Guarantee Agreement. FUNAI, for its
part, is a weak agency facing a demand for assistance far exceeding its capacity to respond. FUNAI's
stance regarding CVRD was generally passive and, FUNAI officials welcomed CVRD's assistance to the
Xikrin and Gaviao peoples. However, FUNAI was unable to discharge its basic responsibilities with
respect to such issues as the demarcation of the Awa and Krikati indigenous reserves which has been
awaiting action since 1986 even after financial resources had been transferred by CVRD to FIJNAI.
Another socially oriented activity was the financing of a pilot project to construct and manage a small
business technical assistance center in a community affected by CVRD. This project was completed early
during project implementation, and consisted of the construction of a small center and provision of
technical assistance to support start-up micro enterprises in Curion6polis (ParA), in cooperation with Banco
do Brasil, and of a similar scheme to establish a small business development center and micro-credit
revolving fund in Parauapebas.
On balance, this component was considered unsatisfactory due to the lack of a program for indigenous
people leading to greater autonomy and continued development.
- 16-



Component D: Studies - Satisfactory.
The component for studies, research, training and technical assistance (TA) planned to constitute 2% of the
project cost. At closing, 89% of the appraisal estimate was used with a satisfactory result. However, this
component was rated satisfactory only during the June 2000 PSR, when the forestry study for the Xikrin
Reserve, financed through the Japanese Grant, was completed and submitted to the Bank.
The five studies to be financed under this component were described in the Loan Agreement. The major
study, "Consolidated Environmental Impact Study at the Tubarao Terminal" was not implemented. A
study to develop of a methodology for community involvement in business development was replaced by a
cooperative agreement between CVRD and SEBRAE (however, as CVRD did not provide the
documentation needed to finance these expenditures under the project, it was not covered by the Project).
The other three studies listed in the Loan Agreement were implemented. An additional study was included
and carried out and completed (environmental control at the Taquari Vassoura potash mine-impact of
potash dust on agriculture).
Under this component an impact study of the Tubarao Industrial Port was conducted to mitigate and reduce
air and water pollution from the facilities under CVRD's control. "Alternative low-cost systems for better
sanitation in low income communities near Ponta da Madeira", "Methodology to select and assist
communities in CVRD's area of influence", "Monitoring of pollution at Timbopeba and Itabira Mines"
studies were conducted under this sub-component.
Perhaps the most significant study carried out in the context of this project was actually financed by the
Japanese Trust fund; it involved a comprehensive review of the economics of the use of charcoal in Pig iron
Production. There were several delays in the implementation of the component related to corporate
environmental information, control, monitoring and auditing system.
Component E. Corporate Environment Information Monitoring & Audit Systems - Satisfactory.
The project contributed to the development of an environmental management system (EMS) in CVRD and
financed the first complete environmental audit. The Company is committed to developing the EMS
approach, eventually covering all of its operating units. ISO certification is recognized internationally as
representing a management commitment to environmentally sustainable operation and can pay significant
dividends for a company engaged in international competition in a commodity market. ISO certification
focuses mainly on building management processes within the company in which environmental
considerations will be incorporated into operations and decisions. Specific management targets are set and
progress towards such goals is monitored. The systems requires continuous environmental improvements,
which are monitored through periodical internal and external audits not only of management systems but
also of compliance with environmental regulations. ISO norms also have consequences for environmental
compliance by suppliers.
However, the approach taken by CVRD within the framework of ISO 14.001 has some limitations. The
auditing procedures adopted under this process are focused on legal requirements and not on broader
concepts of social and environmental quality. "Non-conformities" identified by the audit process relate to
requirements embodied in regulations and conditions laid down in the environmental licensing procedure.
There is greater emphasis on having the necessary management systems in place to correct
non-conformities than on environmental impacts. CVRD resisted the Bank's suggestion to publicly
disclose its environmental performance. Arguing that it would be contrary to its corporate interests, CVRD
- 17 -



did not agree to make audit results available to the Bank or to make either its environmental benchmarks or
results available to the Bank or to a wider public. The Bank argued that making such data public could be
helpful in mobilizing public sentiment in favor of environmnental protection, but CVRD's management feels
that the competitive environment in which it operates does not allow it to be so open. CVRD does disclose,
however, data to government agencies as required by its operating license. It should be pointed out,
however, that CVRD did not agree in the Loan Agreement to disclose its environmental performance data.
It is also pertinent, however, that CVRD did disclose and widely disseminate the conditions of its
environmental operating license in the State of Minas Gerais and a number of the pollution control
activities required under these conditions received Project financing.
Component F: Subprojects - Not rated.
The component for subprojects and studies (not included in other components) was budgeted at 12% of the
appraisal cost estimate. This component was included to account for projects which were only partially
defined by the time of negotiations and to open the possibility for including other projects likely to emerge
from Component E. During implementation, these funds were allocated to new subprojects which were
categorized under the relevant component. Since very few activities remained in this category, it is not
rated in this report and in the PSRs for this project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Available.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Available.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
CVRD, as an institution, has made progress in its environmental management and monitoring. The
reservations expressed above notwithstanding, the adoption of EMS, through this project, is one of its
important achievements. While not all supported under the project, CVRD has now achieved ISO 14.001
certification for the Timbopeba, Fazendao and Brucutu Mines in Minas Gerais, as well as the Ponta da
Madeira seaport in Maranhao in addition to the certifications mentioned above. If CVRD strives to
maintain and expand the scope, it will eventually change its culture and follow more environmentally
friendly measures. The development of EMS signifies that CVRD is motivated to enhance its institutional
capacity to monitor and manage the environmental impacts of its activities and augurs well for the
sustainability of the project.
See comments under 4.2D above.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As mentioned above, CVRD does not have control or authority over such matters as demarcation of
indigenous reserves and enforcement of environmental legislation, and therefore could not be held
accountable for the project's inability to achieve progress in demarcation of indigenous lands and reduction
of deforestation. Even if CVRD had had greater influence over FUJNAI, there is no guarantee that FUNAI
would win the court case brought against the demarcation of the Awa Land. CVRD apparently had more
leverage with the pig-iron smelters in the Carajas corridor, but is unable to take over the role of an
enforcement agency which would have damaged its relationship with these clients. ISO 14.001 certification
requires attention to the supply chain but this does not apply to customers as in the case of the pig iron
smelters. CVRD has taken the position that, since it is not now a shareholder in any smelter in the Carajas
- 18-



corridor, it has no authority to enforce environmental regulations for its customers, although it has sought
to assist the smelters in achieving greater compliance with environmental regulations. CVRD's efforts to
strengthen IBAMA in its enforcement role were unsuccessful.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Federal and relevant State Governments could have been more aggressive in pursuing its indigenous
and environmental policies and enforcing the provisions of licensing agreements particularly with respect to
the Pig Iron Producers. CVRD's overwhelming importance in the local economy in the areas of its
operation is probably a significant factor in public decisions regarding the company, at a local level.
CVRD certainly has sufficient resources to accelerate the compliance process and to contribute to
environmental improvements, it is possible that stronger enforcement pressure from government agencies
and civil society could have helped accelerate the process of CVRD's compliance on issues such as air
pollution in Vit6ria and stabilization of mine sites in Minas Gerais. In the Northem System, there was
weak support from official agencies (state agencies delivered or renewed operating licenses to these
smelters although they were in default, and IBAMA did not take action on PIFIs notwithstanding its
agreement with CVRD), and because CVRD had little incentive to demand compliance from its customers,
the pig-iron producers in the Carajas corridor, who rely on CVRD for ore and transport services.
The lack of mitigation to the problems caused or exacerbated by CVRD's project (particularly as regards
indigenous peoples and pig iron) was perhaps more a failing of the federal government and, in declining
order, of state and local governments than CVRD's failure. CVRD's position that it could not usurp
government roles is correct, but it arguably could have been more proactive in motivating these agencies to
do their job. Perhaps, on hindsight, the Bank should have made a more critical institutional analysis of
FUNAI, IBAMA and the State environmental agencies, and built measures into the project and the legal
covenants to assure implementation of components that were of the highest priority in the Bank's
perception. Also, there may have been an unrealistic expectation that CVRD's power and prestige could
overcome the weakness the agencies involved.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Notwithstanding the one and one-half year delay between negotiations and Board approval, project
implementation was highly satisfactory in the first year of project implementation (1996). For the first
year, disbursement of the Loan was at 23.7%, compared to the planned 20%. The high level of investment
during the first year of the project implementation was partly the result of retroactive financing for various
subprojects that were implemented before Loan effectiveness. However, starting in 1997, the year of
privatization, disbursement started to lag behind the planned disbursement. In fact, the biggest lag was
experienced in 1997 when only 4.8% (28.5% cumulative) of the Loan was disbursed contrary to the
planned amount of 30% (50% cumulative). The lag in disbursement experienced in 1997 (almost 26% for
the year and a cumulative lag of more than 21%) affected the overall disbursement lag by the closing date.
By closing date of the Loan, the project had disbursed 72.6 percent (US$ 36,313,112), out of the total loan
of US$ 50 million.
The disbursement lag and the consequent less than full utilization of the totai loan amount was due to
delays in many of CVRD's commitments, including in implementation of EMS, and lower than expected
investments in socially-oriented subprojects and studies. Almost nothing was disbursed under the loan, for
example, for indigenous peoples although, as was mentioned above, CVRD has expended approximately
US$4 million of its own resources on indigenous health, economic development and housing programs.
While uncertainties created by privatization contributed to this, CVRD did not adhere to the
implementation schedule of the various actions contemplated under the project. Unmotivated sub-project
managers; slow pace of design, bidding and contracting; lack of initiative in indigenous land regularization;
- 19-



delays in rehabilitation of roads, which affected the implementation of forest pilot management plan; and
lag in project activities financed by counterpart funds are factors under CVRD's control where CVRD's
management was not proactive in correcting them. Contrary to the confidence expressed by the SAR,--
"CVRD is an efficient entity unlikely to incur implementation delays...", -- project implementation was
beset by delays of all kinds. The overall environment was affected, especially after privatization in 1997,
by aggressive cost cutting, centralization of procurement decisions, and multiple reorganizations of the
company.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project cost financing reached US$ 87.8 million, or 87 % of the SAR estimate (US$ 100.7 million).
Costs for four of the six project components were below appraisal estimates. As shown in Table 1 above,
while four project components experienced cost under-run, component A was almost a reflection of-the
appraisal but component B (Natural Resources) was 21% over the appraisal estimate. Component F
(Subprojects) spent only 2.5% of the appraisal estimate. The overall financial performance of the project is
the result of a congeries of factors including cancellations or deferrals of subprojects, the addition of new
subprojects, and exchange-rate fluctuations. Consequently, it is not possible to speak generally of
cost-overruns or under runs at the component level.
CVRD's decision to implement an EMS and to seek ISO 14.001 certification for parts of its operation led it
to address many of the environmental non-conformities that existed during the time. In addition, delays in
loan signing obliged CVRD to begin implementation of some initial subprojects with own funds and some
new replacement subprojects for Bank financing were of a relatively small cost. Delays in design,
contracting and implementation resulted in some investments not being made. In some cases CVRD
requested the cancellation of the Bank's share of financing for subprojects, e.g., Nova Era Dust Control
Systems, financed entirely from CVRD's funds to avoid having to comply with Bank procurement
guidelines in a situation where there was enforcement pressure (see Borrower comments).
In general, Bank-financed activities had a higher completion rate than those financed entirely from CVRD's
funds. The reason for this discrepancy is that, after privatization, in order to expedite procurement and
disbursements of Bank funds in an environment of budget constraints, CVRD management decided to give
priority to Bank-financed items of the program. Bank procurement procedures were used for contracts
costing more than US$5 million. There was no lack of demand for Bank funds. In some cases, such as the
Doutor Tailing pond in Timbopeba, the Bank agreed to finance only US$1 million out of total contract
amount of US$2.2 million because of a shortage of funds in this category and the Bank would not agree to
reallocate funds for that purpose from other components that were of high priority from the Bank's
perspective, such as the Amerindian subprojects and the Tubarao impact assessment.
During the MTR, it was found that the estimated cost of the project was expected to reach about US$
124.3 million, about 13% higher than the appraisal estimate. Although the total cost of the project was
above both the appraisal and MTR estimates, CVRD did not use the full loan proceeds. Out of the total
loan amount of US$ 50 million the amount disbursed by the closing date of the project was US$ 36.3
million (73% of the original loan). As mentioned above, the time lag in Loan signing, the cancellation of
Bank financing for some components, the Bank's reluctance to reallocate funds out of high priority social
and environmental categories, and most importantly the overall delay in project implementation, contributed
to CVRD's inability to use the full Loan proceeds. Also, CVRD's ability to pay for some activities and
works without following Bank procurement procedures could be another factor which explains the less than
full utilization of the Loan proceeds. In some cases, for example, CVRD wanted to reopen negotiations
over price with a winning bidder after the bids had been evaluated, a procedure not allowed under Bank
guidelines but which became routine in CVRD after privatization.
- 20 -



The Bank raised the threshold amount for works contracted under National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
from US$ 16.1 million to US$ 23 million. While this amendment was requested by the Borrower, the Bank
approved the request believing this would accelerate implementation and the full utilization of the Loan. In
addition to avoid cost increases, the Bank also agreed to the cancellation of the ICB bidding process for
some works under Parauapebas water and sanitation subprojects, and Nova Era Dust Control.
The project also benefited from a Grant from the Japanese Government for a technical assistance (TA)
program to support the conservation and ecology management plans of CVRD. The TA supported by the
Grant included: (i) a management plan for CVRD's Linhares Forest Reserve; (ii) a management plan for
CVRD's Maraba Forest Reserve; (iii) preparation of forest inventories and management plans for the
Xikrin Indigenous Reserve; (iv) a study of alternative agricultural techniques in the Carajas mine and
railway area of influence; and (v) a study of options for the sustainable development of the Carajas railway
area of influence. Out of a total grant of about US$2.0 million, about US$1.2 million (65% of the TF
amount) was disbursed, partly because the currency devaluation of 1998 increased the value of the grant in
local currency. Also, one key study, the Maraba Forest Management Plan was cancelled because the ParA
State Government refused to take action against squatters in this protected area.
Since the full proceeds of the Loan were not used, the incremental cost of the project was borne by CVRD.
CVRD financed many project activities out of its own funds, which contributed to the underutilization of
the loan. However, CVRD managed to disburse only 86% of the appraisal estimate (higher than the
Bank's at 73%), notwithstanding its promise to finance several activities of the project. In summary, it is
difficult to gauge the Bank's value added to the project, because the Borrower was not prepared to follow
some of the Bank's recommendations, its priorities were somewhat different from the Bank's, and it found
the Bank's procurement procedures onerous. Perhaps, in the last analysis, being associated with the World
Bank in an environmental project was CVRD's major interest.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Although project implementation was mixed and has been rated unsatisfactory overall, the main project
objectives are likely to be maintained and eventually completed. This is can be explained by two factors.
First, as mentioned above, CVRD's management has committed itself to ISO 14.001 certification for all its
operations and to the management changes necessary to achieve this, a process begun with Bank assistance.
Over the long run, this process will likely result in the achievement of most of the project objectives relating
to pollution control. Second, the overall regulatory environment is one of increasing public and official
pressure on the company to comply with environmental regulations and licensing conditionalities. In recent
years institutional and legal changes have occurred such as the strengthening of State Environmental
Protection Agencies, and Brazil's system of public attorneys (Ministerio Ptublico), augmenting the state's
capacity to regulate industries. This trend, while not a direct product of this project, has been supported by
other Bank operations such as the National Environmental Project, the Minas Gerais Forestry Project, and
two Industrial Pollution Control Projects. Finally, CVRD's privatization is also a factor: since
privatization, CVRD is probably more sensitive to local and international public opinion and more
amenable to regulatory actions than it was as a parastatal company. In summary, CVRD is likely to
continue on the course on which it embarked under the project and will increasingly to play a leadership
role among large corporations in Brazil, and in the mining sector, on environmental matters.
- 21 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
CVRD has put all the necessary systems in place to commence, maintain and continue activities begun
under the project. No long-term consultants or other staff were hired with project funds. It is likely that
most or all of the project activities left incomplete will be completed in due time by CVRD itself. There is
no abrupt transition, therefore, to regular operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Unsatisfactory. The Bank prepared the project, hoping to strengthen CVRD's actions in defense of
indigenous peoples and environment in the Northern System, strengthen environmental protection in both
the Northern and Southern Systems, and to build a stronger institutional capacity for environmental
management within this large and influential company in Brazil. The Bank may have overestimated its
capacity to influence the Company's management which went its own way irrespective of Bank advice and
may not have given sufficient attention to CVRD's reluctance, as an industrial concern, to accept
responsibility for public goods concerning environment and indigenous peoples in the Northern System.
Some of the actions which the Bank sought to implement were taken spontaneously by the company
without Bank support. The Bank showed flexibility in adapting its negative pledge requirements to the
particular case of market-oriented enterprises, before and after privatization of CVRD. The project led to
subsequent clarification of the Bank policy with respect to exceptions to the Negative Pledge covenants of
the General Conditions. However, the Bank could possibly have recognized the mismatch of objectives and
considered more carefully how to engage the public agencies needed to achieve the project's goals. The
Bank could possibly have more clearly identified where its main leverage points and comparative
advantages lie.
During preparation and negotiation, monitoring indicators were not clearly defined which could have helped
in closely identifying lags and to make corrections . Shortly after effectiveness (March 1996), a list of
performance indicators was negotiated and agreed with CVRD and subsequently incorporated in Annex 1
of the Bank Letter defining Progress Reporting and Performance Indicators, dated May 17, 1996. Status
of performance according to these indicators was subsequently reported in supervision Aides Memoire.
However, despite Bank urging, CVRD never agreed to prepare specific indicators to assess results and
impact of individual sub-projects.
7.2 Supervision:
Unatisfactory. Bank supervision of the project was adequate in some respects, but the Bank lacked the
technical and financial resources to bring world-class expertise to bear on the subprojects financed under
this project. A local team of consultants including a former Bank staff who had appraised the project,
performed well, providing continuous supervision, but was also under-resourced and lacked all the
necessary skills to follow this complex project. The Bank's inability to mobilize the appropriate expertise
was due, in part, to budgetary constraints. CVRD and the Bank sometimes differed on issues such as that
of transparency mentioned above.
The Bank was slow to recognize and adjust to the mismatch incentives between CVRD and the Bank as
implementation of the project made this fact clear. The Bank also had a chance to correct the design in the
project, such as making CVRD's institutional development one of the main components of the project,
especially during the MTR. The possibility of strengthening the role of the Guarantor and its agencies,
IBAMA and FUNAI, in the project and under the legal covenants was considered but CVRD was reluctant
- 22 -



to form new partnerships with these traditionally weak agencies. The Bank's own experience with these
agencies, through other projects, was not encouraging. Although progress on the key social and
environmental components in the Northern System was not satisfactory, substantial progress was made in
the Southern System pertaining to natural resource management, pollution control, rehabilitation, and
environmental auditing particularly during the early years of implementation.  As delays in these
components became acute, the Bank and CVRD agreed on successively revised implementation timetables.
However, CVRD was not able to comply with the timetables in view of the organizational problems that
multiplied after privatization.
The Bank, used appropriate measures in the face of a lagging implementation of the project. As post
privatization project procurement performance deteriorated, the Bank rated the project Implementation
Progress and the associated Development Objective as Unsatisfactory. As CVRD did not or could not
change the situation and implement the plan of actions agreed during supervision, the Bank warned the
borrower, through official letter, its plan to suspend disbursement. After these events, it was agreed
mutually that neither side had an interest in extending the closing date of the Loan.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Unsatisfactory. CVRD's actions were generally consistent with the project's objectives although not
within the time frame originally established and not with the degree of transparency and social awareness
that the Bank set as benchmarks. There was discussion in the Bank during 1999 and 2000, of revising the
project to delete components that CVRD could not implement; however, this was rejected because these
were the very issues that drove the project from the outset.  Therefore, the Bank should accept
responsibility for having taken on a project in a situation where it had little leverage, and for its inability,
constrained, in large part by the mismatch in incentives between the Bank and CVRD, to correct the
difficulties detected during implementation. In particular, after the Loan Agreement was negotiated, it is
certain that CVRD would not have agreed to any changes that would have made its access to Loan
resources contingent on the actions of other agencies in areas of great sensitivity, so that the key problems
that arose could not be solved by the usual means of restructuring, selective cancellation, etc.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower worked hard to prepare the necessary studies and carry out the necessary steps
leading to appraisal. Differences concerning a waiver of the negative pledge caused extensive delays
between preparation and negotiations but these differences arose from differences over the negative-pledge
issue embedded in the Bank's General Conditions, which, in CVRD's perception, are not well attuned to
working with an enterprise like CVRD".
However, the Borrower demonstrated its interest and commitment by starting the project activities well
before Loan effectiveness.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Unsatisfactory. The Government of Brazil had little involvement in the preparation, implementation and
supervision of this project. The project initially experienced a one and one-half year delay between the
Board date and effectiveness due to the Government's refusal to issue guarantees. Further, as the project
implementation experienced delays in its implementation, the Bank communicated its concern by writing a
letter to the President of CVRD with a copy to the Goverrnent representative in the Ministry of Finance.
The Federal Government was not proactive in pursuing demarcation of indigenous lands and in
enforcement of environmental regulations regarding the pig-iron producers.  While the Guarantee
Agreement included the usual clauses on punctual performance, these applied only to CVRD and not to
- 23 -



FUNAI and IBAMA. The legal instruments did not provide for an event of default that could lead to
suspension of disbursements in the event of failure to perform by IBAMA or FUNAI; such a clause was
resisted by CVRD during negotiations which did not want to be held accountable for the performance of an
agency not under its control. More by omission than by commission, the Government did not take positive
action to improve project implementation and therefore is rated unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Unsatisfactory. Although the procurement procedures for CVRD-financed activities were simpler than for
Bank-financed activities, the pace of design, bidding and contracting was slow and as a result several
activities were not implemented on schedule or at all. Implementation was retarded by privatization and the
subsequent reorganization and personnel changes. CVRD also embarked on a far-reaching cost-cutting
program that resulted in long delays in procurement. Although targets were repeatedly revised after 1997,
CVRD was unable to follow agreed timetables for preparation of detailed design, bidding and contracting.
The implementing agency, CVRD, could have been more proactive in coordinating key institutions and
actors important in the implementation of some of the project activities. For example, in Amerindian
sub-component, CVRD could have sought closer partnerships with additional NGOs and other agencies
although CVRD's past experience led it to be wary of such associations.
The Loan Agreement foresaw implementation by CVRD of a program aimed at bringing the Carajis
corridor pig iron smelters into compliance with environmental laws, in cooperation with IBAMA. CVRD's
commitment to the above program was critical to the Bank's approval of the project, and it was agreed that
implementation of agreed actions were to be reviewed during MTR. According to the MTR of
October-November 1997, "[m]ost of the originally agreed actions were not implemented for many reasons,
including conflict of interest and lax enforcement, in particular by IBAMA and State environmental
agencies."
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned with this project, can be summarized as follows:
9  It is essential that the Bank and the Borrower share the same objectives for a project In any
activity, the Bank should ensure that there are common objectives and priorities with the partner, and
that the Borrower has an adequate incentive to pursue the objectives and follow the implementation
plan, and that the Bank has ensured that appropriate arrangements have been made with key
institutions to achieve such objectives.
> When important project objectives require the active participation of agencies other than the
Implementing Agency, separate Project Agreements or comparable arrangements must be made. The
legal instruments for a project should provide for special events of default authorizing the Bank to
suspend disbursement should implementing agencies not comply with key agreements. The Bank
should seek to form direct contractual relationships with entities that have the mandate to falfill the
requirements necessary to meet the Project's objective.
> The scope of the project objectives must not be broader than the scope of the Borrower's operation
as was the case in this project.
- 24 -



> The Bank should be clear where its leverage and comparative advantage lies. In this case, the
Bank lacked leverage to induce the implementing agency to adhere to the project implementation plan
and agreements, at least partly because the Borrower had the financial capacity to undertake such a
program alone. In such instances the Bank should seek to include affected communities in decisions to
a greater degree so that a wider range of stakeholders would have an stake in the fulfillment of agreed
actions.
> Social programs, such as the Amerindian program of this project, should seek to empower
communities and not perpetuate dependency. CVRD's willingness to compensate the communities for
the externalities created by its operation should have been combined with measures to encourage
communities to take greater responsibility in using the resources available to them productively and
sustainably. This was the clear intention of the project design but was thwarted by the complex
relationship between CVRD, the indigenous communities themselves, and some of the local consultants
who sought to hold CVRD to a more paternalistic paradigm.
> Before undertaking a project of this complexity, the Bank must make a decision that it will need to
bear the additional costs of adequate supervision.
>  Schemes in which the Bank finances 100% of some components while the Borrower finances 100%
of others are risky because the Bank loses influence over the procurement process.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Since the implementation of the [1982] Carajas Project, CVRD and the World Bank have built an
extremely respectful and professional relationship, marked by mutual understanding of each institution and
its expectations. This constructive posture was the main motivating factor for a new contract. This new
contract comprised CVRD's Environmental Project, whose components, regarding the environmental
aspects, are the result of the internal audit undertaken in 1994, which characterized CVRD's first initiative
towards implementation of a structured Environmental Management System.
The contract between CVRD and the World Bank was an important factor in the consolidation of
environmental management in CVRD, highlighting the following components: The project:
*  enhanced the structuring and professionalization of the corporate and operational areas in
environmental management;
*  allowed implementation of various subprojects for improvement of environmental quality in the
operational activities of the company;
* promoted improvements in relationships between the company and external parties;
*  enabled important works in CVRD's neighboring communities as in the case of Parauapebas and
Vit6ria.
In fact, as stated [in the body of the report above], the privatization process of CVRD brought a series of
structural and strategic adjustments in the Company. Due to these changes, there was no avoiding certain
delays in performance of activities agreed with the World Bank. However, even considering the
cancellation of approximately US$ 13 million, there is no denying the importance of the investments made
and their significant results to CVRD, to the environment and to its neighboring communities. Among the
various implemented projects, the following stand out with corresponding results:
- 25 -



*  The control systems for particulate emissions from main and secondary chimneys of pelletization
plants in Vit6ria have brought about a reduction of 95% in emissions released into the atmosphere;
*  The enlargement of the tailing pond of Igarape Gelado in Carajas, done in place of building a new
dam, which would have caused deforestation of more than 600 hectares;
*  The development and subsequent implementation of a Master Plan for Rio Doce Valley Natural
Reserve in Linhares has assured sustainability to that conservation unit necessary for its
consolidation as a source of environmental protection technology and recovery of the Atlantic
Forest;
*  Over 30,000 inhabitants of Parauapebas are benefiting from water and sewage systems;
*  The main beach of Vit6ria - Camburi - was restored through works that reversed beach erosion
and the containment works allowed for its full recovery;
*  The improvement of CVRD's industrial waste systems in the Tubarao Port Complex significantly
reduced the volume of polluted effluent discharged;  ?
*  Approximately 6,500 employees and service contractors of CVRD underwent training in
environmental management systems and procedures, moving towards the cultural required by
implementation of an ISO 14001.
Therefore, despite the problems faced during the implementation stage, CVRD considers that the contract
had an overall positive effect.
Some aspects referred to in the above-mentioned report deserve some observations, as follows:
Carajas Project
The Carajas Project was a pioneering, world-class industrial enterprise that considered socio-environmental
variables from the basic design phase. The World Bank contributed to this process, helping CVRD to deal
objectively with a new reality. The success of this partnership, with the World Bank as a major actor
among others, was obvious when Carajas became known as a global model striking an appropriate balance
between mining activities and socio-environmental requirements.
At that time, CVRD already understood that the success of a mining enterprise in the Amazon region
depended on treating environmental issues in such a manner as to ensure compliance to suitable criteria.
For this purpose, CVRD created a Special Task Group (GEAMAM, in Portuguese) composed of highly
qualified scientists from various disciplines necessary to successfully manage the enterprise. All the
Group's recommendations were followed in full.
Despite CVRD's efforts to stress that its responsibilities in the region are directly related to its mining
operations in the Carajas Iron Ore Project (Carajas, Carajas Mines, Railway, Ponta da Madeira Port
Complex in Sao Luis), CVRD is often perceived as responsible as well for the impact of government
regional development programs, among them Grande Carajas Program. The latter represents a coordinated
effort to develop regional infrastructure involving special fiscal incentives to private enterprise, under
existing legislation.
History shows that the migration and subsequent unorganized occupation of the region were determined by
a governmental doctrine that sought to integrate the region with more developed areas of the country by
opening roads, and encouraging mass migration, attracted by cheap land and tax incentives. When the
Carajas Iron Project was implemented, the regional situation was quite different from the popular image
- 26-



which held that CVRD was responsible for mass migration to the region causing devastation in the
southern region of Para. The reality is that the construction of the infra-structure needed for the Carajas
mines and railway (most of which is in the pre-Amazon area of Maranhao State) caused population
movements into areas already occupied and heavily modified in a unplanned manner. These settlements
were a result of Federal Government incentives to attract people to the area.
No other company has contributed as much as CVRD to social development and environmental protection.
CVRD has become a major partner of IBAMA in the preservation of Federal Conservation Units. The
Carajas Block, comprising National Forests of Carajas, of Tapirape-Aquiri, the Tapirape Biological
Reserve and the APA do Gelado, plus the Xikrin Indigenous Land, constitutes the largest block of
undisturbed forest in Southern Para thanks to the CVRD's financial support and efforts.
CVRD, using of its own resources, continues to voluntarily build schools, hospitals, urban infrastructure,
basic sanitation works, and to provide other works and services to improve the quality of life in various
communities within its scope of influence. CVRD fosters small and medium enterprises, offers incentives
to small businesses, provides capacity-building through technical training, thus helping to generate
substantial taxable revenues in the region. No other company has done as much to promote the dignity of
local communities as CVRD, which, in partnership with public entities, provides services like the
"Citizenship Train" [a mobile unit on rails] which offers such services as preventive medicine, dental and
eye examinations, issuing of personal documents (IDs, drivers licenses, voter registration, etc), teaching of
domestic hygiene, among others.
Indigenous Communities
Without CVRD's actions and resources, several indigenous communities in the region would not have
benefited from the land regularization, improvement of health conditions, implementation of infra-structure,
education and development of economic activities.
Nevertheless, it must be recalled that CVRD is not a governmental organization with power to act
according to its opinions or convictions, even when it was a state company. CVRD does not have the
freedom or delegation of powers from the Federal Government to take actions on behalf of the indigenous
conmmunities, which can only be done in cooperation with FUNAI. To the extent that the Bank expected
CVRD to supersede FUNAI's authority over indigenous affairs, the expectation was unrealistic.
Although this is an extremely delicate and complex matter, CVRD and the World Bank share various ideas
concerning indigenous issues, which have motivated important initiatives during the past years with
significant successes. During implementation of the Loan Agreement, it became clear that CVRD could
not assume the responsibilities of FUNAI and other public agencies to provide health, education and other
structural projects without clearly defined objectives and implementation mechanisms.
For these reasons, CVRD was obliged to use its own resources to continue its routine actions. It is
pertinent to stress that CVRD is carrying out a detailed diagnosis of the indigenous communities in
CVRD's area of influence in the State of Maranhao. This work, done in partnership with the State
Government, has already yielded promising results, which, we hope, will guide future structural projects.
A Master Plan for Forest Management in the Xicrin Indigenous Land was prepared in partnership with the
Socioambiental Institute (ISA). This partnership is an example of CVRD's commitment to working with
dedicated non-governmental organizations whose purposes and action mechanisms are consistent and
transparent. This project has been implemented with CVRD resources and the first timber harvest has been
- 27 -



completed in a pilot area. It is noteworthy that the timber harvest was the occasion of first visit to the
Xicrin region by the Ministers of Environment and of Justice as well as the Presidents of FUNAI and of
IBAMA.
Problems Encountered during Implementation:
a) The excessive bureaucracy of bidding processes imposed by the Bank compromised the timetable.
The costs of administering contracts are significantly higher due to this practice.
b) Some incompatibility was noted between CVRD and the World Bank regarding contracting
procedures, especially after the privatization of CVRD, since the Company (CVRD) understands
that a winning proposal in a bidding process will always be open to further negotiation aiming at a
better commercial result, taking into account the technical basis. The Bank's procedures consider
this practice unacceptable.
c) Despite the excellent relationship between Bank and CVRD staff, there were situations in which the
discussion was conducted by persons who may not have had the technical expertise to support their
opinions. This fact was a determining one for CVRD's decision to proceed with the
implementation of some subprojects using its own resources in order to avoid compromising the
timetable in view of divergent positions.
The timing of Bank's no objection during the various stages of the process affected the implementation
timetables of some of the subprojects. This situation improved during the final stage when a new Task
Manager assigned by the Bank stepped in and followed the process to its conclusion.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.
- 28 -



10. Additional Information
Footnotes.
1. The World Bank. 1995. Staff Appraisal Report. Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation Project.
Report No. 14585-BR.
2. OED. 1990. Project Perfornance Audit Report, Carajas Iron Ore Project (Loan 2196-BR), June 29, 1990,
Report No. 8869.
3.  OED. 1992. World Bank Approaches to the Environment in Brazil: A Review of Selected Project, Vol. III:
The Carajas Iron Ore Project, April 30, 1992.
4. In fact, Parauapebas was established by CVRD as project construction base, with limited infrastructure for
about 7,000 construction workers.
5. The World Bank. 1995. Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for The Federative Republic
of Brazil - Memorandum of the President. Report No. 14596-BR.
6. The World Bank. 2000. Brazil - Country Assistance Strategy. Report No. 14569.
7. In fairness, it should be pointed out that the Loan Agreement does not specifically require CVRD to install the
water and sewage system in a financially sustainable fashion.
8. The two previous task managers were economists.
9. Although, this was not always the case, as in the example of the reduction of air and water pollution in the
Vit6ria area.
10. When the project was appraised and negotiated (in 1993), Bank requirements for definition of project
indicators prior to negotiations were not yet in place.
11. The General Conditions required that borrowers not pledge assets to other lenders that would them ahead of
the Bank. CVRD argued that this was unrealistic for a private company. It requested and was granted a
waiver of this pledge for borrowing up to US$250 million. This was expanded in 2000 to US$1 billion.
- 29 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix              Projected in last PSR   ActuaULatest Estimate
General Physical and Financial Progress:
Expected Cumulative Disbursements of Bank fuJnds                 Cumulative disbursement of
Bank funds made from the total
Loan
1996   20.0%;                                                    1996.      23.72%;
1997   50%;                                                      1997.      28.47%;
1998   75%;                                                      1998.      53.06%;
1999    90%;                                                     1999.       63.71%;
100% (by closing date)                                           2000.      72.63%
* Definition of 30% of new subprojects under Part                By June 30, 1997, subprojects
II of the project by end-1996 and the remaining                   defined constituted 63% of
70% by end- 1997                                                 the total expenditure
allocated to this component
Environmental Performance of CVRD:
* Initial audits of all superintendencies performed              Not implemented
by end-1995, and of all subsidiaries (controladas)
by end- 1997; Audit of CELMAR and Nova Era
before end of 1996
* SGA (Environmental Management Systems) in                       Not imnplemented per the
agreement with ISO 14001 standards established                    agreed timetable
and evaluated according to recognized
intemational standards in one superintendency in
1996; seven in 1997; and all other
superintendencies and controladas in 98
* SGA established in Nova Era before end of 1997                  Not implemented in 1997
* CVRD demonstrates continuous efforts in                         Not implemented
promoting the adoption of SGA by its affiliated
companies, in progress report to be presented by
mid-1997 and in subsequent annual
environmental report to the Bank
* Based on six-monthly verifications,                             Not done
participating superintendencies and controladas
demonstrate steady progress in their program to
deal with relevant non-compliances                                                         l
* Evaluation by CVRD of land purchase and                         Not imnplemented per the
resettlement procedures used by CELMAR before                     agreed timetable
end of 1996
* CVRD tearn performs environmental evaluation                    Not implemented
of Pig Iron producers as follows: four by
end-August 1996 and all seven by end of
September 1996. CVRD sends to the Bank an
interim progress report at the end of August and
final report by mnid-October 1996
* Individual corrective action plans developed by                 Not done
producers with CVRD assistance prepared before
end of 1996
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)                               _
Actual        ActuaVl Appraisal
Component                    Appraisal        Estimate       %
estimate                  __       __
A. Pollution Control & Recuperation of              58.4             58.5            100.2
Degraded Areas
B. Natural Resources Protection &                    6.0             7.3             120.8
Recuperation
C. Socially Oriented Investments                     19.1            18.2            95.1
D. CVRD Corporate Environment Info                   2.0             1.8              89.4
Monitoring & Audit Systems
E. Studies                                           3.0             1.7             56.3
F. Subprojects                                       12.1            0.3              2.5
Total                                               100.7           87.8             87.2
Project cost by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                  Procurement Method'                           Total Cost
Category        ICB           LCB          Other2        N.B.F.
Equipment             16.2         1.9          8.6           27.0              27.0
(16.2)       (1.9)        (0.00)        (                 (18.4)
Material              0.4          3.0          0.2           5.7                9.3
3______________    (0.4)    (3.0)        (0.2)        (0.00)             (3.6)
Works3                6.0          16.1         1.0           33.6              56.7
(6.0)       (16.1)        (1.0)        (0.00)             (23.1)
Consulting           0.00         0.00          4.9           2.8                7.7
services            (0.00)       (0.00)        (4.9)         (0.00)             (4.9)
Total before         22.6          21.0         6.4           50.7              100.7
tax                  (22.6)       (21.0)       (6.4)         (0.00)            (50.0)
Taxes                0.00         0.00         0.00           9.2                9.2
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)             (0.00)
Total                22.6         21.0          6.4           59.9             109.9
(22.6)       (21.0)       (6.4)         (0.00)            (50.0)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs incude
contingencies.
2/ Incudes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services
of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and
incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local
government units.
3/ Works include Civil and Agricultural (land preparation, planning, seeding; seedling production).
- 31 -



Procurement Method                   _
Expenditure Category    ICB           NCB           Other2      N.B.F.       Total
Cost
1. Works                  8.10         7.98          4.15        25.17       45.40
(16.07)      (9.66)        (8.11)       (0.00)     (33.84)
2. Goods                   0.19        0.00           0.00        0.47        0.66
(0.40)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.40)
3. Services                0.00        0.00           2.20        3.26        5.46
(0.00)      (0.00)         (2.08)      (0.00)      (2.08)
Total                    8.29         7.98          6.35         28.9       51.52
(16.47)      (9.66)        (10.19)      (0.00)     (36.32)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending
project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate       Pct    of Appraisal
__________________       Bank         Govt.       CoF.       :Bank       Govt.      CoF.      Bank   Govt.   CoF.
A. Pollution Control &      29.30                  36.60      22.60                  35.90      77.1            98.1
Recuperation of Degraded
Areas
B. Natural Resources                               6.60        1.40                   5.90                      89.4
Protection & Recuperation
C. Socially Oriented        12.70                  6.70        10.80                  7.30      85.0            109.0
Investments
D. CVRD Corporate            1.70                  10.90       0.08                   1.70      4.7             15.6
Environment Info
Monitoring & Audit
System
E. Studies                   1.00                  0.80        1.10                   0.70     110.0            87.5
F. Subprojects               5.20                  8.10        0.30                   0.03      5.8              0.4
Total                       50.00                  59.90      36.30                  51.50      72.6            86.0
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 1991                   1   Economist
April 1991                   1   Environment Specialist
1   Environment consultant
1   Consultant
1   Project Adviser
1   Environmental Specialist
November 1991                4   Consultant
1   Project Officer
1   Forest Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
March/April                  I   Project Officer
1992
1   Forest Economist
2   Environmental Specialist
1   Financial Speicialist
1   Anthropologist
Supervision
11/95                        1   Project Officer                      S             S
I   Consultant
10/96                        1   Project Officer                      S             S
1   Task Manager                                      S
1   Engineer
03/97                        1   Project Officer                      S             S
1   Task Manager
1   Engineer
12/97                        1   Task Manager                        U              U
I   Project Officer
1   Engineer
04/98                         1   Project Officer                     U             U
1   Engineer
03/99                        1   Engineer                             U             U
1   Lead Anthropologist
1   Lead Environmentalist
1   Project Officer
12/99                        1   Lead Anthropologist                 U              U
1   Project Officer
1   Engineer
06/2000                       1   Lead Anthropologist                 U             U
ICR
1    Lead Anthropologist                U              U
- 34-



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
___________________________            No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  111.9                         201.7
AppraisallNegotiation                        98.3                         209.7
Supervision                                 100.1                         294.4
ICR                                           20                            30.0
Total                                       338.3                         735.8
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                       O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
El Physical                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Financial                             OH  OSUOM  ON  *NA
El Institutional Development             O H  O SU * M  O N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Li Gender                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
L Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 36-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
El Lending                                          OHS OS *U OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS Os  *U   OHU
E Overall                                           O HS Os  * u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
E Preparation                                       OHS Os  Ou  0 HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S  * U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                OHS Os  * u  O HU
El Overall                                          OHS Os  * u   O HU
- 37 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
OED. 1990. Project Performance Audit Report, Carajas Iron Ore Project (Loan 21 96-BR), June 29,
1990, Report No. 8869.
OED. 1992. World Bank Approaches to the Environment in Brazil: A Review of Selected Project, Vol.
III: The Carajas Iron Ore Project, April 30, 1992.
The World Bank. 1995. Staff Appraisal Report. Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation
Project. Report No. 14585-BR.
A 1995 Mid-Term Review and several supervision reports, aide memoire and Back-to-Office Reports.
CVRD. 1998. Companhia Vale Do Rio Doce Environmental Program 1993-1999.
CVRD. Several Annual Reports.
- 38-



IBRD 23514
,144                                   A2      _                                                                     VENEAZUELA                  AATANIC                                                           BRAZIL
COLOMBIA                                                C \  ocEAN              ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND
(   BAHIA                             N                                                                                    REHABILITATION PROJECT
A    ECOLOGICAL STATIONS
N  i LJ   AMAZONAS        :       PARA    /        7                       i                            AMERINDIAN RESERVATIONS
-~~~   f  -.~~~~~~__  PERNAA~~~~~~~~~fJ                         S~~5Z   SELECTED MINES
--  PERU                           ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~TO~ANIIS                                           MAIN ROADSS
18 ~~~~~~VI I                     I                         /       IV                                            -                                                       -,------.- SELECTED RAJLROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAO RO50SEECEDRALRAD
,.    M   I N    A    S                                                                          .     u                                  ,,                                                                 sICem s
N   A   S    "'N                                         A               / )GOIASk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                              -~~~~~~~---<1- RIVERS~~~~~~~~RIER
G   E  R  A    I S                                                         '                    -            B                               G                                                          S    STATE CAPITAL B OUNDARIES
A L           C)  ~~~~~~~~~~ESPiRITO  i  Ljnhqr*rs            0    tCiL            ,         AN       .
F,   ,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ VOO  ' A 
en  ,   j  ARGENTINA                  ATLCeANTIC_   ,,'l                                          .    _-~LT
SANTO                                                                           Su T    |                                                                               E/
-20ieirov>                !                  ( !            ~          ~~ ~             ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ARENIN   4 A M APA___ .hd --d.b~ .~ .                                                           KSMTRS             se
B  ente  ~~~~RAOCEAN                                                                                                                    7
Ccponx IL1  jA2                           /   J                                                                  J          l,                     3ewL        C       ; \            t        ? >
Ceil L                                                                                                                  !URUGU  ,     s1gi-)0                                                                            '        Z 
51'                      52s'                                             4,'
50 -0                                                           - Aacapoic  X)U>      Atlantic          -Ocean
(                        5 ~ ~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~ 100  2005 0
4. ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ TIB6orRo  I                                  ji  ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
o, co's F: '''s_7, j;g Szb i ,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                E
-2 '                                        ti A1.)                  6r/_L Abo                                                  PosU       in
drD.0 4!  A4p
Rio de Jane ro                                                   Atlantic         Ocean                                                                 E9P   ..n,                                                    T.. P
A-I~P   (AA         ooBi,o                        TL            OPderesino
N.Bi-So Eon`
0  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  2?0 ~     ~         ~        ~        ~ ~ '1 -P~  pb
-24-                     Mims l IS                155         SOUTHERN SYSTEM  24~  NOIkTHERN SYSTEM                                         F >
I,~ ~~~~~~IU
4,4'                        ~~~~~~~~42                              45'1                              54'                     5,2'                         Sor.                 4,.                                              A44'
JUNE 19925



