Environmental
Assessment/Analysis
Reports                     ___ ___
Report E0053
Brazil -
Environmental conservation
And Rehabilitation Project
EA Category B
Summary of
Environmental Analysis
July 1994
This report has been prepared by the World Bank



~RZL
PROJIECr
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
I - TJHE ENVIRONMENT
A. Introduction
1.1.  During the 1980s, there was a growing realizadon in Brazl that sustainable and
efficient economic development requirea.sound prnciples of environmental protection. Since
the restoraton of civilian Goverment in 1985, and particularly since 1988, the environment
has become a national priority and substantial progress has been made in estabEshing an
effective regulatory and institutional framework and progams. However, despite some
important successes, Brazil remains confronted with major environmental issues. Chief
among these are air, water and soil pollution caused by industrializtion and rapid
urbanization; and the continuous threats to the prmary forest and other vulnerable
ecosystems from uncontrolled land clearing.
1.2.  Industrial pollution problems are pervasive in the more industialized states, including
Espirito Santo and Minas Gerais, two of the states in which CVRD actiities are located.
The specific nature of pollution varies depending on the kdnd of industries, but generally, the
whole range of pollution problems can be found, of air (dust, sulfur dioide, other waste
gases), surface and underground water resources (polluting effluents), and soils (hazardous
and other industrial waste). Another significant source of pollution is untreated domestic
sewage released to rivers and the sea.
1.3.  Loss of forest cover is of considerable concem to Brazil and the interational
community, in particular in the Amazon. Brazilian rain forests contain the largest repository
of biodiversity in the world and are a major carbon store, the destruction of which would
occasion the release of greenhouse gases. An estimated 9% of the Amazon rin forest has
been deforested, as a result of a combination of factors, including public investments in
transport infrastructure (roads, railways); subsidies for livestock development; the insallation
of large projects (hydroelectric dams and minng operations); logging activities; and
migration of small farmers and landless people driven by poverty at home.
B. Regulatory and Policy Framework
1.4.  Most of Brazil's environmental laws were passed in the 1980s, and have contributed
to a significant increase in environmental awareness in development planning and operations.
This legislation is embodied primarily in the following documents: (a) the August 1988
Constitution, which spells out as fundamental goals the preservation of ecosystems and
biodiversity through the establishment of reserves and protected areas; the protection of
nghts of Amerindian populations; the obligation of pollution control and environmenal



2
impact assessments; recovery of areas degraded by mining; and criminal and administrative
penalties against offenders; (b) Law 6938 of August 31, 1981, as amended in 1989, which
distributes responsibility for environmental management between the federal government, the
states and municipalities; and spells out the various licensing requirements and processes; (c)
Resolutions of the National Environmental Council (CONAMA), which define criteria and
procedures for environmental impact assessments (January 23, 1986); ambient quality
standards and minimum standards to be observed by water polluters (1986), air (1990) and
noise (1990); and (d) a number of federal government (BAMA) instructions ('Portarias")
creating conservation areas and governing the use and replacement of native forests (1989).
Licensing norms and procedures and minimum pollution standards are laid down at the
federal level, but may be subject to stricter conditions imposed by state legislation.
1.5. All entexprises engaged in activities or works which may cause significant degradalion
of the em ironment are required, as a condition for issuance or renewal of gperating
environmental licenses, to submit for their ongoing operations either Environmental Control
Plans (Planos de Control Ambiental- PCAs), for industial operations; Plans for the
Recovery, or Restoration of Degraded Areas (Planos de Recuperacion de Areas Degradadas-
PRADs), for mining operations; and, when relevant, Integrated Industry/Forest Mnagement
Plans (Planos Integrados Floresta-Industria-PIFIs) for wood-based industries; and to
implement the recommended mitigation plans.
1.6.  For investents, the law requires the presentation of com ive envronmetal
impact assessments (Estudios de Impacto Ambiental-ElAs), together with their =exetive
ummaies (Relatorios de Impacto Ambiental-RIMAs) to obtain licses at various stages of
project planning and implementation: a Pre-license is granted (or denied) on the basis of an
EIA/RIMA, prepared by independent consultants hired by the applicant. An Installation
I-cense is granted later when the complete project, together with the monitoring and
mitigation plans, are fully detiled. Where the public (50 signatures or more) requests, or
where the responsible environmental agency judges it appropriate, a public hearing may be
held at every stage. Upon completion of the investment, the operating license is granted
after inspection and after the agreed environmental monitoring and control programs have
been established. This licensing procedure is also required for any change to or expanson of
the project. Licensing approvals are also used by public banks as compulsory criteria for
approval and disbursemet of credits.
1.7.  Article 225 of the 1988 Constitution mandates the restoration of land degaded by
mining activities. Decree 97,632 of April 10, 1989 requires the presentation, within 180
days, of a plan to restore already degraded areas in existing operatons. For new miing
investments, the decree requires that the RIMA include a program for the rehabilittion of
areas which will be degmded. Portarias 449/87 and 39188 of the Brafzlian Forest
Development Institute, now part of the Braziliam Institute for the Envirnment and Natmal
Renewable Resources (MAMA), also provide for the planting of an area of forest equal in
size to that damaged by mining activiti Enrprises using wood must present PIFIs for
IBAMA's approval and, on that basis, be registered with MBAMA as a licesed user.



3
1.8.  For existing opertions, the implementation schedule for environmental mitigation
plans, which results from PCAs, PRADs and PIFIs described earlier (para. 1.5), is
formalized in an agreement (the signing of which is usualy a condition for the granting or
renewal of the opeating license) between the polluter and the resonsible State
Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) and, on occasion, municipal envionmental
agencies as well. When polluters are not complying with the terms of the agreement, the
SEPA may call upon the court system to close the polluters' facilities until it has been
complied with or until a new agreement has been signed ("Termos de Compromisso', which
then has the force of a court order). This new agreement can include a schedule of fines
(which are foreseen at each stage in the agreement) in case of late compliance. Most
SEPAs, in spite of other deficiencies, have significantly increased pressure on the largest
enterprises, including CVRD, to comply with environmental regulations. Most investmets
to be financed under the Loan are derived from compulsory PCAs, PIFIs and PRADs, and
have been incorporated into CVRD's environmental program and into legally-binding
agreements with state and municipal environmental agencies requiring that the imprvements
be carried out within specified time periods.
1.9.  With respect to forest proetin, permits are required for all operaions involving
clearing and burning of forests. Buniing of areas over 1,000 hecares requires a RIMA.
Amazon farmers and cattle ranchers are not permitted to clear over 50% of the forest on
their property, and must obtain land clearance permits. A series of regulations aimed at
forest use by industry have been issued: Presidential Decree 97,628 of April 12, 1989
specifies that, by 1995, all corporations using wood as a raw material or energy source
(mcluding charcoa-based pig ion plants) must have their own source of wood from planted
and managed forests and will not be allowed to use native forest Compulsory r estation
activities may only be carried out through an integrated raw matra supply plan (PI-
para. 1.5 above), to be approved by IBAMA. Significant policy changes which have reduced
incentives for deforestation include: (i) the imposition of envmtal conditions on the
granting of fiscal incentives for iunestments m the Amazon region; (ii) the abandonment or
scaling back of colonization and road building projects; (iii) the reduction or elimination of
pnce and credit subsidies for agriculture and livestock production in general; and (iv) the
stengthening of institutions in charge of natural resource and forest protection. As a result,
the rate of deforestation has fallen sharply over the past few years.
C. I    nal Framework
1.10. The institutional framework and distribution of functions was significantly reorganized
in June 1990. At the federal level, the ultimate responsibility for policy decisions belongs to
the Council of Ministers, on the basis of recommendations from CONAMA. CONAMA,
which is presided over by the Minister of the Environent, conprises representatives of each
ministry, state governments, trade, industry and commerce aociations and NGOs.
CONAMA advises and proposes all norms, cntena and proced  applicable to
environmental licensing for the Council of Ministers' approval; the classification of water
bodies and geographicki areas according to their vulnerability and use; federal num



4
pollution standards (ambient and source) for each classification; the scope of environmental
assessments and complfmentary studies judged necessary; finaUy, CONAMA constitutes the
last administrative recourse for fines and penalties imposed by other agencies in the system.
The Ministry of the Environment (MOE) is responsible for planning and coordinating the
preparation and formulation of environmental policies and promoting and supervising their
application at the federal and local levels. MOE also presides over CONAMA and provides
its secretariat.
1.11. MAMA, which was created in 1989 out of several separate entities, is the executive
ann of MOE. IBAMA's role is primarily one of enforcing the implementation of federal
regulations and providing technical support to SEPAs in the areas of licensing, law
enforcemient, training, environmental etTucation and information. Most of the supervisory
and enforcement functions including licensing, monitoring and fines against violators are left
to SEPAs; yet in cases where a SEPA cannot assume these responsibilities, MBAMA can
intervene. While Brazil is decentralizing the environmental system as much as possible,
activities which have national or international implications may require licensing by both the
state and by the Federal Government. These include all forestry projects and those using
forest resources (para. 1.9), on the grounds that the value of the forests belongs to the entire
country, and their fate should not be determined by a single state. While states and
municipalities create and protect their own conservation units, IBAMA has retained direct
operational responsibility for Brazil's system of federal conservation units, and has
superintendencies in aU states. Its operations are funded out of the federal budget; from its
own income generated from fees and fines collected from activities affecting the forest; and
from contributions from the National Fund for the Environment allocated by CONAMA for
specific projects. Support for the institutional strengthening of IBAMA and for its program
of national consevation areas is provided under the Bank-financed National Environmental
Project (Loan 3173-BR). Under that-operation, the Bank is also supporting institutional
strengthening and reform of IBAMA as well as the SEPAs This project is currently being
reformulated to increase support to state-level environmental initiatives.
1.12. At the state level, SEPAs have been created in each state to fulfill the mandate given
to them by the 1988 Constitution, i.e. the application of fedeal legislation, including most
environmental licensing, monitoring, protection and law enforcement activities. They are
also entitled to pass and enforce stricter regulations, depending on local conditions. In most
states, existing environmental legislation is adequate, but monitoring and enforcement
capability vary markedly from state to state. All states use federal ambient quality standards,
modified in some cases by state or local legislation to compensate for extremely adverse local
conditions. At present, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro are among the few states which have
both developed and are capable of enforcing local standards stricter than the Federal
guidelines. SEPAs also sometimes lack political commitment to environmental concerns,
particularly when they confict with development objectives. They also tend to Operate in
precarious conditions, being poorly equipped, with insufficient appropriatdy tmained staff,
and often lack essental administrative and financial autonomy. Following the promulgation
of the 1988 Constitunon, significant efforts to strengthen SEPAs have begun in most states.



S
Most states now also have their own environmental councils. Support for SEPAs' upgrading
is being provided through seeral Bank-financed projects, including the above-mentioned
National Environmental Project (Loan 3173-BR); the Second Industrial Pollution Control
Project (Loan 2831-BR), the National Indusial Pollution Control Project (Loan 3480-BR);
and, for the nine Amazon states, through the G-7 Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian
Rain Forest. At the municipal level, community pressure on polluters aeists only in some of
the larger cities, including Vitoria.
II - CVRD ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PROGRAM AND MANAGEMENT
A. Strategy and Policies
2.1   CVRD operates in many activities potenftally aggressive to the environment, such as
minerals extraction and transport, aluminum, gold and pulp production. Until the early
1980s, environmental control was minimal. Since then, however, the company has declared
its commitment to a strict and intensive policy of environmental protection and of sustained
development through proper use and management of available natural resources.
2.2 The company's emphasis on environmental management started with the Carajas iron
ore project, which was designed to mininize the project's direct impact on the surrounding
ecologically sensitive region. Ihis aoach has been ectended to the much older Southern
System, where envommental concerns had traditonally not been strong. CVRD has already
spent substantal amounts in corrective and preventive measures. Yet, although in recent
years CVRD has substanfally improved environmental control within its various operations
and appears to show a genuine commitment to good environmental management, the
company has been strongly criticized for its indirect contribution to environmental and socidal
problems, particularly in the northern system, where the Carajas mine and transport systm
are held responsible for extensive degradation and social problems along the railway
corridor. Increased community and institutional pressures to comply with much more
stnngent new environmental legislation have also prompted CVRD to accelate and expand
the scope of its environmental program.
2.3   CVRD's commitment to sound environmental management was first embodied in an
Environmental Master Plan (P?ano Diretor de Meio Ambiente - 1989-1993), a program to
reduce the environmental direct impact of its operations and mitigate their direct negative
consequences. As stated above, this program was formulated partly to comply with new
federal and local environmental legislation; partly in response to increasing local and
international community pressure; and pardy to improve its national and international image.
It has since been supplemented and updated to incorporate later formal commitments with
IBAMA, SEPAs and locl communities to resolve outstanding issues. It is expected that
CVRD's environmental program will now be regularly updated to incorporate needed actions



6
identified through the Environmental Monitoring and Auditing System being established as
part of the project.
B. Program
2.3   The main stated objectives of CVRD's Environment Master Plan are to: (i) strictly
comply with the environmental and natural resource management legislation through
appropriate conrecve and preventive measures; (ii) reduce natual resource requirements, in
particular forest, land, water, and energy, through increased productivity and efficency in
mining, industrial and forestry operations; (iii) increase environmental research, development
and training; and (iv) improve relations with affected communities through social actions and
environmental education.
2.4   The measures included in the Master Plan consist of:
(a)   conservation of nahtal forests and ecosystems under its supervison (opetion
of ecological parks and reserves);
(b)   assistance and protection for Amerindian communities in the Carajas coridor,
(c)   reclamation and re-vegetation of degraded areas and planting of green belts
along the railroads and in the maritime terminals;
(d)   implementation of air, water, soil, and noise pollution control and monitoring
in CVRD's mining, industrial, rail, and port operations;
(e) erosion control in mines and along the railroad;
(f)   provision of environmental education and training;
(g)   envimrnmental studies and research on pollution and erosion control, and forest
conservation and management; and
(h)   environmental impact assessments in its areas of influence.
2.5 A summary of the major actions by type with a short description, together with their
rationale and status, is presented in Annex 1 for CVRD's Environmental Master Plan for
1989-1993, and in Annex 2 for the Environmental Master Plan for the TaIbarao Terminal
(Espirito Santo), which was updated for 1990-1999, and in which close to 30% of the
investments proposed under this project are located.
2.6  CVRD has placed a high priority on implementing this envirnmental program within
the agreed time frames for compliance. Many of the proposed measures have been or are
being implemented and the remaining ones are proposed for inclusion under this project.



7
2.7  CVRD's affliates and subsidiaries have adopted the company's environmental policy
and organization. Probably due to earlier community and institutional pressures, as of 1991,
implementation of environmental programs under joint ventures was often more advanced
than in CVRD's own operations. For emuple, CENIBRA and ALBRAS had established
environmental divisions and monitoring systems more efficient than those of most of
CVRD's southern system.
2.8 Many of the actions proposed in CVRD's environmental plan and in the programs of
its affiliates are corrective measures for pollution control, monitoring and recovery of
degraded areas in CVRD's southern operadons, where much needs to be done to meet
cufrent environmental standards. They also correspond to priorities as established in
compulsory environmental assessments,ThADs and PCAs to comply with the envrnmental
legislation, and most of them have been incorporated into legally-binding time bound
agreements (convenios or termos de compromisso) with fedemal, state and/or municipal
agencies. While comprehensive, the program remained rather reactive and focused on
remediation rather than prevention. A review of CVRD's    ntal policies, criteia
and methodologies carried out during prepaation with respect to: (a) minimization of sources
of pollution in its operations and investment progmms, (e.g. through input and technology
selection. energy conservation, process changes, etc.); (b) coverage of impact assessments
for new investnents; and (c) scope of mitigation plans, concluded that adjustment was
required to CVRD's policies, organization and systems, as further discussed in section C
below.
C. Organization and Systems
(a) Stucture uw   1992
2.9   CVRD's organization for environmental management, as it has developed over the
past ten years, is quite complex. Since 1990, the responsibility for environmental
management has been decentralized to the operating divisions (usuperintendencies"), which
have decision authority on environmental matters. Most project proposals are initiated by
them as well as by subsidiaries and affiliated companies. The divisional managers
(usuperintendentes') are accountable directly to CVRD's Executive Board (through their
respective Directors) for environmental as well as other matters. Each operatdonal
superintendency has its own emnmrmental unit (headed by an envir tl manager) which
is responsible for formulating and implementing its respective environment progam.
2.10  An Environmental Committee composed of all superintendents meets regularly,
previously under the chairmanship of the Superintendency of Forest Products and the
Environment (SUMAF) and now under the chairmanship of the Superintendency of
Development- SUDES. This committee reviews important issues arising in the operating
units and requiring corporate attention, and makes apprpriat recommendations to the
President or Executive Board, and to the superintendencies.



8
2.11  In parllel, each superintendency and joint venture has an Intemnal Committee for the
Environment (CIMA) made up of eight employees elected by their peers. Representatives of
the CIMAs attend the twice-yearly nleetings of an outside advisory group for environment
protection called GEAMAM (Group for Studies and Consultation on the Environment) made
up of prominent Brazilian environmental scientists. GEAMAM reviews CVRD's
environmental performance and issues, suggests CVRD's environmental policies, and
provides advisory reports to the Environmental Committee of the superintendents, as well as
to CVRD's Executive Board. The CIMAs' reviews of their respectve operating units are
incorpomated into these reports.
2.12 At headquarters, SUMAF served until recently as an advisory and coordination body
on environmental matters for the other Ibperintendencies. SUMAF had  ree departments
(Gerencias Gerais), two of which (in charge of Forestry and Pulp Production) have direct
operational functions, the third one being the Environment Department (Gerencia Geral do
Meio Ambiente-GDIEZ). GIMEZ (now G1MAR) was recently transferred to SUDES.
2.13 Until 1992, the role of GIMEZ- then only a lower-level division ("Gerencia)- was
limited to: (a) providing the secretiat for the Environmental Committee of the
superintendents; (b) prMiding advice to superintendencies and other CVRD authonties on
environmental mattrs; (c) implementing the company's institutional programs (e.g the
Amerindian program); and (d) carrying out research and studies of general interest.
2.14  The oveUall environmental management philosophy of CVRD- decentalion of
responsibilities to operating units, together with the provision of central advice and support
and parallel checks and balances - is innovative and seems appropriate for a large,
decentralized, multisectoral, and geographically dised company. CVRD's enirommental
policy is reviewed on the company side by management and employees, and externally by
GEAMAM, thereby maintaining a constructive balance between the various sources of input.
However, the lack of a strong centralized mechanism for establishing policy has meant a
relatively ill-defined overaching corporate policy for setting environmental policies and
pnorities, and for ensuring their uniform and consistent application throughout the company
and its subsidiaries and afflfiates.
2.15   As a result, policy has tended to be generally reactive, rather than proawive, and
CVRD has yet to define how to deal with the indirect impact of large projects and with local
communities. Some superintendencies and joint ventures are very efflicient in monitoring
environmental impacts and setting priorities for action. Others still need to implement
effective monitoring and control systems. These weaknesses became apparent in the course
of project preparation, which spanned the entire environmental program of CVRD and its
major affiliates countrywide.



9
(b) Strengthening the Central Environmental Function
2.16 Since 1992, and pardy as a result of discussions during project preparation, a number
of steps were taken to strengthen the central environmental function of CVRD. First,
GIMEZ was upgraded to a Gerencia Geral. Second, in September 1992, its functions were
considerably strengthened: in addition to its previous advisory functions, it is in charge of
designing and implementing an Environmental Management System, which will ensure
consistent application of corporative policies and directives throughout the institutions and its
subsidiaries and afflliates. This include the following functions: (a) taking an active role in
recommending environmental policies, norms and procedures to management; (b) designing
and implementing a management information system and a central environmental auditing
system; (c) formulating critena and methodologies for the preparation of, and monitoring the
implementation of, EIAlWRDAs for new projects; (d) organizing training and environmental
education programs, within CVRD and communities impacted by CVRD's operations; (e)
research and institutional development, including management of contracts with scientific
groups and universities, NGOs, the promotion of community participation in CIMAs, and the
management of the assistance program to indigenous communities; and (f) mobilizng
resources for CVRD's environmental programs. Finally, in May 1994, GIMEZ, now called
Department of Sustinable Development (Gerencia Geral de Desenvolvimento Sustentavel-
GIMAAR) was transferred to the SUDES, the corporate superintency in charge of business
development. Such a trans  eliminates previous possible conflicts of interest within
SUMAF between its corporate environmental functions and its forestry and cellulose business
operation fimctions.
2.17 Important additional steps taken were: (a) the establishment of a permanent
Commission of Environmental Managers, made up of the General Manager of GIMAR and
managers of the environmental departments in each superintendency, affiliated and subsidiary
company- this commission is an important forum for prctical discussions and analysis of
environmental performance and for the formuladon of proposals to tie Superintendent
Environmental Committee; and (b) the creation of an internal environmental audit group, as
further discussed below.
(c) The Ewironmental Monitoing and Auding System
2.18  Perhaps the most important element in this revised central structure (and one which
emerged from discussions dunng project preparation) is the establishment of a cozporate
environmental monitoring and auditing system. Such a system was approved by CVRD's
Board in September 1992 and is being put in place. The system will permit the permanent
monitoring of compliance with regulations and agreements (Termos de Compromisso) and
other company directives aiming at 'total environmental quality' and eventually ensure that
such compliance is systmatic and uniform throughout the CVRD group. This system will
also include the moniorng of socal impacts, such as those assocated with commercial
reforestation activities, and with the implementation of the Amerindian Progam. A program



10
for the development of such a system has been prepared and its implementation has started: a
training program of all environmental managers in environmental auditing concepts and
methods was carried out in late 1992, followed by on-the-job training at CVRD's
installations in Vitoria and pilot audits conducted in Vitoria and Itabira in October 1993.
The program calls for the establishment of internal audit groups within each superintendency,
subsidiary and afliate; an inter-area corporate audit group directed by GIBEZ, performing
regular audits in all areas; and periodic audits by extemal spedalized companies. It is
estimated that full establishment and implementation of the management information and
auditing system will take about three years.
D. Dealing with Indirect Impacts
(a) Assisance to Local Commuwies
2.19 CVRD's charter include an obligation to donate 5% of net pmfits derived from the
southern system's operations to municipalities of the southern system. Over the past 25
years, CVRD thus donated substantial amounts for all lknds of municipal improvements,
from street paving to sports fields, schools, health posts, sanitation infrastructure, etc.
Although such obligation does not exist for the northern system, CVRD has also contributed
on an ad-hoc basis to similar investments. '
2.20 CVRD is presently rethinkdng its approach to social action, because: (a) it has found
that the somewhat ad-hoc approach of grants to municipal governments has not necarily
resulted in noticeable impro ts in the standard of living of beneficiary communities,
while causing CVRD to get excessively involved in local politics; (b) in the northern system,
CVRD's action has so far done little to address the indirect impact of its presence; and (c).
CVRD wishes in the long run to lessen dependency of municipalities where it has a strong
presence by enhancing self-sustaining development A special group has been established
within CVRD's Communication Superintendency to define CVRD's social action policy and
coordinate the implementafion of programs and projects in this area. The objective of
CVRD's actions would be to encourage the development of sustinable, environmentally
sound, economic activities, with social investments focused on municipalities with the best
development prospects.
2.21   In the Southem Syxtenm, CVRD's area of influence has long been occupied,
stagnation in economic activity is causing outmigrations, and, in some areas (Itabira in
partcular), the foreseen depletion of CVRD mines early next century is forcng the search
for alternative activities. CVRD plans to systematically review municipalities' development
potential, and their social and infrastructure needs, to determine those to be attended in
priority. CVRD would then act as a catalyst for the creation of economic oportunities and
employment by implementing a small business development program in cooperation with
municipal authorities and local industrial and business chambers, and with community
partcipation. The progam would build upon CVRD's successful, but limited, experience in
1. Regulaions also rqire CVRD as well as other mining conpanies to pay royaltis on
sales to mucipalies whe  opetions are located, thus permitti a mm symaic
fnncial support to the affected communities. These royalties re equivalent to 3% ex-plant
of iron ore sales, 1% of gold sales and 2 % of other sales. Sixty-five percent of the proceeds
go to municipalities, and 35% to state goverments. CVRD does not participte in the
decision of how to locate thes finds.



11
Itabira, and upon experience of the small business development program of the Support
Services to Micro and Small Enterprises (SEBRAE) of Santa Cataina State. CVRD would
not substitute for existing institutions and credit agencies, but would help mobilize existing
institutional, technical and credit resources. The project would support the initiation of this
program by financing municipal diagnostic and methodological studies and a pilot scheme
(including infrastructure for an experimental small business center).
2.22  In the Northem Sym, an area of rpid in-r.;igration, social aspects are intimately
tied to environmental considerations. The most vulnerable area in the Carajas corridor is
close to the Carajas iron ore mine, i.e, the area between Maraba and Parauapebas (the end of
the rail-line). This area, where the most forest cover remains, is also the most impacted by
CVRD's operations, the Serra Pelada gitimpo and several INCRA settlements, as these
activities helped attract migrants in search of land, gold or employment. Many remain
unemployed (the Serra Pelada garimpo is practically exhausted, but migrant families have
stayed in the area) and the provision of an economic base for this population is important to
reduce pressure on the remaining forest cover, including the large conservation area under
CVRD's responsibility. The provision of clean water and basic sanitation infrastructare to
the town, which has far exceeded the population these systems were planned for, is also
urgent. CVRD's social action in the northern system will therefore focus on this area. Its
objective is to contribute to the stabilization of its ppulation by identifying and supporting
self-sustaining productive schemes by small producers, assisted by local NGOs when
relevant, in agrculture and agroforestry. The project will include studies and pilot schemes
to help CVRD in the formulation of a detailed program in these areas. Wlth respect to social
services, CVRD intends to focus on the provision of health services and basic sanitation
infrastructure to selected communities along the railroad (Parauapebas and Sao Luis) and to
Amerindian communities.
(b) Ameindian Communities
2.23 Some 17,000 tribal Indians, on 24 different reservations, live in, or close to, the
Carajas corridor. Most directly affected by CVRD operations are five groups: the Xklin of
Catete, the Gaviao of Mae Maria, whose reservation is crossed by the railway line, the
Guajajara of Pindare and Caru, whose reservations lie very near te railway, and the Awa
(or Guaja), a nomadic hunting and gathering people that wanders throughout the area in
small family groups. There are great variations among these groups in terms of contact and
adaptation to national society. Some have been in contact for over 200 years, while others
may even still be uncontacted. ITe Guajajara Pindare, whose reserve lies only 15 minutes'
drive from Santa Ines, live much on the level of the surrounding non-Indian population, or
perhaps slightly better. Most of their income is from off the resvation, or from selling
agricultual produce. They speak fluent Portuguese and the level of health care is
reasonable. On the other hand, the Awa, who were recently contacted, are in urgent need of
health care and protection against encroachers. The Xlcrin and Mae Maria groups are at
intermediate stages of cultural adaptation.



12
2.24 CVRD's involvement with Amerindian communities started with the Special Project
included under the Carajas Iron Ore Project. The purpose of this special project, with a cost
of US$13.6 million entirely funded by CVRD, was, through FUNAI, to provide secure land
tenure and health and education services to the tribal people in the general area of the
Carajas mine and railway. Implementation of the project encountered numerous difficulties
due to FUNAI's precarious financial situation and its tendency to divert the project funds to
other uses. Nevertheless, the Special Project appears to have resulted in substantial
improvements in the conditions of indigenous communities in the Carajas area, particularly in
terms of health care and land demarcation (there has been a significant increase in birth rates
and parallel decreases in mortality and morbidity among most AmerindiaL communities in the
area, largely as a result of the Special Project). Funds of the Special Project are almost
completely disbursed, the last remaining actions being the demarcation of the Awa and
Krikati reserves. These were to be implemented under a two-year contract signed on July
29, 1993 between CVRD and the Army's Geographical Service (through FUNAI).
However, the Army cancelled the contract when demarcation teams faced resistance from
squatters in the area. FUNAI is about to invite proposals from private demarcation services,
which will carry out their operations under protection from the Federal Police.
2.25 Concerned with the sustainability of these efforts, in 1986 the Brazilian Federal Senate
passed Resolution 331 requiring CVRD to provide assistance to the Indian populaions near
thie CVRD mining concession. As a result, CVRD signed two agreements, one in 1989 with
FUNAI and the Xicrin community of Catete, and another in 1990 with FUNAI and the
Gaviao community of Mae Maria. There is no expiration date set for these agreements.
Essentially, CVRD accepted the responsibility to fund health and education services, EUNAI
providing the personnel to carry them out, to guard the boundaries of the reservations and-
plan productive activities leading to economic self-sufficiency. These agreements, however,
do not apply to other groups. In particular, they do not include the Awa group, the group
most in need of assistance.
2.26 A review of CVRD's action under the Special Project and the ongoing agreements
reveal a somewhat paternalistic approach to assistance, with a tendency to meet the group's
wishes for expensive infrastucture, equipment and maintenance services upon demand (in
the case of the Mae Maria group, whose reservation is crossed by the railroad, this tendency
is reinforced by the leverage provided to the group by threats of potential disruptions to rail
transport), and by relatively costly emphasis on curtive health care. This approach tends to
perpetuate dependency and so far there has been litde progress toward the proclaimed goal of
self sufficiency. While CVRD wishes to ensure the continuity of its assistance progam, it is
conscious of these problems and wishes to emphasize: (a) the development of susainable
economic activities, including sustainable forest management, and training to prepare the
communities to eventually take over management of these activities; (b) the provision of
health services stressing prevention, community participation and health education; (c) the
provision of basic sanitation infrastructure; and (d) informal training and the acquisition of
practical sldlls to lessen dependence on outsiders. CVRD also intends to design a set of
policies, criteria and methodologies to govern its Amenndian assistance program in a



13
systematic fashion. For this purpose, CVRD plans to invite an advisory group to meet
regularly and submit their conclusions and recommendations in writing. CVRD will
develop, in consultation with multidisciplinary experts of recognized experience and
qualification, and adopt a statement of policies and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank,
describing the principles, methods and criteria for CVRD's assistance program to
Amerindian communities in the Carajas corridor, to rcview and select the subprojects to be
financed under the project and to develop a methodology to monitor and evaluate their
impact. An Indigenous Peoples Development Plan is attached in Annex 3.
(c) Pig Iron Pkants in the Cabtas Conidor
2.27  A source of environmental degrmion in the Carajas corridor linked to the
development of the Carajas iron ore mine is the establishment along the railmad of charcoal-
based pig irn smelters. These evolved from a Govenment-sponsored Greater Carajas
Program (Programa Grande Carajas), which in the early 1980s provided a series of fiscal
incentives for their installation. They were to obtain their energy from charcoal produced
from the native forest. A total of 19 projects were approved along the Carajas railroad,
including 6 fimroalloy plants and 13 pig iron plants.
2.28 Following internatonal protest on the consequences of charcoal use for the primary
forest, a series of measures were taken: (a) all feroalloy plants must be converted to coke;
(b) licenses for the instUllation of six plants (one fenoaUoy and five pig iron plants) were
suspended and fiscal incentives for them were canceled; (c) regulations were passed for all
others to secure their raw materials supply from plantations by 1995; accordingly, the issuing
or renewal of operating licenses have been made conditional on the presentation of PIFIs
(pans. 1.5, 1.9) demonstrafing that appropriate arangements are being made to comply with
the law; and (d) fiscal and credit incentives formerly provided by the Secretriat of Regional
Development (SDR) were canceled in 1990 for new projects limited to pig iron production.
Projects can be eligible for incentives only if they are vertically integrated with downstmm
activities, indude process improemens for energy savings and pollution control, and are
100% self sufficient from the start in wood supply from planted forests.
2.29 As a result of these acdons, at the end of 1993, only 6 pig iron plants and one
ferroalloy plant were in opertion. Production of pig iron in the area totalled 600,000 tons
in 1992 and is estimated at 768,000 tons in 1993 (following completion of the last two units).
The four plants in operation in 1992 operated on average from charcoal obtained 53% from
sawmill residues, 129% from forest management, and 35% from other sources, largely
residues from land cleanng for agriculture and pasture estabLishment. So far reforestation
for charcoal production has been negligible. Except for one smelter located in Rosario, near
Sao Luis, none of them is in agreement with the current legislation, which requires them to
be 70% self- sufficient in 1992 in wood production for charcoal from planted or managed
forest.



14
2.30 Although these pig iron plants have been responsible for a very small portion of
deforestation in the area, they indirectly support it by adding some value to by-products of
deforestation carnied out for other purposes (logging for sawmills, agriculture or livestock).
Furthermore, with the increase in pig iron production in 1993, charcoal requirements will
increase while available residues from sawmills (the largest source and the easiest to
document) will not- in fact over time these should decrease as enforcement of forest
protection and exploitation legislaton increases and wood prices consequently increase.
2.31 Extensive discussions of this issue took place during preparation and appraisal. In
April 1992, CVRD started to design and then proceeded to implement a program aimed at
progressively bringing the Carajas corridor pig iron smelters into compliance with the law.
The following actions, in which extensiYe participaton of pig iron producers was secured,
have been implemented:
(a)   an in-depth review of the smelter operations and of the origins of charcoal;
(b)   a detailed analysis of options available to pig iron producers to comply with
the law and their cost-benefit analysis was carried out; complemented by a Pig
Iron Market Study: this review concluded that the required investments in
reforestation and sustainable native forest management are financially viable
provided they are accompanied by technological improvements in pig iron
manufacturing, aiming at reducing charcoal needs, and in charcoal production,
aiming at reducing wood requirements and lowering costs while controlling
pollution;
(C)   CVRD prepared a policy statement and program establishing the company's
policy not to supply iron ore to pig iron producers in the Carajas corridor if
they are declared by competent environmental authorities in default with
environmental regulations (including licensing regulats, wood self
sufficiency requirements under Decree 97,629, and standards of pollution). In
this statement, CVRD also undertkes to provide technical assistance to pig
iron producers to help them formulate detailed ivestment programs required
for them to meet their obligations within an agreed timeframe, including
technical assistance in the preparation of acceptable PIFs for IBAMA's review
and approval, in reforestation and forest management activities, and in
technological and process improvements in charcoal and pig iron
manufiauring;
(d)   sgning of agreements with each of the six pig iron producers in which the
producers recognize their obligation to comply with the law as a condition for
obtaining ore supplies from CVRD (mcluding with all state environmental
licensing regulations, norms and standards of air, water and soil pollution,
with Decree 97,629, and with the need for preparing, submttiDng and
implementing PIFIs duly approved by IBAMA); to register all charcoal



15
manufacturing units supplying them; and to periodically demonstate the origin
of the wood used in these charcoal units;
(e) joint review of, and agreement with pig iron producers on, technical criteria to
be used in the preparation of revised PIFIs for submission to IBAMA; and
provision of technical assistance in the identification, basic engineering
concepts and costing of the various measures; and
(f)   signing of a Cooperation Agreement on November 3, 1993, between CVRD
and IBAMA for the preparation of a joint action plan to increase enforcement
of environmental regulations by the pig iron industry in the Carajas Corridor.
Through this agreement, tVRD would make available its on-site logistical
infrastructure to IBAMA to facilitate regular control and enforcement of
environmental legislation applicable to pig iron production in the Carajas
Corridor, (H) IBAMA would keep CVRD informed about the schedule and
results of its control acivities, and the compliance status of each producer (on
that basis CVRD may then legally suspend ore and serices supplies); (iii) if
requested by IBAMA, CVRD would provide assistance for the review of pig
iron producers projects, including PIRL
m- THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.1  The project has three major objectives: (a) to support the entire n ntal
program of CVRD by finmcing high-priority investents throughout its opations; (b) to
bring about changes in CVRD's policies, systems and procedures needed to reinforce sound
environmental policies and management and help ensure that further development schemes m
which CVRD would participate in this area are planned and implemented in ways which are
environmentally sound and socially fiir, and (c) to correct some of the negative indirect
environmental and social impact of CVRD's operations in sensitive portions of its area of
influence, in particular in the Carajas corridor.
C. Project Description
3.2 The project consists of the following components:
(a)   air, water and soil pllution control and land reclamation investments in
CVRD's mining, industial, rail and port operations throughout the country
(59% of project cost);



16
(b) naturl resource investments, which include reforestation and the conservation
of natural forest and ecosystems in or around CVRD's installations; and fauna
and flora inventories and conservation (7% of project cost);
(c)   social oriente imnestmnts contributing to the alleviation of social problems
in ecologically sensitive areas in CVRD's area of influence, including
municipal improvements in towns impacted by CVRD; and the continuation of
the Amerindian progam financed under the Carajas iron ore project (21% of
project costs);
(d)   studies, research. training, and technical assistance. including a coprehensive
impact assessment of theTubarao industial port, other pollution monitonng
and impact studies and socio economic development studies (3% of project
costs);
(e) implementation of a comprehensive corporate environmental infornation.
control, monitoring and auditing system (2% of project costs); and
(f)   other subprZects and studies (to be defined), aimed at improving knowledge
of, and protecting and conserving natural ecosystems (including fauna and
flora inventories), sustainable management of natural forests, enironmental
education, and social programs aiming at improving the welbre of
communities in CVRD's area of influence (8% of project costs).
3.3  Each component compises a number of sub-projects which have high prority within
the environmental programs of CVRD and two of its associated companies (CENIBRA and
NOVA ERA).
3.4 As already indicated, CVRD and its afliates have placed a high priority on
implementing its environmental program within the agreed time frames for compliance.
Many of the proposed measurs have been or are being implemented and the remaining ones
are included under this project. Pollution control investments included under the project are
are corrective measures for pollution control, monitoring and recovery of degraded areas.
They also correspond to prionties as established in compulsory environmental assessments,
PRADs and PCAs to comply with the environmental legislation, and most of them have been
incorporated into legally-binding time bound agreements (convenios or termos de
compromisso) with federal, state and/or municipal agencies. These enironmentl
assessments and plans, and complementary supporting documentation for each subproject,
were reviewed in the course of project preparation, and are listed in Annec 5. Subproject
benefits are summarized in Annex 4.



17
(a) PoUlution Control and Land Reclamation in CVRD Facities
3.5   As part of project preparaion, a comprehensive review of the entire environmental
program of CVRD and its major associated companies, as well as all impact assessments and
programs to recuperate degraded areas, and of agreements with relevant SEPAs and the
status of ther implementation, was carried out to confirm that all priority problems are either
being addressed by CVRD through actions or investments under implementation, or will be
addressed as part of the proposed loan. Subprojects were selected using the following
criteria: (i) they have been identified as priority investments in the above context; (ii) they
have a strong public good content; (iii) they will bring no or low financial returns to CVRRD
and its affiliated companies; Civ) they atehot recurrent costs (except for contracted
monitoring services); (v) they are not components of future investments; and (vi) their
implementation stage permits procuement according to Bank Guidelines. Most selected
subprojects have to be implemented by CVRD and its affiliates as part of their commitments
with IBAMA and the SEPAs, and have been derived from compulsory PCAs, PRADs and
PIFIs. These investments seek to: (a) correct air pollution problems (gaseous emissions and
dust); (b) control and treat liquid effluent; (c) treat and dispose of solid waste; (d) resto
areas degraded by mining; and (e) reduce noise. The distribution of investments by type of
action is presented in the table below:
3.6 Most air pollution control investnents consist of the installation of electrostatic
precipitators, scrubbers, filters and dust control systens in the Vitoria pelletization plants,
the CENIBRA pulp mill, and the ELETROVALE ferrosilicon plant. Most liquid effluent
control and treatment imvestments rdlate to effluent minimization and treatment at the Vitoria
facilities and the CENBRA pulp mill. Solid waste treatment and disposal and associated
land reclamation investments are spread throughout CVRD's installations. The following
paragraphs briefly describe some of the more important subprojects. The above table
includes subprojects totalling about US$13.4 million which have been tentatively included to
address issues raised in the course of the first environmental audits of the Vitoria and Itabira
sites but need to be developed before they can be financed under the project.
3.7 The most relevant air pollution control investments include:
(a)   two electrostatic precipitators would be installed to control air pollution at the
pelletization plants at the Tubarao terminal2. These secondary colectors,
which will be installed after the existing cyclones, will eliminate most of the
remai=ng dust in gases generated in pelletization fumraces before they are
released through a chimney to the atmosphere. Rejected gases will have less
than 100mg of particulate matter per cubic meter of air, and
2.A total of six electrstatic precipitators are being or will be (as part of the projct) installed
in all pelletization plats of CVRD and its affiliated companies (NIBRASCO, ITABRASCO
and HISPANOBRAS) at the Tuxbaro port.



18
(b) bag filters at the NOVA ERA ferrosilicon plant for the treatment of exhaust
gases from the three plants' arc furnaces; and
(c) dust control and minimization during material handling at the Tubarao terminal
and the Taquari-Vassoura potash mine.
3.8   The most important liquid effluent control investments aim at: (a) minimizing liquid
effluent by optimizing the Unbleached Kraft Pulp washing and filtration system at
CENIBRA's pulp mill; and (b) the collection and treatment of liquid effluent from storage,
handling and access areas of the Tubarao teminal in Vitoria.
3.9 Safe treatment and disposal of mmTiie tailings consist of: (a) the expansion and
improvement of the tailing pond dam at the Carajas iron ore mine; and (b) the construction
of additional modular ponds for settling and confining tailings for the CIP plant gold mine of
Igarape Bahia (Carajas), where recuperation of cyanide from tailings is essential before they
can be disposed of; and (c) other industrial waste disposal sites at the CENIBRA pulp mill
and the Tubarao terminal.
3. 10 The geographic distribution of the proposed investments largely reflects the age of the
instllations and the attention paid earlier in the Northern system to environmental
consequences. The Carajas iron ore mine and transport system was planned and
implemented with protection and control measures incorporated from the start in project
design and operations. Few investments are therefore required. In contrast, considerable
imvestments are required in the older facilites of the Southern system, in particular at the
plants and port infrastructure of Vitoria. The Southern system accounts for about 74% of the
pollution control investments proposed under the project.
3. 11 Pollution control investments at the Tubarao terminal and port at Vitona account for
about 48% of pollution control investments financed under the project. They include: (Q)
dust control and collection in material handling and storage systems (mostly iron ore, lime
and coal); (ii) gas effluent treatment in pelletization and lime plants; (iii) drainage and
industrial effluent control and treatment; (iv) sewage treatment; (v) solid waste depost; and
(vi) noise control at the pig iron handling and storage facilities. All these investments are
part of a comprehensive environmental 1990-99 master plan for the Tubamo terminal (Annex
2), which is under implementation. They are also included in the agreement (Termo de
Compromisso) with SEAMA, dated September 1, 1990, by which CVRD committed itself to
implement all the corrective measures listed in the agreement by specified dates. This
agreement also includes an obligation to prepare and implement an improved deftiled
monitoring prog.aam. In addition, a comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessmnt of the
CVRD port facilities at Tubarao and Cais de Paul will be carried out as part of the Project to
assess the impact of CVRD and CSTrs operations on the Vitoria area's atmosphere and
coastal, surface and underground waters, and soil, and assess risks of these opeations. This
EIA's objectives will be to assess improvements obtained through measures alrady



19
implemented and determine whether the master plan needs to be complemented. At the end
of the project, when all measures have been implemented, the EIA will be updated.
(*) Natural Resources
3.12 The natural resources subprojects fall into two main categories: (1) reforestation of
degraded areas with native species, estabishing green belts along the railways and around
mine sites, as protection against erosion, dust and noise; and (ii) protection of ecosystems
consisting of the implementation of management plans in the forest reserves owned by CVRD
and CENBRA (additional fwnding for the preparation of these and other management plans
has been obtained from a PHRD grant (equivalent to US$1.6 million).
3.13 CVRD's activities take place in areas of great environmental importance: the Southern
system affects areas of the Atlantic Coastal Forest (Mata Atlantica), and the Northern system
is located in part in the Eastern Amazon forest. The company intends to contribute to
conservation in the areas where it is present. In the older Southern System, the company's
objective is to correct environmental degraation and to reduce the extmal costs imposed by
its operations. In the Northern system, environmental activities are more preventive in
nature and include preservation of primary ecosystems and research aimed at protecdon and
rational use of natural resources.
3.14  CVRD's natuml resource projects are consistent with Brazl's and the Bank's policies
as reilected in the Pilot PrograM to Conserve the Brazilian Rain 3 and in the National
Environmental Project.
3.15  Protection of Ecosy s. CVRD manages several biological and forest reserves.
The Reserva Florestal de Linhares in--the Southern System, owned by the company, is
particularly important because it contains about 20,000 ha. of climax Adantic Forest, of
which only 3% remains in the country relative to pre1colonial times. The reserve supports a
variety of activities including conservation and research on natural ecosystems; research on
exotic and native species for commercial production; a notably large nursery of eotic and
native species; and simple research on pulping and charcoal characteristics of various
species. A major role of the reserve is also to support the activities of Florestas Rio Doce,
the subsidiary of CVRD responsible for plantation activities to supply fibre to the pulp mills
in the CVRD system.
3.16 In the Northen system, CVRD has been granted the concession for the Carajas forest
(Pairimonio Florestal Area Projeto Carajas), where the Carajas iron ore mine is located, and
owns the Burticupu and MaTaba Forest Reserves located along the railway corridor. CVRD
has also established agrements with IBAMA through which it assurmes responsibility for the
management of other reserves in the northern system: Tapiape-Aquir National Forest,
3. The Bank is assisting the Brazilin Govenment in the preparation of this progrm to be
fumded by the G-7 and other donors.



20
Tapirape Biological Reserve, and Igarape Gelado Environmental Protection Areae. The
National Forest, Biological Reserve, and Environmental Protection Area, together with the
adjoining Patrimonio Florestal and Catete Indian Reserve, form a contiguous protected area
of 1.1 million ha. around Carajas. This area is remarkable both for its size and for the
ecosystems it contains. Along with the Buriticupu and Maraba reserves, it provides an
excelent series of representatiLve ecosystems of the Eastern Amazon. The Maraba reserve
(17,000 ha.) is in an area noted for its population of Brazil nut trees, while the Buriticupu
reserve (10,000 ha.) protects a threatened area of pre-Amazon forest. In all these reserves,
in addition to an cxemplary protecdon effort (against fires and land occupations), CVRD
either conducts or intends to conduct various research, education and demonstration projects,
which would increase knowledge about the ecosystems and their sustainable management
3.17 To assist in these efforts, the Government of Japan has approved a PHRD gant in the
amount of US$1.6 million equivalent, to finance the prparation of stx dies (icluding fauna
and flora imentories) needed for, and the subsequent preparation of management plans for,
the Maraba and Linhares forest reserves as well as other activities. Funding is available
under the project for subsequent implementation of study recomm ons. The main
objective of these plans is to idendfy, prioritize and plan the activities to be conducted in the
reserve, including scientific research, sustainable management for commercial purposes,
community-oriented activities and environmental education; protecion of areas from
invasion, misuse, and fire. The reserves are an important public relations tool for CVRD
and also serve as research stations to support research into susainable managent They
have an important public good role, not only because they preserve valuable and threatened
ecosystems, but also because they are ideal sites for research and public education activities,
and are prime demonstration models for other reserves that could be established in the
country. Knowledge gained from these management and research programs could be used in
other protected areas, including those supported by the G-7 Pilot Program and the National
Environmental Project.
3.18 Additional funding has been included under the project for the development of similar
schemes or studies (mventories) and research in other forest areas under the responsibility of
CVRD, in particular in the protected areas around Carajas (such as the Tapirape Aquiri
Biological Reserve and National Forest and the Carajas Concession).
3.19 Reforestation of degraded areas is consistent with the company's objective of
compensating for natural resource degradation arising from its activities. Green belts will be
planted in selected portions along the nortiern and southe  railways. The greenbelts will
4.Use of these threetpes of reseves is governed by fedeal resictions. In the case of
Biological Reserves (REBIOs). entry is allowed only for scientific researc; in National
Forests (FLONAs), sstimble extractive activities, including loggmg, can be caned out;
and in Eavinmental Protection Aeas (APAS), which generally serve as buffer znes,
residents ae allowed to remain and continue faming land which has already been
deforested, but cannot cicar new areas.



21
help reduce noise and dust pollution along the railroads, control erosion, thus reducing the
company's maintenance costs of the railroads, and reducing the rislcs of fires usually caused
by pasture burning in neighboring ranches. They will also provide extemnal benefits through:
(a) reduced siltation to rivers Cm particular along the Rio Doce); (b) the carbon sequestration
value embodied in these green belts, which will occupy about 5,000 ha in strips of forest
along the railways; (c) improved safety by maldng the access of the railway more difficult to
humans and animals; and (d) since consisting mostly of native species, they will also act as
germplast banks and provide some refuge to animal species, thus contributing to biodiversity.
The green belts around the Itabira mine and town and the Timbopeba mine are a response to
demands of local populations who have settled very close to the mine. These green belts, to
be planted with native species, will reduce noise and air pollution (from dust) and imprve
the local landscape. CENIBRA will also plant a green belt along the Rio Doce in its area of
operations, primarily to prevent soil erosion and support the reestablishment of native fauna
and flora.
(c) Socially Oriented Components
Amerindian Programs
3.20    As detailed in para. 2.28, the project would seek to ensure the continuity of the
Special Project, while corecting some of its approaches. Funds totalling about US$4.9
million have been budgeted under the project for that purpose. However, except for uently
needed actions to protect the Awa reserve after it has been demarcated, the selecdon, scope,
design and implementation mechanisms of specific subprojects would await the completon of
the statement of policies and procedures mentioned in para. 2.28. In addition, all subproects
would meet the following criteria: (i) it would have the formal approval and support of the
native community; (u) it would stress self-reliance and sustainability and provide training to
prepare the community to take over management of the project; (iii) it would stress
community participation, in particular in the provision of preventive health care and
education services; (iv) it would stress the acquisition of practical skills to lessen dependence
on outsiders. CVRD has already identified candidate subprojects that could meet these
criteia but review in light of the task force recommendations is required prior to CVRD
proceeding with them. Subprojects will focus on: (a) the provision of preventive health care
services and basic sanitation infrastructure; informal training; and technical assistance for the
development of forest management techniques and other self-sustainable economic activities;
and (b) assistance to FUNAI in completing the demarcation of the Krikai, Awa and
Governador Amerindian areas and in protecting Amerindian communities under CVRD's area
of influence (m particular the Awa community, for which the project would finance
protection activities essential to their survival). It is expected that the program would
continue to focus on the five communities most impacted by CVRD's opeadons, Le.the
Xicrin of Catete; the Gaviao of Mae Maria; the Awa of the Awa Guaja reserve and the
Guajajara and Awas of Caru, Alto Turiacu and Pindare. Each component would be funded
by CVRD but implemented by speciazed insttutions (such as FUNAI or state health
services) or NGOs. For basic sanitation infrastructure, satisfctory mechanisms would be



22
designed to ensure their proper operation and maintenance; and CVRD would enter into
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with FUNAI, to carry-out demarcation
activities. An indigenous People Development Plan for the communities along the Carajas
railroad most impacted by CVRD activities is presented in Annec 3.
3.21 In order to provide a scientific basis for the preparation of possible sustainable forest
management plans in Amerindian reserves, a large portion (US$540,000) of the PHRD grant
mentioned earlier has been allocated to the carrying out of basic inventories of forest
resources and fauna in each of the five indigenous reserves mentioned earlier, and, if
justified on that basis, to the design of sustaminable forest management plans. It is expected
that implementation of these subprojects could be subsequently financed under the project as
long as they fit into CVRD's strategy alt meet the criteria detailed in the above paragraph.
Municipal Infrastucture
3.22   Sanitation Infraructre in Panuapebas. Parauapebas is a 'service town to the
Carajas mining complex (CVRD's own townsite, where most of its employees reside, is
located within the concession). It grew in a short time to a population of 50,000 as a result
of the Carajas iron ore mining project as well as other activities which developed in the
region (agncultre, ranching and gold prospecting). Parauapebas was originally planned to
accommodate a population of 10,000, and has thus today quite inadequate inrastructure and
services, in particular for the provision of safe water and sewagerage. Being at the end of
the railroad, the town draws migrants in search of employment, land and gold. CVRD has
agreed to assist the municipality with the planning and implementation of a water supply and
sewer system capable of serving the population of Parauapebas and of its unplanned Rio
Verde satellite. The subproject is esdmated to cost about US$7.0 million (excluding
contingencies and taLxes). CVRD would pass on Bank funds to the municipality to finance
these investments and would deduct repayments from royalties paid on ore sales. In order to
assist the municipality in selecting the optimum technology, institutional arangement for
operation and maintenance and a cost recovery system, CVRD has hired IBAM (Brazilian
Institute of Municipal Administrafion) to carry out a study to that effect, propose a progam
of action, and assist the municipality in its implementation (mcluding proposals towards the
establishment of an autonomous municipal entepriLse).
3.23   Control of Domresic Pollion of Lagoons inside Tubamo Terminil. The project
would finance the collection of domestic sewage from populated low-income areas adjacent to
the terminal (and connection of the coUection system to an existing treatment plant), which is
now discharged into the 20 lagoons inside the terminal, and, through them, to the Camburi
beach. This project would complement CVRD's actions financed under the project to control
pollution of waters from industial and port operations effluents in the Tubarao Industria
Port and pernit the complete de-pollution of these water bodies from all sources (which
currently do not meet the required water standards). This subproject fims part of the
Tubarao Master Plan (1990-99) and of the September 1990 agreement between CVRD and
SEAMA. Total costs, excluding taxes and contingencies, are estimated at TJS$2.6 million.



23
It is estimated that the project would directly benefit about 15,000 urban dwelers and the
public of the Camburi beach. The project would be implemented by CVRD under an
Implementation Agreement between CVRD and CESAN.
3.24   Collection and Treatment of Domestic Sewage in Itabira. This subproject would
finance the collection and treatment of domestic sewage of the most urbanized portion of the
city of Itabira (which is adjacent to the CVRD iron ore mine) (Bacia do Corrego da Penha),
i.e the first stage of the municipality's plan to provide for complete coverage of the
population. The project would benefit about 65,000 people, or 60% of the population of
Itabira's urban area, but over 80% of the area of major urban concentration. Satisfactory
implementation agreements (including relevant environmental licenses) would be conditions
of disbursements for these municipal inOtMents.
Rural Extension and Small Business Development
3.25    Small Business Development. CVRD intends to design and test its new policy of
helping communities in the identification and development of self-sustainable economic
actlvities. Based on diagnostic and methodological studies, the project would finance a pilot
project to construct and manage a small business technical assistnce center in a community
(to be selected after the above studies have been completed). The project would finance the
cost of construction, equipment and consulting services to establish and manage the technical
assistance program.
3.26    Rural Eson. In addition to urban infrastructure problems, the Carajas corridor
is also characteized by land degradation and mrual poverty. CVRD is anxious to find ways
to prevent encrments on the forest and biological reserves entrusted to the company by
MAMA and on its own Carajas forest concession. These areas are surrounded to the north
and east by agricultural settlements (the CEDERE I INCRA settlement, created in 1980; the
APA do Igarape Gelado and the INCRA Jader Barbalho Colony, created in 1989).
Productivity is poor, however, and land degradation is aggravated by shifting cultivation and
the use of inapprpriate aricultural techniques. As part of its agreement with IBAMA to
help preserve the Tapirape forest and biological reserve, CVRD has been testing a rural
extension program among fifty families in these areas. CVRD hopes to help stabilize the
population of small setders and limit encroachments on the neighboring reserves by them and
others. Altrnative agricultural techniques have been developed for a number of crops (so
far, fruits and vegetables) which are more swutable to regional soils and climate, and would
provide an adequate living for small frmers while reducing their incentive to deforest further
areas (logging is prohibited in the APA). The experience so far has been quite successful,
but has been based on the provision free of charge of extension services, simple equipment
and inputs by CVRD, and unclear extent of cost recovery through the purchase of products
by CVRD's Carajas employees cooperative. A study to review experience under this pilot
component and prospects for extending it to other crops (in particular agroforestry) and areas
Cin the Maraba-Parauapebas area) in a way which does not reqwre subsidies is to be financed
under the PHDR grant already mentioned. Long term sustainability and replicability depends



24
on the existence of markets outside the immediate Carajas area and on tihe ability of farmers
to gain independent access to institutional credit and market outlets. Depending on the
conclusions of the study, a pilot scheme could be financed under the project.
(d) Shsies, Research, Training awd Technical Assistance
3.27 The project includes a number of studies and technical assistance programs designed
to support sound environmental management and contribute to the improvement of
environmental and social conditions in CVRD's broader area of influence. These programs
can be grouped as follows:
(a)   a comprehensive environfiental study in the industrial port of Tubarao which
will: (a) design comprehensive mitigation plans to resolve outstanding
questions in both CVRD and CST operations (design of a comprehensive solid
waste disposal program for CVRD; design of a ma nt plan for sulffr
dioaide emissions for both CVRD and CST; design of a management plan for
CST liquid effluent- in particular ammonia); design of an envionntal
management system for CST; and (b) following implementation of most of
these measures and others under implementation, canry out a comprehensive
impact assessment of the Tubarao port terminal opetions (encompassing the
operations of both CST and CVRD on air, marine resources, and the health of
the Victoria area population). It is expected that all phases of the study would
be contacted by the end of 1994 and completed by July 1997;
(b) monitoring and control services at the lTmbopeba and Itabira mines;
(c) a limnological study of-the Rio Doce to assess the impact of CENIBRA
effluent on the river;
(d) study and testing of alternative low-cost systems for better sanitation in low-
income communites around the Ponta da Madeira terminal of Sao Luis;
(e) a diagnostic study to review the economic and social situation of aU
municipalities in CVRD's area of influence; a study to define the methodology
to be used for the selecuon of communities to be assisted in prionty under the
small business promotion program and the approach to be used in the
identificaton and promotion of economic activities.
(e) CVRD Envrnenta Organizaton and Systems
3.28  As indicated earlier, CVRD has recently decentralized enirnmetal mana     to
its superinedencies and affiliates, and is in the process of establishing guidelines, norms,
sucmes, systems and procedures to ensure that enviromnmental considerions are



25
incorporated into operations and planning on a systematic and consistent basis across its
activities. As part of project preparation, a review of these aspects has been carried-out.
The need was identified to establish a central information, monitoring and control and
auditing system capable of: (i) continuously monitoring the environmental perfonnance of
each operation (including social impacts); (ii) 'auditing' decentralized operations and
affiliated companies and reporting inadequacies and recommending remedial actions to
CVRD general management; (in) reviewing terms of reference and analyzing EIAIRA's
for CVRD group's new projects, and monitoring their execution and the implementation of
mitigation programs; and (iv) identifying risks and monitoring implementation of risk
minimization planL Funding is included under the project for that purpose to cover the cost
of technical assistance for the design and implementation of such a system, seected extal
environmental audits, and equipment anE training needs.
(t) Other Subprejects and Studies
3.29 An unallocated amount equivalent to US$7.6 million has been included under the
project to finance other sub-projects and studies aimed at improving knowledge of, and
protecting and conserving natural ecosystems (including fauna and flora inventories),
sustainable management of naturl forests, environmental education, and social programs
aiming at improving the welfare of communities in CVRD's area of influence. Several
subprojects have been tentatively identfied but their design and justification require
substantial additional preparation work These consist of a strategy study for social and
economic development in the Maraba region, inventories of fauna and of flora in the
Tapirape national forest and biological reserve and the Carajas concession, and envimental
education programs. Subprojects to be developed could also include other socially-oiented
components, in particular those aimed at improving public health and sanitation infra
in communities in CVRD's area of inThuence. Bank review and approval of the detailed
subprojects, (including their implementation arrangements and, when relevant, cost recovery
mechanisms) would be a condition of disbursements under each subproject.



Anrx I Page 1
BRADL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABIUTATION PROJECT
ANNEX 1.CVRD ENVIRONMENTAL MASTER PLAN
19899 1993
1. NATUItAL RESURCE
I.1 
1.1 Prlid  Are
1.1.1    Protectlon of Foraets owned or controlled  | Agreement with ISAMA dcted 11-29-99 for     Under irWementton
1.1.2    Mancoement of Protcoted Area
1.1.2.1    Management Plan for SBara de Carelas     conservation units                            Delad
1.1.2.2    Management Plan for Marabe               conservatdon uilts                                                                      PHAD OrantJiUMAP 10
1.1.2.3    Management Plan for Tapirape             coneervatdon unite                                                                            CVRD 01
1.1.3  MH.ntengnge and OReration of Fgrgets Res_ryv
11.3.11    Unhares Fofret Reserve                   Management of Owned Forest                    Under IWlementation                       PHRD GrantISUIAAF 02
1.1.3.2    Itabirucu Reserve                      | Management of Owned Forest                  | Under Irplmntation                                   -
1.2 Amjr.ndlan Protectlon
1.2.1      Amedrndian Recerve Protection            Reeoludon 331/86 of Fed.Scnct and agreemnt
453I19CVRDIFUNAIICoMrnM.crin dated
| 1 2.2    Health                                   07131199 'Progrena Xlinlf and own Iniative                                            SUFEC 07 and 15; SUMiC
1.2. a     Educatlon                                for conmunities other than XIcnin and Pakatege    Under continuous hiimntation       20 and CVRD 02
1.24      So3dtation



Anime 1 - Peg 2
11. RECLAIM OF DEGRADED AREAS
11.1 Hydroloeical Basins
11.1.1     Hydiologleal Basin of the Mecueo IMG)    Soeioseconornlo pilot program for rotional use of    Implemnted
natural resources.
11.1.2     HydrologIcal Basin of the Parado IMG)    Same an above                                Imlmnted
|11.1,3    HydrologlIal Basins of Grande Victorie   Agreement with SEMAE. In Oct.91 A new
Area                                     ossistance agreement for the development of an
hydrologic raeources plan for E.6.
ar Gen mfts 
11.2.1     Green Beit Vitoda Mines Railroad         Erosion, noloe and dust control                                                            SUMAF 14
11.2.2     Green Belt Carales Railroad              Erosion, noise and dust control                                                            SUFEC 01
11.2.3     Groen Balt Titanium Project In Taplra (MG)    Erosion, noise and duet control         Tltirlum project delayed
11.2,3     Green Bolt for Ponta de Madeira Terminal  Eroslon, noise and duet control                                                           SUfEC 01
11.2.4     Green Belt for The Teohnology Laboratory  Noise and dust control, seotedoo            Implemnnted
| l~~MG) 
Ill. ENVIRONMENTAL AND POLLUTION CONTROL
111.1 Pollution Control In Mines
111.1.1  Iron Ore Mines In the Itabira Redon (MG)        Most ltabira projects have been or are being Implemented
111 1.1.1    Air and Water Monitoring               Recommended by PRAD                                                                 S umin 02 L 04
111.1.1.2   Air Pollution Control                   Corrective, to comply with law               Under Implementadon
111.1.1.3    Noise Pollution Control                Corrotive, to compiV with low                Under Implementation



Annex 1 - Page 3
-r.elaaS            -                    t. *atIonale                              Statue  ; iObiatlotk                Bank Sub-Proe
111.1.1.4    Cleaning of uedimentation lagoons         To maintain effluent within legal limits       Implemented
111.1.1.5    Dust Control (Water and polymers asperrlon   Avoid dust pollution by wind erosion and    Implemented
In minel                                   transport
111.1.1.6    Hydroseading (depleted areas & industrial  Recuperatlon of degraded areas to comsly with    Implemented
waste deposits)                           low
111.1.1.7    Superficlal Drainage of Mine Waste Deposit   To avoid water erosion                      Under Implementatlon
_Timpobabal
111.1.1.0    Dust Control (aspersion of ore piles)     Corrective, to compiv wlth law                 Implemented
111.1.1    Drainage and Water Eroslon Control         Corretive, to comply with law                   Implemented                            |
111.1.1.10   Pavement and drainage                    Avold air and water pollution to comply with law    Implomented
111.1.2   Titanium Proltet (Taniro-MOI                Project Imploqwntation delayed, pilot plant In Tapira currantly stopped
111.1.2.1    Monit. of Hydrologic Irnpact of Uqu. Effluent  To comply with law, needed also for pilot plant
111.1.2.2    Procurement of Monitoring Equipment
111.1.2.3  jImpesmabillzadlon of Ihe Tailings Pond   Avold water pollution from pilot plant tailings
111.1.3   Gold IMJngaj Prolat
111.1.3.1    Design of Now Projects with all Environment   Needed to obtain the licenreu              Fazsnd. Brazilelro end Maria Preta
Protection Features                                                                       4lahial; Itabirs, Caeta and Ouro Fino
(MG); Igerape Bahla (Caralaas were
implemented with needed environmental
protection mvyteme
111.1.3.2    Uquld Effluent Environmental Impact                                                      Implamented
Monitorng at Fazenda Brazilairo
111.1.3.3    Uquld Effluent and Air Quality Monitoring at   Operation lienee submitted for Ifarape but not    lara0p pilot plant fi now stopped and
Igarcpo Blao  Pilot Plant, and at Maria Preto,   vet processed                            Industral plant started with all pollution
control & mronitoring systems.
111.1.4    Copper Minina Proolct * Cardi                    Project not Vyt ImpeImented
1111.4.1      Monitoring of Uquld Effluent fromProject
Exploration                               __



Annex 1 - Page 4
; flaiect an;a;  i 8tatus Obervaio
111.1.4.2    Monitorino of Air Pollution Impact of Propct
Exploration
111.11.6   Coal Minina Proleot . Rlo Grands do Sul         Proleot not vet implemented
111.1.5.1    Pre. Monitoring for Water Effluent Control
111.2 Potutlon Control In Industrbal Ocerations
111.2.1   Pollution Control in Tubarso Maritime Teminal
111.2.1.1    Dust Control With Aspersion- Coal       Avoid air pollution to comply with law, Imposed    Implemented, needs Improvements            SUPOT 05
Unloading Pier                            TOC                                          _                                        _
111.2.1.2    Automation of Asperslon on Belt ConveVors    Avoid air pollution to comply with law                                                   SUPOT 05
111.2.1.3    Automation of Duet Contfol Aspersion    Implement, and timing Imposed bV TDC with                                                     SUPOT 05
Systems                                   SEAMA
111.2.1.4    Drainage and treatment of Uquld Effluent  Implement, and timing Imposed bv TDC with                                                   SUPOT 04
SEAMA                                    ._.
111.2.1.6    Coal Storage: Dust Control with Aspersion,   Implement. and timing Imposed bV TDC with  Being Implemented                          SUPOT 04 & 03
Drainage and Pavement                     SEAMA
111.2.1.6    Fins Iron Ore & Pig Iron Storages:      Avoid air pollution to comply with low                                                  SUPOT 02 & SUPOT 06
Completion of Dust Control with Aspersion
111.2.1.7    Phosphate Unloading Facility:           Implement, and timing Imposed bV TDC wlth                                                    SUPOT 03
Pavement,Dreinage and Effluent treatment    SEAMA                  _                                  _
111.2.1.8    Study the Inidustril end Domestic Effluent    Implement. and timing Imposed bV TDC with
Envlronrmental Impact on the Coast Una of    SEAMA                                                                                     SUMAF 11
Tubarao end Pralo Mole
111.2.1.9    EIA In Area of Influence of the Tubarso  ImplementetIon and timing Imposed by TDC with   Implemented, (Avlliaco do Situacoo
Maritime Terminal                        SEAMA                                          Amblental do Complexo de Ponte de              SUMAF 11
Tubareoo, In addition a consolidated audit
_________  __________ __________ ___________   _______________________  Is   pert  of  the   project



Annex I - Page S
. ~ ~~~~~~~~~ 1  :   -f3~gj ''tu '  :. .....e.....                                                                   a 1   .i.-o';.  ::
111.2.2    Dust Control In Palletization Plants In Tuboraa
111.2.2.1    Control of Dust Eminslons from Main       Implement. and timing Imposed by TDC with        Under implementatlon, six electrostotic          SUPEL2&3
Cheminoey                                   SEAMA                                           precipitator to be Inetalled, two are pert
of the proloet                           ___
111.2.2.2    Uquid Effluent Monitoring and Impaot on   Implement. and timing Imposed by TDC with                                                         SUPOT 01
ibal de CembuH                             SEAMA
111.2.2.3    Gis and Uquid Effluent Monitoring         A minimum monitorplan Is Imposed by TOC with   Implemented
_ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   SEM A
111.2.3  Pollutlon Cant, slona the Victoria*Minas Railroad
111.2.3.1  Monitoring of Industrol Waste Effluent      Implement. And timing inposed by TDC with       Implemented
SEAMA__                                             _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _   _  _
111.2.3.2    Monit. Uquid EfflueAt from Rail Sleepers  liquid effluent control to comply with low       Plant operations slopped in 1991.
Plant                                                                                       Preparations to resume operations
underwoV as of July 1994. with
__________  _________________________________________                                                    necessary  effluent control/monitoring
111.2.3.3    Air Pollutlon Control                                                                      All railclrs arau now sprayed and green          SUEST 14
belts are being Implemented
111.2.4    Pollutlon Control In the CVRD Technical     Effluent control to comnply with law             Implomented
I_________  Laboratory
111.2.4.1    Monitodng of Uquid Effluent                 I_____                                         Implemented                              _____ ______
111.2.5    Pollution Control In Pont. de Madeira Marims Terminal
111.2.5.1    Drinking Water Troatment for the Trrminal  Public health                               lmplemented
111.2.5.2    Dust Control with Aspersion end Uquid     Avoid sir and water pollution to comply with law    Sedimentatlon lagoon In port                  SUFEC 05
Effluent Control (Sodimentation Lagoons)                                                    Terfmnal needs ptimization
111.2.6    Pollution Cant ulona wilth the Caralso Railroad
111.2.6.1    Monitorfng of Uquld Effluent from Rail    To control water pollution to comply with low    The plant has been closed
Sleepers Plant
111.2.6.2    Air Pollution Monitoring                  Monit. Plan Is conditlon for operating license    Implemented
____ ______Iss_ jeued by SMEMA



Annex I Page 6
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~*                             K.   RaInl -                              Sttu |  O  b;      ,    irvation
111.2.7    Pollution Control In other Areg.
111.2.7.1    Ha Monitorino In Area of Influence of  Contribute to knowledge of Hg Pollution In the  Implemented
Garlmpos In Carulas                      area
111.2.7.2    Monitoring of the Paredo and Macuco    To assess the Impact of conrective actions    (not available)
Basing                                   Implemented under 11.1.1 & 11.1.2
111.2.7.3    Other Monitoring Profects              Contribute to knowlodge of Hg Pollutdon In the  A study of Hg pollutdon In Sao Marcos
area                                         (MA) and Rios Jucu was Implemented
111.3      ElAe                                           As needed to comply with law
IV. IENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES AND RESEARCH
IV.  Studles SoSl Erosion and Concervatlon
IV.1 .1    Pedologli Research In the Caraelae Area                                                Implemented
IV.1 .2    Erolon Monitoring                                                                      nImplfmented
IV.2 Forest Research
IV.2. 1    Forest Research In the Amazon                                                          Several studies Implemented or plsnned  SUMAF 10, CVRD 01
-                                                c some are part of project
IV.2.2     Study on Sustained Forest Mmnag. In the                                                Managemnt plans for several forest     SUMAF 10. CVRD 01
Amazon                                                                                 reserves are under study



Annex I - Page 7
_ L  _  ,BFkXbW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                   roiestI
IV.3 Environmental Education end Trainina
IV.3.1   Environmantal Trainina iCVRD emelovesse
IV.3.2 Environmental Education
IV.3.2.11   Unharas  Forest Reserve                       _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __        Implermented_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
IV.3.2.3    Itabire mino Ares                                                                                Implemented
IV.3.2.2    Along the Caralas Railrood                    Also part of recent agreement with State &                                                             CVRD 01
Municip.
IV.4 StudIes end Reeearch
IV.4.1   Northafn Sustem
IV.4.1.1    Induetrialzdtlan along the Carejs Railroad                                                       Implmented In 1989
*nd Environmental Consequences  ______
IV.4.1 .2    Environmental/Economei Cost-Benefits of                                                         Implemented
Projects Implemented within the Grand*
Careaas Program
IV.4.11.    Rasearoh Agreement with Emnillo Goeldi                                                          Implemonted
Museum
IV.4.1.4    Serra doe Careljs Area: FloraFauna                                                                                                                SUMIC 01   02
InventorV and Preservatlon



Annex 1 Page 8
Ir.e~us .lg~                                       . .    It.atue-Obgervatong                                     Bank Sub.-- -  .-
IV.4.2  Southern Svstem
IV.4.2.1   Itabira Indwustrialization and Environmental  Evaluate impact of CVRD's operations on the  Implemented
Consequenose                             area
IV.4.2.2   Eval. & Update of the Pollution Control  To identify and resolve outatonding pollution  Implemented (updated plan Is presented in
Master Plan (1 979-1 9988 for the Tubarso  Issues In the Vitoria area                  Annex 4)
Ind. Complex                                                                                                                  _
IV.4.2.3    Study of Remote Monit. of Air and Water
Pollution In Tuberao (Agreement with
Insdtuto Naclonal do Pecquisa Especial)
IV.4.2.4    Bosic Study on the treatment of Effluent  Pubilo health                               Implemented
from CVRD's Technology Laboratory
.VENPLAZ*
Apfil, 1993



Annex 2, Page 1
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ANNEX 2 .CYRD-ENVIRONMENT MASTER PLAN FOR
THE TUSARAO TERMINAL
Update for 1990.1999
IteBub. ProIet                                  |               Rationle              |         Stetuo - Obeervealons          B Sank Sub-Project
11.1 VitorbaMlnas Railroad and Rall Terminal Fciitlte.
11.1.1   SUEST: Uquid Effluent Pollution Control In
the
Uquld effluent treetnUnt Is bing tested   Part of SUEST 01
(aI   Treatment of Industdia4 Uquid     Implementation and dtming Imposed by   In pilot plant.                       Pro 03
Effluents from Maintenance Shope    Trmmo de Compfomiaso (TOC) with
SEAMA.
(bh    Sewage Effluent Treotment        Implementation and timing Imposed by
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ TDC   with  SEAMA._                                                         _ _  _ _  _ _ _
11.1.2   SUEST: Industrial and Domestic Waste     Implementation and timing Imposed by  The proposed waste deposit will receive   SUEST 01 Pro 02
Deposit                           TDC with SEAMA.                       waste from an CVRD operations In
Tubarao ISUPOT, SUPEL and SUEST)
11.1.3   GUEST; Alr Pollutlon Control
(il   Air Pollution from the Palnt Shop  Implementation and timing Imposed by  Implemented.
TOC with SEAMA.
(hi   N oise    C ontrol__                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
11,2 Pbltkatlon Plants
11.2.1   SUPEL: Uquid Effluent Pollution Control  Most of the liquid effluent control have
been Implemented under the previous
plan.
(a)    Optimization of the Exieting Uquid    Implementatlon and timing inmposed by  Under implementation.
Effluent Drainage and Treatment   TDC with SEAMA.
(bi   Add Sewerage Effluent Treatment                                          Under implemntadon
Installations
11.2.2  SUPEL: Industriel and Domesde Waste       Impiementation And timing Imposed by   Measures hav been already taken to    SUEST 01 Pro 02
Control end Deposit                       TOC with SEAMA.                        reduce the quantities of soli waste
produced. Ai part of the project, a nw
solid waste deposit will rece"w wa^e
from al CVRD operadons In Tubarao.



Annex 2, Page 2
Item                  Subb Project                                Ratlonale                        Status Obsratdons               Bank Sub-Prolect
11.2.3   SUPEL: Dust and Air Pollution Control
le    Dust Control In Fine Ore Storage    Control of air pollution               Already implemented. through aspersion
and Improvement of conveyors
lb)    Dedusting System for the Pan-      Corrective, to Improve working         Implemented
Granulators of the Pelletization   conditdons
Plants
(n)    Dust Control on Main and          Implementation and timing of the        S separators are being procured and will  SUPEL 2&3
Secondary Chimneys of the          Installeaton of 6 electrostatio seperators    be Installed on main ChimneVy.
Pslltlzaton Plants lolectrostutio  on main Chimneys Is Imposed by TDC    Seconedry chimneys are not yet
separators)                        with SEAMA.                            consldered.
Id)    Dust Control In Pellets Storage and    Implementatlon and timing Inmposed by  Improvement of conveyors and
Handling                           TDC with SEAMA.                        aspersion, most of hNo project Is
alroadV implemented,
(a)    Dust Control In the ULm  Plant    Corrective, dust emisslon Is limited by  Project Includes the Intaliation of an  SUPEL 04
TOC with SEAMA to 100mg/Nm3.           exhaust system with bag filter and the
deduiting of plant floors.
Iffi    Pelletizatlon Plant 1 Floor Cleaning  Corrsctivo.                        Instullation of a water manifold to allow    SUPEL 06
System                                                                    floor cleaning and reduce duet
embssIons.
(gi    Monitoring of Combustion Gases to    Monitoring of S02 In the dryers'     The S02 content In the combustion
define the necessary control       chimneys Is a speciflo condition of the  gases depends on the fuel delivered by
systems. In particular for S02.    TOC with SEAMA, furthermore CVRD Is   Petrobres. Monitoring of gas effluents Is
obliged to Implement corrective        being done and SO content so for has
measures, If necauusry.                been low due to partiel utilization of
natural gas.
Ih)   Dust Control In Umestone and Coal   Correotive                             Already Implemented, except for the    SUPEL 07
Storages                                                                  automation of the spHrnder syetem and
the drainage and treatfmnt of liquid
effluent.
at    Noise Monitoring and Control       oarrective, to comply with law          Green belt Implemented In the port



Annex 2. Page 3
|Itcm rn              Sub- Project                             ARtlonahk                         Status - Observetione         Bank 8ub.Projact
11.3 Merltinm Terminal Facillties
11.|.1   SUPOT: Llquid Effluent Pollution Control
(m)    Pavement, Effluent Drainage,     Implementadon and timing of most of                                          SUPOT 04 (Pro 01,
Control and Treatment for Ifon, Ore,  these actlonsare Imposed by the TOC                                     02, 03, 06, 05,
Pig Iton, Phosphate, Coal and     with SEAMA.                                                                 end OI       
Sulfur Storageo and Plers In Tuberao
Terminal
Implementation and tirming Imposed by                                       SUPOT 04 (Pro 041
(b)   Sewage Treatment                  TOC with SEAMA.
SUPOTOS0
(a)   Uquid Effluent Drainage, treatment   Implementatlon and timing Imposed by
end Pwiycle In Cale do Paul CVRD  TOC with SEAMA.
Terminal 
(dl   Maintenance Shop Industidi        Implementatlon end timing Imposed by   Under Implementatlon.
Effluent Treatment                TDC with SEAMA.                                                          ___       _      _
11.3.2   SUPOT: Industrial and Domestic Waste     Implementation and timing Imposed by   As part of the project, a solid waste  SUEST 01 Pro 02
Control and Deposit                       TDC wlth SEAMA.                        deposit will receive waste from all
CVRD operations In Tubarao.



Annex 2, Page 4
Item                  Sub- Project                              Ratlonal.                       Ststue Obervatione             Bank u"-Proect
11.3.3   SUPOT: Air Pollutlon Control
(a)   Dust Control with Water Asperslon    Implementation end tiring of most of                                     SUPOT 05; SUPOT
Systems on Handling Equlpement,    these mussures ara Imposed bV TOC                                          02 (Pro Oil
Storage Pilse, Piers, Pavement.   with SEAMA.
etc,..
(bI   automation of Aspersion Systems    Imposed for pier 2 bV TOC with SEAMA.                                      SUPOT 05
(GI   Green belt, Pavement and Drainage    Dust control, drainage, and expansion of                                 idem 11.3.1
pavements are Imposad by TOC.
Most of these systems have been
(d)   Install Exhaust and Oust Control   Dust Control                         installed, however, they need to be
SVytem on Screens                                                       rehabilitaed, expanded and Improved.
(a)   Cleaning System for the Piers      Frequant cleaning of pier 1 Isa condition
of TDC.
(f)    Asparsion of Phosphate Piles with       .
Polymers or Ume                   Dust Control
(g'    Dust Control by Aspersion end    Implementation and timing Imposed by                                        SUPOT 06
Nolse Control In Calo do Paul     TDC with SEAMA.
Terminal
Implementation and timing Imposed by
(h)   Anti-Flesh System for the Sulfur  TDC with SEAMA.
Unloading System



Annex 2, Page 5
Item                   Sub- Project                                Rationale           -Tstatue - Observation.                       Bank Sub.Prosect
11.4    Monitorlno of Water aualitv                  Required by TDC, however, TDC requires   A monitoring plan wes Implemented     SUMAF 11
a monitoring plan with less sampling    with 18 sampilng points for effluent
(a)    Effluent Control                   points but higher frequency. It also    control and 6 for monitoring of the
requires undorground water monitoring.    Immediate area of Influence of the
coastal zone. This plan does not
(b)    Monitorlng of Sea Water Pollution In                                       ooneider monitoring of the underground
Costal Zone of Influence                                                    water nor of industrial wastes. A
consolidated environental impact
assassment (EIAI will be Impiemented
an part of the projeot
(cl    Studies and research                                                       Those studies consisted of the
monitoring of fauna and flora In the
coastal zone of Influence. They were
Implemented with the assistance of
____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ _   __ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___ ___ C EPEM A R .
11.6    Monitorind of Air Quallty                   The TOC with SEAMA requires the          A monitoring plan eas implemented      SUMAF 11
monitoring of effluents from main       using the existing 26 sampling points
chimneVy.                               for air pollution control inside the
torrminals and In the urban area. Thi
plan proposes also the Inatailatlon of a
meteorological station, It was optimized
with the assistance of CETESB and wil
be reviewed again as part of the
consolidated EIA to be carried out as
part of the proljct.
11.6    Direct Environmrental luonort Action. In
gVRD
A corporate anvironinental group Is In  SUMAF 04
(a)    Reorganization of the Environmental                                        piece within at headquarters, It Is
Management at Local and National                                            designing central monitoring and
Levels                                                                      auditing systems, to be inr4m nted as
part of the prolct. Also, local
1bW    Pollution Control Treining of CVRDs                                        evironmental groups hav beon
Employees                                                                   establish in each superintendency.
(a)    Environmental Educatlon for
CVRDs Employees



Annex 2, Page 6
| Item                Sub- Project                              Ratlonale                       Statue - Observatlons           ank Sub-Project
11.7    Indirdct Environmental Sodal Actions
(a)    Study of land occupation In the  Assistance to surrounding comnunities
*Grande Vitoria area
(bh    Master Plan for the Integrated   Aesistance to surrounding communities    A maetor pln utudy wE, hpwsrnented.
Development of the Grande Vitoria
(d)   Parlicipation of CVRD In Local    Assistance to surrounding comrnunitdee
Communities Social Programs
(Hsaltil, Environmental Education
to ...I
tNVIT* @April 7, 1993



Anner 3, Page 1
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 3 - Indigenous Peosla' DeveloDment Plan
1.    Tho main purpose of the project would be: (i) to support the formulation by CVRD of a
strategy and program which will govern the company's future assistance to Amerindian Communities
in the Carajas railroad corridor impacted directdy or indirectly by its presence and operadons, taking
into account results and lessons from its now ten-year old experience under the Special Project
(financed by CVRD in the framework of the Carajas Iron Ore Project); and (ii) finance selected
investments and programs which will result from these efforts. Since these subprojects have
consequently not been formulated in detail OIthough some broad priorities and lines of action are
already emerging), this annex does not present details on technical aspects of projects, implementation
mechanisms, cost estimates and recovery mechanisms and actual methods of communiy
representation and local participation. Rather, these will be formulated later according to a set of
agreed criteria (presented in para. 40) and submitted to the Bank for review and approval as a
condition of disbursements. This annex therefore provides: (i) basic information on Amerindian
Groups most affected by CVRD's presence; (ii) current legal and land tenure status; Ciii) results and
lessons from experience of CVRD's Special project and assistance programs; (iv) proposed criteria for
CVRD's action; and (v) timing and mechanisms for the formulation of an action program.
A - Backgrowuk Ameridian Communta in CVRD's Area of Influence.
2.    Some 14,000 tnbal Indians, on 24 different reservations, live in the general area of CVRD's
Carajas mining operations and the ore railway from the mine to the port of Sao Luis, in the states of
Maranhao and Para (Map). These groups are highly diverse in their language and culture. Wit the
exception of the Parakan and AwafGuaja groups, almost all of these indigenous groups had been in
permanent contact with the Brazilian national society before the initiation of the Carajas iron ore
project, some of these groups, such as the Guajajara and Apinaje groups, for centuries. Nevertheless,
change accelerated in this region since the seventies, as a result of the construction of two federal
highways (the Belem-Brasilia and Trans-Amazon highways), the Tucurui Dam and the considerable
immigration which took place as a result of lumbering, garimpo mining, and agricultural and
livestock development stimulated by road access and Government incentives. Pressure on i-ndian
lands was thus insified by these developments as well as the subsequent construction of the Carajas
railroad.
Diversity of Tribal Groups
3.    There are vast differences between these groups in terms of contact with, and adaptation to,
national society. Some have been in contact for over 200 years, while others have only recently come
into regular contact or may even be still uncontacted. Since length and history of contact affects the
health, diet, demography, subsistence practices, consumption habits and needs, as well as the skills
needed to deal with outside society and modern technology, each group has specific problems and
potentiL ities.



Annex 3, Page 2
4.    Moreover, the intrnal social structure of a group may condition its style of interaction with
national society. The Indians in ftis area belong to one of two major language and cultural groups,
Ge and Tupi. The Ge, in general, have tightly organized societies, with relatively strong leadership,
and formal social categories. The Ge style of dealing with outsiders is often aggressive, and some
groups, such as the Kayapo, exploit their bellicose reputation to considerable effect. Tupian groups
tend to be more loosely organized with weaker leadership.
5.    Indigenous areas vary greatly in size, population density, and natural resources. However, all
groups now have needs for Western goods, including such manufactured products as shotguns and
shells for hunting, cloth, soap, metal tools, prescription and non-prescription drugs, as well as the
desire to acquire such 'luxury goods as radios, wristwatches, and tape recorders. They pursue a
number of strategies to acquire these, including handicraft manufacture, paid labor, cash cropping,
and sale of natural resources, including lumBer and mining rights. The Indians are often at a
disadvantage in these transactions because of lack of knowledge of Portuguese, illiteracy, and inability
to understand accounting procedures, and thus are often cheated.
Reladons of Dependenq,
6.    The tnbal Indians of Brazil live on government-designated reservations under the tutelage of
FUNAI, the National Indian Foundation. In addition to assist with the demarcation and protection of
reserves, FUNAI has the responsibility to provide health services, basic education, and develop
community economic self-sufficiency. In practice, these services have seldom been provided in a
consistent way, but have been supplied piecemeal in accordance with the resources of FUNAI at any
particular time and the strength and effectiveness of the Indians' demands. In many cases the
equipment provided is inappropriate for the Indian's needs, and no provision is made for maintenance
There have been few efforts to foster true self-sufficiency by training for the manual skills needed to
maintain equipment and pracfical education to develop the abilities needed, especially knowledge of
simple accounting and market conditions, to handle their own economic affairs.
7.    Health services are also often provX;ed in an assistential and inconsistent way, with the village
clinic often left without a supply of essential drugs for months, even though seriously ill patients may
be evacuated to area hospitals at great expense. Preventive medicine, including basic sanitation and
clean water supply, has often been neglected, although vaccination has recendy lowered infant
mortality.
8. Such dependency acquired by historic experience has distorted the relations of many Indian
communities with outsiders. Commercial enteprises may offer 'gifts' - now sometmes upgraded
to airplanes - in exchange for concessions of timber and mining rights of whose value the Indians
have littde conception. Even though many reservations have ample natural rsources, few groups
have been able to use these effectively to attain economic self sufficienqy
Population Growth
9.    Newly contacted Indian groups usually experience an abrupt and disasous drop in population
because of epidemic diseases to which they have not acquired resistance, typically measles, grippe,
whooping cough, malaria and even colds. Fertility also often drops during this period, and the
group may become extinct. However, if it survives the acute crisis and people gain immunity to
infectious diseases and can benefit from health care, then mortality drops and fertility may become



Annex 3, Page 3
higher than before contact, leading to rapid population growth. This seems to be happening with
many groups in this area. For example, in five indigenous communities in the FUNAI administaive
district of Maraba, 55 percent of the population is 15 or under, and the average annual population
growth rate is 11.69 percent. As a result many of these groups have probably reached their pre-
contact numbers, and because they are very young populations will continue to increase rapidly.
10.   While population increase assures the physical survival of these groups, and often leads to
cultural revival, because there are the numbers and confidence to perform rituals that were abandoned
during the 'bad years,' it also is causing population pressure on some reservations, and will soon do
so on others. The young population puts a heavy burden on adults to provide for children not yet
contributing economically. Also larger populations become more sedentary, with the result, if there
is no basic sanitation, that garbage and feces accumulate, polluting the water supply and bringing
diarrheal and parasitical diseases.
11.   Population growth makes it more imperative that these populations find a self sustining
economic base, and grow away from the paternalistic dependency model into which they were drawn
by the circumstances of contact and ongoing relations with outsiders. FUNAI has many excellent
workers in the field, and now has a president drawn frm the ranks of those workers, but it has
meager resources to provide services for 200,000 plus tribal Indians in Brazil, and in the present
economic climate those resources are likely to be cut further.
oups nmost affected by CVRD's Operations
12.   Most directly affected by CVRD operations are five groups: the Xlkrin of Catete, whose
reservation borders directly on the CVRD mining concession, the Gaviao of Mae Maria, whose
reservation is crossed by the railway line, the Guajajara of Pindare and Caru, whose reservations lie
very near the railway, and the Awa (or Guaja), a nomadic hunting and gathering people that wanders
throughout the area in small family groups, some of which are still uncontacted. The following
paragraphs provide a description of each-of these groups, illustrating the diversity of situations.
The Pindare
13.   Pindare is only about 15 minutes' drive from Sta. Ines, and the main village is at the entrance
to the reservation, so the Indians have easy access to the town which has a station on the CVRD
railway line. It is a relatively small reservation with 79,520 ha, of which about 10,000 ha, according
to FUNAI officials, are arable land. Official population data indicate 545, but the Indians claim the
are many more. The Pindare Indians are Guajajara, one of the largest native groups in Brazil, with a
total population of over 11,000 on nine different reservations in Maranhao.
14.   This community lives much on the level of the surrounding non-Indian population, or perhaps
slightly better. Community organization is relaxed, with the chiefs having litte ascendancy. Most
income is from working off the reservation, or from selling agricultural produce.
The masonry houses of the village were built under the Special Project, as were most of the other
buildings in the village: the school, the infirmary, and the flour mill. The primary school is
functioning to the fourth grade, in Portuguese only, but with a Guajajara teacher. Most people here
speak Portuguese fluently. The ifirmary, has a basic supply of drugs.
15.   Inerviews with the village chief and the president of the recently formed Guajaraja



Annex 3, Page 4
Association, and other community leaders did not show a tendency for this community towards self
reliance. Their requests revolved around 300 head of cattle, and a motor launch, as well as a new
truck. The speakers complained of a shortage of agricultural land for a growing population and
neglect by FUNAI. Nevertheless, Pindare seems to be a thriving community with healthy looldng
children. The growing town of Santa Ines is certainly a market for agricultural produce. Better
sanitation and water supply system would seem to be the most urgent need of this community, as well
as of other surrounding, non-indian communities.
The Awa
16.   The Awa are a Tupian group that apparently abandoned agriculture generations ago. They
live by hunting and gathering in small groups of several families. They are highly nomadic and may
range over several hundred square kilometei. Their staple food is babassu palm nuts which are
abundant in Maranhao. No one knows how many there are, as the majority are probably not yet in
contact, but estimates range from 200 to 350.
17.   As migration into the region became more intense, With forest clearing for randhing and
agriculture, Awa groups becme more isolated from one another and increasingly exposed to disease
from contact with local populations, or were sometimes killed, especially if they were caught shooting
domestic animals for food. Survivors are usually the remaining members of a broken family group.
18.   FUNAI has three advanced posts for the Awa: Posto Guaja in the Alto Turiacu reservation,
with 44 people, Posto Awa in the Caru reservation with 82 people, and Posto Juriti in the Awa
reservation with 19 recendy contacted people. Present FUNAI policy is to make no deliberate
attempt to change Awa life style, but to provide protection and medical care.
19.   Since 1982 FUNAI and CVRD have been working for the demarcadon of an Awa reservation
with would link Alto Turiacu with Caru. It would border on the West with the GumUpi Biological
reserve (under the responsibility of IBAMA, not FUNAI), which was designated in 1961 but never
protected. The most serious problem is keeping resevation land from being invaded by fiamers and
ranchers who claim that it is unoccupied federal land. Once they are in and have cleared forest it is
difficult to get them out, and the process must go through the courts, and even when it is won they
must be physically ejected. A satellite photograph shows that the Gurupi Biological Reserve has
already been extensively deforested and there are incursions into the Awa reservation, especially on
the northeast and south. FUNAI has tvo patrol tems, eight men in all, but they need reinorcement
to be effective. The most urgent need of the Awa is the definitive demarcation of the reserve and its
protection in order to provide a secure enviroment for them to pursue their way of life and gradualy
adjust to contact with outsiders. This is still a rescue operation, as the Awa are in serious danger of
extinction as a group.
The Gaviao of Mae Mana
20.   Mae Maria is unique among all Indian reservations in Brazil because of the uwealthE acquired
through several indemnizations from ELE RONORTE and CVRD to compensate for breaches of
reservation territory, and the resulting life style of the Indians. The Mae Maria Indians are Gaviao, a
northern Ge people contacted in the 1950's and 1960's. There are several subgroups, all of which
now live together in one village on the reservation with a population of 284.



Annex 3, Page 5
21.   The reservation is about one hour by car from Maraba. A highway, BR 332, and the high
tension wires from Tucurui cut across the middle of the reservation, which has an area of 62,488 ha.
In 1980 the Gaviao were indemnified by ELETRONORTE to allow the high tension wires to cross
the reservation. Part of the money was spent to build a new village in the traditional circle of the
northem Ge, but all of them masonry houses built by a contractor.
22.   In 1984, after a period of negotiation, the Gaviao received indemnization from CVRD to
allow the railway line to cross the southern part of the reservation. This money, equivalent to about
one million U.S. dollars, was deposited in a joint bank account in the name of the community and
CVRD. The interest from this account is distributed in monthly payments to the Gaviao. Most
recendy, to comply with Senate resolution 331, CVRD signed an agreement according to which
CVRD is to assist the Mae Maria Indians for an indefinite period.
23.   There is every indication that CVRD has lived up to this agreement in terms of health and
education. The newly refurbished infirmary is well stoc';ed with medicine, and the detailed plans for
a new sanitation system to be installed by CVRD engineers were being debated with the community.
24.   There have been several attempts to start projects that would give the Gaviao an economic
base independent from the income from indemnization. In the 1970's the Gaviao were leaders in
economic independence when they learned to market their own Brazil nut production. But they now
farm-out their Brazil Nut crop to non-Indians who collect it for a 60 percent share of the crop.
Attempts by CVRD to involve the Indians in cacao growing and fish farming have not had much
success. After a short period of enthusiasm, interest dies down.
25.   The present chief has been a strong and effective leader and negotator for his people.
However, there is considerable economic differentation in this community. At present it does not
seem iklcely that any project of community-based economic development will take root in Mae Maria,
although individual enrepreneurs will probably eventually appear. The Gaviao have more than a
sufficiency of advisors: as well as an anftropologist they have medical, legal, financial, and
educational consultants. From the point of view of efficient management, probably far too much time
of CVRD staff members is taken up with details of their involvement with Mae Maria. For example
CVRD is instlling the new sanitation system and directly supports a bilingual school program. It
would seem advantageous to delegate more responsibility for program implemention to FUNAI,
which has an exccellent staff in Maraba. The problem is that both the Indians and their advisors know
where the money comes from, and therefore bring pressure directly on CVRD.
The Xikrm of Catee
26.   The lidians of Catete belong to the Xikrin branch of the Kayapo, a large northern Ge group
totaling around 3,500 living on a mmber of different reservations. At present Catete, which has an
area of 439,131 ha, has a population of 435 living in one village. There is a smaller number of
Xikrin living on Bacaja reservation.
27.   Off and on for the past several years the Xikrin have been selling mahogany from their
reservation to a lumber company. CVRD has been trying to dissuade them from doing this, and two
years ago they agreed. But the lumber company counters with tempting "gifts and favors, including
an airplane and pilot which makes it possible for the Xlkdin to do what they like best make frequent
trips to Maraba and Tucuma and visit other Kayapo communities. According tD the contract the



Annex 3, Page 6
community signed with the lumber company the community is to get U.S. $70 per cubic meter of
mahogany, but no money changes hands, and at the end of the season the company tells the Indians
they are in debt, so the company will return to take out more mahogany next year.
28.   The latest is that the company has offered to build masonry houses for a new village. This is
something the Indians have been asking CVRD to do for some time, but CVRD has only been willing
to build a few houses at a time, while the lumber company offered to build them all immediately. A
visit to the four or five new houses the lumbermen had already built show a large new house with
veranda all round for one of the chiefs, but the rest were hot little boxes with low asbestos roofs.
29.   One of the problems in dealing with the Xikrin is that Catete has four chiefs: two 'old
chiefs," and two 'young chiefs," their sOns. While the old chiefs and one of the young chiefs, with
the support of most of the community, are Willing to break off with the lumber company, one young
chief sides with it. The lumber company is apparently working intensively to get out the remng
mahogany as quicldy as possible. According to one estimate, around 25,000 m3 of mahogany were
taken out last year. It should be pointed out that almost all the Kayapo communities are now in the
business of selling timber and getting royalties from gold mining concessions - the Xikrin were
among the last to do so.
B- Legal Status
30.   Avticle 231 of the new Brazilian Constitution (ratified in 1988) explicitly recognizes
indigenous social organization and the right of Amerndian to the land they immemorially occupy.
Tne process of land regularzation is long and complex and consists of several steps: (i) the
identification and interdiction (prohibition of entrance by outsiders) of an indigenous area; (O) the
delinutation of the area on a map and its physical demarcation (authorized by a decree from the
Minister of Justice); and (iii) its full legal regularization by Presidential Decree confirming the
demarcation and its inclusion in the national and local property registries.
31.   Between 1983 and 1989, as part of the Special project (para. 34), FUNAI identified,
demarcated end registered 3.4 million hectares of land in 24 indigenous areas in the area of influence
of the Carajas Iron Ore mining project. All 24 were identified, 22 were demarcated (all but the Awa
and Krikati areas), and 12 were fally registered, i.e 50% of the total, including the Alto Turiacu,
Caru, Pindare and Catete Areas -this is a significant achievement when compared to the rest of Brazil,
where it is estimated that, of 400 indigenous areas, only 10% were fully regularized during that time
period. Nevertheless, as of June 1994, although their boundaries have been approved by the Miister
of Justice in July 1992, demarcation of the Krikati and Awa areas had not yet been caried-out
32. Demarcation of the Awa area has been particularly problematic. The original agreement
goverming the Special Project (1981) did not specifically include the Awa people because little was
Inown about them at the time. In 1984, the CVRD consultant recommended the creation of an
Indigenous Area (Area Indigena, Al) for the Awa, and in 1985 a working group was officially formed
to recommend the boundaries of this Al for demarcation. In 1987, when all the areas orginaly
contemplated under the Special Project had been demarcated, CVRD decided to dedicate the balance
of funds to the demarcation of ftree additional reserves, including the Awa, Krikmi and ApiTterewa
Indigenous Areas. The prcess, however, has been seriously impeded by a series of goverment
decisions to divide the area into a biological reserve (Gumpi, under the responsibility of the Federal
Environmental Agency, now IBAMA) and the Awa Al, under the responsibility of FUNAI, and



Annex 3, Page 7
subsequent measures which resulted in a drastic reduction in the size of the proposed Awa reserve.
At that point, CVRD, with Bank support, protested this reduction and refused to release the resources
assigned for the demarcation of such a small area. This action, jointly with pressures from
indigenous support groups, in fact prevented the officialization of a drastic reduction in the Awa Al.
33.   After additional delays due to IBAMA's reluctance and court actions initiated by settlers, in
1991, a new working group was formed which recommended a return to substantially larger
boundaries. The proposed boundaries we:e finally approved by FUNAI and the Minister of Justice in
July 1992. The Geographical Service of the Army, which had been contracted in July 1993 to carry-
out their demarcation cancelled the contract after meeting with resistence from settlers. FUNAI is
about to invite proposals from private demarcation services, which will operate under Federal Police
protection. Demarcation is particularly urgent for the Awa group, since protection of boundaries and
eviction 6f settlers cannot start until the areahas been officially demarcated.
C- CVRD's Involvement wit Amerindin Communies
The Special Project
34.   Under the Carajas Iron Ore Project, which was approved by the Board in August 1982,
CVRD, the borrower, was to dedicate the equivalent of US$13.6 million under an agreement with
FUNAI (referred-to as 'the Special Project') to finance support to Amerindian communities in the
vicinity the Carajas mine and railway. The original agreement, signed on June 25, 1982, initially
covering only 11 areas with a total tibal population of about 4,500 found within 100 kIn. on each
side of the railroad, but it was subsequently amended several tmes to enlarge its coverage. By 1988,
it covered 24 areas, with a totl population of about 14,000 (para 31). The primary goals of the
project were: (i) to provide secure land tenure; and (ii) to provide adequate health conditions to the
trbal peoples in the general area of the Carajas mine and railroad.
35.   CVRD charged FUNAI with the design and implementation of the project, with iniiatly
unsatisfactory results, as FUNAI spent most of the fumds on equipment and hiring new employees. In
March, 1986, CVRD suspended all disbursements under the Special Project to force FUNAI to
address the unresolved land issues, mainly demarcation of reservations and removal of non-Indians
from reservations. Land regularizatioui activities then intensified significantly leading to results
presented in para. 36 above.
CVRD and Senate Resolution 331
36.   In 1986, when the funds available from the Special Project had nearly all been spent, the
Brazilian Federal Senate passed a resolution requiring CVRD to provide assistance to the Indian
populations near the CVRD mining concession. As a result, CVRD signed two agreements, one in
1989 with FUNAI and the Xikrin community of Catete, and another in 1990 with FUNAI and the
Gaviao community of Mae Maria, specifying how these responsibilities are to be carried out. There
is no expiration date set for these agreements, implying that CVRD's obligation to assist these groups
will continue as long as its mining concession is held.
37.   Essentially, CVRD accepts the responsibility to fund health and educational services, FUNAI



Annex 3, Page 8
providing the personnel to carry them out. CVRD also is to guard the boundaries of the reservations
and plan "productive activities' leading to economic self-sufficiency. In the case of the Xilcrin, until
this self-sufficiency is attained, CVRD is to open a bank account in the name of the community and
make a monthly deposit in it. The administrative committee consists of a representative of each of
the parts and community consultants.
Exp,erience under the Special project
38.   As extensively reported and documented in the PPAR for the Carajas Iron Ore Projecte, the
Special Project appears to have resulted in substantial improvements in the conditions of indigenous
communities in much of the Carajas operation area of influence, particularly in terms of health care
and land demarcation, especially when compared to other areas of the country where FUNAI
programs exist without financial and strategtc support from outside agencies. The benefits from land
demarcation have already been presented in para. 36. During the period from 1982 through 1988,
the mean change of population for these communities was 26.1 %, the average annual population
growth rate across all communities was 3.7%; and the range of population increases was from 8.2%
to 41.0%. This growth has been attrbuted to the health care delivery system which the CVRD
medical consultant, in collaboration with FUNAI, established in the Maraba area, and to the
reorganization of the work of the FUNAI mobile medical units. However, from about 1987 onwards,
when fimds had been largely spent, there appears to have been a decline in the quality of health care,
raising questions about the financial self sustinability of the scheme. nsufficient attention appears to
have been paid to the training of indian health monitors, community health education, and the
adaptation and incorporation of the health care system into the culture of the indigenous gmups.
39. CVRD has taken a very active role in the implementation and day to day supervision of the
project and consultants (medical, anthrpological and legal) involved in the project. While this has
yielded the above-mentioned results, it has also developed dependency and a view on the part of
Amerindian Communities that CVRD should provide for their needs and wishes. The report
concludes that future support for tribal communities should continme to concentrate on the
demarcation and protection of reserves, the provision of health services, and educational campaigns
designed to prepare trbal communities to better manage, protect and develop the natral and other
resources available to them for their own benefit. It was urgent     contimity of the program be
ensured beyond the legal obligations of CVRD under the Special Project, and that FUNAI should
define as soon as possible and implement a longer-term strategy for the protection of Amerindian
populations and other self sustainable programs requiring their active participation in the design and
implementation of these programs.
D- Prposed Prgram
40. CVRD has determined to continue its support to Amerindian communities in the Cartajas
corridor, independendy from, and in addition to, its legal obligations, now limited to the completion
of the demarcation of the Awa and Krikati lands and assistance to the Xikrin and Gaviao
communities. CVRD wished to redirect its action along the following lines and principles:
(a)   progressively reduce dependence on its actions and funding, by promoting self
'Report No. 8869, datd Jlune 29, 1990, and its Backgound Paper an the Amerindian Special ProjecL



Annex 3, Page 9
reliance and community participation;
(b)   remove itself from involvement in day to day management of the program by acting
through other institutions/organizations;
(c)   finance actions which have been designed with the active involvement and support of
the community; and
(d)    emphasize actions which will eventually lead to self sufficiency and which incorporate
ways to achieve self management and financial self sufficiency in their design.
41. Accordingly, it is expected that CVRD will focus on:
(a)    a limited number of communities most impacted by CVRD's operations;
(b)   the provision of health services emphasizing preventive health care, based on training
and supervision of local health monitors from the local community and health
education programs;
(c)   the provision of training in practical skills to lessen dependence on outsiders and
prepare communities to manage their transition to the national society;
(d)   the provision of basic sanitation infrastructure (water supply and waste disposal)
emphasizing simple, easily maintained systems, and community responsibility for their
operation and ma_eance;
(e)   technical assistance for sustainable management of resources or other productive
schemes enhancing financial self sufficiency; and
(f)    provision of legal advice if needed to complete demarcation (or re-demarcation), and,
in the case of the Awa group, provision of fimds to ensure the adequate protection of
the reserve.
42.  In order to help design this program, CVRD plans to appoint a group of experts (imcluding
representives of FUNAI, Amerindim communities, antropologists and community development
specialists as well as other specialists as required) to assist in the formulation of a company policy and
action program. More specificaUy, this task will consist of:
(a)    defining priorities for action (types of actions and groups);
(b)    based on (a), drawing a strategy and action plan for each of the selected groups;
(c)   recommending appropriate mechanisms to ensure community participation in the
program design and implementation;
(d)   recommending implementation mechanisms, i.e. agencies and consultants most
suitable to implement and/or supervise the proposed actions;



Annex 3, Page 10
(e)    establishing reporting, monitoring and evaluation systems; and
(f)   reviewing the final design of each subproject included in the program, its
implementation mechanisms (including an evaluation of responsible entities), and
procedures and systems to be set in place to ensure long term sustainability.
43.  It is expected that CVRD would complete this work by the end of December 1994.
& CostS
44.  Funds totalling USS4.9 million have been reserved under the project to carry-out this program.
In addition, US$540,000 will be used from the Japanese PPHR grant to finance complete inventories
of forest resources in five reserves (Xflrin,Awa Guaja, Mae Maria, Caru and Pindare).



Annex 4-Page 1
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENT CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATiON PROJECT
Annex 4- SUB-PROJECTS RATIONALE AND BENERTS
tuna!  patlonar.       I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ms16 Badfi
li+                                       I       I---  Lffl r  E0 10 3i   Soi          'r'<fkGj    LySver   Webal;                  t1            Fiandal  2 
1. POLLUTION CONTROL AND RECUPERATION OF DEmap.iD AREAS IN CVRD FAcILUTIEs
1.1 Gas Effluent and Air Pollution Control
1.11 Dust Control
SUPOT 05    Rehabilitation and           Tubaro          Corrective, Implementation    Public health and safety
Improvoment of Dust         Madtime        and timing Imposed by
Control Systems (Aspersion   Torminal (E.SI   "Tormo do Comprormnso'
Syatemel                                   (TDCI with SEAMA
SUPOT 02    Dust Control ond Colleotlon    Tubero        Correotive, Implementation    Public health and safety
Pro 01       In Iron Or Storage and     Maritime       aon timing Imposed by TOC
Handling                    Terminal       with BEAMA
SUPEL 04     Duet Control In the Urmn    Polltzactlon    Corrective, Implementation    Public hoalth and safetv
Plant                       Plants In      and timing Impoced bV TOC
Tuberao        with SEAMA
SUPEL 07     Duet Control OptImization,    Pelletizatlon  Corrective. Implementatlon    Pubil health and safetV  Coastal end Marine
Effluent Control & Drainage    Plants In   and tiring Imposed by TOC                              resoureas protection.
In Umestone Storage Area    Tubarso         with BEAMA
SUPEL 06     Dust Control, Pelletlzetlon  Tuberao        Corrective. Implementation    Publio health and safety                            Ore rocovred Ia reoyded,
Plants Roars Cloing                        cnd timing Imposed by TOC                                                          however financiol benefit In
System                                     with SEAMA                                          _                              very Smail.
SUMEN 07    Duet Control at Potash Mins   Taquari        Correotive                  Public health and safety
Vassoura



Annex 4- Peg 2
~~~UL    [                 the                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~oA                      Main kMflhi.
.._:Fro_ct_j_t                             . . >: h :o:: o : ; ... -  : :.-:                  ::                            :l::.  .. n.h..
1.12 GoEffl unt Treatment
SUPEL 02     Electrostatla Procipitator In    Tuburso     Corrective, Implomantation    Public health and safety
Pallatization Plant I                       and timing Imposed by TDC
________  _____   wlth SEAMA
SUPEL 03     Electrostotlo Precipitator In    Tubarac     Corrective, Implementation    Public heatth and safety
Psllttization Plant 2                       ard timing Imposed by TOC
_________          with SEAMA
CENIB 04     Electrostatio Precipitator In    Pulp Plant In  Correctivo, to control dust    Public health and estaety
Umr  Plant                  Sifo Orlento-   from combustion axhaust
Minas Garaia    gas, to We than the 150
mg/Nm3 limit fixed by
COPAM
NES 01       Dust Emission Control;       Ferromllican    Corrective, required under    Public health and safety
Installation of a Bag Filter on   allay plant In    TOC signed with
Exhaust Gsseo of the Ara    Nova Era.       COPAM/FEAM In 1986 and
Furnaces of Plants I & 2    Minas Geras    Its addendum signed In
Feb. 1991.
1.2 Dralnage end Uquld Effluent Control, Treatment and Diecharge
1.21 Indusid'l Llould Drainage. Treatment arnd Discharge
SUPOT 04    Rail Care Loading Station:    Maeritime       Corrective, Implementatdon    Public health and safety;  Coastal ord marine        Very emal financial benefit
Pro 06       Effluent Drainage end        Terminal of     and timing Imposed by TDC   Improvement of the         resources protecton         from oil recovered
Treatment                   Tubarao (E.SI    with SEAMA                 recreation potential of the
area
SUPOT 04    Sulfur Storage: Drainage      Maritime        Correctlve implementation    Public health ond safety,  Coastal and marine
Pro 02                                    TermInal of     end timing imposed by TOC   Improvement of the         resources protection
Tuberao (E.S)   with SEAMA                  recreation potential of the
area
SUPOT 04    Coal Storage and Pier:        Maeitim         Corective, Implementation    Public haeith and safety  Coastal and marine          Very email financia benefit
Pro 01       Drainage and Effluent        Tem-inal of     and timing Imposed by TDC   Improvement of the         resources protection        from coal recovery
Treatment                   Tubarao (E.S.    with SEAMA                 recreation potential of the
area



Annex 4 - Paoe 3
.wiui.                 ~gj~jj                                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _      M ain B--n-i_s
:' ,                                               : '''"..    .,  ..''"'''''''' -''''':"'''..,,-I
_______________      Local                      ~~~~~~~~Global            Financil
SUPOT 03    Pavement end Drainage In     Maritime        Corrective, implementatlon    Publio health and safety;  Coastal and marine
Storage and Access Areas    Terminal of    and timing Impoaed by TOC   Improvement of the         resources protecton
Tubarao IE.S)   with SEAMA                 recreation potential of the
area
SUPOT 04    Iron Ore Storage: Drainage   Maritime        Corrective. Implementatdon    Public health and safety;  Coastal and mardne       very smal finanial benefit
Pro 03       and Effluent Treatment      Terminal of     and timing Imposed by TOC   Improvement of the         resources protection       from Iron ore recovery
Tubarao IE.S)   with SEAMA                 recrfeaton patntieal of the
____________   [   ___________________                         ~~ ~~~~area
SUPOT 04    Other Effluent Treatment     Maritime        Correctve, Implementation    Public health and safety;
Pro 05107                                Teominal of     and *ming Imposed by TOC   Improvement of the
Tuberso (E.S)   wlth SEAMA                 recreation potential of the
aroea
SUPEL 08     Effluent Drainage Treatment   Pelletzatlon  Correotiva. Implementation    Public health and safety;  Cotstd *nd rmrine
and Control                 plant and      and timing Imposed by TDC   Improvement of the         roesurces protection
storage In     with SEAMA                  recreadton potantieal of the
Tubarao (ESl)                              area
SUEST 01    Uquid Effluents Collection   Railroad        Corrective, implementetion    Public health and safety;.                          Very small finaniel benefit
Pro 03       and Treatment               torminal        and timing imposed by TOC   Improvement In the                                    from di recovered.
malntenaneo    with SEAMA                  recreoatlon potantlol of the
shop at                                    area
Tuborao port
NES 02       Uquld Effluent Collectlon   Farroaillcon    Corrective, required under    Public Health: wetershed
and Treatment In Storage,   alloy plant In    TOC sIgnod with COPAM    proservation.
Washing and Handling of     Nova Era-      and its first addendum
Ccal, Hematite and Quartz   Minaes Geraia   signed In Feb. 199 1_
CENIBRA      Industrial Uquid Effluent   Pulp Plant In    Preventive, construeton of   Preservation of watershed
09           Collctdon & Treatment       Bealo Orlont -   emargency tanks, canals   and underground water.
Mines Gerais   and containment basins



Annex 4 - Page 4
tahat.                . ~~~~~~~~ALtMain Beefit.
______  ___________                    ~~~~~~LOCal                 aloba                     Rnandal
1."''2     ". '    ":"''                   ' r    > ":. .'_ ' _ '_   _ _ _   _ _ _ _''._ _, _,.,,._........... :   n  
122 LId fuent Minimization
CENISRA      Optimization of Unbleached    Pulp Plant In    Praventive, minimIzatloni of   Public health, Pramervation
1 2          Kraft Pulp (UKPI Filtradon;    Belo Orients -   liquid effluent and     of watershed.
Uquki Effluent Minirnzation    Mnaes Geral  prevention of accidental
overflow from kreft pulp
filter tank. Part of
CENIORA's environmental
_             ~~~~program
1.23 Sewaa Treatment
SUPOT 04    Sewage Treatment of Port    Tubaro           Corrective, Implementation    Public health and safety;  CoLt aindr marine_
Pro 04       Facilities                  Maritime        and timing Imposed by TDC   Improvement in the         resource protetion.
Term.          with SEAMA                  recreation potential of the
_ _   I  _ _ _ _    I  _      _     I  _     _     _      _    I  ~~~~~~ ~ ~                    ~     ~~area  __ ___
1.3 Jold W  te Treatment and Diebceal
1.31 Minhin Waste and Tallinas Dlsposal
SUMIC 21    Telling Pond. Expansion of    Carelas Iron   Prevantive, to allow safe   Watershed and ground
Dam and Improvement         Ore Mine       deposit of taillinga and    water preservetion
rouce of water
SUMEN OE    Construction of Modular      Iguarape BaNh   Praventive to allow safe    Watershed and ground
Ponds for the Settling and  gold mine      deposit of tailings and the  water preservetion.
Confining of Tailings      (Canrjasi       reuse of the liquid phase.
Generated In the CIP Plant                 Recommended by PRAD.



Annex 4 - Poa 5
,I L  .u                                                                                                          _  _-Rationm
_______  _______________  _________                                    L~~~~~~ocal                G~bIFkindFaf
1.32 Inustrill Solid Welts Dhisosal
SUEST 01    Solid Wasto Deposit outside   Railroad     I Corrective, Implementation    Public heolth; waterrted                           Very smal Hnancia benefit
Pro 02       Port, and Recuperation of   Termind        end timing Irposad by TDC   and underground water                                 from di recovered.
Degraded Areas (natural    manToenance     with SEAM;.                preservation; esthetics.
lagoon and exiting wosto    shop at
depositl                   Tubarao port,
VitorialE.S)                                                             _
CENIBRA      Industridal Solid Waste     Pulp plant In    Imposed by COPAM as a     Public health: Underground                            Reveres from of waste
01           Treatment for Recovery      Balo Oriente    condition of the plant     water proaservaton.                                   recovted Is given to the
and/or Safe Disposal In New   IM.Gl        expansion Installation                                                            amployees ssoc adon.
Deposit                                    license
1.4 Nobo Control
SUPOT 06    Cals de Paul Port: Dust      CVRD's pig     Corrective, Impimentatlon    Public Halth and safety                              Coata ard madne
Control; Effluent Collection    Iron loading  and timing Imposed by TOC                                                      renurce prservation
& Treatment; Noise Control   tenminal      with SEAMA
V. rle(E.Sl                                                                             _       _
1.5 Ruoaerotion of Dearaded Area.
SUMEN 06    Ravagetatlon of Modular     lguaraps Bahia  In accordance with Deorato   Restoration of natural
Tailings Ponds (SUMEN 05)   gold mine      no 97632 and state         ecosysbtm; erosion control;
hlgisletion                esthetics
SUMIN 07    Hydroseeding of areas       itabira and     In accordance with Dwereto   Public health; erosion
Degraded by Mining         Timpobeba       no 97632 end state         control; restoration of
Mines (M.GI    legislation                natural ecosystem;
eothtets
SUPOT 02    Eidoting Solid Waste         Tubarso        Together with underground   Public health; erosion
Pro 02       Disposal Revegetation       Maritime       water monitoring, Its      control; esthticsI.
Terminal       implementation and timing
are Imposed by TOC with
SEAMA



Annex 4- Page 6
s   S  |   s   |          |               h          |                       /  :      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M4h h                           |ef
2. NATURAL RESOURCES PROTECTION APD RECUPERATION
2.1 Protctign of Eeoav tenm
SUMAF 02    Management Phn for           Atilntio Forest  Improved management of                               Protctdon of one of the
Unhares Forest Reserve     (E.S)           forest reserve owned by                               few remaining IMportant
CVRD                                                  ecosystem of the Mate
Ado-ndce and Improved
knowledge of tropical forest
management
CENIBRA      Conservation of Fauna       Murnilpipo-Balo  In cgreement with Low                                Fauna preservation.
10                                      Ordents - M.G   6803 of 217180
2.2 Reforestation of Decraded Areas
GUEST 14    Green Belt for Vitoria-Mines   Victoria-Minas   Own InitIative         Erosion, noise and dust    Carbon sequestration        Reducdon of ral
Railway                    railway                                    control lower risks of                                maIntenance costs
corrldor                                  socidents; easthetlcs.
SUMIN        Green Belt fot Itabitr and  Itabira and    Recuperation of degraded   Pubilo health (reduction of    Carbon asquestradon
03,08        Timpobcba Mines             Timbopeba      areas In *acordance with   air pollutdon); esthetics.
mines lM.G)    Constitution; pressure to
reduce dust *mbions from
rlghbo___   neghoring co ntles. 
CENIBRA      Green Bait and Flora and    Muniolplo-Belo  In agreement with Law     Public health:             Carbon sequestration, flora
11           Fauna Protection           Oriente- MG    6803 of 2/7180                                         and fauna preservadon.
SUFEC 01    Green Belt for Railway and   Along the      Own Initladve              Erosion control; lower rike   Carbon sequestrafon.     Reduecon of rda
Port                       Cardia$                                    of aecldents Involving                                rnntcnarne costs
Railroad                                    nimals; sthetico.                          __      __



Annex 4 - Page 7
,iu1a~L  liii.  -it.               Rationale.                                             Maw1"aI
|  -:  : -- . : I i . ; i~~~~~~~~oca                                                       elna                                  MflU: -
3. SOCIALLY ORIENTED INVESTMENTS
3.1 Amerlndlsns
CVRD 02       Corporate Amerindian        Car*.48 etigation of Indirect                                            Protection and asoultance
Program                     Corridor         environmental Impact                                    to Amerindians from
various cornmurtius.
SUFEC 1S    AmerIndian Assistnce aond    Cialas            Mitigation of indirect                                  Protetion and assistance
Health Program              Corridor         environmantal Inpact                                    to AmerIndians from
_I_ _                     various commurnias.
SUMIC 20    Amerindian Assistance and    Catate reserve   Convenio with FUNAI                                      Prolotlon and ssWstance
Health Program (includes    Caralas                                                                  to the Xcrtn Amerindian
|______  SUMAF 1S)                                                                                                  Communuity.
3.2 Muniipal lmprovement
SUFEC 14    Improvoment In Public         Sao Luis         Mitigation of Indirect      Publil heiath
Sanitation (Wasto                           environmental Impact
Collectloni
SUMIC 22    Parsupabas Improvemant In    CaraJeas Araa    Mitigation of Indirect       Public health; preservation
Ouclltv of Ufe (water supply                environmental Impact         of undargrourd watar;
end sawagal                                                              esthetics
SUPOT         Urban Sewage Calleetlon In   Tubarso        together wlth other *aotons   Pubilo Health; tourism;
04108         Arass Adliaent to Tubarso    IVitoria)       wlthin tarminal, will result    prsservqtion of coastal
In oleon-up of lagoons In   marine resources
Tubarao termnan and near-
by beach- Part of
agreement with
__________ _   ________ __________ _______   mn in cip ality .          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
SUMIN 09    Sewage Collection and         Itabira (MGI     Ovarall Improvement in      Pubilo Health
I Trsatment at ItabirI water qudity for the town  I



Annex 4 - Page 8
3.3 Rural Exitnslon mnd Small Business Davloomont
SUCEM 03    Sm ull Buina Development  CVRD Arc of   Mititln of Indirect              Social Welfare.
In CVRD Area of Influence    Influence In    Impact
South and
North
Svotems
4. STUDIES, TRAINING AND RESEARCH
4. Studlies omaanizatlon and Auditina Services
4.1 EnvIronmental Manacement Ornanizatlon
SUMAF 04    Central Environment Audit    CVRD's group   Own Initiative              Enterprise's envirornmental
Systam                      facIlides                                  atructure and systems
optimization            ___ 
4.2 Pollution Monitorina and Auditina
SUMIN 02    AIr and Water Pollution      Itabira and     In agreement with federal   iPublic health, Watershed
1. 04        MonitorIng at Itabifa and   Tlmpobeba       and statet  environmental  and undarground water
| Timpobeba                  Mines (MCGl    laws.                        protection and recuperation
4.3 EnvironmentalImoactAmssesment
SUMAF  11   ConsolIdated Environmneal   Tubarao and      An environmental Impact    This study will allow the
Impaot StudV                Vitorla area   study on marine life In the    evaluadon of the current
IE.S)          Tubarao port facillitde Is  and future (after
Imposed by TDC with        Iniplenmentatdon of project)
SEAMA                      environmental Impact of
I___I__I_ CVRD operations                                               _                        I



Annex 4- Pege 9
p[2IIg3..                                                      Rationale3MhInh.MlIr;
4.4 Envgronmont Protection and Recuneratlon Studies
CENIBRA      Umnologiosl Study of the    Rio Docs        This study Is Imposed by   Improved knowledge for
02           Rio Doos                    (MOG            COPAM me o cunditlon of    the recuperation of thi
the plant expansion        degraded river.
installaIdon license (Oflolo
4.6 Municimal lmmcro"ment Studies
SUFEC 13    Study of Alternative         Sao Luis (Mal   Own Initiative to nitigate  Public health; wetershed
Systems for Better                         direct and Indirect Impact  protection.
Senitedon of Cownurnuitles                 of CVRD activities 
Located near to CVRD
Instailatlons
4.6 8oclel Develooment Studles
SUCEM 01    Small Business               CVRD area of   Own Initiative to nitigate  Public welfare.
Development- Diagnostlo    Influence       direct and Indirect Impact
of CVRD activities
SUCEM 02    Methodology Development    CVRD area of   Own initiative to mitigate    Public welfare.
for Communides             Influence       direct and Indirect impact
I Involment In Business                      of CVRD activiteo
S. OTHER SUB4PROJECTS AND STUDIES
CVRD 01   | Other Sub-prolects and     | CVRD's area    Own Initiative              Public weluer *nd natural
Studies                    of influence                               resources protenction                                ____
\CVPROBEN
May 23 1994



Annex S
Page 1 of 3
ENVMRONMNSTAL CONSERVATIlON AND REHRABIlTrAlIONPR}C
J                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Annex S
List of SuM,ortinz Documents
Project File Reference G- Enviromental Infrmation
1.    CVRD Environmental Master Plan- 1989-1993- CVRDICME Projetos Consultoria Ltda
2.    Agreents between CVRD and Fedeal, State and Municipal Enviromnental Agencies and
Govments and other instituions (Convenios and Termos de Compromisso)
3.    Evaluation of the Environmental Stuation of the Ponta de Tubarao Complex a the end of the
Decade 1980-90- Jaakko Poyry Engenharia (Exerpts)
4.    Environmental Master Plan for the 1990-1999 Decade- Ponta de Tubarao Complex- Executive
Summary- Jaakko Poyry Engenharia
5.    Elements for the Natural Resource Master Plan for the Tubarao Complex- CEPEMAR, July
1990
6.    Audit of CVRD's Air Pollution Monitoring System in Vitoria- CETESB, October 1990
7.    Industrialization of Grande Vitoria and Envionmenw   Consequences- Centro de Tecnologia
Promon and Jaakko Poyry Engenharia Ltda, February 1987
S.    Urbanzation and hIustrialization of the Municipality of ktabira and their En
Consequences- Natural Resources- Jaakko Poyry Engenharia Ltda, May 1990
9.    Itabira Iron Ore Mine District: Plan of Restoration of Degraded Areas (PRAD)- Consultoria e
Engenharia de Meio Ambiente, August 1990
10.   Capanema Iroi Ore Mine: Program of Restoration of Degraded Areas (PRAD)- ENGERIO,
December 1989
11.   CENIBRA- Enronmental Master Plan- April 1989
12.   CENIBRA Inegrated Forestry/Industry Plan (PIFi)- November 1991
13.   CENIBRA- Expansion of Cellulose Production- EIAIRw[A- NATRON, 1989
14.   Prelimmiary Study on Auto-depuration of the Rio Doce at Effluent Reject of CENIBRA-
CEPEMAR, 1990
15.   ELFIROVALE Environmental Assessment- CVRD, Janmary 1993
16.   ELEIROVALE Integrated Forestryilndusty Plan (PIF1), November 1991



Annex S
Page 2 of 3
17.   ELEMROVALE Environmental Control Plan (PCA), June 1990
18.   Environental Impact and Socioeconomic Development Along the Carajas Railroad- CVRD
19.   Environmental Study in the CVRD Area of nfluence in the Carajas Mineral Province- Fabio
Marton Consultoria, October 1989
20.   Carajas Iron Ore Project- Environmental Management Program- Briefing Paper- CVRD,
August 1989
21.   Parauapebas/Rio Verde: Guidelineslir Integrated Development- CVRD
22.   Fazenda Brasileiro Project (Gold Mine)- Environmental Impact Statement (EIA)-
NATRONIMNERART (Exerpts)
23.   Igaae Bahia Project (Gold Mine)- Environmental Impact Statement (EIA-RIMA)- Jaaldo
Poyry Engenharia Ltda, April 1990
24.   Report on Water Monitoring for the Ouro-Bahia and Cobre Salobo Projects- CVRD, March
1991
25.   Report on Water Quality Monitoring at Igarape-Bahia- CVRD, 1991
26.   ALBRAS/ALUNORTE Industrial Complex- Environment Impact Report ,IMA),1986;.
Environmental Inpact Assessment Updaing, 1990- Engenheros Consultores (ECOPAM)
27.   Industialization and Urbanization in the Sao Luis Region and its Environmental
Consequwences- SMEMAfCVRD (Jaakko Poyry Engenharia Ltda), 1989.
28.   Diagnostic of Urban Solid Waste in Sao Luis (OMEGA EngenzhiermaSUFEC), May 1991
Poject File Reference E- Sbnrojects and coulemntary environmental information
Note: These files also contain information on subprojects which were reviewed but eventually
deleted from the project for a number of reasons. Nevertheless, the information they provide
is useful for assessing CVRD's entire environmental program.
1.     Superintendencia de Minas de Carajas (SUM[C)- 2 files
2.     Superintendencia da Estrada de Ferro de Carajas (SUFEC)
3.     Superintendencia de Metais Nobres (SUMEN)- 2 files
4.     Suindencia de Minas (Minas Gerais) (SUMIN)
5.     Superintendia de Peloti  (SUPEL)



,Annex-5
Page 3 of 3
6.     Superintendencia do Porto (Tubarao and Cais de Paul) (SUPOT)- 5 Files
7.     Superintendencia da Estrada (Vitoria-Minas) (SUESI)
8.     Superintendencia de Comunicacao Empresarial (SUCEM)
9.     Superintendencia de Meio Ambiente (SUMAF)
10.    ALBRAS
11.    CENIBRA- 2 files
12.    MRN (Mineracao Rio do Norte)
13.    Nova Era pEEROVALE)
14.    MSG (Minas da Serra Geral)



