Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14585-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
JUNE 9, 1995
Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION
PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  Real (R$)
US$1                    =  R$0.89 (May 26, 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Metric Ton (m ton)                     = 1,000 Kilograms (kg)
I Metric Ton (m ton)                     = 2,204 Pounds (lb)
I Meter (m)                              = 3.28 Feet (ft)
i Kilometer (km)                         = 0.62 Miles (mi)
I Cubic Meter (m3)                       = 35.3 Cubic Feet (cu ft)
I Hectare (Ha)                           = 2.47 Acres



BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION
PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALBRAS                     Aluminio Brasileiro S.A
ALUNORTE                   Alumina do Norte do Brasil S.A
ALUVALE                    Vale do Rio Doce Aluminio S.A
BAHIASUL                   Bahia Sul Celulose S.A
CENIBRA                    Celulose Nipo - Brasileira S.A
CESAN                      Companhia Espirito Santese de Saneamento
CIMAs                      Internal Committees for the Environment (CVRD)
CONAMA                     National Environrmental Council
COPAR                      Environmental Policy Commission (MG state)
COSANPA                    Para State Sanitation Company
CST                        Tubarao Steel Company
CVRD                       Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
DOCEGEO                    Rio Doce Geologia e Mineraca6
DOCENAVE                   Vale do Rio Doce Navegarao S.A
EIA                        Environmental Impact Assessment
FEMA                       State Environmental Foundation (MG state)
FUNAI                      National Indian Foundation
GEAMAM                     Group for Studies and Consultations on the Environment (CVRD)
GIMAR                      Department of Sustainable Development (CVRD)
GIMEZ                      Department of the Environment
HISPANOBRAS                Companhia Hispano - Brasileira de Pelotiza,ao
IBAMA                      Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Natural Renewable Resources
INCRA                      National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform
ITABRASCO                  Companhia Italo - Brasileira de Pelotizacao
ITACO                      Itabira Intemational Company Ltd.
KFW                        Kreditantstaltfur Wiederaufbau
MOE                        Ministry of the Environment
MRN                        MineragAo Rio do Norte
MSG                        Minas Serra Geral S.A
NGO                        Non-Governmental Organization
NIBRASCO                   Companhia Nipo - Brasileira de PelotizaSao
NOVA ERA                   Nova Era Silicon, S.A
PCA                        Environmental Control Plan
PIFI                       Integrated Industry/Forest Management Plans
PPAR                       Project Performance Audit Report
PRAD                       Plans for the Recuperation of Degraded Areas
RIMA                       Report on Environmental Impact
SCL                        Single Currency Loan
SDR                        Secretariat of Regional Development of the Presidency
SEAMA                      State Secretariat for the Environment (State of Espirito Santo)
SEMA                       State Secretariat for the Environment (State of Minas Gerais)
SEMAM                      Secretariat for the Environment of the Presidency of the Republic
SEMATUR                    Environment and Tourism Secretariat (State of Maranhao)
SEPAs                      State Environmental Protection Agencies
SMACET                     Secretariat for the Environment, Science and Technology (State of Para)
SUDES                      Superintendency of Development (CVRD)
SUMAF                      Superintendency of the Environment and Forest Products
URUCUM                     Urucum Mineracao S.A.
VALESUL                    Valesul Aluminio S.A






BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.    THE ENVIRONMENT   ...... ............1.................... 
A. Introduction  ............................................ I
B. Regulatory and Policy Framework  .............................. 1
C. Institutional Framework ..................................... 3
D. Institutions and Main Issues in the Project Areas  ..................... 4
E. Bank Lending Strategy and Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement  ...             ..... 7
II.  THE BORROWER- COMPANHIA VALE DO RIO DOCE ..............                                     9
A. Corporate Activities and Strategy ............................... 9
B. Ownership, Management and Organization  .......................   10
C. Operating and Financial Performance  ........................... 11
D. Financial Projections and Covenants ............................ 15
III. CVRD'S ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PROGRAM AND MANAGEMENT. 16
A. Strategy and Policies ......................................  16
B.    Program  .............................................                             17
C. Organization and Systems ...................................  18
D. Dealing with Indirect Impacts  ................................ 21
IV.  THE PROJECT            ....................             .......................  27
A. Objectives  .         ...........................................  27
B. Rationale. for Bank. Participation -. 27
C. Project Description ....................................... 27
D. Project Costs and Financing  ................................. 38
E. Procurement and Disbursement ............................... 41
F. Implementation Organization and Management ...................... 45
G. Project Benefits and Risks  .................................. 46
H. Environmental Rating  .....................................  48
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ................ 49
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil in April/May 1992.
The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes Dominique Babelon (task manager, LA1EI), Luis Constantino
(forest economist, LATAG), Philip Owusu (financial analyst, LA1BR); and Charles Dahan (industrial
engineer) and Nancy Flowers (anthropologist), consultants. Several updating missions took place
subsequently. Mauricio Reis, General Manager of the Sustainable Development Department of CVRD,
was responsible for project preparation in Brazil. Alfonso Sanchez, Orville Grimes and Gobind T.
Nankani are the managing Division Chief, Projects Advisor, and Department Director, respectively, for
the operation. David Wheeler (ENVAP), Daniel Gross (LA1EA) and Bekir Onursal (LATEN) were
the peer reviewers for the project.






BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
List of Charts and Annexes
Chart 1 - Structure of CVRD Group
Chart 2 - Internal Organization of CVRD
Chart 3 - CVRD's Organization for Environmental Management
Annex 1 - CVRD - Consolidated Financial Statements
Annex 2 - CVRD Financial Projections
Annex 3 - CVRD Environmental Master Plan - 1989-93
Annex 4 - Environmental Master Plan for the Tubarao Terminal
Annex 5 - Functions and Organization of GIMAR
Annex 6 - List of Subprojects by Type
Annex 7 - List of Subprojects by Location
Annex 8 - Subproject Rationale and Benefits
Annex 9 - Detailed Financing and Procurement Arrangements
Annex 10 - Implementation Schedule
Annex 11 - Summary Terms of Reference for an Environmental Impact Assessment
at the Tubarao Industrial Port
Annex 12 - The Environmental Information, Monitoring and Auditing System
Annex 13 - Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
Annex 14- List of Documents in the Project File
Map   - IBRD No. 23514






BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD)
Guarantor:          Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries:       Selected affiliated companies and subsidiaries of CVRD and municipalities under some
pollution control and municipal improvement subprojects.
Poverty:             Not applicable
Amount:             US$50 million equivalent
Terms:               US dollar single currency loan, for fifteen years, including a five- year grace period,
at the Bank's standard LIBOR- based interest rate for US dollar single currency
loans'.
Commitment Fee:    0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Onlending Terms:    Funds would be onlent to participating CVRD affiliated companies and subsidiaries
and municipalities at the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan to CVRD, plus,
for CVRD affiliated and subsidiary companies, a small administration fee.
Financing Plan:     See para. 4.33.
Net Present Value:    Pollution control and land reclamation investments financed under the project
(equivalent to 58% of project costs) will bring no or negligible financial returns to
CVRD, but will significantly contribute to improved health and safety. Natural
resource components (6% of project costs) will have unquantifiable local and global
benefits by promoting carbon sequestration and biodiversity and increasing knowledge
of tropical forest ecosystems. Socially-oriented investments (in basic water supply and
sanitation infrastructure, and an Amerindian program) will increase welfare of
benefitting communities while promoting self-sufficiency goals (19% of project costs).
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 14585-BR dated June 9, 1995
Map:                IBRD No. 23514
'Until Loan signing, CVRD would have the option of changing these terms to the standard terms of
a fixed-rate single currency loan.






BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I - THE ENVIRONMENT
A. Introduction
1.1    During the 1980s, there was a growing realization in Brazil that sustainable and efficient
economic development requires sound principles of environmental protection. Since the
restoration of civilian Government in 1985, and particularly since 1988, the environment has
become a national priority and substantial progress has been made in establishing an effective
regulatory and institutional framework and programs. However, despite some important
successes, Brazil remains confronted with major environmental issues. Chief among these are air,
water and soil pollution caused by industrialization and rapid urbanization; and the continuous
threats to the primary forest and other vulnerable ecosystems from uncontrolled land clearing.
1.2    Industrial pollution problems are pervasive in the more industrialized states, including
Espirito Santo and Minas Gerais, two of the states in which CVRD activities are located. The
specific nature of pollution varies depending on the kind of industries, but generally, the whole
range of pollution problems can be found, of air (dust, sulfur dioxide, other waste gases), surface
and underground water resources (polluting effluents), and soils (hazardous and other industrial
waste). Another significant source of pollution is untreated domestic sewage released to rivers and
the sea.
1.3    Loss of forest cover is of considerable concem to Brazil and the intemational community,
in particular in the Amazon. Brazilian rain forests contain the largest repository of biodiversity in
the world and are a major carbon store, the destruction of which would occasion the release of
greenhouse gases. An estimated 9% of the Amazon rain forest has been deforested, as a result of
a combination of factors, including public investments in transport infrastructure (roads, railways);
subsidies for livestock development; the installation of large projects (hydroelectric dams and
mining operations); logging activities; and migration of small farmers and landless people driven
by poverty at home.
B. Regulatory and Policy Framework
1.4    Most of Brazil's environmental laws were passed in the 1980s, and have contributed to a
significant increase in environmental awareness in development planning and operations. This
legislation is embodied primarily in the following documents: (a) the August 1988 Constitution,
which spells out as fundamental goals the preservation of ecosystems and biodiversity through the
establishment of reserves and protected areas; the protection of rights of Amerindian populations;
the obligation of pollution control and environmental impact assessments; recovery of areas
degraded by mining; and criminal and administrative penalties against offenders; (b) Law 6938 of
August 31, 1981, as amended in 1989, which distributes responsibility for environmental
management between the federal government, the states and municipalities; and spells out the
various licensing requirements and processes; (c) Resolutions of the National Environmental
Council (CONAMA), which define criteria and procedures for enviromnental impact assessments



(January 23, 1986); ambient quality standards and minimum standards to be observed by water
polluters (1986), air (1990) and noise (1990); and (d) a number of federal government (IBAMA)
instructions ("Portarias") creating conservation areas and governing the use and replacement of
native forests (1989). Licensing norms and procedures and minimum pollution standards are laid
down at the federal level, but may be subject to stricter conditions imposed by state legislation.
1.5    All enterprises engaged in activities or works which may cause significant degradation of
the environment are required, as a condition for issuance or renewal of operating environmental
licenses, to submit for their ongoing operations either Environmental Control Plans (Planos de
Control Ambiental-- PCAs), for industrial operations; Plans for the Recovery, or Restoration of
Degraded Areas (Planos de Recuperacion de Areas Degradadas--PRADs), for mining operations;
and, when relevant, Integrated Industry/Forest Management Plans (Planos Integrados Floresta-
Industria--PIFIs) for wood-based industries; and to implement the recommended mitigation plans.
1.6    For investments, the law requires the presentation of comprehensive environmental impact
assessments (Estudios de Impacto Ambiental--EIAs), together with their executive summaries
(Relatorios de Impacto Ambiental--RIMAs) to obtain licenses at various stages of project planning
and implementation: a Pre-license is granted (or denied) on the basis of an EIA/RIMA, prepared
by independent consultants hired by the applicant. An Installation License is granted later when
the complete project, together with the monitoring and mitigation plans, are fully detailed. Where
the public (50 signatures or more) requests, or where the responsible environmental agency judges
it appropriate, a public hearing may be held at every stage. Upon completion of the investment,
the operating license is granted after inspection and after the agreed environmental monitoring and
control prograrns have been established. This licensing procedure is also required for any change
to or expansion of the project. Licensing approvals are also used by public banks as compulsory
criteria for approval and disbursement of credits.
1.7    Article 225 of the 1988 Constitution mandates the restoration of land degraded by mining
activities. Decree 97,632 of April 10, 1989 requires the presentation, within 180 days, of a plan
to restore already degraded areas in existing operations. For new mining investments, the decree
requires that the RIMA include a program for the rehabilitation of areas which will be degraded.
Portarias 449/87 and 39/88 of the Brazilian Forest Development Institute, now part of the
Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Natural Renewable Resources (IBAMA), also provide
for the planting of an area of forest equal in size to that damaged by mining activities. Enterprises
using wood must present PIFIs for IBAMA's approval and, on that basis, be registered with
IBAMA as a licensed user.
1.8    For existing operations, the implementation schedule for environmental mitigation plans,
which results from PCAs, PRADs and PIFIs described earlier (para. 1.5), is formalized in an
agreement (the signing of which is usually a condition for the granting or renewal of the operating
license) between the polluter and the responsible State Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA)
and, on occasion, municipal environmental agencies as well. When polluters are not complying
with the terms of the agreement, the SEPA may call upon the court system to close the polluters'
facilities until it has been complied with or until a new agreement has been signed ("Termos de
Compromisso", which then has the force of a court order). This new agreement can include a
schedule of fines (which are foreseen at each stage in the agreement) in case of late compliance.
Most SEPAs, in spite of other deficiencies, have significantly increased pressure on the largest
enterprises, including CVRD, to comply with environmental regulations. Most investments to be



- 3 -
financed under the Loan are derived from compulsory PCAs, PIFIs and PRADs, and have been
incorporated into CVRD's environmental program and into legally-binding agreements with state
and municipal environmental agencies requiring that the improvements be carried out within
specified time periods.
1.9    With respect to forest protection, permits are required for all operations involving clearing
and burning of forests. Burning of areas over 1,000 hectares requires a RIMA. Amazon farmers
and cattle ranchers are not permitted to clear over 50% of the forest on their property, and must
obtain land clearance permits. A series of regulations aimed at forest use by industry have been
issued: Presidential Decree 97,628 of April 12, 1989 specifies that, by 1995, all corporations
using wood as a raw material or energy source (including charcoal-based pig iron plants) must
have their own source of wood from planted and managed forests and will not be allowed to use
native forest. Compulsory reforestation activities may only be carried out through an integrated
raw material supply plan (PIFI-- para. 1.5 above), to be approved by IBAMA. Significant policy
changes which have reduced incentives for deforestation include: (i) the imposition of
environmental conditions on the granting of fiscal incentives for investments in the Amazon
region; (ii) the abandonment or scaling back of colonization and road building projects; (iii) the
reduction or elimination of price and credit subsidies for agriculture and livestock production in
general; and (iv) the strengthening of institutions in charge of natural resource and forest
protection. As a result, the rate of deforestation has fallen sharply over the past few years.
C. Institutional Framework
1.10   The institutional framework and distribution of functions was significantly reorganized in
June 1990. At the federal level, the ultimate responsibility for policy decisions belongs to the
Council of Ministers, on the basis of recommendations from CONAMA. CONAMA, which is
presided over by the Minister of the Environment, comprises representatives of each ministry,
state governments, trade, industry and commerce associations and NGOs. CONAMA advises and
proposes all norms, criteria and procedures applicable to environmental licensing for the Council
of Ministers' approval ; the classification of water bodies and geographical areas according to their
vulnerability and use; federal minimum pollution standards (ambient and source) for each
classification ; the scope of environmental assessments and complementary studies judged
necessary; finally, CONAMA constitutes the last administrative recourse for fines and penalties
imposed by other agencies in the system. The Ministry of the Environment (MOE) is responsible
for planning and coordinating the preparation and formulation of environmental policies and
promoting and supervising their application at the federal and local levels. MOE also presides
over CONAMA and provides its secretariat.
1.11   IBAMA, which was created in 1989 out of several separate entities, is the executive arm
of MOE. IBAMA's role is primarily one of enforcing the implementation of federal regulations
and providing technical support to SEPAs in the areas of licensing, law enforcement, training,
environmental education and information. Most of the supervisory and enforcement functions
including licensing, monitoring and fines against violators are left to SEPAs; yet in cases where a
SEPA cannot assume these responsibilities, IBAMA can intervene. While Brazil is decentralizing
the environmental system as much as possible, activities which have national or international
implications may require licensing by both the state and by the Federal Government. These
include all forestry projects and those using forest resources (para. 1.9), on the grounds that the
value of the forests belongs to the entire country, and their fate should not be determined by a



- 4 -
single state. While states and municipalities create and protect their own conservation units,
IBAMA has retained direct operational responsibility for Brazil's system of federal conservation
units, and has superintendencies in all states. Its operations are funded out of the federal budget;
from its own income generated from fees and fines collected from activities affecting the forest;
and from contributions from the National Fund for the Environment allocated by CONAMA for
specific projects. Support for the institutional strengthening of IBAMA and for its program of
national conservation areas is provided under the Bank-financed National Environmental Project
(Loan 3173-BR) (para. 1.23). Under that operation, the Bank is also supporting institutional
strengthening and reform of IBAMA as well as the SEPAs This project is currently being
reformulated to increase support to state-level environmental initiatives.
1.12    At the state level, SEPAs have been created in each state to fulfill the mandate given to
them by the 1988 Constitution, i.e. the application of federal legislation, including most
environmental licensing, monitoring, protection and law enforcement activities. They are also
entitled to pass and enforce stricter regulations, depending on local conditions. In most states.
existing environmental legislation is adequate, but monitoring and enforcement capability vary
markedly from state to state. All states use federal ambient quality standards, modified in some
cases by state or local legislation to compensate for extremely adverse local conditions. At
present, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro are among the few states which have both developed and
are capable of enforcing local standards stricter than the Federal guidelines. SEPAs also
sometimes lack political commitment to environmental concerns, particularly when they conflict
with development objectives. They also tend to operate in precarious conditions, being poorly
equipped, with insufficient appropriately trained staff, and often lack essential administrative and
financial autonomy. Following the promulgation of the 1988 Constitution, significant efforts to
strengthen SEPAs have begun in most states. Most states now also have their own environmental
councils. Support for SEPAs' upgrading is being provided through several Bank-financed projects,
including the above-mentioned National Environmental Project (Loan 3173-BR); the Second
Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 2831-BR), the National Industrial Pollution Control
Project (Loan 3480-BR) (para 1.23); and, for the nine Amazon states, through the G-7 Pilot
Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest (para. 1.24). At the municipal level, community
pressure on polluters exists only in some of the larger cities, including Vitoria (para. 1.17).
D. Institutions and Main Issues in the Project Areas
1.13    CVRD's facilities are essentially located in four states: Minas Gerais; Espirito Santo;
Para and Maranhao (para. 2.2). The main environmental and institutional development issues in
these states are reviewed below.
(a) Minas Gerais
1.14    Minas Gerais is second only to Sao Paulo in the number of industrial establishments.
Major industrial pollution problems are associated with its large mining industry, and the steel and
pulp industry mostly located along the Rio Doce River (in particular in the "Vale do Aco," its
middle part, where many steel mills are located). The Environmental Policy Commission--
Commissao de Politica Ambiental (COPAM)--is responsible for establishing environmental norms
and policies, while the State Environmental Secretariat--Secretaria Estadual do Meio Ambiente
(SEMA), through its affiliated State Environmental Foundation, the Fundacao Estadual do Meio
Ambiente (FEMA)-- is responsible for supervising compliance and deciding on actions in the case



-5 -
of non-compliance. Their major stated priorities are the control of industrial and mining pollution,
and the clean-up of the Rio Doce valley. Natural resource issues are covered by a series of state
forest protection enforcement agencies, working in conjunction with IBAMA. A law setting out
state forest policy is now in preparation.
1.15    By law, 3% of state fiscal resources are channeled to support FEMA, but its current
funding level is clearly inadequate relative to its responsibilities. FEMA is not yet considered
strong enough to effectively police industrial pollution on a statewide basis. Likewise, although
the mining industry is the leading cause of air and water pollution in Minas Gerais and responsible
for considerable land degradation, SEMA has not yet developed an overall strategy to address this
problem. FEMA does not have effective in-house monitoring or laboratory capability. Outside
contractors are used as resources permit. FEMA has obtained technical assistance from the French
government to develop a master plan for the recovery of the Rio Doce river basin. The Minas
Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project (Loan 3554-BR), which is aimed at developing
a cost-effective approach to control water pollution in the metropolitan area of Belo Horizonte,
also includes funding for the institutional strengthening of FEMA and for the preparation of an
industrial pollution control program. Funding for institutional strengthening of SEMA is also
available through the Second Industrial Pollution Control Project, the National Environmental
Project and the National Industrial Pollution Control Project. The Bank also supports a major
industrial reforestation project in the State of Minas Gerais (Loan 2895-BR).
(b) Espirito Santo
1.16   Due to its small size and relatively limited number of industrial establishments, the state
of Espirito Santo does not have as pervasive a pollution problem as other states. However, there
are some serious problems in localized areas such as Greater Vitoria. Vitoria, the state capital,
and the location of CVRD's Southern System port and pelletizing operations, and of the Tubarao
Steel Company (CST) steel mill, is considered, after Cubatao and Sao Paulo, to have Brazil's third
most serious air pollution problem. Water pollution in the Bay of Vitoria, from both industrial
and sanitary sources, is also a serious problem. Espirito Santo is one of the states in the Mata
Atlantica zone, and the site of large eucalyptus plantations for pulp production (by the Aracruz
Corporation). The local IBAMA office is therefore active in implementing the federal
government's policy for the protection and recovery of the Mata Atlantica.
1.17   The State Secretariat for the Environment--Secretaria Estadual para Assuntos do Meio
Ambiente (SEAMA) was established in 1988. Although SEAMA is underfinanced and short on
equipment, it is well organized and technically competent, and has produced a well thought-out
pollution control strategy. At this time, SEAMA appears to be more capable than the SEPAs of
the other three states to carry out monitoring and technical supervision of compliance. The
municipal environmental agency of Vitoria has a typically modest budget and level of technical
capability, but does appear effective at mobilizing the strong local constituency for exerting
pressure on CVRD and CST. Both CVRD and CST have signed agreements with SEAMA and the
municipal government to undertake comprehensive clean up programs of their Vitoria operations.
Political pressure in recent years has also created conditions for effective pressure at both levels to
make possible legal and operational sanctions against both companies if the programs are not
implemented within the agreed timeframe. SEAMA qualifies for Bank assistance under the three
operations mentioned in para. 1.15. It has also received technical assistance from the Italian
Government for the preparation of a master plan for the cleanup of Vitoria Bay. Industrial



- 6 -
pollution (air, water, soil and noise) at the major port terminal of Tubarao (where both CVRD and
CST, the two major industrial polluters, are located) will be addressed as part of the project (para.
4. 11). The Espirito Santo Water and Coastal Pollution Management Project, to be submitted for
approval shortly, will aim at restoring and protecting environmentally deteriorated rivers that feed
the cities of Grande Vitoria through rehabilitation and expansion of water supply and basic
sanitation infrastructure, and also includes an institutional component aimed at strengthening
SEAMA's water resources management capabilities and its industrial pollution control, solid waste
and water quality monitoring programs.
(c) Para
1.18    The major environmental problems in the state of Para are: (i) the extensive deforestation
resulting from infrastructure development (Belem-Brasilia highway, Carajas railroad, Tucurui
dam), logging, livestock development incentives, poorly executed settlement schemes, and gold
mining (in particular in the now depleted wildcat mine ("garimpo") of Serra Pelada); and (ii)
pressure on Indian lands. Priorities are therefore the control of deforestation; protection of Indian
lands; and control of mining activities. State authorities, however, are also concerned with
promoting development activities capable of absorbing large pools of unemployed migrants, and
are pressuring the few large mining and industrial concerns (CVRD, the bauxite mines and the
aluminum industry) to internalize the costs of the indirect impact of their operations by financing
municipal improvements in adjacent towns. There is also concern about the recovery of areas
degraded by unsustainable agricultural and livestock development.
1.19   There is as yet little (though growing) in-state political constituency for effective
environmental control, which tends to be seen as impeding employment creation. In August 1991,
the Department of the Environment, formerly under the Health Secretariat, was transferred to a
newly-formed Secretariat for the Environment, Science and Technology--Secretaria do Meio
Ambiente, Ciencia e Tecnologia (SMACET). A strategy and priorities have yet to be established,
and in-house competence, monitoring and laboratory capability are presently limited. The state of
Para is one of the nine Amazon states that will receive substantial support for institutional
strengthening under the Pilot Program (para. 1.24), including for institutional development,
monitoring, increased enforcement, and zoning.
(d) Maranhao
1.20   The state of Maranhao is faced with essentially the same issues as Para, but more
intensely because in-migration started earlier. Migrant pressure on land, logging, and agricultural
and livestock development have resulted in extensive deforestation and land degradation, in
particular along highways and the Carajas railroad. The state is also the site of violent land
conflicts resulting from the combination of concentration of land ownership and land invasions by
poor migrants, and extensive encroachment on Indian lands. Industrial pollution problems are
prevalent in Acailandia, where sawmills, charcoal producers and pig iron mills are responsible for
substantial air pollution. Urbanization in the Sao Luis area is also threatening the surrounding
mangroves.
1.21    The Environment and Tourism Secretariat--Secretaria do Meio Ambiente e Turismo
(SEMATUR) of Maranhao-- was created in March 1991. A state environmental code was
approved by the state legislature only in late 1991. A diagnostic of main environmental issues and



priorities is under preparation. SEMATUR has a limited staff but also uses a forestry battalion
drawn from the military police. As in the state of Para, SEMATUR is scheduled to receive
substantial assistance from the G-7 Pilot Program (para. 1.24). Under the State Highway
Management 11 Project, (Loan 3715-BR), SEMATUR will also receive technical training and
equipment to improve its economic-ecological zoning capabilities and monitoring and surveillance
systems for road projects.
E. Bank Lending Strategy and Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
(a) Bank Strategy and Lending
1.22   In recent years, environmental issues have assumed increasing importance in the Bank's
program in Brazil, because sustainable and efficient economic development can only be assured if
development programs in Brazil are based on sound natural resource management. The Bank is
concerned with the impact of environmental problems on populations (among others of air and
water pollution and lack of sanitation), including on indigenous peoples, and of the potential global
effects of deforestation of the Amazon basin, the extinction of unique species, and threats to other
vulnerable ecosystems. The Bank accordingly has made it part of its strategy and program to
assist Brazil in the resolution of these problems.
1.23   The Bank lending program for Brazil emphasizes a wide spectrum of environmental
issues, including soil erosion, depletion of natural resources and biodiversity, air and water
pollution from industrial and mining sources, and protection of tropical forest and vulnerable
ecosystems. Over the last decade, the Bank has supported environmental, forestry, and
Amerindian protection programs under many of its projects in Brazil. The North West Region
Development Projects (Loans 2060, 2116 and 2353-BR) and the Carajas Iron Ore Project (Loan
2196-BR) (para. 1.26) were the first Bank projects in Brazil which included significant
environmental components. They had mixed results but provided important lessons regarding the
design and execution of environmentally sound programs. Subsequent, more successful operations
included the First Electric Power Sector Loan (Loan 2720-BR), the Minas Gerais Forestry Project
(Loan 2895-BR); the Parana Land Management Project (Loan 3018-BR), and the Amazon Basin
Malaria Control project (Loan 3072-BR). Also under implementation are the Rondonia Natural
Resource Management Project (Loan 3444-BR); the Mato Grosso Natural Resource Management
Project (Loan 3492-BR); a loan for industrial pollution control in the state of Sao Paulo (Loan
2831-BR) aiming at control of industrial pollution and institutional strengthening of SEPAs, and
the National Industrial Pollution Control Project (Loan 3480-BR), which extended these activities
to other industrialized states. Finally, the National Environmental Project (Loan 3173-BR) aims at
establishing effective environmental management and protection systems. Its four immediate
objectives are to (i) strengthen Brazil's natural conservation units; (ii) protect critically endangered
ecosystems; (iii) strengthen the institutional capacity of MOE, IBAMA and the SEPAs; and (iv)
improve the regulatory framework.
1.24   The Bank is also actively preparing the various elements of the Pilot Program to Conserve
the Brazilian Rain Forest, financed by several donors on a concessional basis. It includes
significant funding for actions aimed at reducing the rate of deforestation and promoting
environmentally sustainable development in the Amazon, and strengthening SEPAs in the nine
Amazon states (including Para and Maranhao). Specifically, the objective of the Pilot Program is



- 8 -
to maximize the environmental benefits of Brazil's rain forests in a manner consistent with Brazil's
development goals, through the implementation of a sustainable development approach that will
contribute to a continuing reduction of the rate of deforestation. The attaimnent of this objective
would: (i) demonstrate the feasibility of harmonizing economic and environmental objectives in
tropical rain forests; (ii) help preserve the vast genetic resources of the rain forests; and (iii)
reduce the Amazon's contribution to global carbon emissions'. Projects included in the first phase
of the Pilot Program seek to achieve the following five objectives: (i) conserve biodiversity; (ii)
protect indigenous areas; (iii) consolidate environmental policy changes and strengthen
implementing institutions (SEPAs); (iv) develop and disseminate scientific knowledge and applied
technologies for sustainable development; and (v) build support for environmentally benign
development. The initial package of projects now appraised or under active preparation include
demonstration projects, science centers of excellence and directed scientific research, indigenous
reserves, and extractive reserves. These will be followed by projects for ecological and economic
zoning, environmental monitoring and surveillance, environmental enforcement and control, and
institutional strengthening of SEPAs.
(b) Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
1.25    Given the wide variety of sub-components in the proposed project, relevant lessons can be
drawn from a number of previous projects, but the projects most closely related to this operation
are the Caraias Iron Ore Project and the Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project.
1.26    The Caraias Iron Ore Proiect (Loan 2196-BR of US$304.5 million) was approved on
August 10, 1982, and was implemented by CVRD. It supported the establishment of the mining
facility at Carajas, and was notable at the time for the heavy emphasis it placed on limiting the
environmental impact of the mine. The project achieved its stated objectives. It was completed
ten months ahead of schedule, with substantial cost underruns (US$73.6 million was canceled),
but, while very efficiently managed by CVRD, it had a number of unforeseen environmental
effects which gained international publicity. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for
the Carajas project stresses that, while environmental management in the area directly under
CVRD's control was excellent, and the Special Project for protection of nearby Amerindians did
bring significant benefits, the Bank and CVRD failed to anticipate the contribution of this project
to degradation of the physical environment and human conditions in the project's indirect area of
influence, due to strong migrant inflows in the area facilitated, inter alia, by the construction of the
Carajas railroad. Chief among these effects are social problems, in particular deteriorating health
conditions in rapidly growing frontier towns unable to provide basic sanitation systems; pressure
on Amerindian communities from settlers, prospectors and loggers; and rural violence. Physical
deterioration of the environment in the Carajas corridor is evident in erosion and land degradation
caused by deforestation, and is attributed to poverty (subsistence needs of poor migrants),
government colonization schemes, fiscal and credit subsidies to unsustainable agriculture and
livestock activities, land speculation and logging.
1.27    Although it is difficult to isolate the share of CVRD and other unrelated programs (the
Belem-Brasilia and Belem-Sao Luis highways, the Tucurui dam, the COLONE colonization
Deforestation of the Amazon reduces the area's capacity as a carbon sink,
while burning of the forest contributes directly to carbon emissions.



scheme in Maranhao, the Serra Pelada garimpo), the PPAR points out "a continuing moral
obligation of CVRD to assist broader official efforts to provide needed infrastructure and services
to the rapidly growing rural and urban populations-- as well as to limit environmental degradation-
- in the region," and urges the Bank "to be open to the possibility of providing additional
assistance for socially and environmentally- sound development projects in this area". The report
also stresses the importance of institutional strengthening at the federal, state and local levels;
increasing public awareness and active community participation in program design and monitoring
activities; and the need for cross-sectoral approaches to solving the region's problems. As noted
earlier, the Bank has already stepped up its efforts at natural resource management and institutional
strengthening of a number of states, including those in the region, through the National
Environmental Project and the Pilot Program. The proposed project would seek to contribute to
increasing basic scientific and ecological knowledge of the area; improve the restoration,
conservation and management of natural resources, monitor environmental quality throughout the
Carajas corridor; promote urgently-needed social infrastructure development in deprived frontier
towns; and protect the Amerindian populations.
1.28   The Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Proiect (1822-BR). This project aimed at
improving regional air and water quality by reducing industrial pollution and by training SEPA
staff to design and implement a pollution control strategy. On the whole, the project was a
success, and the impacts on overall air and water quality were significant, although not as great as
expected. The PPAR stresses that the Bank should not hesitate to invest in environmental
improvements, even if they appear nonproductive. However, a long-term and broad-based
environmental program, strong political commitment at the state level and a strong environmental
agency are essential in order to ensure that the program will be effective.
-I. THE BORROWER: COMPANHA VALE DO RIO DOCE
A. Corporate Activities and Strategy
2. 1    The Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD) is a major parastatal conglomerate with
mining, industrial, rail, port and commercial forestry operations located primarily in the states of
Minas Gerais, Espirito Santo, Maranhao and Para. The company was chartered by the
Govermnent in 1942 in order to develop the Itabira iron ore mine and bring economic and social
development to the Rio Doce valley. The Carajas mine and transport system was opened in 1985
to increase foreign exchange earnings and create an economic base for development in Para and
Maranhao.
2.2    In addition to iron ore mines, CVRD operates manganese and gold mines. Its transport
systems, built originally to transport iron ore to the port, where it is shipped by CVRD's own
shipping company, also transport passengers and sell services to other users. CVRD also has
controlling interests in a number of mineral processing and cellulose production companies.
Geographically, CVRD operations are mostly based on two integrated iron ore production and
transport systems, the "Northern" and "Southern" Systems (see Map No. IBRD 23514). The
"Southem System" comprises the Itabira area and other mine sites in Minas Gerais, the 900 k1m
Vitoria-Minas rail line, the port of Tubarao at Vitoria (Espirito Santo), and its own and several
joint-venture pelletizing plants at the port. The Southem System also includes a joint-venture pulp



- 10 -
mill (CENIBRA), with associated plantations, and a joint-venture ferrosilicon plant (NOVA ERA),
both in Minas Gerais, and the VALESUL aluminum refinery in the state of Rio de Janeiro. The
"Northern System" comprises the Carajas iron ore mine in Para, the 890 km Carajas rail line, and
the port of Ponta da Madeira at Sao Luis, Maranhao. Other activities include the ALBRAS
aluminum refinery and planned ALUNORTE alumina plant at Barcarena, near Belem (both joint
ventures), the Mineracao Rio do Norte (MRN) bauxite mine (in joint venture) at Trombetas (Para),
and gold mines and processing facilities in Para and Bahia. CVRD has extensive land-use rights
with 9.4 million hectares in mining concessions, extensive commercial forest plantations and, by
agreement with IBAMA, responsibility for conservation and protection of about 1.0 million
hectares of native forest.
2.3    CVRD is the world's largest producer and exporter of iron ore, with an 18 % share of the
world iron ore market in 1992. Iron ore and iron ore pellet sales accounted for about 52% of
CVRD's net operating revenues in 1993. Company strategy has been to integrate production,
mineral dressing and transport, in order to maintain competitive prices and reliability of delivery.
It has also been to diversify both vertically and horizontally. CVRD has copper, kaolin and
titanium mining projects under planning, and has been steadily increasing its gold mining.
Significant expansion and verticalization of its aluminum operations will be achieved when the
ALUNORTE complex (for the production of alumina) comes on-line. Recently, CVRD has
substantially increased its interests in the steel sector (thus far limited to NOVA ERA and a 50%
stake in California Steel) by purchasing minority participation in USIMINAS (7.5% of voting
stock), CST (22%), CSN (9.6%) and ACOMINAS (4.8%) (the two latter through Docenave, its
shipping subsidiary). CVRD is also committed to substantially expanding its paper and pulp and
forest management operations, through: (i) the expansion of CENIBRA's pulp mill facilities; (ii) a
minority participation (22%) in the new BAIIIA SUL joint venture, a 500,000 tons per year
cellulose and a 250,000 tons per year paper plant in Murcuri (Bahia); and (iii) a 42.5 % stake in
the capital of newly-formed CELMAR, a joint venture to establish eucalyptus plantations and
subsequently a pulp mill near Imperatriz, in Southern Maranhao. CVRD has made extensive use
of joint ventures with foreign firms in all these sectors, thus gaining access to financing, foreign
markets and new technologies. Minority participation in diversified activities is now an important
strategy of CVRD.
B. Ownership, Management and Organization
2.4    CVRD is 51.3% state-owned; the remaining 48.7% is in the hands of the public. The
State owns 76% of the Common Stock and 13% of the Preferred Stock (Class A). Since
September 1991, CVRD has also been allowed to float Class B preferential shares (without voting
rights). Common Stock and Class A preferential shares are entitled to one vote on matters that
come before the stockholders, except for the election of the Board of Directors, which is restricted
to Common Stock holders. CVRD is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Mining and
Energy. The six-member Board of Directors, presided over by the Secretary of Mining and
Energy, establishes corporate strategy and reviews business plans and policies. A six-member
Executive Board, composed of CVRD's President and its five Executive Directors, is responsible
for formulating those plans and policies and for implementation of operating decisions. Because of
CVRD's strong export orientation, the Government has traditionally abstained from interfering in
short- and medium-term business strategies, which are managed by career professionals. CVRD is
commercially oriented and functions as a private sector company in most regards, under a three-



- 11 -
year management contract (Contrato de Gestao- 1994-96) with the Federal Government, which
confers CVRD substantial autonomy.
2.5    CVRD owns several subsidiaries (controladas) including: Minas da Serra Geral (MSG)
(an iron ore mine); ALUVALE (a holding company for all aluminum operations); DOCENAVE
(ocean transport); Florestas Rio Doce (forest management); Rio Doce Finance (sales and collection
agent); and Itabira International Company (international holding company). It also has important
shares in the following associated companies (coligadas): through ALUVALE: ALBRAS
(aluminum refining), 51 %; ALUNORTE (alumina), 49.1 %; Mineracao Rio do Norte (bauxite),
31 %; and VALESUL (aluminum refining), 49.7%. Others include CENIBRA (cellulose), 51.5%;
BAHIA SUL, 29%; HISPANOBRAS, ITABRASCO and NIBRASCO (all three iron ore
pelletization plants at Tubarao), 51 % each; and NOVA ERA (ferrous silicate), 49%. The
operations of coligadas are governed by separate shareholders' and general obligation agreements.
CVRD's interests in subsidiaries and associated companies are summarized in Chart 1.)
2.6    CVRD's own operations have recently been decentralized into three business areas (Iron
Ore, Forestry Products and Metallurgy, and Transportation and Other Products), managed by
eleven divisions (superintendencies), which handle company operations, and are given a substantial
degree of autonomy in decision-making (Chart 2). Each reports directly to the responsible
executive director. At the end of 1993, CVRD had 17,830 employees, down from 19,200 in mid-
1991.
C. Operating and Financial Performance
(a) Sales and Markets
2.7    As indicated earlier, in 1993, about 52% of CVRD's consolidated net operating revenues
were generated from the sale of iron ore and pellets, about 74 percent of which was exported.
Sales of other products, mostly aluminum, bauxite, gold and manganese, accounted for about 24%
of consolidated net operating revenues, and services sold to third parties (mostly transportation)
and freight on sales accounted for the balance (24%). A breakdown of the group's net operating
revenues is presented in Annex 2. The structure and destination of sales of CVRD and its main
subsidiaries/affiliates is presented in the table below:
2   Controladas are companies in which CVRD has both majority ownership
(i.e., 51 % or more of voting capital) and effective control of decisions at
the Board. Coligadas are companies in which CVRD has from 1 0% to 51 %
of voting capital, but does not have sole control of decisions at the Board.
For example, in some cases (ALBRAS, CENIBRA and the pelletization
plants), CVRD holds 51% of capital but only 50% of voting rights).



- 12 -
Table 1: Composition and Destination of Sales (Unconsolidated) of the CVRD Group - 1993
Company/Product                             Tons Sold                        Sales           Exports
(USS Million     (USS Million
equiv.)           equiv.)   % Exported
CVRD Parent Co.
Iron Ore                                    81.9 million                     1,093               781            71
Iron Ore Pellets                            8.3 million I/                    247               206             83
Manganese Ore                               332,200                            32                 18            56
Gold                                        12.2                              [46                  -             -
Port and Rail Transport Services                                              355
Pelletization Services                                                         22                  -             -
Subtotal                                                                 1,925             1,005            52
Main Subsidiary & Associated Cos.
HISPANOBRAS - Iron Ore Pellets 3/           3.2 million                        92                 51           55
ITABRASCO- Iron Ore Pellets 3/              3.1 million                        86                62            72
NIBRASCO- Iron Ore Pellets 3/               7.8 million                       216                98            45
NOVA ERA- Ferrous silicon                   42,800                             33                27            82
MSG- Iron Ore                               9.9                                44                  -             -
MRN- Bauxite 4/                             8.2 million                        190               132           70
ALBRAS- Aluminum 4/                         342,600                           352               352            100
VALESUL- Aluminum 4/                        85,300                             56                  -             -
URUCUM- Manganese Ore                       147,600                             5
Florestas Rio Doce- Timber                  1.6 million cu.m.                   7                  -             -
CENIBRA- Pulp                               383,300                           123                102           83
BAHIA SUL- Pulp                             359.600                           138               106            77
DOCENAVE- Shipping Services                                                   241                149           62
1! including 4.5 million tons as withdrawal rights from associated companies and 2.2 million tons produced by CVRD.
2, representing CVRD's revenues from MRN, ALBRAS and VALESUL.
3! including CVRD's withdrawal rights.
4/including CVRD's revenues (marketed through ALUVALE).
Source: CVRD 1993 Annual Report
2.8    The export orientation of the CVRD group is evident from  the above Table 1. Iron ore
exports are generally based on 3 to 15 year arrangements, so markets are fairly stable. Prices are
negotiated on an annual basis. Japan, Germany, and Korea, in that order, are CVRD's largest
customers. Because CVRD is export-oriented, its financial performance is quite susceptible to
exogenous factors such as movements in the world iron ore market, inflation, and real exchange
rate movements. Most of the company's revenues are denominated in US Dollars, while most of
its expenditures are in local currency.
(b) Financial Performance
2.9    At the end of 1994, CVRD had a total capitalization of US$13.0 billion; net fixed assets
amounting to US$10.2 billion; and a net worth of US$9.7 billion. Detailed consolidated financial
statements of the CVRD group are presented in Annex 1. Because inflation and exchange rate
fluctuations have a significant impact on the stated financial results, year to year comparisons of
financial statements, even when these have been translated into dollars, are, at best, only a rough
indication of true movements in the financial situation. Comparisons are also complicated by



- 13 -
changes in indexes to be used for monetary correction. In particular, in 1991, under Law
8200/91. the inflation index used for monetary restatement was changed from the BTNF index
(which substantially underestimated inflation) to the consumer price index. Assets were revalued
according to a special monetary correction covering, for CVRD, the period 1984-89, and, for its
affiliates, the period since March 1979. This resulted in a sudden doubling in the value of fixed
and other permanent assets and a concurrent increase in the value of equity. Another large
increase in USDollar values occurred in 1994, as a result of the implementation of the Plano Real
and the concurrent appreciation of the domestic currency. Key financial figures are summarized
below:
Table 2: CVRD and Consolidated Subsidiaries: Key Financial Fiaures 1988-1993
(In Millions of US$)
1989      1990      1991       1992       1993        1994
Net Operating Revenue      2,593     2,239     2,488       2,489      2,446      3,645
Operating Margin 1/          833       672       873        902         907        740
Operating Profit 2/          320      (43)       320        249         159        788
Net Profit 3/                735       101       252        300         262        645
Long-term Debt             1,853      1,422     1,504      1,792      1,712       1,912
Net Worth (Equity)         3.371     2,351     6,327       6,732      6,552      9,707
Current Assets             1,455      1.558     1,772      1,282      1,412       1,853
Current Liabilities        1,226      1.562     1,327       786         964       1,353
Long Term Debt/Equity
Ratio                      35:65     38:62      19:81      21:79      21:79       17:83
Current Ratio               1.19       1.00      1.34       1.63       1.46        1.37
Return on Equity            22%        4%        4%          4%         4%         7%
1/ Net operating revenues, less cost of sales before depreciation.
2/ Gross profit, plus earnings (losses) on investments of associated companies, less overhead and financial
expenses, plus financial income.
3/ After taxes, non-operating gains and minority interests and debenture participation.
Source: CVRD audit reports.
2.10   The operating performance of CVRD has been satisfactory, considering the disruptive
effects of large swings in domestic inflation, international commodity prices and real exchange
rates which took place over the period. Net operating revenues increased considerably until 1989,
reflecting increased sales from the Carajas Iron Ore mine, as well as large increases in sales of
other products (manganese, gold and aluminum) being developed in line with CVRD's
diversification strategy. The sharp drop in net operating revenues in 1990 is attributed to
declining international aluminum prices and to the slowdown in economic activity resulting from
the government's economic plan then in effect, which dampened most commercial activity, in
particular domestic sales of aluminum and of iron ore to the domestic steel industry, and sales of
rail freight services. Growth resumed in 1991 due to an 8% increase in international iron ore
prices and domestic price deregulation, and net operating revenues stabilized around their 1991



- 14 -
level until 1994, when a large increase resulted from the appreciation of the Real vis-a-vis the
USDollar. Operating margins (before depreciation) increased from 32 % of net operating revenues
in 1989 to 37% in 1993, mostly as a result of cost cutting measures (in particular staff
retrenchment--CVRD had reduced its 19,000 staff by 3400 by October 1991 at an annual savings
of about US$ 100 million) and, over the period 1990-92, real currency depreciation following a
long period of appreciation. In 1994, however, the operating margin dropped to 20% due to the
appreciation of the Real, which increased local costs expressed in USDollars while foreign
revenues from ore sales (which are expressed in USDollars) did not increase correspondingly
(international prices of iron ore did not recover in 1994).
2.11   The earnings performance of CVRD has been varied. Return on equity has fluctuated
between a high 22% in 1989, and a low of around 4% between 1990 and 1993, and has increased
to 7% in 1994. Performance may be considered satisfactory in the highly unstable macroeconomic
context of the period and in view also of low international prices. Record profits in 1989 were
due to a combination of the above-mentioned sharp increase in net operating revenues, high
earnings on investments in affiliated companies due to higher pulp and aluminum prices, and large
non-operating gains. Declining net profits in 1990 were due to the economic slow down in Brazil,
large increases in financial expenses associated with very high domestic interest rates (in 1990),
and the poor performance of the affiliated companies (in particular CENIBRA and ALBRAS).
This occurred in spite of cost-cutting measures and much lower financial expenses as a result of
the 1991 debt restructuring efforts discussed in the paragraphs below. Good results in 1994 are
attributed to: (i) better performance of affiliated companies due to improved international
aluminum and pulp prices and increased profitability of steel affiliates after privatization; and (ii)
financial gains attributed to changes in indexation rules of financial claims and assets values.
2.12   Liquidity. Despite its good operating performance, CVRD experienced tight liquidity in
1989-1990 as it relied on relatively expensive local short term loans to meet its working capital
needs. At year- end 1990, CVRD had accumulated current liabilities of US$1.5 million against
current assets of US$ 1.5 million. CVRD's liquidity problems experienced during 1989-1990
resulted from a combination of factors. First, while the company's revenues are derived from
exports (denominated from the most part in US dollars), the bulk of its expenses are in Brazilian
cruzeiros. During the period in question, the Cruzeiro was overvalued, resulting in a mismatch of
revenues and expenses to CVRD's detriment. Second, one of CVRD's major domestic customers,
USIMINAS and other subsidiaries of the holding company SIDERBRAS - were experiencing
financial difficulties of their own and hence were slow in paying for their iron ore purchases from
CVRD. Third, CVRD wanted to reduce its foreign non-USDollar hard currency long term debt
exposure, and at any rate, the foreign bond market was not favorable to Brazilian enterprises at the
time. As a result of these factors, CVRD resorted to relatively expensive (28 percent real interest)
short-term loans available locally to meet its working capital needs and repay its long-term debt.
2.13   During 1991, CVRD's management undertook a program to replace the short-term
domestic borrowing with longer-term foreign borrowing in order to lengthen the maturities of its
loans and to have a better match between the company's revenues and its expenses. As a part of
this program, CVRD successfully placed a US$100 million dollar-denominated debenture issue
locally, carrying an annual interest rate of 12 percent with a 15 year maturity negotiable every
three years. CVRD also placed a US$ 200 million Eurobond issue carrying annual interest of 10
percent with a 2 year (3 year negotiable) maturity. CVRD has since placed other bond issues on
international Eurodollar markets, with maturities ranging from three to eight years. These



- 15 -
operations improved CVRD's liquidity and raised the current ratio to between 1.3 and 1.6 over the
period 1991-94.
2.14   Capital Structure. CVRD's capital structure is sound: the Long Term Debt (LTD) to
Equity ratio was 17:83 at the end of 1994, having decreased from 47:53 at the end of 1988. This
decrease reflects changes in asset valuation methods (para. 2.9) and a lowering of CVRD's long-
term debt as debt incurred for the Carajas iron ore project is being repaid. Out of total long term
liabilities of US$1.9 billion at the end of 1994, outstanding long-term borrowings amounted to
about US$709 million, 34 percent of which were foreign loans. Foreign loans were contracted
principally from the Bank (Loan 2196-BR), Japan Export Import Bank and KfW for the
construction of the Carajas project, and of public placements of debentures in the Eurodollar
market. Foreign debt in currencies other than the US dollar (Yen and DM) accounted for 60% of
total foreign debt. The local long-term loans, which represented 66% of CVRD's long term debt,
comprised debentures linked to national treasury bonds to be redeemed in 2002 and non-
convertible debentures redeemable through 2007. CVRD is trying to increase the proportion of its
funding denominated in US Dollars. Almost all of CVRD's foreign sales are denominated in US
dollars, whereas most of its expenses are incurred in Reais or other, non-US dollar, currencies.
Therefore inflation, devaluations, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can have a significant
impact on the company's accounts. A move to dollar-denominated debt could reduce this impact.
To contribute to resolution of problems described in this and the previous paragraph, CVRD has
started issuing bonds on the Eurodollar market. They carry annual interest of 350 basis points
above US Treasury Bills.
D. Financial Projections and Covenants
(a) Financial Projections
2.15   Forecasts of CVRD's future financial performance were prepared through the year 2000
(Annex 2). The forecasts are Bank estimates based on conservative assumptions. They assume
maintenance of the 1991-93 level of sales through 1996, and an annual sales growth of about I
percent thereafter. Notes and assumptions related to the forecasts as well as the projected income
statement, statement of sources and application of funds and balance sheet are shown in Annex 2.
2.16   Now that CVRD has overcome the liquidity difficulties of 1989-1990, it is expected to
maintain a comfortable liquidity position. Accounts receivable are expected to stay at reasonable
levels. Short term loans would also be kept to a minimum. The current ratio is expected to range
between 1.9 and 4.4. Given the market response to the 1992 issue, CVRD should be able to
continue to raise medium and long term financing from international markets. Given CVRD's
projected sound capital structure, it will have sufficient borrowing capacity to undertake these
issues. The debt/equity ratio during the forecast period will range from 15/85 to 25/75, which are
very reasonable levels. The forecasts indicate annual debt service coverage well above 1.5.
Sensitivity tests (Annex 2) show that CVRD's position is most sensitive to the price of iron ore,
but even under the assumption of a 20% decrease in iron ore prices below that forecasted by the
Bank (corresponding to the lower bound of Bank projections), the debt service coverage ratio
would not fall below 1.3 over the period 1995-2000.



- 16 -
(b) Financial Covenants
2.17   To ensure the necessary financing for the project and its completion in a sound manmer,
assurances have been obtained that CVRD will provide timely and sufficient funds to cover the
expenditures required for the project. In addition, to ensure maintenance of a sound financial
position during project implementation and thereafter, assurances were obtained that, on the basis
of the CVRD group consolidated financial statements:
(i)    CVRD will maintain a long-term debt/equity ratio not greater than 55:45;
(ii)    CVRD will maintain a current ratio of not less than 1.2: 1; and
(iii)   CVRD will furnish to the Bank financial statements and accounts for CVRD and
for CVRD consolidated with its wholly owned subsidiaries, audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after the end of each fiscal
year.
The proposed financial ratios are consistent with those under the Carajas Iron Ore Project (Loan
2196-BR).
2.18 The accounting system is comprehensive, with well defined cost centers, and adjustments
are made to compensate for inflationary distortions, according to Brazil's laws and applicable
regulations issued by the Comissao de Valores Mobiliarios. Consolidated annual financial
statements are audited by international external auditors (Price Waterhouse), and available within
two months from the end of the fiscal year (the calendar year).
III - CVRD ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PROGRAM AND MANAGEMENT
A. Strategy and Policies
3.1    CVRD operates in many activities potentially aggressive to the environment, such as
miinerals extraction and transport, aluminum, gold and pulp production. Until the early 1980s,
environmental control was minimal. Since then, however, the company has declared its
commitment to a strict and intensive policy of environmental protection and of sustained
development through proper use and management of available natural resources.
3.2    The company's emphasis on environmental management started with the Carajas iron ore
project, which was designed to minimize the project's direct impact on the surrounding
ecologically sensitive region (para. 1.26). This approach has been extended to the much older
Southern System, where environmental concerns had traditionally not been strong. CVRD has
already spent substantial amounts in corrective and preventive measures. Yet, although in recent
years CVRD has substantially improved environmental control within its various operations and
appears to show a genuine commitment to good environmental management, the company has been
strongly criticized for its indirect contribution to environmental and social problems, particularly in
the northern system, where the Carajas mine and transport system are held responsible for
extensive degradation and social problems along the railway corridor (paras. 1.26 and 1.27).



- 17 -
Increased community and institutional pressures to comply with much more stringent new
environmental legislation have also prompted CVRD to accelerate and expand the scope of its
environmental program.
3.3    CVRD's commitment to sound environmental management was first embodied in an
Environmental Master Plan (Plano Diretor de Meio Ambiente - 1989-1993), a program to reduce
the environmental direct impact of its operations and mitigate their direct negative consequences.
As stated above, this program was formulated partly to comply with new federal and local
environmental legislation; partly in response to increasing local and international community
pressure; and partly to improve its national and international image. It has since been
supplemented and updated to incorporate later formal commitments with IBAMA, SEPAs and local
communities to resolve outstanding issues. It is expected that CVRD's environmental program
will now be regularly updated to incorporate needed actions identified through the Environmental
Monitoring and Auditing System being established as part of the project (para. 3.20).
B. Program
3.4    The main stated objectives of CVRD's Environment Master Plan are to: (i) strictly
comply with the environmental and natural resource management legislation through appropriate
corrective and preventive measures; (ii) reduce natural resource requirements, in particular forest,
land, water, and energy, through increased productivity and efficiency in mining, industrial and
forestry operations; (iii) increase environmental research, development and training; and (iv)
improve relations with affected communities through social actions and environmental education.
3.5    The measures included in the Master Plan consist of:
(a)    conservation of natural forests and ecosystems under its supervision (operation of
ecological parks and reserves);
(b)    assistance and protection for Amerindian communities in the Carajas corridor;
(c)    reclamation and re-vegetation of degraded areas and planting of green belts along
the railroads and in the maritime terminals;
(d)    implementation of air, water, soil, and noise pollution control and monitoring in
CVRD's mining, industrial, rail, and port operations;
(e)    erosion control in mines and along the railroad;
(f)    provision of environmental education and training;
(g)    environmental studies and research on pollution and erosion control, and forest
conservation and management; and
(h)    environmental impact assessments in its areas of influence.
3.6   A summary of the major actions by type with a short description, together with their
rationale and status, is presented in Annex 3 for CVRD's Environmental Master Plan for 1989-



- 18 -
1993. and in Annex 4 for the Environmental Master Plan for the Tubarao Terminal (Espirito
Santo), which was updated for 1990-1999, and in which close to 30% of the investments proposed
under this project are located.
3.7   CVRD has placed a high priority on implementing this environmental program within the
agreed time frames for compliance. Many of the proposed measures have been or are being
implemented and the remaining ones are proposed for inclusion under this project.
3.8 CVRD's affiliates and subsidiaries have adopted the company's environmental policy and
organization (para. 3.11 through 3.20). Probably due to earlier community and institutional
pressures, implementation of environmental programs under joint ventures is often more advanced
than in CVRD's own operations. For example, CENIBRA and ALBRAS have established
environmental divisions and monitoring systems more efficient than those of most of CVRD's
southern system.
3.9   Many of the actions proposed in CVRD's environmental plan and in the programs of its
affiliates are corrective measures for pollution control, monitoring and recovery of degraded areas
in CVRD's southern operations, where much needs to be done to meet current environmental
standards. They also correspond to priorities as established in compulsory environmental
assessments, PRADs and PCAs to comply with the environmental legislation, and most of them
have been incorporated into legally-binding time bound agreements (convenios or termos de
compromisso) with federal, state and/or municipal agencies. While comprehenisive, the program
remained rather reactive and focused on remediation rather than prevention. A review of CVRD's
environmental policies, criteria and methodologies carried out during preparation with respect to:
(a) minimization of sources of pollution in its operations and investment programs, (e.g. through
input and technology selection, energy conservation, process changes, etc.); (b) coverage of impact
assessments for new investments; and (c) scope of mitigation plans, concluded that adjustment was
required to CVRD's policies, organization and systems, as further discussed in section C below.
3.10   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CVRD will cause its subsidiaries to, and
take all actions possible to ensure that its affiliated companies: (a) carry out their operations in an
environmentally sound and socially fair manner; (b) comply at all times with norms and standards
applicable under Brazilian laws and acceptable to the Bank; and (c) comply in a timely manner
with licensing requirements and the provisions of all EIA/RIMAs, PIFIs, Termos de Compromisso
and other agreements with SEPAs or other environmental agencies.
C. Organization and Systems
(a) Structure until 1992
3.11   CVRD's organization for environmental management, as it has developed over the past ten
years, is quite complex (Chart 3). Since 1990, the responsibility for environmental management
has been decentralized to the operating divisions ("superintendencies"), which have decision
authority on environmental matters. Most project proposals are initiated by them as well as by
subsidiaries and affiliated companies. The divisional managers ("superintendentes") are
accountable directly to CVRD's Executive Board (through their respective Directors) for
environmental as well as other matters. Each operational superintendency has its own



- 19 -
environmental unit (headed by an environmental manager) which is responsible for formulating and
implementing its respective environment program.
3.12   An Environmental Committee composed of all superintendents meets regularly, previously
under the chairmanship of the Superintendency of Forest Products and the Environment (SUMAF)
and now under the chairmanship of the Superintendency of Development-- SUDES. This
committee reviews important issues arising in the operating units and requiring corporate attention,
and makes appropriate recommendations to the President or Executive Board, and to the
superintendencies.
3.13   In parallel, each superintendency and joint venture has an Internal Committee for the
Environment (CIMA) made up of eight employees elected by their peers. Representatives of the
CIMAs attend the twice-yearly meetings of an outside advisory group for environment protection
called GEAMAM (Group for Studies and Consultation on the Environment) made up of prominent
Brazilian environmental scientists. GEAMAM reviews CVRD's environmental performance and
issues, suggests CVRD's environmental policies, and provides advisory reports to the
Environmental Committee of the superintendents, as well as to CVRD's Executive Board. The
CIMAs' reviews of their respective operating units are incorporated into these reports.
3.14   At headquarters, SUMAF served as an advisory and coordination body on environmental
matters for the other superintendencies. SUMAF had three departments (Gerencias Gerais), two
of which (in charge of Forestry and Pulp Production) had direct operational functions, the third
one being the Environment Department (Gerencia Geral do Meio Ambiente-GIMEZ). As
indicated in para. 3.19, GIMEZ (now GIMAR- Department of Sustainable Development) was
recently transferred to SUDES and no longer has operational functions.
3.15   Until 1992, the role of GIMEZ- then only a lower-level division ("Gerencia")- was limited
to: (a) providing the secretariat for the Environmental Committee of the superintendents; (b)
providing advice to superintendencies and other CVRD authorities on environmental matters; (c)
implementing the company's institutional programs (e.g the Amerindian program); and (d)
carrying out research and studies of general interest.
3.16   The overall environmental management philosophy of CVRD-- decentralization of
responsibilities to operating units, together with the provision of central advice and support and
parallel checks and balances -- was innovative and seems appropriate for a large, decentralized,
multisectoral, and geographically dispersed company. CVRD's environmental policy is reviewed
on the company side by management and employees, and externally by GEAMAM, thereby
maintaining a constructive balance between the various sources of input. However, the lack of a
strong centralized mechanism for establishing policy has meant a relatively ill-defined overarching
corporate policy for setting environmental policies and priorities, and for ensuring their uniform
and consistent application throughout the company and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
3.17    As a result, policy has tended to be generally reactive, rather than proactive, and CVRD
has yet to define how to deal with the indirect impact of large projects and with local communities.
Some superintendencies and joint ventures are very efficient in monitoring environmental impacts
and setting priorities for action. Others still need to implement effective monitoring and control
systems. These weaknesses became apparent in the course of project preparation, which spanned
the entire environmental program of CVRD and its major affiliates countrywide.



- 20 -
(b) Strengthening the Central Environmental Function
3.18   Since 1992, and partly as a result of discussions during project preparation, a number of
steps were taken to strengthen the central environmental function of CVRD. First, GIMEZ (now
GIMAR) was upgraded to a Gerencia Geral. Second, in September 1992, its functions were
considerably strengthened: in addition to its previous advisory functions, GIMAR is in charge of
designing and implementing an Environmental Management System, which will ensure consistent
application of corporate policies and directives throughout the institution and its subsidiaries and
affiliates. This include the following functions: (a) taking an active role in recommending
environmental policies, norms and procedures to management; (b) designing and implementing a
management information system and a central environmental auditing system; (c) formulating
criteria and methodologies for the preparation of, and monitoring the implementation of,
EIA/RIMAs for new projects; (d) organizing training and environmental education programs,
within CVRD and communities impacted by CVRD's operations; (e) research and institutional
development, including management of contracts with scientific groups and universities, NGOs,
the promotion of community participation in CIMAs, and the management of the assistance
program to indigenous communities; and (f) mobilizing resources for CVRD's environmental
programs. Finally, in May 1994, GIMEZ, now called Department of Sustainable Development
(Gerencia Geral de Desenvolvimento Sustentavel-- GIMAR) was transferred to the SUDES, the
corporate superintendency in charge of business development. Such a transfer eliminates previous
possible conflicts of interest within SUMAF between its corporate environmental functions and its
forestry and cellulose business operation functions. Details on the functions and organization of
GIMAR are provided in Annex 5.
3.19  Important additional steps taken were: (a) the establishment of a permanent Commission of
Environmental Managers, made up of the General Manager of GIMAR and managers of the
environmental departments in each superintendency, affiliated and subsidiary company- this
commission is an important forum for practical discussions and analysis of environmental
performance and for the formulation of proposals to the Superintendent Environmental Committee;
and (b) the creation of an internal environmental audit group, as further discussed below.
(c) The Environmental Monitoring and Auditing System
3.20   Perhaps the most important element in this revised central structure (and one which
emerged from discussions during project preparation) is the establishment of a corporate
environmental monitoring and auditing system. Such a system was approved by CVRD's Board in
September 1992 and is being put in place. The system will permit the permanent monitoring of
compliance with regulations and agreements (Termos de Compromisso) and other company
directives aiming at "total environmental quality" and eventually ensure that such compliance is
systematic and uniform throughout the CVRD group. This system will also include the monitoring
of social impacts, such as those associated with commercial reforestation activities (para. 3.35),
and with the implementation of the Amerindian Program (para. 3.28). A program for the
development of such a system has been prepared and its implementation has started: a training
program of all environmental managers in environmental auditing concepts and methods was
carried out in late 1992, with the assistance of Arthur D. Little Co., followed by on-the-job
training at CVRD's installations in Vitoria and pilot audits conducted in Vitoria and Itabira in
October 1993. Subsequently, several full-scale cross-audits took place in 1994 in different
locations. The program calls for the establishment of internal audit groups within each



- 21 -
superintendency, subsidiary and affiliate; an inter-area corporate audit group directed by GIMAR,
performing regular audits in all areas; and periodic audits by external specialized companies. It is
estimated that full establishment and implementation of the management information and auditing
system will take about two more years. The project includes funding for the development and
implementation of this system, more specifically for specialized services needed for system and
structures design and external audits. The terms of reference and calendar for the program are
summarized in Annex 12. Further details are available in the Project Files. Annual reports on the
environmental performance of the group will be prepared on the basis of the information collected
and findings of audits performed, which will be submitted to CVRD's management. Assurances
were obtained that, by the end of January of each year, CVRD would forward to the Bank a report
on the environmental performance and social impacts of its operations and that of its subsidiaries
and affiliated companies participating in the project.
D. Dealing with Indirect Impacts
(a) Assistance to Local Communities
3.21 CVRD's charter include an obligation to donate 5% of net profits derived from the southern
system's operations to municipalities of the southern system. Over the past 25 years, CVRD thus
donated substantial amounts for all kinds of municipal improvements, from street paving to sports
fields, schools, health posts, sanitation infrastructure, etc. Although such obligation does not exist
for the northern system, CVRD has also contributed on an ad-hoc basis to similar investments.
3.22 CVRD is presently rethinking its approach to social action, because: (a) it has found that
the somewhat ad-hoc approach of grants to municipal governments has not necessarily resulted in
noticeable improvements in the standard of living of beneficiary communities, while causing
CVRD to get excessively involved in local politics; (b) in the northern system, CVRD's action has
so far done little to address the indirect impact of its presence; and (c) CVRD wishes in the long
run to lessen dependency of municipalities where it has a strong presence by enhancing self-
sustaining development. A special group has been established within CVRD's Communication
Superintendency to define CVRD's social action policy and coordinate the implementation of
programs and projects in this area. The objective of CVRD's actions would be to encourage the
development of sustainable, environmentally sound, economic activities, with social investments
focused on municipalities with the best development prospects.
3.23   In the Southern System, CVRD's area of influence has long been occupied, stagnation in
economic activity is causing outmigrations, and, in some areas (Itabira in particular), the foreseen
depletion of CVRD mines early next century is forcing the search for alternative activities. CVRD
plans to systematically review municipalities' development potential, and their social and
3  Regulations also require CVRD as well as other mining companies to pay
royalties on sales to municipalities where operations are located, thus
permitting a more systematic financial support to the affected communities.
These royalties are equivalent to 3% ex-plant of iron ore sales, 1% of gold
sales and 2 % of other sales. Sixty-five percent of the proceeds go to
municipalities, and 35 % to state governments. CVRD does not participate
in the decision of how to allocate these funds.



- 22 -
infrastructure needs, to determine those to be attended in priority. CVRD would then act as a
catalyst for the creation of economic opportunities and employment by implementing a small
business development program in cooperation with municipal authorities and local industrial and
business chambers, and with community participation. The program would build upon CVRD's
successful, but limited, experience in Itabira, and upon experience of the small business
development program of the Support Services to Micro and Small Enterprises (SEBRAE) of Santa
Catarina State. CVRD would not substitute for existing institutions and credit agencies, but would
help mobilize existing institutional, technical and credit resources. The project would support the
initiation of this program by financing municipal diagnostic and methodological studies and a pilot
scheme (including infrastructure for an experimental small business center) (para. 4.25).
3.24 In the Northern System, an area of rapid in-migration, social aspects are intimately tied to
environmental considerations. The most vulnerable area in the Carajas corridor is close to the
Carajas iron ore mine, i.e, the area between Maraba and Parauapebas (the end of the rail-line).
This area, where the most forest cover remains, is also the most impacted by CVRD's operations,
the Serra Pelada garimpo and several INCRA settlements, as these activities helped attract
migrants in search of land, gold or employment. Many remain unemployed (the Serra Pelada
garimpo is practically exhausted, but migrant families have-stayed in the area) and the provision of
an economic base for this population is important to reduce pressure on the remaining forest
cover, including the large conservation area under CVRD's responsibility (para. 4.16). The
provision of clean water and basic sanitation infrastructure to the town, which has far exceeded the
population these systems were planned for, is also urgent (para. 4.22). CVRD's social action in
the northern system will therefore focus on this area. Its objective is to contribute to the
stabilization of its population by identifying and supporting self-sustaining productive schemes by
small producers, assisted by local NGOs when relevant, in agriculture and agroforestry. The
project will include studies and pilot schemes to help CVRD in the formulation of a detailed
program in these areas (paras. 4.18). With respect to social services, CVRD intends to focus on
the provision of health services and basic sanitation infrastructure to selected communities along
the railroad (Parauapebas and Sao Luis) (para. 4.22) and to Amerindian communities.
(b) Amerindian Communities
3.25   Some 17,000 tribal Indians, on 24 different reservations, live in, or close to, the Carajas
corridor. Most directly affected by CVRD operations are five groups: the Xikrin of Catete, the
Gaviao of Mae Maria, whose reservation is crossed by the railway line, the Guajajara of Pindare
and Caru, whose reservations lie very near the railway, and the Awa (or Guaja), a nomadic
hunting and gathering people that wanders throughout the area in small family groups. There are
great variations among these groups in terms of contact and adaptation to national society. Some
have been in contact for over 200 years, while others may even still be uncontacted. The
Guajajara Pindare, whose reserve lies only 15 minutes' drive from Santa Ines, live much on the
level of the surrounding non-Indian population, or perhaps slightly better. Most of their income is
from off the reservation, or from selling agricultural produce. They speak fluent Portuguese and
the level of health care is reasonable. On the other hand, the Awa, who were recently contacted,
are in urgent need of health care and protection against encroachers. The Xicrin and Mae Maria
groups are at intermediate stages of cultural adaptation.
3.26 CVRD's involvement with Amerindian communities started with the Special Project
included under the Carajas Iron Ore Project. The purpose of this special project, with a cost of



- 23 -
and health and education services to the tribal people in the general area of the Carajas mine and
railway. Implementation of the project encountered numerous difficulties due to FUNAI's
precarious financial situation and its tendency to divert the project funds to other uses.
Nevertheless, the Special Project appears to have resulted in substantial improvements in the
conditions of indigenous communities in the Carajas area, particularly in terms of health care and
land demarcation (there has been a significant increase in birth rates and parallel decreases in
mortality and morbidity among most Amerindian communities in the area, largely as a result of the
Special Project). Funds of the Special Project are almost completely disbursed, the last remaining
actions being the demarcation of the Awa and Krikati reserves. These were to be implemented
under a two-year contract signed on July 29, 1993 between CVRD and the Army's Geographical
Service (through FUNAI). However, the Army cancelled the contract when demarcation teams
faced resistance from squatters in the area. FUNAI then contracted private demarcation services at
the end of 1994, which will carry out their operations under protection from the Federal Police.
Resumption of physical demarcation is awaiting clearance from the Ministry of Justice. The
Governor of Maranhao has agreed to seek the support of local communities so that demarcation
can proceed peacefully.
3.27 Concerned with the sustainability of these efforts, in 1986 the Brazilian Federal Senate
passed Resolution 331 requiring CVRD to provide assistance to the Indian populations near the
CVRD mining concession. As a result, CVRD signed two agreements, one in 1989 with FUNAI
and the Xicrin community of Catete, and another in 1990 with FUNAI and the Gaviao community
of Mae Maria. There is no expiration date set for these agreements. Essentially, CVRD accepted
the responsibility to fund health and education services, FUNAI providing the personnel to carry
them out, to guard the boundaries of the reservations and plan productive activities leading to
economic self-sufficiency. These agreements, however, do not apply to other groups. In
particular, they do not include the Awa group, the group most in need of assistance.
3.28 A review of CVRD's action under the Special Project and the ongoing agreements reveal a
somewhat paternalistic approach to assistance, with a tendency to meet the group's wishes for
expensive infrastructure, equipment and maintenance services upon demand (in the case of the
Mae Maria group, whose reservation is crossed by the railroad, this tendency is reinforced by the
leverage provided to the group by threats of potential disruptions to rail transport), and by
relatively costly emphasis on curative health care. This approach tends to perpetuate dependency
and so far there has been little progress toward the proclaimed goal of self sufficiency. While
CVRD wishes to ensure the continuity of its assistance program, it is conscious of these problems
and wishes to emphasize: (a) the development of sustainable economic activities, including
sustainable forest management, and training to prepare the communities to eventually take over
management of these activities; (b) the provision of health services stressing prevention,
community participation and health education; (c) the provision of basic sanitation infrastructure;
and (d) informal training and the acquisition of practical skills to lessen dependence on outsiders.
CVRD also intends to design a set of policies, criteria and methodologies to govern its Amerindian
assistance program in a systematic fashion. For this purpose, CVRD plans to invite an advisory
group to meet regularly and submit their conclusions and recommendations in writing. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that CVRD will develop, in consultation with multidisciplinary
experts of recognized experience and qualification, and adopt no'later than three months after loan
effectiveness, a statement of policies and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, describing the
principles, methods and criteria for CVRD's assistance program to Amerindian communities in the
Carajas corridor, to review and select the subprojects to be financed under the project (para 4.20),



- 24 -
and to develop a methodology to monitor and evaluate their impact. An Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan is attached in Annex 13.
(c) Pig Iron Plants in the Carajas Corridor
3.29   A source of environmental degradation in the Carajas corridor linked to the development
of the Carajas iron ore mine is the establishment along the railroad of charcoal-based pig iron
smelters. These evolved from a Govermment-sponsored Greater Carajas Program (Programa
Grande Carajas), which in the early 1980s provided a series of fiscal incentives for their
installation. They were to obtain their energy from charcoal produced from the native forest. A
total of 19 projects were approved along the Carajas railroad, including 6 ferroalloy plants and 13
pig iron plants.
3.30 Following international protest on the consequences of charcoal use for the primary forest, a
series of measures were taken: (a) all ferroalloy plants must be converted to coke; (b) licenses for
the installation of six plants (one ferroalloy and five pig iron plants) were suspended and fiscal
incentives for them were canceled; (c) regulations were passed for all others to secure their raw
materials supply from plantations by 1995; accordingly, the issuing or renewal of operating
licenses have been made conditional on the presentation of PIFIs (paras. 1.5, 1.9) demonstrating
that appropriate arrangements are being made to comply with the law; and (d) fiscal and credit
incentives formerly provided by the Secretariat of Regional Development (SDR) were canceled in
1990 for new projects limited to pig iron production. Projects can be eligible for incentives only if
they are vertically integrated with downstream activities, include process improvements for energy
savings and pollution control, and are 100% self sufficient from the start in wood supply from
planted forests.
3.31   As a result of these actions, at the end of 1993, only 6 pig iron plants and one ferroalloy
plant were in operation. Production of pig iron in the area totalled 600,000 tons in 1992 and
about 768,000 tons in 1993 (following completion of the last two units). The four plants in
operation in 1992 operated on average from charcoal obtained 53% from sawmill residues, 12%
from forest management, and 35% from other sources, largely residues from land clearing for
agriculture and pasture establishment. So far reforestation for charcoal production has been
negligible. Except for one smelter located in Rosario, near Sao Luis, none of them is in
agreement with the current legislation, which required them to be 70% self- sufficient in 1992,
increasing to 100% by 1995, in wood production for charcoal from planted or managed forest.
3.32   Although these pig iron plants have been responsible for a very small portion of
deforestation in the area, they indirectly support it by adding some value to by-products of
deforestation carried out for other purposes (logging for sawmills, agriculture or livestock).
Furthermore, with the increase in pig iron production in 1993, charcoal requirements will increase
while available residues from sawmills (the largest source and the easiest to document) will not- in
fact over time these should decrease as enforcement of forest protection and exploitation legislation
increases and wood prices consequently increase.
3.33   Extensive discussions of this issue took place during preparation and appraisal. In April
1992, CVRD started to design and then proceeded to implement a program aimed at progressively
bringing the Carajas corridor pig iron smelters into compliance with the law. The following



- 25 -
actions, in which extensive participation of pig iron producers was secured, have been
implemented:
(a)    implementation of an in-depth review of the smelter operations and of the origins
of charcoal (" Basic Information Regarding Pig Iron Production in the PGC Area"-
Project File);
(b)    preparation of a detailed analysis of options available to pig iron producers to
comply with the law and their cost-benefit analysis; complemented by a Pig Iron
Market Study: this review concluded that the required investments in reforestation
and sustainable native forest management are financially viable provided they are
accompanied by technological improvements in pig iron manufacturing, aiming at
reducing charcoal needs, and in charcoal production, aiming at reducing wood
requirements and lowering costs while controlling pollution ("Financial Resources
for a Forestry Program in Carajas and Sustainability of the Pig Iron Industry"; and
"Scenarios for the International Pig Iron Market in the Year 2000"- both in the
Project File);
(c)    preparation and release of a CVRD policy statement and program establishing the
company's policy not to supply iron ore to pig iron producers in the Carajas
corridor unless they comply with environmental regulations (including licensing
regulations, wood self sufficiency requirements under Decree 97,629, and
standards of pollution). In this statement, CVRD also undertakes to provide
technical assistance to pig iron producers to help them formulate detailed
investment programs required for them to meet their obligations within an agreed
timeframe, including technical assistance in the preparation of acceptable PIFIs for
IBAMA's review and approval, in reforestation and forest management activities,
and in technological and process improvements in charcoal and pig iron
manufacturing-- this policy statement and program was forwarded to the Bank in a
letter dated August 3, 1993, which is available in the Project File. CVRD has
since contracted a specialist consultant to work with pig iron producers in the
preparation of their individual plans;
(d)    signing of agreements with each of the six pig iron producers in which: (i) the
producers recognize their obligation to comply with the law as a condition for
obtaining ore supplies from CVRD (including with all state environmental
licensing regulations, norms and standards of air, water and soil pollution, with
Decree 97,629, and with the need for preparing, submitting and implementing
PIFIs duly approved by IBAMA); to register all charcoal manufacturing units
supplying them; and to periodically demonstrate the origin of the wood used in
these charcoal units ("Draft Contract for the Supply of Ore and Rail and Port
Transport Services"- Project File);
(e)   joint review of, and agreement with pig iron producers on, technical criteria to be
used in the preparation of revised PIFIs for submission to IBAMA; and provision
of technical assistance in the identification, basic engineering concepts and costing
of the various measures; and



- 26 -
(f)    signing of a Cooperation Agreement on November 3, 1993, between CVRD and
IBAMA for the preparation of a joint action plan to increase enforcement of
environmental regulations by the pig iron industry in the Carajas Corridor.
Through this agreement, CVRD would make available its on-site logistical
infrastructure to IBAMA to facilitate regular control and enforcement of
environmental legislation applicable to pig iron production in the Carajas Corridor;
(ii) IBAMA would keep CVRD informed about the schedule and results of its
control activities, and the compliance status of each producer (on that basis CVRD
may then legally suspend ore and services supplies); (iii) if requested by IBAMA,
CVRD would provide assistance with the review of pig iron producers projects,
including PIFIs (a copy of this agreement is available in the Project File).
3.34   The above actions demonstrate the serious commitment of CVRD in this matter.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that CVRD will continue to implement its program as
described in item (c) above.
(d) Polos F7orestais
3.35   The Polos Florestais program in the Carajas corridor aims at replanting degraded areas,
mostly with exotic species (eucalyptus), to supply pulp-mills to be established in the region. So
far, the only project under active planning is for the planting of about 90,000 hectares of
eucalyptus on degraded land in the area of Imperatriz/Acailandia (associated with the maintenance
of a natural forest reserve of equal size), to support a pulp mill expected to enter into production
in 1999 (at the earliest). This program would be implemented by a joint venture (CELMAR) in
which CVRD has a 42.5 % participation. This program has potentially strong positive
environmental and socio-economic impacts, but if improperly implemented could lead to
displacement of smallholders, squatters and rural workers in the area. Socio-economic, agronomic
and ecological studies are being prepared as a basis for project design and the later compulsory
EIA/RIMAs which will be required for environmental licensing. CVRD intends to keep the Bank
informed of the status of these studies, their terms of reference and conclusions, including those of
EIA/RIMAs associated with the plantations and the pulp mill. The Bank reviewed the land
purchase procedures being used by CELMAR in 1993 and found them and their implementation
adequate so far to protect the interest of small landowners, settlers and rural workers. CVRD's
management has formally informed the Bank that CVRD will continue to monitor the matter
closely and provide the Bank with all information required for an adequate follow-up of these
aspects. Environmental protection is part of CELMAR's obligations under the CELMAR
shareholder's agreement, and CVRD's Department of Sustainable Development (GIMAR), as a
regular participant in CELMAR's environmental committee, will be able to follow this matter,
make recommendations and if necessary exert pressure to have them implemented (to the extent it
is allowed to do so under the terms of the Shareholder Agreement). Finally, all affiliated
companies, including CELMAR, would participate in the Environmental Monitoring and Auditing
system which is being established for the entire CVRD group as part of the project. Monitoring of
environmental and social impacts of the operations of all subsidiaries and affiliates of the CVRD
group are part of the terms of reference of the audit system. During project implementation, the
Bank would review the EIAs as they become available, and would continue to monitor the
implementation of the CELMAR land purchase program.



- 27 -
IV - THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.1   The project has three major objectives: (a) to support the entire environmental program of
CVRD by financing high-priority investments throughout its operations; (b) to bring about changes
in CVRD's policies, systems and procedures needed to reinforce sound environmental policies and
management and help ensure that further development schemes in which CVRD would participate
in this area are planned and implemented in ways which are environmentally sound and socially
fair; and (c) to correct some of the negative indirect environmental and social impact of CVRD's
operations in sensitive portions of its area of influence, in particular in the Carajas corridor.
B. Rationale for Bank Participation
4.2   The World Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for Brazil has four long term
objectives to stimulate development: (a) poverty alleviation and human resources development; (b)
protecting natural resources and the environment; (c) private sector development and public sector
reform; and (d) improvement of infrastructure through rehabilitation of neglected infrastructure,
promotion of private participation and strengthening of urban institutions. The proposed project
would contribute primarily to the first two objectives. More specifically, this project deserves
Bank involvement for the following reasons: first, the proposed investments fit into federal and
state priorities since CVRD is required to comply with the new federal legislation and with
agreements with state authorities; second, the Bank would contribute to the preparation and
implementation of a comprehensive environmental program in one of the largest industrial
conglomerates in Brazil; to improvements in its environmental and social policies and systems,
which could be an example for other large industrial polluters in the country; third, substantial
externalities would be derived from the project's contribution towards correcting and preventing
further environmental and social degradation in the Carajas Corridor, by: (i) solving the pig iron
plant issue; (ii) ensuring the continuity of efforts to protect and assist Amerindian communities
while placing increased emphasis on self reliance and community participation; (iii) contributing to
the alleviation of poverty in communities near CVRD's facilities through the provision of clean
water and sewerage systems; and (iv) improving knowledge of sustainable development in the
Eastern Amazon and Mata Atlantica regions by using the strong research and implementation
capacity of CVRD for study and development of tropical forest management and agroforestry
systems; Fourth, finally, the project would allow the Bank to gain additional insight on how large
industrial and mining concerns should identify and mitigate the indirect environmental and social
impact of large projects in ecologically sensitive areas.
C. Project Description
4.3 The project consists of the following components:
(a)    air, water and soil pollution control and land reclamation investments in CVRD's
mining, industrial, rail and port operations throughout the country (58% of project
cost);



- 28 -
(b)    natural resource investments, which include reforestation and the conservation of
natural forest and ecosystems in or around CVRD's installations; and fauna and
flora inventories and conservation (6% of project cost);
(c)    socially oriented investments contributing to the alleviation of social problems in
ecologically sensitive areas in CVRD's area of influence, including municipal
improvements in towns impacted by CVRD; and the continuation of the
Amerindian program financed under the Carajas iron ore project (19% of project
costs);
(d)    studies, research, training. and technical assistance, including a comprehensive
impact assessment of the Tubarao industrial port, other pollution monitoring and
impact studies and socio economic development studies (3 % of project costs);
(e)    implementation of a comprehensive corporate environmental information, control.
monitoring and auditing system (2% of project costs); and
(f)    other sub-projects and studies (to be defined), aimed at further reducing pollution
and environmental degradation, improving knowledge of, and protecting and
conserving natural ecosystems (including fauna and flora inventories), sustainable
management of natural forests, environmental education, and social programs
aiming at improving the welfare of communities in CVRD's area of influence
(12% of project costs).
4.4  Each component comprises a number of sub-projects which have high priority within the
environmental programs of CVRD and one of its associated companies (NOVA ERA). A
breakdown of subprojects by type and by location, together with their description, costs, rationale
and a summary of their main benefits, is presented in Annexes 6, 7 and 8. Detailed briefs on each
subproject and supporting documentation and studies are available in the Project File. Bank
review and approval of each sub-project would be a condition of disbursements under the
respective sub-project.
(a) Pollution Control and Land Reclamation in CVRD Facilities
4.5   As part of project preparation, a comprehensive review of the entire environmental
program of CVRD and its major associated companies, as well as all impact assessments and
programs to recuperate degraded areas, and of agreements with relevant SEPAs and the status of
their implementation, was carried out to confirm that all priority problems are either being
addressed by CVRD through actions or investments under implementation, or will be addressed as
part of the proposed loan. Subprojects were selected using the following criteria: (i) they have
been identified as priority investments in the above context; (ii) they have a strong public good
content; (iii) they will bring no or low financial returns to CVRD and its affiliated companies; (iv)
they are not recurrent costs (except for contracted monitoring services); (v) they are not
components of future investments; and (vi) their implementation stage permits procurement
according to Bank Guidelines. Most selected subprojects have to be implemented by CVRD and
its affiliates as part of their commitments with IBAMA and the SEPAs, and have been derived
from compulsory PCAs, PRADs and PIFIs (para. 1.8 and 1.9). These investments seek to: (a)
correct air pollution problems (gaseous emissions and dust); (b) control and treat liquid effluent;



- 29 -
(c) treat and dispose of solid waste; (d) restore areas degraded by mining; and (e) reduce noise.
The distribution of investments by type of action is presented in the table below:
Table 3: Distribution of Pollution Control and Land Reclamation Investments, by Tvpe
Amount (Base
Cost)
Type of Investment                                                     USS Thousand          %
Control of Gas Effluent and Air Pollution
Gas Effluent Treatment                                                10,430       19
Dust Emissions Control                                                7,020        13
Subtotal                                                    17,450        32
Control, Drainage. Treatment and Discharee of Liquid Effluent
Industrial Effluent                                                  21,610       39
Sewage Treatment                                                        130         -
Subtotal                                                 21,740       39
Solid Waste Treatment and DisDosal
Mining Waste and Tailings                                            11,180       20
Industrial Waste                                                       210          -
Subtotal                                                 11,390       20
Recovery of Areas Degraded by Mining and Waste Deposits                         2,310         4
Other                                                                            2 980        5
TOTAL                                                    55,870      too
4.6   Most air pollution control investments consist of the installation of electrostatic precipitators,
scrubbers, filters and dust control systems in the Vitoria pelletization plants and the NOVA ERA
ferrosilicon plant. Most liquid effluent control and treatment investments relate to effluent
minimization and treatment at the Vitoria facilities. Solid waste treatment and disposal and
associated land reclamation investments are spread throughout CVRD's installations. The
following paragraphs briefly describe some of the more important subprojects. A complete listing
of subprojects and their respective costs is provided in Annex 6. The above table includes
subprojects totalling about US$14.9 million which have been identified to address issues raised in
the course of the first environmental audits of the Vitoria and Itabira and other sites but need to be
developed before they can be financed under the project. A condition of disbursement under any
subproject would be that the Bank has approved each subproject. The list of already approved
subprojects and of those identified but not yet approved is included in Annex 9.



- 30 -
4.7   The most relevant air pollution control investments include:
(a)    two electrostatic precipitators (totalling about US$3.9 million4) would be installed
to control air pollution at the pelletization plants at the Tubarao terminal5. These
secondary collectors, which will be installed after the existing cyclones, will
eliminate most of the remaining dust in gases generated in pelletization furnaces
before they are released through a chimney to the atmosphere. Rejected gases will
have less than 100 mg of particulate matter per cubic meter of air;
(b)    bag filters at the NOVA ERA ferrosilicon plant (US$6.6 million) for the treatment
of exhaust gases from the three plants' arc furnaces; and
(c)    dust control and minimization during material handling at the Tubarao terminal
and the Taquari-Vassoura potash mine (US$7.0 million).
4.8    The most important liquid effluent control investments aim at the collection and treatment
of liquid effluent from storage, handling and access areas of the Tubarao terminal in Vitoria
(US$13.4 million).
4.9    Safe treatment and disposal of mine tailings consist of: (a) the expansion and improvement
of the tailing pond dam at the Carajas iron ore mine (US$8.5 million); and (b) the construction of
additional modular ponds for settling and confining tailings for the CIP plant gold mine of Igarape
Bahia (Carajas), where recuperation of cyanide from tailings is essential before they can be
disposed of (US$2.7 million).
4.10   The geographic distribution of the proposed investments largely reflects the age of the
installations and the attention paid earlier in the Northern system to environmental consequences.
As noted in para. 1.26, the Carajas iron ore mine and transport system was planned and
implemented with protection and control measures incorporated from the start in project design
and operations. Few investments are therefore required. In contrast, considerable investments are
required in the older facilities of the Southern system, in particular at the plants and port
infrastructure of Vitoria. The Southern system accounts for about 74% of the pollution control
investments proposed under the project. The geographic distribution and location of investments
are summarized in Table 4 below. A complete listing of these investments by location is provided
in Annex 7.
4.11   Pollution control investments at the Tubarao terminal and port at Vitoria (US$21.4 million)
account for about 38% of pollution control investments financed under the project. They include:
(i) dust control and collection in material handling and storage systems (mostly iron ore, lime and
4 Costs indicated in this and subsequent paragraphs are base costs and do not
include contingencies or taxes.
A total of six electrostatic precipitators are being or will be (as part of the
project) installed in all pelletization plants of CVRD and its affiliated
companies (NIBRASCO, ITABRASCO and HISPANOBRAS) at the Tubarao
port.



- 31 -
coal); (ii) gas effluent treatment in pelletization and lime plants; (iii) drainage and industrial
effluent control and treatment; (iv) sewage treatment; (v) solid waste deposit; and (vi) noise
control at the pig iron handling and storage facilities. All these investments are part of a
comprehensive environmental 1990-99 master plan for the Tubarao terminal (Annex 4), which is
under implementation. They are also included in the agreement (Termo de Compromisso) with
SEAMA, dated September 1, 1990 (Project File), by which CVRD committed itself to implement
all the corrective measures listed in the agreement by specified dates. This agreement also
includes an obligation to prepare and implement an improved detailed monitoring program. In
addition, a comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment of the CVRD port facilities at
Tubarao and Cais de Paul will be carried out as part of the Project (para. 4.27 (a)) to assess the
impact of CVRD and CST's operations on the Vitoria area's atmosphere and coastal, surface and
underground waters, and soil, and assess risks of these operations. This EIA's objectives will be
to assess improvements obtained through measures already implemented and determine whether the
master plan needs to be complemented. At the end of the project, when all measures have been
implemented, the EIA will be updated.
Table 4: Geographical Distribution of Pollution Control and Land Reclamation Investments
Location of Investments                                                 Amount (Base Cost)      %
Southern System
Port of Vitoria:
- Port Facilities                                                        13.40(       24
-- Pelletization Plants                                                    7,970      14
Vitoria-Minas Railroad                                                         6,250      11
Minas Gerais Mines I/                                                          3,570       6
NOVA ERA Ferrosilicon Plant (MG)                                               7,220      13
Subtotal                                                          38,410      68
Northern System
Carajas Iron Ore Mine (Para)                                                  8.460       15
Igarape Bahia Gold Mine- Carajas                                              3.640        6
Carajas Railroad                                                                870        2
Ponta da Madeira Port                                                           350        1
Taquari-Vassoura Potash Mine                                                  2,560        5
Other Mines                                                                    1,580       3
Subtotal                                                          17460       32
TOTAL                                                          55,870      100
1/ Itabira and Timbobeba Mines.
(b) Natural Resources
4.12    The natural resources subprojects fall into two main categories: (i) reforestation of
degraded areas with native species (US$5.7 million), establishing green belts along the railways
and around mine sites, as protection against erosion, dust and noise; and (ii) protection of
ecosystems (US$0.2 million), consisting of the implementation of a management plan in the
Linhares forest reserve, which is owned by CVRD (funding for the preparation of this and other



- 32 -
management plans has been obtained as a PHRD grant (equivalent to US$1.6 million) as detailed
in the next paragraphs).
4.13   CVRD's activities take place in areas of great environmental importance: the Southern
system affects areas of the Atlantic Coastal Forest (Mata Atlantica), and the Northern system is
located in part in the Eastem Amazon forest. The company intends to contribute to conservation
in the areas where it is present. In the older Southern System, the company's objective is to
correct environmental degradation and to reduce the extemal costs imposed by its operations. In
the Northern system, environmental activities are more preventive in nature and include
preservation of primary ecosystems and research aimed at protection and rational use of natural
resources.
4.14   CVRD's natural resource projects are consistent with Brazil's and the Bank's policies as
reflected in the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest6(para. 1.24), and in the
National Environmental Project (para 1.23).
4.15   Protection of Ecosystems. CVRD manages several biological and forest reserves. The
Reserva Florestal de Linhares in the Southern System, owned by the company, is particularly
important because it contains about 20,000 ha. of climax Atlantic Forest, of which only 3 %
remains in the country relative to pre-colonial times. The reserve supports a variety of activities
including conservation and research on natural ecosystems; research on exotic and native species
for commercial production; a notably large nursery of exotic and native species; and simple
research on pulping and charcoal characteristics of various species. A major role of the reserve is
also to support the activities of Florestas Rio Doce, the subsidiary of CVRD responsible for
plantation activities to supply fibre to the pulp mills in the CVRD system.
4.16   In the Northern system, CVRD has been granted the concession for the Carajas forest
(Patrimonio Florestal Area Projeto Carajas), where the Carajas iron ore mine is located, and owns
the Buriticupu and Maraba Forest Reserves located along the railway corridor. CVRD has also
established agreements with IBAMA through which it assumes responsibility for the management
of other reserves in the northem system: Tapirape-Aquiri National Forest, Tapirape Biological
Reserve, and Igarape Gelado Environmental Protection Area'. The National Forest, Biological
Reserve, and Environmental Protection Area, together with the adjoining Patrimonio Florestal and
Catete Indian Reserve, form a contiguous protected area of 1 .1 million ha. around Carajas. This
area is remarkable both for its size and for the ecosystems it contains. Along with the Buriticupu
and Maraba reserves, it provides an excellent series of representative ecosystems of the Eastern
6  The Bank is assisting the Brazilian Government in the preparation of this
program to be funded by the G-7 and other donors.
7 Use of these three types of reserves is governed by federal restrictions. In
the case of Biological Reserves (REBIOs), entry is allowed only for
scientific research; in National Forests (FLONAs), sustainable extractive
activities, including logging, can be carried out; and in Environmental
Protection Areas (APAS), which generally serve as buffer zones, residents
are allowed to remain and continue farming land which has already been
deforested, but cannot clear new areas.



- 33 -
Amazon. The Maraba reserve (17,000 ha.) is in an area noted for its population of Brazil nut
trees, while the Buriticupu reserve (10,000 ha.) protects a threatened area of pre-Amazon forest.
In all these reserves, in addition to an exemplary protection effort (against fires and land
occupations), CVRD either conducts or intends to conduct various research, education and
demonstration projects, which would increase knowledge about the ecosystems and their
sustainable management.
4.17   To assist in these efforts, the Government of Japan has approved a PHRD grant in the
amount of US$1.6 million equivalent, to finance the preparation of studies (including fauna and
flora inventories) needed for, and the subsequent preparation of management plans for, the Maraba
and Linhares forest reserves as well as other activities (paras. 4.21 and 4.26). Funding is
available under the project for subsequent implementation of study recommendations (para. 4.28).
The main objective of these plans is to identify, prioritize and plan the activities to be conducted in
the reserve, including scientific research, sustainable management for commercial purposes,
community-oriented activities and environmental education; protection of areas from invasion,
misuse, and fire. The reserves are an important public relations tool for CVRD and also serve as
research stations to support research into sustainable management. They have an important public
good role, not only because they preserve valuable and threatened ecosystems, but also because
they are ideal sites for research and public education activities, and are prime demonstration
models for other reserves that could be established in the country. Knowledge gained from these
management and research programs could be used in other protected areas, including those
supported by the G-7 Pilot Program and the National Environmental Project.
4.18   Additional funding has been included under the project for the development of similar
schemes or studies (inventories) and research in other forest areas under the responsibility of
CVRD, in particular in the protected areas around Carajas (such as the Tapirape Aquiri Biological
Reserve and National Forest and the Carajas Concession) (para. 4.30).
4.19   Reforestation of degraded areas is consistent with the company's objective of compensating
for natural resource degradation arising from its activities. Green belts (with total costs estimated
at about US$5.7 million) will be planted in selected portions along the northern and southern
railways. The greenbelts will help control erosion, thus reducing the company's maintenance costs
of the railroads, and reducing the risks of fires usually caused by pasture burning in neighboring
ranches. They will also provide external benefits through: (a) reduced siltation to rivers (in
particular along the Rio Doce); (b) the carbon sequestration value embodied in these green belts,
which will occupy about 5,000 ha in strips of forest along the railways; (c) improved safety by
making the access of the railway more difficult to humans and animals; and (d) since consisting
mostly of native species, they will also act as germplast banks and provide some refuge to animal
species, thus contributing to biodiversity. The green belts around the Itabira mine and town and
the Timbopeba mine are a response to demands of local populations who have settled very close to
the mine. These green belts, to be planted with native species, will reduce noise and air pollution
(from dust) and improve the local landscape.



- 34-
(c) Socially Oriented Components
Amerindian Programs
4.20    As detailed in para. 3.28, the project would seek to ensure the continuity of the Special
Project, while correcting some of its approaches. Funds totalling about US$4.9 million have been
budgeted under the project for that purpose. However, except for urgently needed actions to
protect the Awa reserve after it has been demarcated, the selection, scope, design and
implementation mechanisms of specific subprojects would await the completion of the statement of
policies and procedures mentioned in para. 3.28. In addition, assurances were obtained that all
subprojects would meet the following criteria: (i) it would have the formal approval and support of
the native community; (ii) it would stress self-reliance and sustainability and provide training to
prepare the community to take over management of the project; (iii) it would stress community
participation, in particular in the provision of preventive health care and education services; (iv) it
would stress the acquisitioni of practical skills to lessen dependence on outsiders. CVRD has
already identified candidate subprojects that could meet these criteria but review in light of the task
force recommendations is required prior to CVRD proceeding with them. Subprojects will focus
on: (a) the provision of preventive healtlh care services and basic sanitation infrastructure; informal
training; and technical assistance for the development of forest management techniques and other
self-sustainable economic activities; and (b) assistance to FUNAI in completing the demarcation of
the Krikati, Awa and Governador Amerindian areas and in protecting Amerindian communities
under CVRD's area of influence (in particular the Awa community, for which the project would
finance protection activities essential to their survival). It is expected that the program would
continue to focus on the five communities most impacted by CVRD's operations, i.e.the Xicrin of
Catete; the Gaviao of Mae Maria; the Awa of the Awa Guaja reserve (para. 3.28), and the
Guajajara and Awas of Caru, Alto Turiacu and Pindare. Each component would be funded by
CVRD but implemented by specialized institutions (such as FUNAI or state health services) or
NGOs. A condition of disbursements under this component would be that: (a) for basic sanitation
infrastructure, that satisfactory mechanisms are designed to ensure their proper operation and
maintenance; and (b) CVRD has entered into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank,
with FUNAI, to carry-out demarcation activities. An Indigenous People Development Plan for the
communities along the Carajas railroad most impacted by CVRD activities is presented in Annex
13.
4.21   In order to provide a scientific basis for the preparation of possible sustainable forest
management plans in Amerindian reserves, a large portion (US$540,000) of the PHRD grant
mentioned earlier (para. 4.17) has been allocated to the carrying out of basic inventories of forest
resources and fauna in each of the five indigenous reserves mentioned earlier, and, if justified on
that basis, to the design of sustainable forest management plans. It is expected that implementation
of these subprojects could be financed under the project (para. 4.30) as long as they fit into
CVRD's strategy and meet the criteria detailed in the above paragraph.
Municipal Infrastructure
4.22    Sanitation Infrastructure in Parauapebas. Parauapebas is a "service town" to the Carajas
mining complex (CVRD's own townsite, where most of its employees reside, is located within the
concession). It grew in a short time to a population of 55,000 as a result of the Carajas iron ore
mining project as well as other activities which developed in the region (agriculture, ranching and



- 35 -
gold prospecting). Parauapebas was originally planned to accommodate a population of 10,000,
and has thus today quite inadequate infrastructure and services, in particular for the provision of
safe water and sewerage. Being at the end of the railroad, the town draws migrants in search of
employment, land and gold. CVRD has agreed to assist the municipality with the planning and
implementation of a water supply and sewer system capable of serving the population of
Parauapebas and of its unplanned Rio Verde satellite. The subproject is estimated to cost about
US$7.0 million (excluding contingencies and taxes). CVRD would pass on Bank funds to the
municipality to finance these investments and would deduct repayments from royalties paid on ore
sales.
4.23   In order to assist the municipality in selecting the optimum technology, institutional
arrangements for operation and maintenance and a cost recovery system, CVRD has hired IBAM
(Brazilian Institute of Municipal Administration) to carry out a study to that effect, propose a
program of action, and assist the municipality in its implementation (including proposals towards
the establishment of an autonomous municipal enterprise). Assurances were obtained that CVRD
would enter into an Implementation Agreement with the Municipality of Parauapebas which would
include provisions for financing and relending of Bank loan proceeds, authorize CVRD to carry
out the subproject on behalf of the municipality, and require the municipality to establish and
maintain cost recovery mechanisms. The presentation of the signed Implementation Agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursements under the subproject.
4.24   Collection and Treatment of Domestic Sewage in Itabira. This subproject would finance
the collection and treatment of domestic sewage of the most urbanized portion of the city of Itabira
(which is adjacent to the CVRD iron ore mine) (Bacia do Corrego da Penha), i.e the first stage of
the municipality's plan to provide for complete coverage of the population. The project would
benefit about 65,000 people, or 60% of the population of Itabira's urban area, but over 80% of the
area of major urban concentration. Total costs (excluding taxes and contingencies) are estimated at
US$4.6 million. The subproject would be implemented by CVRD, under an Implementation
Agreement with, and subsequently be transferred to, SAAE (Servicio Autonomo de Agua e
Esgotos de Itabira), the municipal water supply agency, with contents similar to that for
Parauapebas (para. 4.22). The presentation of the signed Implementation Agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursements under the subproject.
Rural Extension and Small Business Development
4.25    Small Business Development. As indicated in para. 3.23, CVRD intends to design and
test its new policy of helping communities in the identification and development of self-sustainable
economic activities. Based on diagnostic and methodological studies mentioned in para. 4.27
below, the project would finance a pilot project to construct and manage a small business technical
assistance center in a community (to be selected after the above studies have been completed).
The project would finance the cost of construction, equipment and consulting services to establish
and manage the technical assistance program (US$690,000).
4.26    Rural Extension. In addition to urban infrastructure problems, the Carajas corridor is
also characterized by land degradation and rural poverty. As indicated in para. 3.24, CVRD is
anxious to find ways to prevent encroachments on the forest and biological reserves entrusted to
the company by IBAMA and on its own Carajas forest concession. These areas are surrounded to



- 36 -
the north and east by agricultural settlements (the CEDERE I INCRA settlement, created in 1980;
the APA do Igarape Gelado and the INCRA Jader Barbalho Colony, created in 1989).
Productivity is poor, however, and land degradation is aggravated by shifting cultivation and the
use of inappropriate agricultural techniques. As part of its agreement with IBAMA to help
preserve the Tapirape forest and biological reserve, CVRD has been testing a rural extension
program among fifty families in these areas. CVRD hopes to help stabilize the population of small
settlers and limit encroachments on the neighboring reserves by them and others. Alternative
agricultural techniques have been developed for a number of crops (so far, fruits and vegetables)
which are more suitable to regional soils and climate, and would provide an adequate living for
small farmers while reducing their incentive to deforest further areas (logging is prohibited in the
APA). The experience so far has been quite successful, but has been based on the provision free
of charge of extension services, simple equipment and inputs by CVRD, and unclear extent of
cost recovery through the purchase of products by CVRD's Carajas employees cooperative. A
study to review experience under this pilot component and prospects for extending it to other crops
(in particular agroforestry) and areas (in the Maraba-Parauapebas area) in a way which does not
require subsidies is to be financed under the PHDR grant mentioned in para. 4.17. Long term
sustainability and replicability depends on the existence of markets outside the immediate Carajas
area and on the ability of farmers to gain independent access to institutional credit and market
outlets. Depending on the conclusions of the study, a pilot scheme could be financed under the
unallocated portion of the loan (para. 4.30).
(d) Studies, Research, Training and Technical Assistance
4.27   The project includes a number of studies and technical assistance programs designed to
support sound environmental management and contribute to the improvement of environmental and
social conditions in CVRD's broader area of influence. These programs can be grouped as
follows:
(a)    a comprehensive environmental study in the industrial port of Tubarao which will:
(a) design comprehensive mitigation plans to resolve outstanding questions in both
CVRD and CST operations (design of a comprehensive solid waste disposal
program for CVRD; design of a management plan for sulfur dioxide emissions for
both CVRD and CST; design of a management plan for CST liquid effluent- in
particular ammonia); design of an environmental management system for CST; and
(b) following implementation of most of these measures and others under
implementation, carry out a comprehensive impact assessment of the Tubarao port
terminal operations (encompassing the operations of both CST and CVRD on air,
marine resources, and the health of the Victoria area population) (US$1.6 million).
It is expected that all phases of the study would be contracted by the end of 1994
and completed by July 1997;
(b)    monitoring and control services at the Timbopeba and Itabira mines (US$0.2
million);
(c)    study and testing of alternative low-cost systems for better sanitation in low-
income communities around the Ponta da Madeira terminal of Sao Luis (US$0.5
million); and



- 37 -
(d)    a two-phase study to diagnose the economic and social situation of all
municipalities in CVRD's area of influence; and to define the methodology to be
used for the selection of comnmunities to be assisted in priority under the small
business promotion program and the approach to be used in the identification and
promotion of economic activities (US$0.3 million).
4.28   Studies under items (b) and (d) above are expected to be completed by the end of
December 1996. The Impact Assessment Study at Tubarao (which will be carried out in various
phases) is expected to start at the end of December 1995 and be completed by the end of July
1998. The total cost of these studies is estimated at about US$2.7 million. A listing of the studies
together with their cost is provided in Annex 6. Detailed cost estimates and summary termns of
reference are available in the Project File. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that all
technical assistance services required for these studies would be contracted according to Bank
Guidelines under detailed terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and that they would be
carried out according to the agreed schedule.
(e) CVRD Environmental Organization and Systems
4.29   As indicated in para. 3.11, CVRD has recently decentralized environmental management to
its superintendencies and affiliates, and is in the process of establishing guidelines, norms,
structures, systems and procedures to ensure that environmental considerations are incorporated
into operations and planning on a systematic and consistent basis across its activities. As part of
project preparation, a review of these aspects has been carried-out. The need was identified to
establish a central information, monitoring and control and auditing system capable of: (i)
continuously monitoring the environmental performance of each operation (including social
impacts); (ii) "auditing" decentralized operations and affiliated companies and reporting
inadequacies and recommending remedial actions to CVRD general management; (iii) reviewing
terms of reference and analyzing EIA/RIMA's for CVRD group's new projects, and monitoring
their execution and the implementation of mitigation programs; and (iv) identifying risks and
monitoring implementation of risk minimization plans. Funding (US$1.8 million) is included
under the project for that purpose to cover the cost of technical assistance for the design and
implementation of such a system, selected external environmental audits, technical assistance for
the development of environmental management systems and structures in operating
superintendencies and affiliated companies, and equipment and training needs. An outline of the
functions of such a system and a timetable for its establishment is provided in Annex 12.
CI) Other Subprojects and Studies
4.30   An unallocated amount equivalent to US$11.4 million has been included under the project
to finance other sub-projects and studies aimed at: (a) resolving other pollution and environmental
degradation problems which may emerge from future environmental audits; and (b) improving
knowledge of, and protecting and conserving natural ecosystems (including fauna and flora
inventories), sustainable management of natural forests, environmental education, and social
programs aiming at improving the welfare of communities in CVRD's area of influence. Several
subprojects in this second category have been tentatively identified but their design and justification
require substantial additional preparation work. These consist of a strategy study for social and
economic development in the Maraba region, inventories of fauna and of flora in the Tapirape
national forest and biological reserve and the Carajas concession, and environmental education
programs. Subprojects to be developed could also include other socially-oriented components, in



- 38 -
particular those aimed at improving public health and sanitation infrastructure in communities in
CVRD's area of influence. Bank review and approval of the detailed subprojects and study terms
of reference, (including their implementation arrangements and, when relevant, cost recovery
mechanisms) would be a condition of disbursements under each subproject.
D - Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Costs
4.31     Total project costs are estimated as follows:
Table 5: Total Proiect Costs (US$ Million)
Local  Fireicn    Total   % Foreign    % Base Cost
Control of Pollution and Land Reclamation
Air Pollution                                   9.5        8.0    17.5            46              18
Water Pollution                                 15.0       6.7    21.7           31               23
Solid Waste & Reclamation of Degraded Areas     10.7       3.0    13.7            22              14
Other                                            1.5       1.5      3.0           50               3
Subtotal                            36.7      19.2    55.9            34              58
Natural Resources
Protection of Ecosystems                        0.2        ...     0.2           20
Reforestation of Degraded Areas                 4.8       0.9       5.7           15               6
Subtotal                            5.0       0.9      5.9            15               6
Socially-Oriented components
Municipal Improvements                          8.1        4.0    12.1            33              13
Amerindian Assistance                           4.0       0.9       4.9           18               5
Rural and Small Business Extension              0.5       0.2      0.7           29                1
Subtotal                           12.6       5.1     17.7           29              19
Studies. Technical Assistance and Training
Environmental Impact & Social Studies           2.3       0.3      2.6           10                3
Environmental Information & Auditing System     0.7        1.1      1.8          62                2
Subtotal                           3.0        1.4      4.4           32               5
Other Sub-proiects and Studies                       8.7       2.7     11.4           24              12
Total Base Cost                         66.0       29.3    95.3            31             100
Physical Contingencies                               2.0       0.9      2.9           31               3
Price Contingencies                                  1.7       0.8      2.5           31               3
Total Cost                              69.7       31.0   100.7           31              106
Taxes and Duties                                     9.2         -      9.2            -              10
Total Financine Required                78.9       31.0   109.9            28             116



- 39 -
4.32   Estimated costs are in constant prices of November 1993 (date of negotiations). Physical
contingencies average about 3% of total base costs (about 5% of investments, excluding studies
and subprojects yet to be defined; price contingencies were calculated on all defined subprojects
(i.e excluding yet undefined Amerindian, natural resources and social infrastructure subprojects),
based on a five-year disbursement period (para 4.40) and an estimated international inflation rate
of 2.2% on average over the period 1994-2000. It is assumed that periodic local currency
devaluations would compensate for differences between the projected US dollar and local inflation
rates. Costs incurred under selected subprojects (the timing of which is fixed under existing
agreements with SEPAs) in 1993 and early 1994 will be recognized as project expenditures.
(b) Financing Plan
4.33   The Bank loan, amounting to US$50 million, would be made to CVRD. It would finance
50% of project expenditures excluding taxes and duties, and would be equivalent to: (a) 45% of
total financing required; and (b) 100% of direct and indirect foreign expenditures and about 27%
of local expenditures (net of taxes). Financing of local expenditures is justified on project grounds
due to the low foreign exchange costs. Retroactive financing of eligible expenditures up to twelve
months prior to loan signing would be permitted for an aggregate value of up to 10% of the loan
amount (US$5.0 million). Such retroactive financing would help ensure the implementation of a
number of subprojects in time for CVRD to comply with the terms of its agreements with the
SEPAs (para. 1.8). The following table summarizes the expected sources of funds:
Table 6: Financing Plan (US$ Million) 8
Local            Foreig              Total          _
Bank Loan                   19.0              31.0               50.0            45
CVRD and
Affiliates                  59.9                -                59.9            55
Total                       78.9              31.0               109.9          100
4.34   The detailed distribution of Bank and CVRD financing between the various subprojects is
presented in Annex 9, and assurances were obtained that CVRD would make available the
corresponding counterpart funds for each subproject. Furthermore, assurances were obtained that
CVRD would carry out the project so as to ensure that, by the closing date, the aggregate amount
of expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan will be approximately equivalent to 50%
of the aggregate amount of all expenditures under the project, not including taxes.
4.35   CVRD has applied for a US dollar single currency loan (SCL). CVRD is eligible for such
a loan under the SCL pilot program, since it meets the eligibility criteria established for that
8  An amount equivalent to US$1.6 million was approved under the Japan
PHRD Fund for the financing of technical assistance for the preparation of
forest management plans and other studies. These funds are not included in
the project costs.



- 40 -
Dollars -- as stated in paras. 2.8 and 2.14, most of the company's export revenues are
denominated in US dollars, while most of its expenses and debt are denominated in Cruzeiros and
in currencies other than the US Dollar; (b) CVRD is managed autonomously (para. 2.4) and is
expected by GOB to service Bank debt out of its own revenues; and (c) CVRD manages the risks
associated with the foreign currency composition of its assets and liabilities. The Bank loan would
thus be to CVRD, with the guarantee of the Federative Republic of Brazil. The loan would be
denominated in US dollars, and carry the Bank's standard LIBOR-based interest rate for US dollar
SCLs. The loan would have a maturity of 15 years including a grace period of 5 years'.
CVRD would bear the foreign exchange risk. No guarantee fee would be charged by the
Government because it has been required by the Government to provide a counter-guarantee, and
because of the substantial externalities associated with the project, in particular those derived from
CVRD's willingness to assume responsibility for: (a) resolving the pig iron plant issue, which it is
not under any obligation to do; (b) providing basic sanitation infrastructure on behalf of the towns
of Parauapebas and Itabira, thus contributing to significantly improving the health of 130,000
people; (c) continuing its support to Amerindian communities beyond the agreements of the Special
Project; (d) financing the identification of mitigation measures for CST and a comprehensive
impact assessment of both its own and CST's operations in Tubarao, potentially affecting the
welfare of a population of over a million people in the Greater Victoria area; (e) contributing to
increasing international knowledge of sensitive ecosystems and of natural forest management
through the various studies financed either under the loan or PHRD; and (f) furthering
opportunities for sustainable development by initiating pilot rural and small business extension
programs. Finally, the project would provide an example which could be replicated by other large
corporations in Brazil.
4.36    Bank funds would be on-lent to two of CVRD's subsidiaries or affiliated companies
(NOVA ERA) under subsidiary agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, including: (a) a conmmitment
to manage their operations in an environmentally sound and socially fair manner and remain at all
times in compliance with environmental licensing obligations and other environmental regulations;
(b) the subproject description, costs and agreed financing plan; (c) the transfer of Bank funds at
Bank terms and rate, plus a fee to cover the cost of loan coordination and administration (the
subsidiaries would assume all foreign exchange risks on their portion of the loan); (d) procurement
according to Bank Guidelines and agreed procedures; and (e) reporting, separate recording and
accounting of project expenditures, insurance and auditing obligations as stipulated for CVRD.
Bank funds for municipal infrastructure would be on-lent to the municipalities of Parauapebas and
Itabira under implementation agreements satisfactory to the Bank (including, inter alia, repayment
conditions to CVRD consistent with those of the Bank loan to CVRD, and specifying the
responsibility for operation and maintenance of the system and the cost recovery mechanisms).
The signing of these subsidiary and implementation agreements would be a condition of
disbursement under the respective components. Assurances have been obtained in these respects.
Finally, with respect to subprojects aiming at the demarcation of Amerindian reserves, CVRD
would enter into contractual arrangements with FUNAI, whereby FUNAI would undertake to
carry out the demarcation activities in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank and
CVRD. The signing of these contractual arrangements would be conditions of disbursement under
the respective subprojects.
"0Until Loan signing, CVRD would have the option of changing these terms to the standard terms
of a fixed-rate USDollar single currency loan.



- 41 -
E. Procurement and Disbursement
(a) Procurement
4.37   All procurement of goods and works would be carried out in accordance with the World
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (May 1992). For all procurement under ICB, CVRD would
use the Bank's standard bidding documents. All contracts in excess of US$300,000 for goods and
US$5 million for works will be procured using ICB procedures. Prequalification of suppliers will
be carried out (as part of a two-step bidding process) for a dust collection system at the two
ferrosilicon ovens at NOVA ERA (estimated to cost about US$7.6 million), which is a large and
complex project. Contracts of US$300,000 or less, but above US$30,000 for goods and US$5
million or less for works (civil and agricultural works9) but above US$300,000 will be procured
using local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank, on the basis of pre-agreed
model bidding documents (which will include the Special Provisions agreed upon between the
Bank and the Government), up to an aggregate of US$16.1 million for works and US$4.9 million
for goods. Contracts for goods costing US$30,000 or less up to an aggregate of US$500,000 and
for works costing US$300,000 or less up to an aggregate of US$1 million will be procured using
local shopping procedures. These contracts will permit Bank-financing for materials and works
under the Amerindian assistance program and some of the natural resources and socially-oriented
components yet to be submitted to Bank approval. Procurement of goods and works under
procedures other than ICB would thus be limited to an aggregate of US$22.5 million. For
purposes of bid evaluation of goods contracts procured under ICB, domestic suppliers of goods
would qualify for a 15% margin of preference, or the applicable import duties, whichever is
lower. No preference would apply to works and services contracts. Procurement arrangements
for subprojects have been agreed and are summarized in the following table:
9 Agricultural works include land clearance and preparation, planting and
production of seedlings for revegetation or reforestation investments.



- 42 -
Table 7: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
Bank- Financed
Expenditure CategorY                     ICB           LCB           Other         N.B.F.         Total Cost
Equipment                                16.2           1.9           0.3            8.6            27.0
(16.2)        (1.9)         (0.3)                          (18.4)
Materials                                 0.4           3.0           0.2            5.7             9.3
(0.4)         (3.0)         (0.2)                          (3.6)
Works: Civil and Agricultural (land       6.0           16.1          1.0            33.6            56.7
preparation, planting, seeding,          (6.0)         (16.1)        (1.(0)                         (23.1)
seedling production)
Consulting Services I/                                                4.9            2.8             7.7
(-)          (-)           (4.9)                          (4.9)
Total before Taxes              22.6          21.0           6.4            50.7           100.7
(22.6)        (21.0)        (6.4)                          (50.0)
Taxes                                      -             -             -             9.2             9.2
Total                           22.6          21.0           6.4           59.9            109.9
(22.6)        (21.0)        (6.4)                         (50.0)
I/ These include: (a) project engineering, supervision and management services for the Carajas Tailing Pond Dam and
for basic sanitation investments in Parauapebas and Itabira (US$1.1 million); (h) environmental impact assessment
(Tubarao) and environmental auditing, small business development, and studies and technical assistance to assist the
municipality of Parauapebas in preparing and administering its basic sanitation infrastructure subproject (US$2.5
million); (c) the provision of pollution monitoring services and social services for Amerindian communities (US$1.0
million); and (d) studies to be defined (US$0.3 million).  Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts
financed by the Bank loan.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-financed.
4.38     Procurement under ICB would represent about 50%  of total procurement of goods and
works financed under the loan (including 76% of all goods contracts). All contracts for technical
assistance, studies and training, totalling about US$4.9 million, financed through the loan, would
be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. For complex, time-based assignments, CVRD
would use the Bank standard form of contract. For civil works, except for one large work
contract estimated to cost US$6.0 million, which will be procured using ICB procedures, and the
above-mentioned small works contracts for Amerindian and natural resources subprojects, all other
contracts financed under the loan would be procured using LCB procedures acceptable to the
Bank. These are estimated to be below US$5 million and are not expected to attract the interest of
foreign bidders (they would not however be excluded from participating in bidding). Because of
their diversity and geographical dispersion, these work contracts cannot be grouped into larger
packages more suitable for ICB.



- 43 -
Table 8: Contract Profile by Value/Number
(Values in US$ Thousands)
Goods               Works           Consulting Services
Contract Value          Value    Number      Value    Number      Value    Number
5,000 and above         6,000         1      6,000         1          -         -
1,000 to 4,999         4,600          3     13,500        10      1,200         1
300 to 999            6,000          6     2.600          6      2,600        7
below  300            5,400         25      11000         6      1100         4
Total            22,000        35    23.10          23      4,900        12
4.39   All Bank-financed contracts for goods and works above US$300,000 for goods and US$1
million for works would be subject to prior Bank review. In addition, the first contract for goods
procured under LCB and the first contract for works procured under LCB would be subject to
prior Bank review. This would result in Bank prior review of about 67% of total contract value
for goods and works. Works contracts procured under LCB and not subject to Bank prior review
would be subject to a random ex-post review of three contracts during supervision. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that procurement would be carried out as specified above.
Consultant contracts above US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals would also be
subject to prior Bank review of all documentation. For consultant contracts below these amounts,
the Bank would carry out prior review of the terms of reference only, and ex-post reviews on a
sample basis during supervision.
(b) Disbursements
4.40   The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999 and the loan to be fully
disbursed by June 30, 2000, the closing date. This five-year disbursement period is two years
shorter than the Bank disbursement profile for Bank-financed industrial projects in Brazil, but this
is justified because: (i) most investments have to be implemented by that date in order for CVRD
to comply with its commitments under agreements with the SEPAs; (ii) CVRD has already
incurred expenditures under the various subprojects (which will be recognized as counterpart
expenditures), so that the overall subproject implementation period is closer to six years; and (ii)
CVRD is an efficient entity unlikely to incur implementation delays, as evidenced by its past
performance under the Carajas Iron Ore Project. The estimated disbursement schedule is
presented below:



- 44 -
Table 9: Estimated Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year        1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Annual          10.010    12.7    14.3    8.2      4.8
Cumulative          10.0    22.7    37.0    45.2    50.0
4.41   The Bank would disburse against 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local
expenditures net of taxes under Bank-financed goods and works contracts (a list of which is
provided in Annex 9), and against 100% of contracts for consulting and monitoring services,
distributed among the following categories:
US$ Million
1.     Expenditures under Pollution Control Subprojects        29.28
2.     Expenditures under Natural Resources, and
Community Development and Welfare Subprojects            5.22
3.     Expenditures under Municipal Infrastructure Subprojects  11.03
4.     Amerindian Assistance Program                            1.70
5.     Consultant Services and Training for Studies not Included in
above Sub-projects                                      2.77
Total                              50.00
The list of contracts against which the Bank would disburse is presented in Annex 9. Retroactive
financing would be permitted for up to 10% of the loan amount (US$5.0 million) for expenditures
under contracts signed up to twelve months before loan signature, to permit the financing of urgent
investments which have to become operational by the set date in agreements with SEPAs. An
implementation schedule, including estimated annual contractual payments per year and type of
expenditures, is provided in Annex 10.
4.42 In order to facilitate the flow of funds from the Bank to CVRD, a Special Account would
be established in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank with an initial deposit of US$3.2
million, corresponding to projected average expenditures over a four month- period.
Replenishment of the Special Account would be according to Bank standard procedures.
4.43   Proceeds from the loan would be disbursed against full documentation for goods contracts
above US$300,000, works contracts above US$1 million, and services contracts above
US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals (the limits for prior Bank review).
10 Including US$3.2 million initial deposit into the Special Account as a
revolving fund to facilitate disbursements.



- 45 -
Disbursements under other contracts would be against statements of expenditures. All supporting
documentation for SOEs would be kept by each responsible superintendency, subsidiary and
affiliated company and copied to the Project Coordination Unit of CVRD in Rio de Janeiro (para.
4.45).
F. Implementation, Organization and Management
(a) Implementation and Mid-Term Review
4.44   Subprojects will be implemented by the responsible CVRD superintendencies and affiliates,
as listed in Annexes 6 and 7. A summary implementation schedule with estimated annual
contractual and other payments, per year, and by category of expenditures is provided in Annex
10. Detailed implementation schedules by implementing entity and by subproject are available in
the Project File. A Mid-Term Review of project execution would be carried out in July 1996. In
addition to reviewing the status of implementation of the various project components, the review
would focus on the implementation of the CVRD program addressing the environmental impact of
pig iron smelters in the Carajas corridor.
(b) Project Coordination, Monitoring and Reporting
4.45    Overall coordination of the project would be the responsibility of the Department of
Sustainable Development (GIMAR- para. 3.14), which has prepared the project. A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established within GIMAR, headed by a Project Coordinator.
The PCU would include staff or consultants with the required expertise in procurement (an
external consultant with experience with Bank-financed projects was hired for that purpose) and
accounting. The PCU would be responsible for:
(a)    representing CVRD and its affiliates in discussions with the Bank, other donors
and Government agencies,
(b)    ensuring that the project is being implemented within the agreed time and scope;
(c)    preparing and ensuring the consistent application of uniform norms and procedures
for procurement of goods and services, physical and financial reporting and
accounting of project expenditures and for the keeping of supporting
documentation;
(d)    reviewing procurement documentation before it is submitted to the Bank;
(e)    reviewing terms of reference, short lists and draft reports of consultants financed
under the loan;
(f)    controlling disbursements from the special accounts and requesting their timely
replenishment as well as other disbursements from the loan account;
(g)    preparing six-monthly progress reports to the Bank; and forwarding an annual
report on the environmental performance of the CVRD Group (para. 3.20);



- 46 -
(h)    maintaining records and a copy of all supporting documentation of statements of
expenditures; and
(i)    proposing an external auditor and ensuring that the annual audit is carried out
within the scope and time agreed with the Bank.
The Project Coordinator has been appointed. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the unit, headed by the Project Coordinator, would be adequately staffed and maintained
throughout project implementation.
(c) Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing
4.46    Project expenditures would be recorded in the accounts of CVRD and participating
associated companies in such a way that all related sources of funds and types of expenditures are
clearly identified. Each participating superintendency and associated company would supply
financial information on project execution semiannually to the Coordination Unit for consolidation
into the semiannual report due to the Bank. CVRD has established a uniform and consistent
financial accounting and reporting system for the project. Each participating entity would maintain
all supporting documentation to the Statements of Expenditures, but would forward copies to the
Coordinating Unit. All project accounts for CVRD and participating associated companies, the
Special Account, and statements of expenditures would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and forwarded to the Bank, together with the audit report of
CVRD's financial statements (para 2.17), no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year.
G. Project Benefits and Risks
(a) Project Benefits
4.47 The project would bring significant local and global benefits: (a) investments to control air,
water, land and sea pollution will bring significant local public health and safety benefits for
surrounding populations (in particular, the population of the metropolitan area of Vitoria, estimated
at 1.5 million); (b) several global benefits will result from the natural resource protection and
restoration components and studies, in particular as they will: (i) contribute to the preservation and
enhancement of biodiversity (protection of natural forest reserves and their fauna and flora, and
restoration of degraded areas); and, through various studies and the design and implementation of
natural forest management plans, contribute to global knowledge of tropical forests in the Amazon
region and the Mata Atlantica and of their sustainable management prospects; (ii) preserve and
promote carbon sequestration through forest conservation and reforestation (the value of carbon
sequestered in the greenbelt alone is estimated at a total of US$8.7 million) "; (iii) help reduce
Assuming a carbon sequestration value of about US$5 per ton of wood
(corresponding to an industrial carbon emissions tax of about US$10 per ton
of carbon), a mature stand would have a carbon sequestration value of
US$1,750 per hectare. The Green Belts financed under the project will
occupy a total of about 5,000 hectares.



- 47 -
program to assist pig iron plants in the Carajas Corridor to achieve self sufficiency in wood
supplies from other sources; and through studies and pilot programs to identify and promote the
development of sustainable agroforestry schemes; and (iv) help preserve or restore coastal marine
resources through reduced pollution and improved monitoring of effluent from the port of Tubarao
and the study of its impact; (c) the project will contribute to the welfare of selected communities in
the area of influence of CVRD's operations (in particular, Amerindian communities and the
populations of the towns of Parauapebas and Itabira, through improvements in basic sanitation, the
provision of basic health services, training and technical assistance for the identification of
alternative economically sustainable activities. CVRD's attempt at promoting self-sustainable
development in neighboring communities and at mitigating some of the indirect impact of its
operations could also make important contributions to the identification of workable solutions to
land degradation and poverty issues in affected areas; and finally (d) substantial benefits will be
generated over time from the consistent adoption by CVRD, a major and expanding mining and
industrial conglomerate in Brazil, of sound environmental principles and adequate mitigation
measures in all its operations and projects, through the establishment of appropriate organizations,
systems and procedures. CVRD's experience could provide institutional models for environmental
projects in Brazil and elsewhere.
(b) Project Risks
4.48    The main risk of this operation is that CVRD may fall short of its commitments to
control the environmental performance of its own and its affiliates' operations and programs, and
fail to carry out actions to correct their indirect impact, especially if either: (a) the pig iron and
charcoal production problem is not acceptably resolved along the agreed lines; (b) demarcation and
protection of Amerindian communities along the railway are delayed or inadequate; and (c)
generally, CVRD or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates fail to adequately deal with other
environmental and social impacts of their projects or operations. However, under the project
CVRD has committed itself to carry out programs to deal with the pig iron plants issue and ensure
the continuity of the Amerindian Special Project. Furthermore, the project will finance the
establishment of an internal environmental information, monitoring and auditing system which
would ensure that emerging environmental and social problems arising for CVRD's and its
affiliated companies's operations are identified and addressed in time. Past experience with CVRD
has shown that the company has consistently met its commitments. Under the Loan Agreement,
CVRD has committed itself to sound environmental management and social fairness and to
compliance at all times with the environmental legislation.
4.49   The Government has announced its intention to privatize CVRD. However, it is not
expected that privatization would constitute a risk additional to that mentioned above. This is
because subprojects financed under the project and other commitments (such as the pig iron plant
program) either reflect commitments to State Environmental Agencies which would have to be met
irrespective of ownership, or will improve CVRD's international image, a concern of the current
CVRD management as well as of most major exporters to G-7 countries: failure to implement
agreed action plans could affect the company's image to such an extent that this is unlikely to
occur. Also, the risk of a new owner choosing to pre-pay loan proceeds already disbursed by the
time of privatization instead of implementing the project using Bank funds is low, first because the
proposed exceptions to the Negative Pledge provisions of the Bank's General Conditions would
eliminate a major constraint on financial management which the loan would cause otherwise, and,
second, the counter-guarantee which the Government usually requires from the new owners of



- 48 -
privatized companies in order to continue providing its guarantee to the Bank has already been
negotiated and agreed upon with CVRD.
(c) Financial Benefits and Risks
4.50    CVRD will benefit from reduced currency risk by financing this project at US dollar SCL
terms, because it earns substantial unmatched US dollar revenues from its mineral exports. CVRD
has a sophisticated risk management operation, by developing country standards, and can be
expected to manage any interest rate risk it faces as a result of the LIBOR basis of the SCL
interest rate through hedging operations in the international market.
H. Environmental Rating
4.51 This project is classified as a category "B" in accordance with Operational Directive 4.01.
The investments listed in Attachment 2, which intend to address pollution and land degradation
problems in CVRD's facilities are all well supported by extensive documentation, prepared by
external consultants and compulsory under Brazilian law. Supplemental environmental analysis has
been carried-out as needed for each operation and subproject, and it is not expected that any of
these investments, which are corrective in nature, will have negative environmental effects. The
small Amerindian components (totalling about US$4.9 million) are not related to any of the
project's investments, but constitute the continuation of the Special Amerindian Project included
under the Carajas Iron Ore Project, the impact of which has already been well documented in
several OED reports. Details of the program will be subject to orientation by a group of
recognized experts as well as Bank review. Actions will consist mostly of the provision of basic
health care and sanitation services and the provision of technical assistance to enhance self-
sufficiency for several threatened groups, and their design and implementation will follow Bank
policies and take into account knowledge accumulated in the course of Bank supervision and
auditing activities of the earlier project. Finally, other socially oriented components include the
provision of basic sanitation infrastructure to local communities, which in nature have positive
environmental impacts.
I- Poverty Category
4.52   This operation is not part of the Program of Targeted Interventions. However, several of
its components (Amerindian assistance program, provision of basic sanitation infrastructure and
services to poor communities) will primarily benefit the poor.
J- Program Objective Category
4.53   The project fits into the Bank's Environmentally Sustainable Development Program
Objective Category.



- 49 -
V - AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1   Agreements were obtained at negotiations that CVRD will:
(a) (i) provide timely and sufficient funds to cover the expenditures required for the Project; (ii)
maintain a debt/equity ratio not greater than 55:45; (iii) maintain a current ratio of not less
than 1.2:1 on the basis of consolidation with its majority-owned subsidiaries; and (iv) furnish
to the Bank financial statements and accounts for CVRD consolidated with its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after
the end of each fiscal year (para. 2.17);
(b) carry out its operations, cause its subsidiaries, and take all actions in its power to ensure that
its affiliated companies carry-out their operations in an environmentally sound and socially
fair manner; to comply at all time with norms and standards applicable under Brazilian laws
and acceptable to the Bank; and to comply in a timely manner with licensing requirements
and the provisions of all EIA/RIMAs, PIFIs, Termos de Compromisso and other contracts
with SEPAs (para. 3. 10);
(c) forward to the Bank annual reports on the environmental performance and social impacts of
its operations and that of its subsidiaries and participating affiliated companies no later than
by January 31 of each year (para. 3.20);
(d) continue to implement the agreed action program to ensure that pig iron producers using iron
ore supplied by CVRD in the Carajas corridor carry out their operations in an
environmentally sound manner (para. 3.34);
(e) develop, in consultation with a group of multidisciplinary experts of recognized expertise and
qualification, and within three months after effectiveness, adopt a statement of policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, to govern CVRD's Amerindian program, review and
select subprojects, and develop a methodology to monitor and evaluate their impact; and
carry out its program in accordance with this statement (para. 3.28);
(f) ensure that subprojects composing the Amerindian Program meet the criteria in para 4.20;
(g) carry out studies in accordance with the agreed timetable (para. 4.28);
(h) provide counterpart financing to each subproject as agreed, and carry out the project so as to
ensure that, by the closing date, the aggregate amount of expenditures financed by the Bank
will be about 50% of total expenditures (net of taxes) (para. 4.34);
(i) enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with FUNAI, for carrying out
demarcation activities on Amerindian reserves financed under the project (para. 4.20);
(j) enter into sub-loan agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with executing agencies, to govern
the transfer of Bank funds (para. 4.36);
(k) enter into implementation agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with participating
municipalities, including provisions for relending of Bank funds, delegating to CVRD the
responsibility for implementation, and requiring the establishment of cost recovery
mechanisms (para. 4.36);



- 50 -
(I) carry out procurement of goods, works and services as specified in paras. 4.28 and 4.37
through 4.39;
(m) establish a Special Account to facilitate loan disbursements (para. 4.42); maintain
disbursement documentation and observe limits for disbursements under Statements of
Expenditures as specified in para. 4.43;
(n) carry out a mid-term review of project implementation no later than July 1996 (para. 4.44);
(o) submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank (para. 4.46);
(p) maintain the project unit, headed by a Project Coordinator, adequately staffed throughout
project implementation (para. 4.45); and
(q) maintain separate project accounts, have all project accounts, statements of expenditures and
the Special Account audited annually, and forward audit reports to the Bank within four
months from the end of the fiscal year (para. 4.46).
5.2   The project would be completed by the end of December 1999 and fully disbursed by
June 30, 2000, the Closing Date (para. 4.40).
5.3  Conditions of disbursement for the relevant portions of the loan would be:
(a) with respect to all subprojects, that the Bank shall have approved the subproject (para. 4.4);
(b) with respect to investments in basic sanitation for Amerindian communities, that appropriate
mechanisms for operation and maintenance have been establislhed (para. 4.20);
(c) with respect to basic sanitation and water supply infrastructure in participating municipalities,
that the corresponding Implementation Agreements have been signed (para. 4.22 through
4.24);
(d) with respect to Amerindian reserves demarcation activities, that the contractual arrangements
with FUNAI have been signed (para. 4.36);
(e) that CVRD has signed the corresponding sub-loan agreements with its subsidiaries and
affiliates, for the transfer of Bank funds (para. 4.36).
5.4   Retroactive financing would be permitted within the limits mentioned in para. 4.41.
Recommendation
5.5    Recommendation. With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$50 million, to be repaid over a period of 15 years
(including five years of grace) at the Bank's standard variable interest rate for US dollar single
currency loans.



CVRD--Main Subsidiaries and Associated ComDanies
SUBS.IpIARIES                                      kASSOCIATED CpANIES AND PARTICIPATIONS                      _
I                        |ll~~~~~~inan'Serra|                            
Frntrati| onral (51 0 9 |                Mining & Metals    C                               r
RoDoce      (100.0)    {99)|(68                   International                               and Other           1U18I                        n
(997)                                             Subsidiarienf          Pellet.zation                                     
Annociates            Ac ates   Rio Doc-                    Hirpanobras         Nova Era *        Cenibr-                 Cl 
<                  |          ~~~~~~~~~~International |  (09)                                                         0 (9     <15     
9.9)  N5 SO   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    (5.5   ~
A Albr--   |            |s.anr        Rio Doce                Itabrasco           Mineracao         aB-i-         I1
|(51..) 0    |(100.0)                 Finance (99.8)          (50.9)                                Sul (29407*
A Alunort- |           |  CSN   l    Itabira                A Nibr-rco            USININAS
1-ort9 1    |        |(9.0)          International           (510)7                                CELARa
ACOMINAS                                               _   S                   
MHin-rac-o Rio do                                 |                                   i Oe( 119     O                         0
Norte  (31 0)       11            I       r0)a 010                                
_   ineracao Vera Cruz                 Rio DOCe Lt                                 G Fofrtl| 5
3600                           (100)(50.
ID R
CVRD ad FloestascRi  Voer  Cra                   i   oeLd 



General
Secretary                           Administrative Counsel
Board of DirectorsESOfc
InternalPeidn
Auditing                                                                         R  Off
I
DIRECTORS,   Iron Ore              Development          Transport &          Metallurgy &        Vice President
OFFICES                                                 Foest Products        ot Oher Productsl                             1           
.J 0
Development         Forest Products       Noble Metals             Legal
S                                                           (SUMAF)               (SUMEN)                               I 
S
p                                                                                                                       5 
E             --I 
R             Production           Sustainable          Vitoria-Minas        Fertilizers               Human
N          1 Planning              Development       - Railway (SUEST)          (SUFET)             Resources
N                         ~~~~~~~~~~Department                                                                 I.
T                                   (G I MAR)
rt,
D            Southern System                            C         aCommunications                                       o   w
E          - Mines (SUMIN)         Computer             way (SUFEC)              (
N                                  Systems                                                                              a   N
C                                                                                                                       AS i
E               Port of            Technology                                                       Finance &               Z0
S- Tubarao (SUPOT)                                                                             _    Planning                z
|Ponta de Madei-|                                                                      Internal        
T ra Port (SUPOC)                                                                          Control
|Pelletization I                                                                        Services
-  Plants (SUPEL)|                                                    



CVRD--Environmental Manaaement Organization
Board of Directors
President*
*
*        
*         s 
GEAMAH  (Group for                .Environmental Committee                                        *
Studies & Consultation                                          of Superintendents                *             O
on the Environment)                                                                               *         W
Sustainable                      *
Development Department  ********               O
(GIMAR)                         *              w
*         u 0
Commission of                 *
Environmental Managers           *
*         r   >"t
I I             ~    ~~*   S 
CIMAs (Internal                                                     operational                   *         W 
Committees on the                                                Superintendencies               *          o
Environment, for                                                  _E                      **     *
each Department)                                                   Environmental                  *:3   .
Units                    *          O i
*         qPI
CIMAs (Internal                                                  Associated and                  *          N
Committees on the                                                                          ********
Environment, for                                                 Subsidiary Companies
each associated and                                                           __                            o 
subsidiary company)                                              Environmental Units
Decisions/Determinations
Recommendations/ Suggestions
Information






ANNEX 1
CVRD AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES:
HISTORIC INCOME STATEMENTS 1988-1993






- 54 -
BRAZIL
Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation Proiect                                  ANNEX I
CVRD and Consolidated Subsidiaries: Historical Income Statements 1989-1993 a/
(in USS Million)
1994        1993        1992        1991        1990        1989
OPERATING REVENUE
Sales of iron ore                                               2,040        1,340      1,301       1,493       1,215       1.414
Revenue from services rendered                                   898          621         644         349         304        446
Sales of other products                                          920          607         544         413        488         473
Freight on sales                                                                 *                    233         232        260
Less: Sales Taxes                                                (213)       (122)
Net operating revenue                                          3.645        2.46        2,489      2.488       2.239       2.593
COST OF SALES AND SERVICES                                         (2,905)      (1,876)    (1,925)      (1.927)    (1,726)     (2,015)
Gross Profit                                                      740         570         564         561         514         578
EARNINGS ON INVESTMENTS
IN ASSOCIATED COMPANIES                                              277         (107)        (58)       (108)        (6)        124
(accounted for on the equity method)
OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSES)
Selling                                                           (33)        (33)        (31)        (31)        (51)        (67)
Administrative                                                   (214)       (199)       (268)       (147)       (175)      (240)
Financial expenses                                                333        (101)       (113)       (473)     (1,197)        (20)
Financial income                                                 (116)        117         192         402         927        (199)
R & D costs                                                       (44)        (41)        (17)        116         (26)        (34)
Other                                                            (155)        (47)        (20)           -        (29)        179
Operating profit                                                  788         159         249         320         (43)        320
NET NONOPERATING INCOME                                               (64)         (31)       (45)        (97)        170         448
EXTRAORDINARY ITEM-- Loans Renegotiation                                        -                 -          -           -
Profit before income tax, minority
interest and debentures participation                           724          128         204         223         127        768
INCOME TAX & Social Contribution                                      (76)         146         99          32         (18)        (21)
Profit before minority interest and
debentures participation                                        648          274         302         255         109        747
DEBENTURES PARTICIPATION                                                 -            -           -          -         (3)        (10)
MINORITY INTEREST IN THE RESULTS
OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES                                           (4)        (12)         (2)         (3)         (4)        (3)
Net profit for the year                                           644         262         300         252         101        735
Exchange rates- end of period                                        0.85          326      12,388       1,069        177          11
i: ncluded under Revenue from Services Rendered
*: included in above figures.
a/ Consolidated Subsidiaries (fully owned): Florestas Rio Doce, Navegacao Rio Doce,
Docegeo, Docenave, Aluvale, 29 small mining companies, Itabira International Company, Rio Doce Ltd.,
Rio Doce America, Rio Doce Intemational, Rio Doce Finance, and Seamar Shipping Corp.
b/ based on audited statements expressed in year-end Brazilian curmncy, as per *integral correction' method.



- 55 -
BRAZILAN E I
Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation Project                       ANNEX  1
CVRD and Consolidated Subsidiaries: Historical Balance Sheets 1989-1994 a/
(In Millions of USS)
1994        1993         1992          1991         1990         1989
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Banks                                               21           15            9           16            16          35
Marketable Securities                                       512          409          235          417          321          408
Deposits at Banco Central do Brasil                          85          116          155          228          275          313
Accounts receivable from customers                          352          275          266          425          448          324
Associated companies and foundations                        417          285          266          229          116           63
Treasury bonds (BTNs Cambiais)                                              -            -         186
Accounts receivable-SIDERBRAS                                               -            -          71           91           78
Provision for bad debts                                        -            -            -            -         (18)          (14)
Inventories of products                                     299          205          237           80          185           156
Inventories of supplies                                                                             56           75           49
Other current assets                                        167          107          115           63           50           42
Total current assets                                      1,853        1,412        1,282        1,772        1,558        1455
LONG-TERM ASSETS
Securities                                                   31           95          164
Deferred Income Tax                                         424          227           87           39
SIDERBRAS debentures                                                        -            -            -         229
National Treasury Bonds                                                                               -         177
Associated companies and foundations                        188           80           74          101          108          136
Provision for losses                                           -            -            -            -            -           (2)
Accounts receivable-SIDERBRAS
Blocked deposits                                               -            -            -            -          28           25
Loans and advances receivable                                61          130          121           62           25           66
Other long-term  assets                                     286          136          157          110           35           33
Total long-term assets                                    990          668          603          312          603          259
FIXED ASSETS
Investments                                               2,624        1,589        1,376        1,255          492          723
Property, plant and equipment                             7,229        5,265        5,623        5,204        2,299        3.297
Deferred charges                                            340          344          467          643          401          738
Total fixed assets                                     10,193        7,198        7.465        7,102        3,192        4,758
TOTAL ASSETS                                                  13.036        9,278        9,351        9186         5352         6,472
Exchange Rate (end-December)                                 R$/USS    CzN/US$         Cz/US$       Cz/US$       Cz/US$    NCz/US$
0.846         326        12388         1069           177           11
*: all inventories consolidated in above figure.
a/Consolidated Subsidiaries includes all fully owned subsidiaries: Florestas Rio Doce, Navegacao Rio Doce,
Docegeo, Docenave, Aluvale, 29 small mining companies, Itabira Intemational Company, Rio Doce Ltd.,
Rio Doce America, Rio Doce Intematonal, Rio Doce Finance, and Seamar Shipping Corp.
Source: CVRD's Audited Financial Statements-- As per Integral Restatement Method.



- 56 -
Enviro   BRAZILANE I
Environmentl Conservation and Rehabilitation Project                      ANNEX  1
CVRD and Consolidated Subsidiaries: Historical Balance Sheets 1989-1994 a/
(In Millions of USS)
1994        1993         1992         1991         1990         1989
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Loans and financing                                        753          586         339          812          922          573
Associated companies                                       110           44           83          51          188           58
Accounts payable                                           176           90          115          108         100          115
Creditors from sales of gold
for future delivery                                        -           2           50          127          105           71
Salaries and social contribution                            92           75          78           45           70           86
Dividends payable                                           71           48           33          70           30          177
Operational provisions                                        -            -            -         31           14           15
Freights and charter hire payable                             -            -            -           -          17           13
Other current liabilities                                  151          119           89          83          114          116
Total current liabilities                                1.353         964          786        1.327        1.562        1.226
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
Loans and financing                                        709          844        1,005        1,029        1,040        1,348
Creditors from sales of gold
for future delivery                                         -           -            -           7          157          313
Associated companies                                       277          282          124          83            3
Actuarial revaluation-VALIA                                   -            -            -          39          58
Deferred income tax                                        292          118          159          67           61           84
Provisions for labor liab. and contingencies               566          297          367         199
Other long-term liabilities                                 68          171          137          81          103          108
Total long-term liabilities                              1.912        1.712       1:792        1.504        1.422       1853
DEFFERED INCOME                                                  7            8            2           10            8            9
MINORITY INTEREST                                               57           42           38           18           10           12
STOCKHOLDER'S INVESTMENT
Capital Stock                                            1,895        1,344        1,403        1.323         628          793
Reserve of Capital Stock
monetary restatement
Capital reserves                                         2,616        1,853        1,983        1.884         233          219
Revaluation reserves                                       416          335         310          379          257          447
Profit reserves                                          4,780        3,020        3.036       2,741        1.233        1,913
Total stockholders' investment                         9.707        6,552        6.732        6.327       2.351        3,371
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS'                          13.036       9,278        9.351        9.186        5.352        6,472
INVESTMENT
MEMO
Current Ratio                                             1.37         1.46         1.63         1.34         1.00         1.19
LTD/Equity Ratio                                       17:83       21:79        21:79        19:81        38:62        35:65
(Notes: see previous page)



- 57 -
BRAZIL
Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation Proiect                                            ANNEX  1
CVRD and Consolidated Subsidiaries: Changes in Financial Position 1989-1994 a/
(In Millions of USS)
1994        1993         1992         1991        1990        1989
SOURCES OF WORKING CAPITAL
Net profits for the year                                        645         262          300          252         102         734
Charges (credits) not affecting working capital--
Depreciation, amortization
and depletion                                          479         337           338         312         158         255
Earnings or losses on investments
in associated companies                                (277)        107           58          108           6         (124)
(accounted for on the equity method)
Capital gains or losses on
overseas investment                                                        (22)            -            -        (10)
Gains or losses on long-
term monetary items                                            (77)        (59)         (76)         (21)         55        (218)
Other amounts                                                  (233)         32           85            9          10         218
Monetary variations/restatements
Provisions for Contingencies                                     93         (33)          40             -           -
Gains on deferred Income Tax                                   (125)       (143)
Deferred income tax and social contributions                    176            -
Total Provided by Operations                             681         481           745         660         319         864
Creditors from sales of gold
for future delivery                                               -           -            -           -            -         51
Transfer of SIDERBRAS Debentures to Curmnt Assets                  -           -            -        284
Loans and financing                                             158         397          349         537          214         550
Loans from Associated Companies                                   2         199          Ill          76
Associated companies debt
transferred to current assets                                    -            -            -         15          91
Treasury bonds transferred to Current Assets                       -           -            -         145
Capital contributions                                           141            -            -            -        147
Dividends from associated companies                             129          13           47           10          12          42
Other sources                                                   164          78          159          60           34         105
Total Working Capital Increase                         1.275        1.168        1,410       1.787         818        1,612
USES OF WORKING CAPITAL
Additions to property, plant,
and equipment, at cost                                        344         267           282         207         271         238
Purchase of shares in Privatized Companies                         -         41           80         202
Loans and financing transferred
to current liabilities                                        502         432           292         584         175         373
Purchase of debentures issued
by SIDERBRAS                                                                                                    155
Investments in Government Securities                               -        127          105
Sales of gold for future delivery                                                         14
contracts transferred to
current liabilities                                               -           -            -        108         109
Capital contributions to
associated companies                                          160           98           74          31          61
Loans to associated companies/assigned loans                       -         45          289          15          63
- transferred to Current Liabilities                           78            -            -          5
Other loans                                                      80
Deposits at Banco Central                                          -           -            -           -            -        704
do Brasil and Guarantees                                         -          38           95            -I
Proposed dividends                                              119          82           85          69          29          177
Other uses                                                      124          86           71         120          97          225
Total Working Capital Used                             1.407       1.216         1.386       1.339         960       1,717
INCREASE/DECREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL                               (132)        (48)          25         448         (142)       (105)



ANNEX 2
CVRD FINANCIL PROJECTIONS






- 58 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION
PROJECT
CVRD Financial Projections I
1.   The forecasts have been prepared in constant December 1993 IJS dollars, of the consolidated
financial statements of the CVRD parent company and of its controlled subsidiaries (i.e those wholly
or quasi-wholly-owned). These include Floresta Rio Doce S.A., the navigation companies
(Navegacao Rio Doce Ltda. DOCENAVE and SEAMAR Shipping Corporation); the mineral
exploration subsidiary (DOCEGEO); Minas da Serra Geral (MSG); 29 small mininig companies;
ALUVALE, the holding company of all bauxite and aluminumil operations; and CVRD's financial (Rio
Doce Finance Ltd.) and other companies abroad (Itabira Interinational Companiy Ltd.. Rio Doce Ltd.,
Rio Doce America Inc., and Rio Doce International S.A). The affiliated companies in which CVRD
has from 10% to 51% of voting capital (but no more than 50%( of voting rights, hence no majority
control) are not consolidated: their earnings or losses are accounted for by the equity method in the
consolidated group's statements. These affiliated companies include the three pelletization affiliates at
Vitoria (ITABRASCO, NIBRASCO and HISPANOBRAS), the bauxite, alumina and aluminum
affiliates of ALUVALE (ALUNORTE, ALBRAS, VALESUL and MRN), URUCUM, NOVA ERA,
and the cellulose and paper affiliates (CENIBRA, CELMAR and BAHIA SlUL), the steel affiliates
(CST and California Steel) and FOSFERTIL, a fertilizer company. The structure of the group and
CVRD's shares in the capital of its subsidiaries and affiliated companies are summarized in Chart 1.
2.   In Brazil's highly unstable macroeconomic environment, year-to-year comparisons of financial
statements, even where these have been translated into Dollars, are, at best a rough indication of true
movements in the financial situation. Besides currency fluctuations, results are strongly impacted by
rules governing the monetary restatement of accounts to reflect inflation. In particular, in 1991, Law
8200 of 1991 changed the inflationary index from the National Treasury Fiscal Bonds (BTNF), which
had been used to update the 1990 accounts, to the Consumer Price Index IIPC). to recognize the
undervaluation of inflation accounted for by the former (845% versus 1795,); second the law
established a Special Monetary Correction for fixed and permanent assets, covering, for CVRD, the
period 1984-1989, and, for affiliates and subsidiaries, the period since March 1979. For 1991, a very
substantial increase in fixed assets thus appears in the balance sheet, with a counterpart special
monetary correction reserve being made in the company's net equity. In the forecasts, it has been
assumed that currency fluctuations in the future would compensate fully for the differenice between
domestic and international inflation.
1/ These projections are based on 1993 financial statements and do not incorporate actual results
obtained in 1994, which have been more favorable than those forecasted. Thus, projections shown
for 1994 may be significantly different from actual results as shown in Annex 1. Hlowever, since
these projections (which are in constant December 1993 terms) do not take into account wide swings
in exchange rates, in the medium term, they remain reasonable, conservative, estimates of financial
results of CVRD's core businesses.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
A. Income Statement
3.    Revenues and Gross Profits - In 1991, Consolidated Net Operating Revenues were distributed
as follows:
CVRD's Group Consolidated Net Operating Revenues- 1991
(US$ Million)
Net Operating Revenues                   US$ Million     US$ Million           (%)           )
Iron Ore and Pellets                         1,493.3                             60.0
Services Rendered: of which                    349 9                             14.0
Pelletization                                            (51.5)                     (2.0)
Transportation                                          (283.1)                    (11.4)
Other                                                    (15.3)                     (0.6)
Other Products: of which                       413.0                             16.6
Aluminum                                                (186.4)                     (7.5)
Bauxite                                                   (89.0)                    (3.6)
Gold                                                     (86.3)                     (3.5)
Timber & Forest Products                                  (17.6)                    (0.7)
Manganese ore                                            (33.7)                     (1.4)
Freight on Sales                               232.8                              9.4
Total                            2,488.4                            100.0
Source: CVRD- 1991 Annual Report
4.      Consolidated Net Operating Revenues were projected on the basis of the strategic plan
prepared by CVRD for the years 1992-1996. Sales volumes are assumed to remain constant during
the 1992-1996 period because the level of investment that CVRD expects to make is that needed to
maintain the 1991 level of sales. It has been assumed in these forecasts, however, that the cumulative
effects of the investments made during the strategic plan period, would permit a modest annual sales
increase of two percent per year from 1997 onwards.
5.      Net operating revenues were projected using price trends projected by the Bank for iron ore,
aluminum, bauxite and gold, as follows:
Indexes of Price Increases, in constant US$
Weight in
CVRD's
Commodity      Net OD.       1993    1994     1995     1996    2000
Revenues
Iron Ore       0.60         100.0    92.4    93.9       95.8    96.6
Aluminum       0.08         100.0    104.3    107.9    113.0    132.0
Bauxite        0.04         100.0    96.6    96.6       97.6    95.1
Gold           0.04         100.0    107.4    109.5    111.6    114.3
Other          0.24         100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Total          1.00         100.0    95.9    97.2       98.9    100.9
(weighted
average)
Source: World Bank- Market Outlook for Major Primary Commodities, February 1994.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
6.   CVRD's strategic plan assumed productivity increases as a result of the combined effects of the
recent staff retrenchment and of capital investments in plant modernization expected to be made
during the period. As a result, CVRD's gross profit margin, which was 32% in 1991, has increased
to 37% in 1993 and has been assumed to remain at that level subsequently.
7.   Administrative and Selling Expenses - These were projected on the basis of historical
information (approximately 10.6 percent of sales).
8.   Depreciation - Depreciation was based on a straight line method. Historically CVRD's annual
depreciation has been about 3.9% of average gross fixed assets in operation. This was used for
forecasting purposes.
9.   Financial Income and Expenses. Financial income, which has fluctuated considerably from
year to year, largely represents interest earned on short term instruments as protection against
inflation and currency devaluation. These were more than cancelled-out by financial expenses
between 1986 and 1990. This negative balance decreased significantly in 1991, as a result of efforts
to convert high interest local currency debts into lower-cost, Dollar-denominated longer term debt. In
these projections, it is assumed that short term financial income (interest on marketable securities)
would earn about 4.5% annual interest in Dollar terms, equivalent to three-month LIBOR (May
1994). Financial income on long-term assets (which include long-term securities and loans and
advances made by CVRD to other, including their affiliated companies), was projected on the basis of
an average return of 6.5% per annum for securities and 8% for loans and advances. Financial
expenses on long term debt were projected as detailed in para. 13 below.
10.  Earnings and Losses from Associated Companies. These represent accounting gains (losses)
from the translation of investments in associated companies using the equity method of valuation.
While they have an effect on overall profitability and capital structure of the group, they have no
effect on the flow of funds and liquidity position. While on aggregate, affiliated companies have
remained profitable, there have been considerable fluctuations from year to year in this item, which
showed a strong positive balance in 1988 and 1989, but losses since. These large fluctuations reflect
a combination of factors: (a) the elimination from this item, starting 1990, of profits from MRN and
VALESUL, whose shares were transferred to ALUVALE (their operations, like those of ALBRAS,
are therefore now reflected in the consolidated results of CVRD, since ALUVALE is 100%-owned
by CVRD), equivalent to a reduction of about US$39 million from 1989 earnings; (b) changes in
assets revaluation rules and monetary restatement of affiliated companies' accounts, which resulted in
a very large increase in asset values for all companies in 1991, hence in larger depreciation charges
and lower net results; and (c) price fluctuations in the iron ore pellets and cellulose markets, the two
major commodities produced by CVRD's affilates. Lower prices of cellulose and lower sales of iron
ore pellets in 1990 and 1991 resulting from the world and Brazilian recessions affected profitability
during these two years. Earnings from affiliates are expected to increase as world and domestic
markets for these products recover, and as CVRD's investments in the Bahia Sul pulp and paper plant
and in the duplication of the CENIBRA cellulose plant come on-stream, respectively in 1992 and
1996. Nevertheless, conservatively, no projections of earnings or losses have been made for the base
case. The impact of different assumptions on key financial ratios has been further assessed as part of
the sensitivity analysis (para. 24).
11.   R and D Costs. CVRD has in the past charged Research and Development costs to income in
the year in which they occur until the investment proved economically viable. When it did prove



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
viable, the comnpanly then capitalized the related investments and reversed the previous charge to
income in the form of a credit to non-operating income. During the forecast period, R and D
expenditures are e.xpected to be of the order of about US$30 million per year, and were assumed to
be capitalized.
12.  Income Tax - CVRD is subject to the Brazilian corporate tax of 35% of taxable income. For
tax purposes, the company is allowed to make several adljustments. Among these are: accelerated
depreciation, deductions for depletion and for mzonietary restatement of long term loans. In addition,
earnings from the Carajas operations enjoy a tax holiday of 10 years beginning in 1986. As a result
of these tax allowances, CVRD incurred no tax liability for the 1988 - 1990 period. for 1991 it paid
a little over 14'i; of net operating incomiie as tax. It has been assumed, for the purposes of these
projections, that CVRD will pay an effective tax rate of 15 percent of its net income after interest.
13.   Dividendts - The projection for dividends was based on the required minimum corporate
dividend rate otf 25 percent. It also takes into account the fact that five percent of after tax earnings
are required to be appropriatedl to reserves.
B. Sources and uses of funds
14.   Debt service: The existing debt and related repayment schedule was taken from CVRD's 1993
audited financial statements. The existing debt carries annual interest rates varying from 3.9 percent
to 12 percent. For forecasting purposes a comiposite annual interest rate of 10 percent was assumed
for these loans. To complete its financing needs for 1994 and 1995, CVRD expects to raise bond
issue in the Euro dollar market. The expected terms are three to eight year repayments and annual
interest rate of 350 basis points above US treasury bonds (The forecasts assume an annual interest rate
of 10% percent). In these forecasts, the average maturity has been assumed to be five years and
repayment has been evened-out over these five years to show their average impact on CVRD's cash
flow.
15.    Inivestment - forecast was based on CVRD's strategic plan and only include investments
required by CVRD to maintain existing production levels and firmly planned investments in
subsidiaries and associated companies. These total US$761 million over the period 1994-2000, and
include equity funding of projects carried-out by ALUNORTE (alumina plant), CENIBRA
(expansion), Bahia Sul (completion), CELMAR (plantations), CAPIM  (kaolin), Salobo (copper
mining) and Igarapava (power generation).
16.   Dividends fromi Associated Companies - are assumed to be reinvested in their totality.
17.   Working Capital - in consonance with past experience working capital items were projected as
follows:
Inventory - 10% of operating costs;
Receivables - 18% of sales revenue;
Payables - 7.5% of operating costs



- 62 -
ANNE&2
C. Balance Sheet
18.   Resolution 432 Deposits: these are deposits made to the Brazilian Central Bank in respect of
advance payments for long term foreign loans. These deposits can only be used to amortize the
principal, interest and commissions on the related loans; otherwise their use depends on specific
authorization from the Central Bank.
19.    Other Current Assets: These include inter-alia receivable from subsidiaries and associated
companies.
20.    Other Assets: include inter-alia medium term advances to subsidiaries and associated
companies, and unarnortized expenses incurred in connection with loans.
21.    Other long-term obligations: include inter-alia medium and long term obligations to
subsidiaries and associated companies.
22.    Other current liabilities: include inter-alia amounts due customers for sale of gold for future
delivery, dividends payable, taxes payable, and salaries and related charges payable.
23.    Other Long Term Liabilities: include inter-alia deferred taxes (of more than on year's
duration), advances received for future gold sales (of more than on year's duration), and medium and
long term obligations to subsidiaries and associated companies.
D. Financial Ratios and Sensitivity Analysis
24.    Key financial ratios over the projected years are summarized in the table below. They show
that CVRD, under the conservative assumptions detailed above, should maintain a sound financial
position over the period.
25.    A sensitivity analysis has been carried out under two major assumptions:
(a)   20% lower revenues from sales of iron ore and pellets, corresponding to the lower
bound of Bank projections (70% probability distribution);
(b)   net earnings/losses from affiliated companies remaining at their 1993 low levels (-
US$107 million);
(c)   net eamings/losses from affiliated companies progressively increasing to about US$70
million per year by 1997: this assumes that: (i) returns on the pelletization associates and
the existing CENIBRA plant will average the share of CVRD in average net profits over
the 1986-91 period (in real 1991 USDollars); and that (ii) returns from the duplication of
CENIBRA (expected to come on-stream in 1996), and from the Bahia Sul pulp and
paper plant (which started operations in 1992) will yield earnings similar to those of
CENIBRA, in proportion to capacity and the share of CVRD in their capital. Because
of their small impact, no attempt was made to project results from other affiliates.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
26.  Results of the sensitivity analysis are summarized below:
Key Financial Ratios for CVRD Consolidated Group
1993     1994   1995   1996   1997   1998    1999    2000
Base Case              (Actual)
Current Ratio          1.5       1.9    2.6    2.3    2.3    2.4      2.7     4.4
LT Debt/LT Debt &
Equity Ratio           26%       25%    25%    24%    22%    19%      17%      15%
LT Debt Service
Coverage Ratio         1.5       0.9    1.6    2.9    2.2    2.3      2.6     2.9
20% Decrease in Iron
Ore Prices
Current Ratio          1.5       1.8    2.4    2.0    1.9    1.9      2.0     3.3
LT Debt Equity Ratio    26%     25%    26%    24%    22%    20%       18%      16%
LT Debt Service
Coverage Ratio         1.5      0.8    1.3    2.5    1.9    2.0       2.2     2.5
Losses of Affiliates
Constant at 1993 levels
Current Ratio          1.5       1.9    2.6    2.3    2.3    2.4      2.7     4.4
LT Debt/Equity Ratio    26%     25%    26%    24%    22%    20%       18%     16%
LT Debt Service
Coverage Ratio         1.5       0.9    1.6    2.9    2.2    2.3      2.6     2.9
Earnings from Affiliates
increasing to US$70
million per year by
1997
Current Ratio          1.5       1.9    2.6    2.3    2.3    2.4      2.7     4.4
LT Debt/Equity Ratio    26%     25%    25%    24%    22%    19%       17%     14%
LT Debt Service
Coverage Ratio         1.5       0.9    1.6    2.9    2.2    2.3      2.6     2.9
27.  The above results show that, while the various scenarios tested have little impact on balance
sheet ratios, a 20% decrease in iron ore prices (corresponding to the lower bound of Bank
projections) would affect the debt service coverage ratio, but not significantly. CVRD's financial
position is also little affected by the performance of its subsidiaries and affiliates: gains/losses of
subsidiaries and affiliates do not affect the cash flow since they are assumed to be unrealized in these
projections. They only manifest themselves in the debt/equity and current ratios, but even there their
impact is hardly noticeable given the large CVRD's asset base.
May 1994



- 64 -
BRAZIL                                                     ANNEX 2
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHADIUTAT1ON PROJECT
Finrnclal Prolectionr
Income Staemernt
On Millions of Constant  993 USDollas)
1993      1994      1995       1 99      1997      1998       1999      2000
Net Operating Revenues                          2,446      2.346     2,378     2.419      2,482     2,492     2,502      2,517
Cash Costs of Sales                             1.539      1.478     1,498     1524       1.584     1,570      1,576    1t586
Gross Profit                                      907       ges       880        895       918        922       926       931
Other Expenses:
Depreciation                                337        423       433        440       448       457        467       476
Admin & Selling                              232       232       232        232       232       232        232       232
R&d Costs                                     41         0         0          0         0         0          0         0
Others                                        47         0         0          0         0         0          0         0
Subtotal                                     657       655       665        672       eso       689        699       708
Earnings Oosses) on Investments
In Associated comparnes                          (107)        0          0         0         0          0         0          0
Financial Income                                  117        41         53        53        53         53        53         53
Financial Expenses                                101       139        136       133       11e         93        71         50
Operatinc Income                                  159       116        132       143        175       193       209        227
Net non Operatlng Galns Oosses)                   (31)        0          0         0         0          0         0          0
Net income BeforeTax                              128       116        1         143       175        193       209        227
income Tax & Social Contrlbution                 (146)       17         20        21        26         29        31         34
NetIncome afterTax                                274        98        112       122       149        184       178        193
Minority Int & Dob. ParUclpadon                   (12)        0          0         0         0          0         0          0
Net Profit Before DiAdendo                        262        98        112       122       149        16e4      178        193
Dividends                                          82        23         27        29        35         39        42        46
Net Income (Retahed *arnmngs                       80Q       7S        8S         PI       114        125       136        147
Gross profit margin(%)                             37        37         37        37        37         37        37         37
Source: Bank Estirnates



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
RAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Prolections
Sourcs nd Uses of Funds
On Millions of Constant 1993 USDollars)
i 9      ,1994      1995      1990      I19        1998      1999      2000
SOURCES
Notincom  Bctore Tax                             128        116       132       143       175        193       209       227
DsprocialonrAmortlzation                         337        423       433       440       448        457       467       476
Losses(Gacns)oninvestm   In Ass.Cos.              107         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
OthernonCashGalns/losses                         (111)        0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Othor Sources from OperatIons                      32         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Gross Internal Cash                              493        539       565       584       624        650       676       702
Plus: Interest on Long-Term (LT) Debt              0        139       136       133       116         93        71        50
Loss: Debt Service- Exdsting LT Debt:            339        700       379       162       167         93        70        56
Amortizaton(nrtof432)                       339        586       310       114       132         68        50        41
Interest                                      0        114        89        48        35        25         20        15
Less: Debt Service-Future LT Financing:            0         25        68        85       171       228        217       200
Amortization                                  0         0          0         0        90       160        165       165
Interest                                      0        25         68        85        81        68         52        35
Total LT Debt Service                             339       725       446       247       338        321       286       256
Not Internal Cash                                154                  25S       470       402        422       461       496
New Capital                                        0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0
Now Loansl Debentures                            596        500       350         0         0         0          0         0
TOTAL SOURCES                              _g        453       805       470        402       422       461       496
USES
Investment In Fixed Asues                        282        340       178       200       215       236        242       226
InvestmentInAssocatedCos.                        139        173       252       108       100        87         20        20
Loansto Associated Cos. & Other                   45          0       150         0         0         0          0         0
Income Tax                                       (140)       17        20        21        26        29         31        34
Dividends                                         82         23        27        29        35        39         42        46
Working Capital Increase (Decrease)               24        (27)        8        11        16         3          3         4
Other Uses                                       124         0          0         0         0         0          0         0
TOTAL USES                                  M        5         1         SX9        393       393       338       330
Cash surplus (deficit)                           200        (74)      (30)      101         9        29        123       167
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                      1.45      0.93      1.57      2.90       2.19      2.31      2.81      2.94
Source: Bank Estimates



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Financlal Projections
Balance Sheet
(in Millions of Constant I 3 USDollars)
1993      1994     1995       1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Marketable Secuitbes                424       350       321       421       430       459       582        748
Res432deposit                                11e       11e       116       116       11e       11e       11e        116
Receivables (incl. from Ass. Cos.)           560       540       547       556       571       573       575        579
Inventory                                    205       192       195       198       203       204       205       206
Other                                        107       107       107       107        107       107       107       107
Total Current Assets                  1.412     1.305    1t285      t399      t427       459      1.585     1,758
Long-term Assets
Deferred Income Tax                          227       227       227       227       227       227       227       227
Associated Cos. & Foundations                 80        80       230       230       230       230        230       230
Securites                                     95        95        95        95        95        95         95        95
Loans & Advances Receivable                  130       130       130       130       130        130       130       130
Other Long-TermAssets                        136       136       136       136        136       136       136       136
Total Long-Term Assets                 668       668       818       818       818       818       818       818
Permanent Assets
Fixed Assets:
GrossFixedAssets                           10,674    11,014    11,192    11,392    11,607    11,843    12,085    12,311
Less: Accumulated Depredation               5,409     5,832     6,265     6,705     7,154     7,611     8,078     8.553
Net Fixed Assets in operation               5,265     5,182     4,927     4,687     4,453     4,232     4,007     3.758
Work in progress                             344       344       344       344       S44        344       344       s44
Total Fixed Assets                          5,609     5,526     5,271     5,031     4,797     4,576     4,351     4.102
Investments                                 1,589     1,762     2,014     2,122     2,222     2,309     2,329     2,349
Total Permanent Assets               7,198     7.288     7.285      7.153     7.019     e,sss     66s8     6e451
TOTAL ASSETS                               9.27      9.261     9388      9.369      .2e      9.1       9,8        9.025



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHLABIUTATION PROJECT
FiancW Proisctlons
Balance Shoot
(in Millions of Constant 1 9g USDollars)
1993     1994      1995     199       1997      1998     19        2000
UABIUTIES AND EQUflY
Current UabIlles
CuffrentportionofLong-TermDebt             586       310       114      222       228       215      206        16
Accounts Payable                            136      130       132      134       138       136       139      140
Salaries & Socil Contrlbution               75        75        75       75        75        75       75        75
DMidends Payable                            48        46        48       48        48        48       48        48
Oter                                        119      119       119       119      119       119       119      119
Total Ctrrent U-bDlifoo               964       082      488       596       we0      595       587       398
Lona- Term Uabilltles
Loans and Financing (nt of Curront Portion)  844    1,0S4    1270      1,040      820       005      399       383
Associated Companies                        282      282       282      282       282       282      282       282
DOeired ncom Tax                            118      118       118      116       118       118      116       118
Provisions & Othtr LT Obligations          468       466       488      488       468       488      488       488
Total Long Trm IabiMles             1.712     10       2.138     1.916     1.088    1,473     1.267     1.251
Det. Incorrm&Minority Intre                 50        50        50       50        50        50       50        50
Eault
Capital & Reseves                         3,532     3,532    3.532     3.532    3.532     3.532     3.532    3.532
Retained Earnings                         3,020     3,095    3.180     3,273    3.387     3,512     3,648    3,795
Total Equity                        S.552      6m a.712          a.805    6.919     7.044     7,180    7.327
TOTAL UABIUITIES A EQUITY                927S      0.261    9.        9.0       9.25    9.162    9.          9.025
Current Ratio                              1.48      1.91     2.63      2.34     2.35      2.45      2.70     4.42
DebtV(Debt+Equh)                           28%      25%       25%       24%      22%       19%       17%      15%
Sourceo Bnn* EUnZn



ANNEX 3
CVRD ENVIRONMENTAL MASTER PLAN 1989-1993






BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABIUTATION PROJECT
ANNEX 3-CVRD ENVIRONMENTAL MASTER PLAN
1989 - 1993
-    P  -                       Morwb       |~4li~                   Stau - brvatIorn|                 b   S     b
1. NATURAL RESOURCES
1.1 Protected Are
1.1.1    Protection of Forest. owned or controlled  Agreement with IjAMA dated I1-29-89 for     Under implementation
1.1.2    Menaaernent of Protected Areas                                                                                                                           00
1.1.2.1    Management Plen for Serra de Cera,bc    conaervation units                           Delayed
1.1.2.2    Management Plan for Mareba              conrervation units                                                                   PHRD Grant/SUMAF 10
1.1.2.3        Mnagerent Plan for Tapirepe         conservation units                                                                         CVRD 01
1.1.3    Maintenance and Ooeration of Foreets Reservee
1.1.3.1    Unheres Forest Resrve| Management of Owned Forewt                                    Under implerrentation                |  PHRD Grant/SUMAF 02
1.1.3.2    f Itabirucu Rceerve                     Management of Owned Forert                 | Under implementation
1.2 Amerdnan Protectin
1.2.1     Anedrindian Reserv Protection            Resolution 331/86 of Fed.Senst and greenent
453/89CVRD/FUNAI/Conwn.Xcurin dated
1.2.2     Health                                   07/31/89 'Programe Xicrin' end own inibtitive                                      SUFEC 07 *nd 15; SUMIC
1.2.3     Education                                for communities other than Xicrin and Pluatage   Under continuous Implenentation    20 end CVRD 02
1.2.4     Sanitation



Prdiect              I I                   Ratial.                              State  - Observationg              Bank{6ub-Proiect
11. RECLAIM OF DEGRADED AREAS
11.1 Hvdroloalcal Begin.
11.1.1     HVdrological Basin of the Macuco (MG)     Socio-economic pilot program for rational use of    Implemented
natural resources.
11.1.2     HVdrological Basin of the Perado IMG)     Same as above                                  Implemented                                                     l
11.1.3     Hydrological Basins of 'Grande Victoria'  Agreement with SEMAE. In Oct.91 A new
Area                                     assistance agreement for the development of an
hydrologic resources plan for E.S.
11.2 Green Baelt
11.2.1     Green Belt Vitoria Minas Railroad         Erosion, noise and dust control                                                              SUMAF 14
11.2.2     Green Belt Carajas Railroad               Erosion, noise and dust control                                                              SUFEC 01
11.2.3     Green Belt Titanium Project in Tapirs IMG)  Erosion, noise and dust control             Titanium project delayed
11.2.3     Green Belt for Ponta da Madeira Terminal  Erosion, noise and dust control                                                              SUFEC 01
11.2.4     Green Belt for The TechnologV Laboratory  Noise and dust control, aestetice             Implemented
(M G )__                                     _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _   _
NI. ENVIRONMENTAL AND POLLUTION CONTROL
NI. 1 Pollution Control In Min
11.1.1  Iron Ore Mines in the Itabire Reaion (MG)         Most Itabira projects hew been or are being implemented
111.1.1.1    Air and Water Monitoring                Recommnended by PRAD                                                                  Sumin 02 & 04               >
z
111.1.1.2    Air Pollution Control                   Corrective, to comply with law                Under implementation                  l
111.1.1.3    Noise Pollution Control                 Corrective, to comply with law                Under implementation



Prd______ct____Ration__________ Status - Observations                                                                     Benk Sub-rot
111.1.1.4   Cleaning of sedimentation lagoons           To maintain effluent within legal limits          Implemented
111.1.1.5   Dust Control (Water and polymers aspersion    Avoid dust pollution by wind erosion and        Implemented
in mine)                                    transport
111.1.1.6   Hydroseeding (depleted areas & industrial    Recuperation of degraded areas to compIV with    Implemented
waste deposits)                             law
111.1.1.7   Superficid Drainage of Mine Waste Deposit    To avoid water erosion                           Under implementation
(Timpobeba)
111.1.1.8   Dust Control (aspersion of ore piles)       Corrective, to comply with law                    Implemented
111.1 .1.9  Drainage and Water Erosion Control          Corrective, to comply with law                    Implemented
111.1.1.10   Pavement and drainage                      Avoid air and water pollution to comply with law    Implemented
111.1.2   ritanium Proiect (Taoira-MGI                  Project implementation delayed, pilot plant in Tapira currently stopped
111.1.2.1   Monit. of Hydrologic Impact of Liqu. Effluent   To comply with law, needed also for pilot plant
111.1.2.2    Procurement of Monitoring Equipment                                                                                                                                  O
111.1 2.3    Impermeabilization of the Tailings Pond    Avoid water pollution from pilot plant tailings
111.1.3   Gold Minina Proiects
111.1.3.1   Design of New Projects with Wll Environment   Needed to obtain the licenses                  Fazenda Brazileiro and Maria Preta
Protection Features                                                                          (Bahia); Itabira, Caete and Ouro Fino
(MG); Igarepe Bahia (Carajas) were
implemented with needed environmental
protection systems
111.1.3.2    Liquid Effluent Environmental inpact                                                        Implemented
Monitoring at Fazends Brezileiro
111.1.3.3    Liquid Effluent and Air Quaity Monitoring at   Operation license submitted for Igarspe but not  Igarape pilot plant is now stopped and
Igrape Bahia Pllot Plant, and at Maria Prete.   yet processed                                IndustriW plant strted with ell pollution
control & monitoring systems.
. 1.4       Comoer Pwrina Proiect - Caraia                     Project not yet implemented
111.1.4.1   | Monitorig of Liu  Effluent from Project    j                                                                                                                       |
|ExWoration                                I                                                I                                         I 



111.1.4.2   Monitoring of Air Pollubion Impact of Project
111.1.5     Coal Minino Proiect - Rio Grande do Sul           Project not yet implemented
111.1.5.1   |Pre- Monitoring for Water Effluent Control |
111.2 PollutIn Contrdl hi Induirll Oweretlone
111.2.1 Podlution Contrdl in Tubareo Maritime Terminal
111.2.1 .1  Dust Control With Aspersion - Coal          Avoid air pollution to comply with law, imposed    implemented, needs improvements                 SUPOT 05
Unloading Pier                              TDC__ ________
111.2.1.2   Automation of Aspersion on Belt Conveyors    Avoid air pollution to comply with law                                                            SUPOT 05
111.2.1.3   Automation of Dust Control Aspersion        Implement. and timing imposed by TDC with                                                          SUPOTO05
Systems                                     SEAMA
111.2.1.4   Drainage and treatment of Liquid Effluent   Implement. and timing imposed by TDC with                                                          SUPOT 04
SEAMA
111.2.1.5    Coal Storage: Dust Control with Aspersion,    Implement. and timing imposed by TDC with     Being implemented                               SUPOT 04 L 03
________Drainage and Pavement                         SEAMA__________
111.2.1.6    Fine Iron Ore & Pig Iron Storagee:         Avoid air pollution to comply with lawSUO02    UPT6
_________ Completion  of Dust Control with  Aspersion _______________________
111.2.1.7    Phosphate Unloading Facility:              Implement, and timing imposed by TDC with                                                          SUPOT 03
_________  Pawnment,Dreinege and Effluent treatment   SEAMA
111.2.1.8    Study the Industrial and Domestic Effluent  Implement, and timing imposed by TDC with
Envi~ronmantal Impact on the Coast Line of  SEAMA                                                                                              SUMAF 11
Tubarao and Praie Mole
111.2.1.S    EIA in Area of Influence of the Tubarao    Implementation and timing imposed by TDC with   implemented. (Avaiacao da Situacao
Maritime Terminal                           SEAMA                                            Ambiental do Complexo da Ponta de                 SUMAF 11
Tubareol, in addition a consolidated audit
is part of the project_____________
........   ......   ......   ...                     ....   ..   ............   ...   .    .   ....................  ...............   .......   ........   ..~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~i



|ationabe                              Status - Observatlo|                 Bank Sub4".et
111.2.2    Dust Control in Pelletization Plants in Tubarao
111.2.2.1   Control of Dust Emissions from Main        Implement. and timing imposed by TDC with        Under implementation, six electrostatic          SUPEL2&3
Chemineys                                  SEAMA                                            precipitator to be installed, two are part
of the project
111.2.2.2    Liquid Effluent Monitoring and Impact on   Implement. and timing imposed by TDC with                                                        SUPOT 01
Baia de Camburi                            SEAMA
111.2.2.3   Gas and Liquid Effluent Monitoring          A minimum monitor.plan is imposed bv TDC with   Implemented
SEMA
111.2.3   Pollution Cont. alona the Victoria-Minas Railroad
111.2.3.1   Monitoring of Industrial Waste Effluent     Implement. and timing imposed by TDC with       Implemented
SEAMA
111.2.3.2   Monit. Liquid Effluent from Rail Sleepers  liquid effluent control to comply with law       Plant operations stopped in 1991.
Plant                                                                                       Preparations to resume operations
underway as of July 1994, with
necessary effluent control/monitoring
111.2.3.3   Air Pollution Control                                                                       All railcars are now sprayed and green           SUEST 14
belts are being implemented
111.2.4     Pollution Control in the CVRD Technical     Effluent control to comply with law            implemented
Laboratory
111.2.4.1   Monitoring of Liquid Effluent                                                              implemented
111.2.5    Pollution Control in Ponta de Madeira Maritime Terminal
111.2.5.1   Drinking Water Treatment for the Terminal  Public health                                   implemented
111.2.5.2   Dust Control with Aspersion and Liquid     Avoid air and water pollution to comply with law    Sedimentation lagoon in port                  SUFEC 05
Effluent Control (Sedimentation Lagoons)                                                    Terminal needs optimization
111.2.6    Pollution Cont. alona with the Caraias Railroad
111.2.6.1   Monitoring of Liquid Effluent from Rail    To control water pollution to comply with law    This plant has been closed
Sleepers Plant                                                                            I
111.2.6.2    Air Pollution Monitoring                  Monit. Plan is condition for operating iicense  Implemented
l  issued by SMEMA



... ... ............ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Sttu   Obsi  eloite
111.2.7    Pollution Control in other Areas
111.2.7.1    Hg Monitoring in Area of Influence of   Contribute to knowledge of Hg Pollution in the  Implemented
Garimpos in Carajas                      area
111.2.7.2    Monitoring of the Perado and Macuco     To assess the impact of corrective actions    (not available)
Basins                                   implemented under 11.1.1 6 11.1.2
111.2.7.3    Other Monitoring Projects               Contribute to knowledge of Hg Pollution in the  A study of Hg pollution in Sao Marcos
area                                          (MA) and Rios Jucu was implemented
111.3      El"s                                            As needed to comply with law
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES AND RESEARCH
IV. 1 StudIe. Soil Erosion and Conervation
IV.1 .1    Pedologic Research in the Carajas Area                                                  implemented                           l
IV.1.2     Erosion Monitoring                      |                                             | implemented                           l
IV.2 Forat Research
IV.2.1     Forest Research in the Amazon                                                           Several studies implemented or planned  SUMAF 10, CVRD 01
some are part of project
IV.2.2     Study on Sustained Forest Manag. in the                                                 Management plans for several forest     SUMAF 10, CVRD 01
Amazon                                                                                 reserves are under study



.. I                                              oits                               StatUe - Obivatlon|
IV.3 Environmental Education and Training
IV.3.1   Environmental Trainino (CVRD emoloveecl
IV.3.2   Environmental Education
IV.3.2.1    Unheres Forest Reserve                      _                                                 Implemented
IV.3.2.3    Itabirs mnun Area                                                                            Implemented
IV.3.2.2    Along the Carajas Railroad                  Also part of recent agreement with State &                                                          CVRD 01
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ M uN acip._ _                    _ _  _  _   _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _   _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _
IV.4 Studlee and Research
IV4.1   Northern Svstem
IV.4.1 .1   Indutrialization dlong the Cars.m Railroad                                                   Implemented In 1989
and Environmental Consequences
IV.4. 1.2    Environmental/Econormic Cost-Benefits of                                                    Implemented
Projects Imnpeented within the Grande
Carajas Program
IV.4. 1.3    Research Agreement with Enilio Goeldi                                                       implemented
Museum
IV.4.1.4    Serrados Cerejas Area: Flora-Fauna                                                                                                          SUMIC 01 & 02
InventorV and Preservation
z
z



|   Proleat            |Rationale                                                 Statuw - Observations              Bank SubEroiect
IV.4.2   Southern System
IV.4.2.1    Itabira Industrialization and Environmental  Evaluate impact of CVRD's operations on the  Implemented
Consequences                               area
IV.4.2.2    Eval. & Update of the Pollution Control   To identify and resolve outstanding pollution  Implemented (updated plan is presented in
Master Plan (1979-1988) for the Tubarao   issues in the Vitoria area                      Annex 4)
Ind. Complex
IV.4.2.3    Study of Remote Monit. of Air end Water
Pollution in Tubarao (Agreement with
Instituto Nacional de Pesquisa Espaciall
IV.4.2.4    Basic Study on the treatment of Effluent  Public health                                  Implemented
from CVRD's Technology Laboratory
CVENPLA2
April. 1993
Iz



ANNEX 4
CVRD ENVIRONMENTAL MASTER PLAN
FOR THE TUBARAO TERMINAL
UPDATE FOR 1990-1999






BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ANNEX 4 -CVRD-ENVIRONMENT MASTER PLAN FOR
THE TUBARAO TERMINAL
Update for 1990-1999
Iem                   Sub- Project                               Rationale                        Statue - Obeervatdons           Bank Sub-Project
11.1 Vitora-Mins Railroad and Rail Terminal Facilitie
11.1.1   SUEST: Uquid Effluent Pollution Control in
the
Liquid effluent treatment is being tested    Part of SUEST 01
la)   Treatment of Industrial Uquid      implementation and timing imposed by   in pilot plant.                       Pro 03
Effluents from Maintenance Shops    Termo de Compromisso (TDC) with
SEAMA.
lb)   Sewage Effluent Treatment          Implementation and timing imposed by
TDC with SEAMA.
11.1.2   SUEST: Industrial and Domestic Waste      Implementation and timing imposed by   The proposed waste deposit will receive   SUEST 01 Pro 02
Deposit                           TDC with SEAMA.                         waste from all CVRD operations in
l__________________________________ _ lTubarao  (SUPOT, SUPEL  and  SUEST)
11.1.3   SUEST: Air Pollution Control
la)   Air Pollution from the Paint Shop  Implementation and timing imposed by   implemented.
TDC with SEAMA.
lb)   Noise Control
11.2 Pelietlzation Plants
11.2.1   SUPEL: Uquid Effluent Pollution Control   Most of the liquid effluent control have
been implemented under the previous
plan.
la)    Optimization of the Existing Uquid    Implementation and timing imposed bV  Under implementation.
Effluent Drainage and Treatment   TDC with SEAMA.
lb)   Add Sewerage Effluent Treatment                                           Under implementation
Installations                                                                                                                                Z
11.2.2   SUPEL: Industrial and Domestic Waste      Implementation and timing imposed by    Measures have been already taken to    SUEST 01 Pro 02
Control and Deposit                        TDC with SEAMA.                        reduce the quantities of solid waste
produced. As part of the project, a new
solid waste deposit will receive waste
from all CVRD operations in Tubarao.



hem                   Sub- ProJect                              Rationab                        Status - Obvatlons            Benk Sub-Pro,ect
11.2.3   SUPEL: Dust nd Air PolNtion Control
(a)    Dust Control in Fine Ore Storage  Control of air pollution              Already imnlrmented, through aspersion
and Irnprovwrent of conveyorc
(bl    Dedusting System for the Pan-     Corrective, to improve working       Implemented
Granulator of the Pelletization   condrions
Plants
(c)    Dust Control on Main and          Irnplementation and tirring of the   S separators are being procured and will  SUPEL 2&3
Secondary Chimneys of the         inelatdon of 6 electroetatic separators    be installed on main Chimney.
PdNletizton PlaRts (electrostatic  on main Chimneys is imposed by TDC   Secondary chimneys are not yet
separators)                       with SEAMA.                           considered.
(d)    Dust Control in Pellets Storage and    Implemaentation and timing imposed by  Improvement of conveyors and
Handling                          TDC with SEAMA.                       aspersion, rnost of thib project is
already implemented,
(a)    Duet Control in the Ume Plant    Corrective, dust ernission is lirrited by  Project includes the installation of an  SUPEL 04
TDC with SEAMA to 100mg/Nm3.          exhaust system with bag filter and the
dedusting of plant floors.
If)    Pelletization Plant 1-Floor Cleaning  Corrective.                      Installation of a water manifold to allow    SUPEL 06
System                                                                  floor cleaning and reduce dust
emissions.
lg)    Monitoring of Combustion Gases to    Monitoring of S02 in the dryers'  The 502 content in the combustion
define the necessary control      chimneys is a specific condition of the  gases depends on the fuel delivered by
systems, in particular for S02.   TDC with SEAMA, furthermore CVRD is   Petrobras. Monitoring of gas effluents is
obliged to implement corrective       being done and SO2 content so far has
measures, if necessary.              been low due to partial utilization of
nttural gas.
(hi    Dust Control in ULmestone and Coal   Corrective                         Already irmplemented, except for the  SUPEL 07
Storages                                                                automation of the sprnlder system and
the drainage and treatment of liquid
effluent.
_   i    Nose Monitoring and Control    cofefctive, to comply with law        Green belt implemented in the port                               p
4>



Item                  Sub- Project                              Rationale                        Status - Observations          Bank Sub-Proct
11.3 Maritime Terminal Faclities
11.3.1   SUPOT: Uquid Effluent Pollution Control
(a)    Pavement, Effluent Drainage,     Implementation and timing of most of                                         SUPOT 04 (Pro 01,
Control and Treatment for Iron, Ore,  these actions are imposed by the TDC                                    02, 03, 06, 05,
Pig Iron. Phosphate. Coal and     with SEAMA.                                                                 and 06)
Sulfur Storages and Piers in Tubarao
Termind
Impliementation and timing imposed by                                       SUPOT 04 (Pro 04)
(b)   Sewage Treatment                  TDC with SEAMA.
SUPOT 06
Ic)   Liquid Effluent Drainage, treatment   Implementation and timing imposed by
and Recycle in Cais do Paul CVRD  TDC with SEAMA.
Terminal
(d)   Maintenance Shop Industrial       Implementation and timing imposed by   Under implementation.
Effluent Treatment                TDC with SEAMA.
11.3.2   SUPOT: Industrial and Domestic Weste     Implementation and timing imposed by   As part of the project, a solid waste  SUEST 01 Pro 02            oo
Control and Deposit                       TDC with SEAMA.                        deposit will receive waste from all
CVRD operations in Tubarao.
z
z



htm                   Sub- Proloct                            PRatona                          Status - Obeervaton           ank ST&-Prjst
11.3.3   SUPOT: Air PolNuion Control
(a)   Dust Control with Watr Aspersion    Inplmentatlon nd tirning of most of                                     SUPOT 0; SUPOT
Systems on Handing Equlpremet.    these mwasuree ae khpoed by TDC                                           02 (Pro 01)
Storag Pls. Pir. Pavenw ts        with SEAMA.
etc...
lb)    utomation of Aspersion System    kIpo.d for pier 2 by TDC with SEAMA.                                      SUPOT 05
(c)   Green bel Pamennt and DrWnee    Oust oontrdl. drainage. and expanson of                                     Idsm 11.3.1
pamnt wme Wpoed by TDC.
Most of th  syste   hve ben
Id    Insti Exhut nd Dust Control       Dust Control                          neled, howevr, thwy nd to be
Svytn on Scrns                                                         rehblltatd, expdd   nd hpvd.
(el   Cb ning Systn for the Pers        Freent cleann of p-w I h s aondtWion
of TDC.
(ft    Asperion of Phosphat PiN  with
Polymers or Um.                  Dust Control
(g)   Dust Control by Aspeion and        ripmnttion and timingimo -d by                                           SUPOT 06
Noie Control hI Cal do Paul      TDC with SEAMA. 
T smiir l
Imlentation ad tiWnt in pod by
(hI    Ant-Rash System for the Sultfur  TDC with SEAMA.
Unloading Sysem



hem                   Sub- Project                             Rationale                        Status - Observat-ons         Bank Sub-Project
11.4    Monitorlna of Water aualtv                Required by TDC, however, TDC requires  A monitoring plan was implemented  SUMAF 11
a monitoring plan with less sampling  with 18 sanpling points for effluent
(a)   Effluent Control                  points but higher frequency. It also  control and 6 for ronitoring of the
requires underground water monitoring.    inmediate area of influence of the
coas  zone. This plan does not
(bi   Monitoring of Sea Water Pollution in                                    coneider monitoring of the underground
Costal Zone of Influence                                                water nor of industrial wastee. A
consoidated environmental irpact
ssesswent (EIA) will be implernented
as part of the project
Ic)   Studies an research                                                     These tudis consisted of the
monitoring of fauna and flora in the
cotl zone of influence. They wer
niplemented with the assistance of
CEPEMAR.
11.6    Monitoring of Air Qualut                  The TDC with SEAMA requires the       A monitoring plan wes implemented    SUMAF 11
monitoring of effluents from main     using the existing 26 sampling points .o
chimneys,                            for sir pollution control inside the                              0
tem-inss and in the urban area. The
plan proposes also the installation of a
meteorological station. It was optimized
with the assistance of CETESB and will
be reviewed again as part of the
consolidated EIA to be carried out as
part of the project.
U1.     Direct Environmnl SUpport Actions in
CVRD
A corporate environmental group is in    SUMAF 04
(a)   Reorganization of the Environmental                                     place within at headquarters, It is
Managwment at Local nd National                                         desgning central monitoring and
Levels                                                                  auditing ytesm., to be inpimpented as
part of the project. Also, local
ib)   Pollution Control Trairdng of CVRD's                                    evironmental groups hav been
Employes                                                                estalish in eah superintendency.
lce    Enviromiwnte Educaton for
CVRD's Emploe__



Item                  Sub- Project                              Rational.                       Status - Observations          Bank Sub-Project
1U.7    Indirect Environmental Social Actions
la)   Study of land occupation in the    Assistance to surrounding communities
Grande Vitoria' area
lb)    Master Plan for the Integrated   Assistance to surrounding communities    A master plan study was been
Development of the Grands Vitofia                                      implemented.
(dl    Participation of CVRD in Local   Assistance to surrounding communities
Communities Social Programs
(Health, Environmental Education
etc...
-Apnl 7. 1993
00
z
z
mr



ANNEX 5
FUNCTIONS AND ORGANIZATION OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (GIMAR)






- 82 -
ANNEX 5
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 5
Functions and Organization of the Department of Sustainable Development (GIMAR)
A- Functions
1. Environmental Management and Institutional Development
-     Proposes environmental policies and principles;
-     Coordinates GEAMAM's activities and meetings;
-     Chairs the Superintendents Environmental Committee;
-     Hold regular meetings of the Environmental Commission (of environmental
managers);
-     Monitors the performance of CIMAs and design ways to ensure adequate participation
of affected communities;
-     Formulates and monitors the implementation of CVRD's actions in indigenous areas.
-     Designs and supervises environmental training and education programs for Corporate
staff and local communities in the group's area of influence;
-      Formulates criteria for the preparation of impact and risk assessments, monitor their
implementation, establish procedures to deal with these impacts and risks; and
formulate procedures for cost/benefit analysis;
-     reviews environmental impact assessments.
2. Environmental Information and Monitoring
-     designs and implement the corporate environmental information system;
-     Monitor emissions, effluent and waste generated by its operations and those of its
subsidiaries and affiliates; and compliance with applicable norms and standards;
-     maintain updated records of all applicable laws, regulations and agreements at the
federal, state and municipal levels;
-     maintain records of all environmental projects, their costs, funding and disbursements;



- 83 -                               ANNEX 5
- maintain rosters of laboratories, suppliers of services and equipment, and funding
sources;
3. Environmental Auditing
-      designs and implement the corporate environmental auditing system;
-      organizes and coordinates the program of internal and external audits;
4. Research and Technical Assistance
-      maintains contacts with national and international research organizations, universities,
scientific groups to keep abreast of the latest techniques for evaluation, prevention,
correction, monitoring and auditing;
maintain regular contacts with NGOs;
Follows-up relevant scientific and technological developments in Brazil and abroad,
design and organize the collection of technical information; evaluate environmental
technologies;
-      Provides technical assistance in environmental engineering;
5. External Relations and Resource Mobilization
-      Provide information to outside organizations on the environmental performance and
programs of the corporation;
-      Identify sources of funding for the corporation's environmental programs.
B- Organizaton
GIMAR is headed by a General Manager (Gerente Geral) and has the structure shown on the
next page. It is presently staffed with 13 professionals and will increase in size as it progressively
fulfills all its functions.



GIMAR - ORGANIZATION CHART
General
Manager
|Technical l
Adviser     l
EnvironrmentalEsource
Management                                                          Economics and                      0
Mobilization
Management &       Eniroanmental    Envi.ronmentaF
Institutional     Information       Auditin
Development                                                    nvironmental       Budget
Economics         Resource
Mobilization






ANNEX 6
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES BY TYPE OF PROJECT






- 85 -
ANNE"6
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ANNEX 6 - CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES BY TYPE OF PROJECT
Proiect No.                                   Tle                                  Tota Cost
(US$ 1.000)
1. POLLUTION CONTROL AND RECUPERATION OF DEGRADED AREAS IN CVRD FACILITIES
1.1 Ges Effluent and Air Polludon Control
1.1 1 Dust Control
SUPOT 05                      Rehabilitation and Improvement of Dust Control Systems at
Tubarao                                                               490
SUPOT 02 Pro 01               Dust Control and Collection in Iron Ore Storage and Handling
at Tubarao                                                          2,000
SUPEL 04                      Dust Control in the Lime Plant of Pelletization Plant at Tubarao       240
SUPEL 07                      Dust Control Optimization, Effluents Control & Drainage at the
Pelletization Plant of Tubarao                                        1 10
SUPEL 06                      Dust Control, Plant Floors Cleaning System at Pelletization
Plant of Tubarao                                                       30
SUPEL-                        Other Dust Control                                                   1,590
SUFET                         Dust Control at Taquari-Vassoura Potash Mine                         2.560
Sub-Total Dust Control                                              7,020
1 12 Gas Effluent Treatment
SUPEL 02                      Electrostatic Precipitator Pelletization Plant 1 of Tubarso          2,810
SUPEL 03                      Electrostatic Precipitator Pellatization Plant 2 of Tubarao          1,260
NES 01                        Dust Emission Control with Bag Filter for Nova Era                   6,560
ferrosilicium Plants 1,2 & 3
Sub-Total Gas Effluent Treatment                                   10,430
Sub-Total Ges Effluent and Air Pollution Control      17,450



- 86 -                                     ANNEX 6
Proiect No.                                    Title                                Total Coat
(US$ 1.0003
1.2 Drainage and Liquid Effluent Control, Treatment and Discharga
1.21 Industrial Liquid Drainage. Treatment and Discharge
SUPOT 04 Pro 05/07             Other Effluent Treatment at Tubarao                                      30
SUPOT-                         Other Effluent Treatment                                                870
SUPOT 04 Pro 06                Tubarao Rail Cars Loading Station: Effluent Drainage and               290
Treatment
SUPOT 04 Pro 02                Tubarao Sulfur Storage: Drainage                                        340
SUPOT 04 Pro 01                Tubarao Coal Storage and Pier: Drainage and Effluent                  1,950
Treatment
SUPOT 03                       Pavement and Drainage in Storage and Access Areas at                  3,340
Tubarao
SUPOT 04 Pro 03                Tubarao Iron Ore Storage: Drainage and Effluent Treatment             2,720
SUPEL 08                       Effluent Drainage Treatment and Control at Tubarao                       60
Pelletization Plants
SUPEL-                         Other Efluent Control, Drainage and Treatment                        2,070
SUEST 01 Pro 03                Liquid Effluent Collection and Treatment at Tubarao Rail              1,670
Facilities
SUEST-                         Other Liquid Effluent Collection and Treatment                       4,370
NES 02                         Effluents Collection & Treatment in Material Handling at Nova          660
Era Ferrosilicium Plant
SUMIN -                       Air and Water Pollution Control and Monitoring at Itabira             3,240
Sub-Total Uquid Effluent Treatment                                  21,610
1 .22 Sewace Treatment
SUPOT 04 Pro 04               Sewage Treatment of Tubarao Port Facilities                             130
Sub-Total Sewage Treatment                                             130
Sub-Total Drainage and Liquid Effluent Control and Treatment        21,740



- 87 -                                       ANNE  6
Proiect No.                                   Title                                TotalgS9u
EUSS 1.000)
1.3 Solid Waste Treatment and DisDosal
1 .31 Mining Waste and Tailinas Disoosal
SUMIC 21                      Tailing Pond - Expansion of Dam and Improvement at Carajas           8,460
Iron Ore Mine
SUMEN 05                      Construction of Tailings Ponds at Igarape Bahia Gold Mine            2,720
Sub-Total Mining Waste and Tailings Disposal                       11,180
1 .32 Industrial Solid Waste Disposal
SUEST 01 Pro 02               Solid Waste Deposit at Tubarao                                         210
Sub-Total Industrial Solid Waste Disposal                             210
Sub-Total Solid Waste Treatent and Disposal          11,390
1.4 Noise Control
SUPOT 06                      Cais de Paul Port IVitoria):Effluent Collection & Treatment;
Noise Control                                                         180
Sub-Total Noise Controd             180
1.5 Recuporaton of Desraded Are"
SUMEN 06                      Revegetation of Tailings Ponds at Igarapa Bahia Gold Mine              920
SUMIN 07                      Hydroseeding for Areas Degraded by Mining at Itabira Iron Ore
Mine                                                                  330
SUPOT 02 Pro 02               Solid Waste Disposal Revegetatbon at Tubarao                         1,060
Sub-Total Recupeaton of Degraded Area                   2,310
1.6 Other Pollon Control and RecuD. of Dearaded Are
SUMEN                         Pollution Control & Recup. of Degraded Areas                         1,580
SUFEC                         Pollution Control & Recup. of Degraded Areas                           870
SUPOC                         Pollution Control & Recup. of Degraded Areas                           350
Sub-Total Othr Polkltion Control & Recup. of Degraded Area          2.800
TOTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND RECUPERATION OF DEGRADED AREAS                     55,870



- 88 -
ANNEXR 
Probct No.                                    t                                Toto Cot
lUS* 1.000)
2. NATURAL RESOURCES PROTECTION AND RECUPERATION
2.1 Protection of Ecosystwns
SUMAF 02                     Management Plan for Linhares Forest Reserve                         180
Sub-Tatal Protecton of Ecosystem             180
2.2 Reforestaon of Drmaded Areas with Native Seoed
SUEST 14                     Green Belt for Vitoria-Minas Railway                              2,900
SUMIN 03.08                  Green Belt for Itabire Region Mines and Town                      2.130
SUFEC 01                     Green Belt for Carajas Railway and Sao Luis Port                    660
Sub-Total Reforestation of Degraded Areas       5E690
TOTAL NATURAL RESOURCES PROTECTION AND RECUPERATION                   S.870



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
Promect No.                                   Title                                Total Cost
IUS$ 1,000)
3. SOCIALLY ORIENTED INVESTMENTS
3.1 Amerindians
CVRD 02                       Corporate Amerindian Program in the Carajas Corridor                   830
SUFEC 07/15                   Amerindian Assistance and Health Program in the Carajas
Railroad Corridor                                                   2,320
SUMIC 20                      Amerindian Assistance and Health Program in the Carajas
Mine Area (includes Sumaf 151                                        1,770
Sub-Total Amerindians            4,920
3.2 Municipal Improvement
SUFEC 14                      Improvement of Public Sanitation in Sao Luiz                           500
SUMIN 09                      Sewage Collection and Treatment at Itabira                           4,560
SUMIC 22                      Paraupebas Improvement of Quality of Life                            7,000
Sub-Total Municipal Improvement           12,060
3.3 Rural Extension and Small Business Development
SUCEM 03                      Small Business Development in CVRD Area of Influence                   690
Sub-Total Rural Extension             690
TOTAL SOCIALLY ORIENTED INVESTMENTS                 17.670



-90 -                             ~
ANNEX 6.
Proiect No                                    Title                               Total Cost
(US$ 1 000)
4. STUDIES, ORGANIZATION AND AUDITING SERVICES
4.1 EnvIronnental Manaaoment Oraanlzation
SUMAF 04                      Organization of a Central Environment Audit System                  1,790
Sub-Total Envir. Management Organization          1,790
4.2 Pollion Monhtorina and Audidna
SUMIN 02 & 04                 Air and Water Pollution Monitoring at Itabira and Timpobeba           220
Sub-Total Pollution MonitorIng and AucWting          220
4.3 Environmental Imnact Assesment
SUMAF 11                      Consolidated Environmental Impact Study in CVRD's Area of
Influence in Vitoria                                                1,610
Sub-Total Environmental Impact Assessment           1,610
4.5 Municll knwrovwent Studies
SUFEC 13                      Study of Alternative Systems for Better Sanitation--Sao Luis
Area                                                                 500
4.6 SocIl Dveloonent Studis
SUCEM 01                      Small Business Development in CVRD's area of Influence -               50
Diagnostic
SUCEM 02                      Methodology Develop, for Communities Involvement in                  280
Business in CVRD's Area of Influence
Sub-Total Social Development Studies            330
TOTAL STUDIES, TRAINING AND RESEARCH                 4,450



-91 -                                 ANNEX
Prolect No.                                Tilde                             Tatei Co"t
IUS$ 1.000)
5. OTHER SUB-PROJECTS AND STUDIES
CVRD 01                     Other Subprojects and Studies to be Identified
_____________________________   11,410
TOTAL OTHER SUB-PROJECTS AND STUDIES              11.410
PROJECT TOTAL BASE COST (exckudna conttnuencies snd taxes)                                 95.270
Physical Contingencies                                                                       2,900
Price Contingencies                                                                          2,520
Total cost Before Taxes                                      100,690
Taxes                                                           9,230
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                                                  109.920



0



ANNEX 7
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES: SUBPROJECTS GROUPED BY LOCATION






- 92 -                                              ANNEX 7
BRAZIL - ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CAPITAL COST ESTIMATES: Subprojects Grouped by Location
Prolect No.                           Title                                                               Total Cost
(us$ 1,000)
A. POLLUTION CONTROL AND RECUPERATION OF DEGRADED AREAS IN MINES, PORTS, PLANTS, AND RAILROADS
Southern System
Victoria Port and Industrial Facilities
Port Facilities
SUPOT 02
Pro 01            Dust Control and Collection in Iron Ore Storage and Handling                      2,000
Pro 02            Solid Waste Disposal Revegetation                                                 1.060
SUPOT 03                   Pavement and Drainage in Storage and Access Areas                                 3.340
SUPOT 04
Pro 01            Coal Storage and Pier: Drainage and Effluent Treatment                            1,950
Pro 02            Sulfur Storage: Drainage                                                           340
Pro 03            Iron Ore Storage: Drainage and Effluent Treatment                                 2,720
Pro 04            Sewage Treatment of Port Facilities                                                 130
Pro 06            Rail Cars Loading Station: Effluent Drainage and Treatment                         290
Pro 05/07            Other Effluent Treatment                                                             30
other           Other Effluent Treatment                                                            870
SUPOT 05                   Rehabilitaticn and Improvement of Dust Control Systems                              490
SUPOT 06                   Cais de Paul Port:Effluent Collection & Treatment; Noise Control                    180
Sub-Total SUPOT                                                                 13,400
Pelletization Plants
SUPEL 03                   Electrostatic Precipitator Plant 2                                                1,260
SUPEL 02                   Electrostatic Precipitator Plant 1                                                2,610
SUPEL 04                   Dust Control in the Lime Plant                                                      240
SUPEL 06                   Dust Control, Plant Floors Cleaning System                                           30
SUPEL 07                   Dust Control Optimization, Effluents Control & Drainage                             110
Other                      Dust Control- Other                                                               1,590
SUPEL 08                   Effluent Drainage Treatment and Control                                              60
Other                      Effluent Drainage Treatment and Control- Other                                    2,070
Sub-Total Pelletization Plants                                                   7,970
Railroad Vitoria-Minas
SUEST 01
Pro 02            Solid Waste Deposit                                                                210
Pro 03            Liquid Effluent Collection and Treatment                                          1,670
SUEST-                     Liquid Effluent Collection and Treatment- Other                                   4,370
Sub-Total SUEST                                                                  6,250
Total Vitoria                                                                               27,620



I::                                                 - 93-                                           ANNEX 7
Itabira Mine and Minas Gerais Area
Itabira and Timpobeba Mine
SUMIN-                    Air and Water Pollution Monitoring at Itabira and Timpobeba- Other              3,240
SUMIN 07                  Hydroseeding for Areas Degraded by Mining                                         330
Sub-Total SUMIN                                                                3,570
Nova Era
NES 01                    Dust Emission Control with Bag Filter for Plants 1,2 & 3                        6,560
NES 02                    Dust Control and Effluents Treatment in Material Handling                         660
Sub-Total Nova Era                                                             7,220
Total Minas Gerais                                                                       10,790
Total CVRD Southern System                                                    38.410
Northem System
Caraias Iron Ore Mine
SUMIC 21                  Tailing Pond - Expansion of Dam and Improvement                                 8,460
Sub-Total Carajas                                                                         8,460
lgarane Bahia
SUMEN 05                  Construction of Tailings Ponds                                                  2,720
SUMEN 06                  Revegetation of Tailings Ponds                                                    920
Sub-Total Igarape Bahia                                                                   3,640
SUPOC          Other Pollution Control & Recup. of Degraded Areas (Ponta da Madeira port)                   350
SUFEC          Other Pollution Control & Recup. of Degraded Areas (Railroad)                                870
SUFET          Environmental Control at Taquari-Vassoura Potash Mine                                      2,560
SUMEN          Other Pollution Control & Recup. of Degraded Areas                                         1,580
Total CVRD Northern System                                                    17.460
SUB-TOTAL POLLUTION CONTROL AND RECUP. OF DEGRADED AREAS IN MINES. PORTS ETC...                          55,870



- 94 -
1::                                                                                                   ANNEX 7
B. NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION AND RECUPERATION
Southern System
SUMAF 02                  Management Plan for Linhares Forest Reserve                                       180
SUEST 14                  Green Belt for Vitoria-Minas Railway                                            2,900
SUMIN 03,08               Green Belt for Mine and Town                                                    2,130
Sub-Total Southern System                                                                 5.210
Northern System
SUFEC 01                  Green Belt for Railway and Port                                                   660
Sub-Total Northern System                                                                   660
SUB-TOTAL NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION AND RECUPERATION                                    5,870
C. SOCIALLY ORIENTED INVESTMENTS AND STUDIES
SUMAF 11                  Consolidated Environmental Impact Study                                         1,610
SUMIN 02/04               Air and Water Pollution Monitoring at Itabira and Timpobeba                       220
CVRD 02                   Corporate Amerindian Program                                                      830
SUFEC 07/15               Amerindian Progam- Carajas Corridor                                             2,320
SUMIC 20                  Amerindian Assistance and Health Program- Carajas Mine                          1,770
SUFEC 14                  Improvement of Public Sanitation Services in Sao Luis                             500
SUFEC 1 3                 Study of Alternative Systems for Better Sanitation--Sao Luis Area                 500
SUMIC 22                  Parauapebas Improvement of Quality of Life                                      7,000
SUMIN 09                  Itabira Sewage Collection and Treatment                                         4,560
SUCEM 01                  Small Business Development - Diagnostic                                            50
SUCEM 02                  Methodology Development for Communities Involvement in Busines                    280
SUCEM 03                  Small Business Development in CVRD Area of Influence                              690
SUB-TOTAL SOCIALLY ORIENTED INVESTMENTS                                                  20,330
D. OTHER SUB-PROJECTS AND STUDIES
CVRD 01                   Subprojects and Studies to be Identified                                       11,410
E. SYSTEMS IMPROVEMENT
SUMAF 04                  Central Environment Audit System                                                1,790
TOTAL BASE COST                                                                                          95,270
Pysical Contingency                                                                                       2,900
Price Contingency                                                                                         2,520
Total before Taxes                                                                      100,690
Taxes                                                                                     9,230
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                                                                109,920






ANNEX 8
SUB-PROJECIS RATIONALE AND BENEFITS
(Approved Sub-Projects)






BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENT CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUB-PROJECTS RATIONALE AND BENEFITS
(Approved Sub-Projects)
Tie                   Sie                Ro                                                    in  Benefts
No
Local                      Global                    Rncla
1. POLLUTION CONTROL AND RECUPERATION OF DEGRADED AREAS IN CVRD FACILITIES
1.1 Gee Efllunt end Air Po5uton Control
1 .1 1 Dust Control
SUPOT 05    Rehabilitation and           Tubaro          Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety
Improvement of Dust        Maritime        and timing imposed by
Control Systems (Aspersion    Terminal (E.S)   'Termo de Compromisso"
Systems)                                   (TDC) with SEAMA
SUPOT 02    Dust Control and Collection    Tubaro        Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety
Pro 01       in Iron Ore Storage and     Maritime        and timing imposed by TDC
Handling                    Terminal       with SEAMA
SUPEL 04     Dust Control in the Lime    Pelletization   Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety
Plant                       Plants in      and timing imposed by TDC
Tubarao        with SEAMA
SUPEL 07     Dust Control Optimization,    Pelletization  Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety  Coastal and Marine
Effluent Control & Drainage    Plants in   and timing imposed by TDC                              resources protection.
in Limestone Storage Area   Tubarao        with SEAMA
SUPEL 06     Dust Control, Pelletization  Tubarao        Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety                            Ore recovered is recycled,
Plants Floors Cleaning                     and timing imposed by TDC                                                         however financial benefit is
System                                     with SEAMA                                                                        very small.
SUMEN 07    Dust Control at Potash Mine   Taquari-       Corrective                 Public health and safety
Vassoura
U



l  o      |t            TiIe                  Site                 Rafionael                                              Main Benefbts
I   ________________________    |             l____________                l ________________________   j  Local   Global                      Financial
1.12 Gas Effluent Treatment
SUPEL 02      Electrostatic Precipitator in    Tubarao      Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety
Pelletization Plant 1                         and timing imposed by TDC
with SEAMA
SUPEL 03      Electrostatic Precipitator in    Tubarao      Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety
Pelletization Plant 2                         and timing imposed by TDC
with SEAMA
NES 01        Dust Emission Control:       Ferrosilicon     Corrective, required under   Public health and safety
Installation of a Bag Filter on   alloy plant in    TDC signed with
Exhaust Gases of the Arc     Nova Era -       COPAM/FEAM in 1986 and
Furnaces of Plants 1 & 2     Minas Gerais   its addendum signed in
Feb. 1991.
1.2 Drainage and Liquid Effluent Control. Treatment and Discharge
1.21 Industrial Liquid Drainage, Treatment and Discharge
SUPOT 04    Rail Cars Loading Station:     Maritime         Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety;  Coastal and marine           Very small financial benefit
Pro 06        Effluent Drainage and        Terminal of      and timing imposed by TDC    Improvement of the          resources protection         from oil recovered
Treatment                    Tubarao IE.S)    with SEAMA                  recreation potential of the
area
SUPOT 04    Sulfur Storage: Drainage        Maritime        Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety;  Coastal and marine
Pro 02                                     Terminal of      and timing imposed by TDC    Improvement of the          resources protection
Tubarao (E.S)    with SEAMA                  recreation potential of the
area
SUPOT 04    Coal Storage and Pier:         Maritime         Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety;  Coastal and marine           Very small financial benefit
Pro 01        Drainage and Effluent        Terminal of      and timing imposed by TDC    Improvement of the          resources protection         from coal recovery
Treatment                    Tubarao (E.S)   with SEAMA                   recreation potential of the
area
SUPOT 03    Pavement and Drainage in        Maritime        Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety;  Coastal and marine
Storage and Access Areas     Terminal of      and timing imposed by TDC   Improvement of the           resources protection
Tubarao (E.S)    with SEAMA                  recreation potential of the                                                            >
area                                                                                   z
ni



Prato "lt                                   Site               R.donale           __                                     l__ffb
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  L ocal                   G lob l                   Fin   il
SUPOT 04    Iron Ore Storage: Drainage    Maritime       Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety;  Coastal and marine       very small financial benefit
Pro 03       and Effluent Treatment      Terminal of     and timing imposed by TDC   Improvement of the         resources protection       from iron ore recovery
Tubarao (E.S)   with SEAMA                recreation potential of the
area                                                 I _
SUPOT 04    Other Effluent Treatment     Maritime        Corrective, implementation    Public heatth and safety;
Pro 05/07                                Terminal of     and timing imposed by TDC   Improvement of the
Tubarao IE.SI   with SEAMA                 recreation potential of the
area
SUPEL 08     Effluent Drainage Treatment   Pelletization  Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety;  Coastal and marine
and Control                plant and       and timing imposed by TDC   Improvement of the         resources protection
storage in     with SEAMA                 recreation potential of the
Tubarao (E.S)                              area
SUEST 01     Liquid Effluents Collection  Railroad       Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety;                           Very small financial benefit
Pro 03       and Treatment               terminal        and timing imposed by TDC   improvement in the                                    from oil recovered.
maintenance    with SEAMA                 recreation potential of the
shop at                                   area
Tubarao port   _
NES 02       Uquid Effluent Collection   Ferrosilicon    Corrective, required under    Public Health; watershed
and Treatment in Storage,    aHoy plant in    TDC signed with COPAM   preservation.
Washing and Handling of     Nova Era -     and its first addendum
Coal, Hematite and Quartz   Minas Gerais   signed in Feb. 1991.
1.22 Sewaae Treatment
SUPOT 04    Sewage Treatment of Port    Tubaro           Corrective, implementation    Public health and safety;  Coastal and marine
Pro 04       Facilities                  Maritime        and timing imposed by TDC   improvement in the| resource protection.
Term.          with SEAMA                 recreation potential of the
area
1.3 Sold Wate Treatnt and DispOsa
1.31 Mining Waste and Tailinas Disposal
SUMIC 21     Tailing Pond - Expansion of    Carajas Iron  Preventive, to allow safe  Watershed and ground
Dam and Improvement       |Ore Mine        deposit of tailings and    water preservation        l
I  I           I_________ _    reuse of water  I                      I                          I                              Z
00



Prlt                   rif                   SlX                 R                                                    Main
No
I______________________ _eci                                      Glabb                      Phi
SUMEN 05    Construction of Modular       bguarape Bahia  Preventive, to allow safe   Watershed and ground
Ponds for the Settling and  gold mine       deposit of tailings and the  water preservation.
Confining of Tailings       lCarajas)       reuse of the liquid phase.
Generated in the CIP Plant                  Recommended by PRAD.
1.32 Industrial Solid Waste Disposal
SUEST 01     Solid Waste Deposit outside   Railroad       Corrective, implementation    Public health: watershed                              Very small financial benefit
Pro 02       Port. and Recuperation of    Terminal        and timing imposed by TDC   and underground water                                  from oil recovered.
Degraded Areas (natural     maintenance     with SEAMA                  preservation; esthetics.
lagoon and existing waste    shop at
deposit)                    Tubarao port,
l ___________   __________________________  V itoria(E S  .5
1.4 Noise Contrdl
SUPOT 06    Cais de Paul Port: Dust       CVRD's pig      Corrective, implementation    Public Health and safety                              Coastal and marine
Control; Effluent Collection    iron loading  and timing imposed by TDC                                                         resource preservation
& Treatment; Nise Control   terminal        with SEAMA
l_     _   _   _   _  _   _      o i  ._         _   _   _    _   _  _    _   _   _   _  _   _   _     _   _   _  _   _   _    _   _  _   _    _   __Vit o r ia_E_S_
1.5 Reraion of Deraded Areas
SUMEN 06    Revegetation of Modular       Iguarape Bahia  In accordance with Decreto   Restoration of natural
Tailings Ponds (SUMEN 05)    gold mine      no 97632 and state          ecosystem; erosion control;
legislation                esthetics
SUMIN 07      Hydroseeding of areas       Itabira and     In accordance with Decreto   Public health; erosion
Degraded by Mining          Timpobeba       no 97632 and state          control; restoration of
Mines (M.G)     legislation                 natural ecosystem;
esthetics
SUPOT 02      Existing Solid Waste        Tubarao          Together with underground    Public health; erosion
Pro 02        Disposal Revegetation       Maritime         water monitoring, its      control; esthetics.
Terminal       implementation and timing
are imposed by TDC with
SEAMA                     I
I 



Project                Title           T       Site     |          Rationale                                               Main Benefits
_o                                    I l ____________L l _______________________               Local                       G lobal                     Financial
2. NATURAL RESOURCES PROTECTION AND RECUPERATION
2.1  Protection of Ecosystems
SUMAF 02    Management Plan for             Atlantic Forest  Improved management of                                    Protection of one of the
Linhares Forest Reserve      (E.S)            forest reserve owned by                                   few remaining important
CVRD                                                      ecosystem of the Mata
Atlantica and improved
knowledge of tropical torest
management
2.2 Reforestation of Degraded Areas
SUEST 14      Green Belt for Vitoria-Minas    Victoria-Minas   Own initiative             Erosion, noise and dust      Carbon sequestration         Reduction of rail
Railway                      railway                                       control; lower risks of                                   maintenance costs      .
corridor                                     accidents  esthetics.
SUMIN         Green Belt for Itabira and    Itabira and     Recuperation of degraded      Public health Ireduction of    Carbon sequestration
03,08         Timpobeba Mines               Timbopeba       areas in accordance with     air pollution); esthetics.
mines (M.G)     Constitution; pressure to
reduce dust emissions from
neighboring communities.
SUFEC 01      Green Belt for Railway and    Along the       Own initiative                Erosion control; lower risks    Carbon sequestration.     Reduction of rail
Port                         Carajas                                       of accidents involving                                    maintenance costs
Railroad                                     animals; esthetics.
Ix
oo1



1~~~~~~~~r t: i:e iSg : : :                                   ::   :           :       :: ::    :            :: :    :    :0 :                 : : :     :
I:O                                      Ra P~b   : E   rnl.   :Son _   1   :   :a  :   :  : l  U.n   8                           l
3. SOCIALLY ORIENTED INVESTMENTS
3.1 Amerindians
CVRD 02      Corporate Amerindian        Carajas         Mitigation of indirect                                 Protection and assistance
Program                    Corridor        environmental impact                                   to Amerindians from
various communities.
SUFEC 15    Amerindian Assistance and    Carajas         Mitigation of indirect                                 Protection and assistance
Health Program              Corridor       environmental impact                                   to Amerindians from
various communities.
SUMIC 20    Amerindian Assistance and    Catete reserve   Convenio with FUNAI                                   Protection and assistance
Health Program  (includes  Carajas                                                                to the Xicrin Amerindian
SUMAF 15)                                                                                         Community.                                               8
3.2 MurniciI lmmrovenent
SUFEC 14    Improvement in Public        Sao Luis        Mitigation of indirect     Public health
Sanitation (Waste                          environmental impact
Collection)                                                          l                          l_l
SUMIC 22    Paraupebas Improvement in   Carajas Area    Mitigation of indirect      Public health; preservation
Quality of Life (water supply              environmental impact        of underground water;
and sewage)                                                            esthetics
SUMIN 09    Sewage Collection and        Itabira IMG)    Overall Improvement in     Public Health
I Treatment at Itabira                       water quality for the town



Ttlde          |     Sitea              Ratiole r1Main Benefits
Local                     Global                    Fiancdal
3.3 Rural Extension and SmaiN Business Devel2rpne
SUCEM 03    Small Business Oevelopment  CVRD Area of   Mitigation of indirect      Social Welfare.
In CVRD Area of Influence   influence in    impact
South and
North
Systems
4. STUDIES. TRAWING AND RESEARCH
4. Stude. Orasrizaton *nd Audil  Sevie
4.1 Ernonmntid M_naieet Or_eazsln
SUMAF 04   Central Environment Audit    CVRD's group   Own initiative              Enterprise's environmental 
System                     facilities                                 structure and s0stems
optimization
4.2 PA&Alon MoWnd w  Au*
SUMIN 02    Air and Water Pollution      Itabira and    In agreement with federal   | Public health, Watershed
& 04         Monitoring at Itabira and   Timpobeba      and states environmental   and underground water
Timpobeba                  Mines (M.G)    laws.                       protection and recuperation
4.3 Enw    bhanct As_ssat
SUMAF 11    Consolidated Environmental   Tubarao and    An environmental impact    This study will allow the
Impact Study               Vitoria area    study on marine life in the    evaluation of the current
IE.S)          Tubarao port facilities is  and future (after
imposed by TDC with       implementation of project)
SEAMA                     environmental impact of
I CVRD operations
I



Project                Title                  Site                Rationale                                             Main Benefits
No 
Local                      Global           |         Financial
4.4 Environment Protection and Recuperation Studies
4.5 Municipal Improvement Studies
SUFEC 13      Study of Alternative         Sao Luis (Mal   Own initiative to mitigate  Public health; watershed
Systems for Better                           direct and indirect impact  protection.
Sanitation of Communities                    of CVRD activities
Located near to CVRD
Installations
4.6 Social Deveiopment Studies
SUCEM 01    Small Business                 CVRD area of   Own initiative to mitigate   Public welfare.
Development- Diagnostic     influence        direct and indirect impact                                                                                         O
of CVRD activities                                                                                                t'
SUCEM 02    Methodology Development    CVRD area of   Own initiative to mitigate       Public welfare.
for Communities             influence        direct and indirect impact
Involvement in Business                      of CVRD activities
\CVPROBEN
z
m



ANNEX 9
FINANCING PLAN AND PROCUREMENT






BRAZIL
Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation Project
Annex 9- Financing Plan and Procurement
___________________________________________________________________Bank-fhianced                 __ _  _ _ _      CVRD
Ptt No.   I                                                                              |IC  LCB B   Ot s    Conuitnt    Total 1RD      Counwpanrt    TOTAL
A- PetiIo CS  and   ueulo  Dof asd Area in Ate.. Ports. Pli old  P
Tubao Pon Infrssrtcrwum
SUPOT 02
Pro 01 Dust Control and Colection in Iron Ore Storage and Handling               0     1,870         0           0         1,870          780       2,650
Pro 02 Sod War.Disposal Ravegetation                                             0         0         0           0            0          1,410      1,410
SUPOT 03    Pavementanda D a ge  Storage and Access Areas                               0     1,890         0          0         1,890         2,020       3,910
SUPOT 04
Pro 01 Coa Storep and pier: Draap aid Efflnt Treatment                           0         0         0           0            0          2.350      2,350
Pro 02 Sudfw Stomae: Draae                                                       0         0         0           0            0           410         410
Pro 03 Iron Ore Stage: Drainae and Effluent Treatment                            0     3,040         0           0        3,040           230       3,270
Pro 04 Sewap Trement of Port FPctin                                              0         0         0           0            0           160         180
Pro 06 Rdl Cas Loadi  Station: Effluent Drainage and Treatment                   0         0         0           0            0           350         350
Pro 5/7 Othwr Efent Trent0                                                                 0         0           0             0            40         40
SUPOT-       Efflnt Treantm  *                                                          0         0         0          0           500           500       1,000
SUPOT 05    Rdhtibtatuon and bIpmverment of Dust Control System                         0         0         0          0             0           590        590
SUPOT 06    Ca de Pad: Effluent Collecti  ad Treatment and Noe Control                  0         0         0          0             0           210        210
Sub-toraL Port Infrastnwturs   0    6800           0           0         7,300         9,050     16.3                            0
PsEtization Pants ar Tubwo Tambrs
SUPEL 02     Eectrostatic Precttor- Plant 1                                             0         0         0          0             0         1,620       1,620
SUPEL 03     Electrostatic Prscipitator- Plant 2                                       0         0         0          0             0         3.350       3,350
SUPEL 04     Dust Contro in Lime Plan                                                   0       400         0          0           400            SO        450
SLIPEL       Dust Contro: Pbat Foor Ceraing Systeme                                     0         0         0          0             0            40         40
SUPEL 07     Dust Control OptIiation                                                    0         0         0          0             0           130        130
SUPEL        Dust Control *                                                           BOO         0         0          0           800         1,050       1,850
SUPEL 08     Effuent Draleg, Control ad Treetment                                       0         0         0          0             0            80         80
SUPEL        Efuent Control, Dree  nd Treanent                                          0       980         0          0           880         1,530       2,410
Sob-torta- Pbtrization Pbnts  800    1,280         0           0        2.080          7,050      9.930
Railrod VnorMi-Aas
SUEST 01
Pro 02 Sold Wate Deposit- Tubao                                                  0       180         0           0          180           140         320
Pmo 03 Liq.id Efflent Collction nd Treirwent                                   930       460         0           0        1,390           830       2,220
SUEST-       Liquid Efflfent Colection aid Teatnent *                                 800     1,900         0           0        2,S00         2,490       4,990
SubrorRdAus  VItons-Ainss    1,530    2.540         0           0         4,070         3Q60       7,530t
ToW - Whi hstflitbs      Z,330    10.620        0           0        f3.4'0        2036       33.810
ICZ
0  o  13"001  9,3W 1   33,810



BRAZIL
Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation Project
Annex 9- Financing Plan and Procurement
Bank-fbimced                          CVRD
Proct No.    D    on                                                                 ICB      LCB  O|thr   C         orauft    Tote MAD    Counpt         TOTAL
ftairs and rrnboneba Mines
SUMIN        Air and Water Polution Monitoring Systems at Itabire & Timbopepa          5 560    1,000        0           0         1,560         2,140       3,700
SUMIN 07     Hydroseeding for Areas Degraded by Miring                                   0         0         0           0             0           460         460
Subtotal- Itabira and 77snbopeba  560   1,000                     o         1,560        2600        4.160
Aova Era Frosjton Plant
NES 01       Dust Emission Control for Plants 1,2 and 3                              6,050         0         0           0         6,050         1,520       7,570
NES 02       Dust Coritrol and Effluent Treatment in Material Handling                   0       270         0           0           270           490         760
Sub-total Nova Era    6050     270         0           0         6,320         2010       8.330
Total Anss         6.610 6.270             _0          0         7.MO          4,610      12,490
Total Southrn System   8,940    11,890         0           0        21,33         24,970       6,300
Carsiss Iron Om Mine
SUMIC 21     Expansion of Tailing Pond Dam and Improvemernt of Pond                  5,990         0         0         280         6,270         2,930       9,200
Subtotal- Camaias Iron Ore Mine    5.990    0         0        280         6,270          2930       9.200
Canmas Railrad
SUFEC-       Pollution Control'                                                          0         0         0           0             0         1,000       1,000
Subtotal- Camans Radirod     2         2         _           2             0         1.000       1.000
Ponta da Medeis Port
SUPOC-       Pollution Control'                                                          0       200         0           0           200           200        400
Subtotal- Ponta ds Medairs    0       200         0           0           200           200         400
loarape Bshia Gold Mine
SUMEN 05    Constnuction of Tailing Ponds                                                0         0         0           0             0         3,110       3,110
SUMEN 06    Revegetation of Tailing Ponds                                                0         0         0           0             0         1,140       1,140
Sub-total- Igarp  Bsahia Gold Mine   0         0         0           0            2          4,250      4.250
SUFET 01     Environmental Control at the Taquari Vassouras Potash Mine '              990         0         0           0           990         1,980       2,970
SUMEN-       Pollution Control                                                           0       500         0           0           500         1,300       1,800
Total Norten Systmn|   6,980       700         0        280                       11.660     19.620
Total Pobdon CaSd and  eam. at Deoadd Arem                             15,920    12,590         0         280        29,290        36,630      66.920



BRAZIL
Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation Project
Annex 9- Financing Plan and Procurement
__                                                                               Bank-funanced                          CVRD
Project No.  IDscption                                                                ICB       LCB       Other   Consultats   Total IBRO     Counterpart    TOTAL
B- NoteS RMcre Prtotection mid R.apareton
SUMAF 02    Implementation of Management Plan for Linhares Forest Reserve                  0         0         0            0            0            200         200
SUEST 14    Green Belts Along Vitona-Minas Railroad                                        0         0         0           0             0          3,290       3,290
SUMIN 03/08  Green Belt for Itabira Mine and Town                                          0         0         0            0            0          2,340       2,340
SUFEC 01     Green Belts along Carajas Railroad and at Port                                0         0         0            0            0            B8O         800
Tota Naturdal  wcu   Prottion P   d Recwemtlon                                0         00                    0             0          6.630       6,630
Ic- Sory-Ofwntd nwestentu
Munvcipal Assistance Pm,arams
SUMIC 22     Parauapebas Water Supply, Sewerage and Waste Disposal Systems             4,000     2,180         0         600         6,780          1,020       7,800
SUMIN 09     Sewage Colection and Treatment System at Itabira                              0     4,000         0         250         4,250          1,050       5,300
SUFEC 14    Improvements in Public Saniation Services- Sao Luis                            0         0         0           0             0            580         580
SUCEM 03    Small Business Development- Pilot Project                                      0         0         0           0             0            830         830
Subrortal Municipal Assistance Programs  4,000  6,080         2         850        11,03           3,480      14,510
Amenndian Programs
CVRD 02      Corporate Amerindian Program                                                  0         0       200         210           410            420         830
SUFEC 07/15  Amefindian Program- Carajas Corridor                                          0         0       190         330           520          1,800       2,320                       O
SUMIC 20    Amenndian Assistance and Health Program- Carajas Mine                          0         0       560         190           750          1,020       1,770                       tA
Subtotal Amenmndian Assistance Progrms     0         0       950         730         1.680          3,240       4,920
Total- Sodeyllyntad an                                                   4,000     6,180      950        1,580        12,710          6,720      19.43
0- Stns
SUMIN 02/04  Air and Water Pollution Monitoring and Control at Itabira and Timbopepa       0         0         0         270           270             20         290
SUMAF 11    Comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment of Tubarao Port                  0         0         0       1,200         1,200            500       1,700
SUFEC 13    Study of Alternative Sanitation Systems-Sao Luis                               0         0         0           0             0            500         500
SUCEM 01    Small Business Development- Municipal Diagnostics                              0         0         0           0             0             50          50
SUCEM 02    Methodology Development for Community Involvement in Business Dev.             0         0         0         270           270             20        290
Tot Stude                                                                    2         o          0       1,740         1,740          1,090      2,830
E- CVRD Corporat EnvIron. hfoetwm, Nmnto.Mg and Aurti  System
SUMAF 04    Total- Systems Development and Audits                                          2         0         0       1,040         1,040            750       1,790
1F Ote Subhpraes      Studes
CVRD 01      Subprojects and Studies to be Defined'                                   2,0        2,080       600         300        5O.00          S9.90       13,320                        Z
z
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                             22,760    20.850      1.450 _   4.9401         50.0001       59.9270    109.920






ANNEX 10
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ESTIMATED ANNUAL CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER PAYMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)






- 106 -                                             ANNEX 10
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 10 -Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual end Other Payments
(USt million equivalent)
Total
Fiscal Year                                     1996      1997      1998       1999      2000            Payments
Equipment                 - Total                5.3        6.6       7.7       4.5        2.9              27.0
xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
- IBRD                 3.6       4.5        5.3       3.1       2.0               18.4
- Counterpart          1.7       2.1       2.5        1.4       0.9                8.6
Materials                 - Total                1.8        2.3       2.8       1.5        1.0               9.3
xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
- IBRD                 0.7       0.9        1.0       0.6       0.4                3.6
- Counterpart          1.1       1.4        1.7       0.9       0.6                5.7
Civil Works               -Total                11.1       13.8      16.2       9.4        6.0              56.7
xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
- IBRD                 4.5       5.7       6.6        3.8       2.4               23.1
- Counterpart          6.6       8.2        9.6       5.6       3.6               33.6
Consulting Services       - Total                2.2        2.5       2.0       1.0                          7.7
xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
- IBRD                 1.2       1.6        1.4       0.7                          4.9
- Counterpart          1.0       0.9        0.6       0.3                          2.8
Taxes                     - Total                1.8        2.3       2.6       1.5        1.0               9.2
xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx
- IBRD
- Counterpart          1.8       2.3        2.6       1.5       1.0                9.2
TOTAL                   -Total                22.2      27.6       31.3      17.9       10.9             109.9
- IBRD                10.0      12.7       14.3       8.2       4.8               50.0
- Counterpart         12.2      14.9       17.0       9.7       6.1               59.9
\CVSCHEDU.WK 1
I: :






ANNEX 11
SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR
A COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
OF THE TUBARAO INDUSTRIAL PORT






ANNEX 11
- 107 -
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 1I
Summary Terms of Reference for a Comprehensive Environmental
Impact Assessment of the Tubarao Industrial Port
Background
1. The industrial port of Tubarao is located at about 10 kilometers from the center of the city of
Vitoria. It comprises industrial operations (iron ore pelletization plants of CVRD and CST steel
mill); and loading/unloading and storage facilities for iron ore and other minerals, phosphate rock,
coal, pig iron, steel products and grains. While CVRD and CST each own and operate their
industrial plants, the port is operated by CVRD. The port thus impacts significantly on the greater
Vitoria metropolitan area, with a population of about 1.5 million people.
Objectives
2. The study would: (a) analyze the impact of the rail, port and industrial operations of both CST
and CVRD on the environmental and population of the Greater Vitoria area; and (b) review options to
resolve outstanding problems and propose a mitigation plan to be submitted to, and discussed with,
the state of Espirito Santo and the municipalities of the Greater Vitoria, to achieve "total
environmental quality" within the medium term.
Scope
3. (a) diagnostic of the environmental quality of the air, fresh and coastal waters, and soils; and
assessment of impacts on the health and welfare of the population of the Greater Vitoria area
and on the fauna and flora of coastal waters and mangrove areas, and on the area's beaches;
(b) identification of sources of pollution, in particular those attributed to the industrial port
operations;
(c) review of air, water, soil and noise pollution minimization or elimination options; and
preparation of a comprehensive mitigation plan including costs and timing for implementation;
and related monitoring plans.
4. Some specific areas of concern have been identified, which will require immediate attention.
These aspects will be the subject of separate sub-studies and their conclusions will be incorporated in
the mitigation plan refered-to above. These are:
(a) an integrated management plan for CVRD's solid waste (including a detailed diagnostic,
review of alternatives for re-use, treatment and disposal; cost/benefit analysis; monitoring
plans and a mitigation program);



ANNEX l!
- 108 -
(b) an integrated management plan for CST's air emissions and liquid effluent, in particular with
respect to S02 air emissions and anmmonia-containing liquid effluent; and
(c) a review of CST's environmental management systems and definition of appropriate
structures, systems, monitoring and infornation systems and procedures, and training needs.
Implementation
5. The substudies mentioned in para 4 would be undertaken first: the management plan for CVRD's
solid wastes would be contracted by the end of 1995 and completed in December 1996; all CST-
related substudies would also be contracted by the end of 1995 and completed by December 1996.
The phasing of the global impact study would be timed to allow the completion in substance of the
above substudies and the completion of a number of investments already underway and under the
project, so that the study can focus on residual impacts. The global study would thus be completed
by July 31, 1998.
March 28, 1995



ANNEX 12
THE ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION, MONITORING
AND AUDITING SYSTEM






- 109 -                            ANNEX 12
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 12
The Environmental Information. Monitoring and Auditing System
Objectives and Coverage
1. The purpose of the project would be to design and implement a comprehensive environmental
information, monitoring and auditing system applicable to the entire CVRD group (CVRD and its
subsidiaries and affiliates) and would aim at ensuring total environmental quality, risk minimization
and social fairness in the group's operations, and to verify and ensure that corporate environmental
policies and principles and all obligations derived from the law, agreements and the terms of
environmental licenses (including mitigation measures and action plans proposed under Environmental
Impact Assessments and imposed as conditions of environmental licenses) are met. The system would
cover: (a) pollution control-- preventive and corrective; (b) recuperation of degraded areas,
reforestation; (c) indirect social and ecological impacts of operations and projects; and (d) new
projects preparation and implementation.
2.    Specifically, the system would:
--    check how anf if operations conform to the law and to headquarters policies and
norms;
verify if the local environmental structure, procedures and staffing are adequate;
verify that monitoring equipment in place is complete, efficient and functioning;
=review data from actual measurements and analyses, and evaluate the quality of
informations;
assess indirect social and ecological impacts and systems and procedures in place to
minimize them and recommend necessary improvements, including those needed for
land purchases, consultations with affected communities and implementation of agreed
mitigation/assistance programs and their efficiency;
review adequacy of information flows within and outside the superintendency, and its
use in decision making;
recommend corrective measures with respect to equipment, staffing, organization,
procedures, information, etc..;
identify needs for training, technical assitance and environmental education;



- 110 -                                ANNEX 12
monitor and evaluate CVRD's Amerindian program;
analyse EIA/RIMA's for CVRD group's new projects and environmental monitoring
of their implementation;
identify and monitor ad-hoc environmental impact studies; and
generally recommend improvements to CVRD's management in systems and
procedures required to improve environmental performance.
A- The Environmental Audit Program
Scope
The audit system would be articulated at three levels:
1.    (a)    internal audits carried-out regularly by each superintendency, affiliate and subsidiary;
(b)    cross audits carried-out by a special corporate audit group composed of specialized
staff drawn from the entities's best auditors, if necessary assisted by outside
specialists, working under the direction of GIMAR; Internal auditors from the entity
being audited would not participate in the audit of their own entity;
(c)    external audits commissioned regularly by GIMAR of all entities and carried-out by
external consultants; and
(d)    risks assessments and minimization programs.
Responsibilities
2. Decentralized entities (superintendencies and enterprises) would be responsible for carrying-out
internal audits, using their own teams, according to methodologies, criteria and procedures established
for the group by GIMAR, and with the support of the respective environmental departments.
Environmental managers would submit their annual internal audit program to GIMAR. They would
be responsible for sending the internal audit reports to GIMAR; for preparing mitigation and risk
minimization plans to remedy problems brought up by the audits; and for monitoring their
implementation.
3. GIMAR would have a key role: it would (i) coordinate the establishment of the program, (ii)
design and implement or assist with the establishment of the necessary systems and training programs;
(iii) design and issue all manuals (specifying methodologies, criteria and procedures), forms,
questionnaires and reporting requirements for internal and cross audits and risk assessments; (iv)
consolidate the annual program of internal audits (including of risks), and prepares the program of
cross and external audits (including risk assessments) and submit it to management; (v) schedule and
conducts all cross audits and schedule, contract and supervise external audits and risk assessments;
(vi) disseminate to corporate management and interested entities the findings of these audits and risk
assessments; (viii) review recommendations for remedial actions proposed by the entities to address
issues raised in these audits and monitor their implementation; (ix) reports to management



- 111 -                             ANNEX 12
(superintendents cornmittee and vice president) on the results of cross and external audits, and on
overall environmental quality of the group (preliminary environmental reports based on internal audits
and environmental diagnostics based on cross and external audits; (vi) recommend to the
superintendent conmmittee and corporate management changes in policies and procedures required to
make the corporation environmentally responsive; consolidates and coordinates the relevant training
programs for the group.
4. The Commission of Environmental Managers (Gerentes) would review and discuss with GIMAR
the annual program of external and cross audits before it is sent to corporate management. It would
also be responsible for following up implementation of recommended measures.
5. The Superintendent Environmental Committee would approve the annual cross and external audit
program, and propose company-wide measures and actions identified as a result of these audits.
B- The Environmental Monitoring and Information System
Scope
6. This system would have the following elements:
(a)    an on-line data bank containing important updated information on environmental
performance (imputed by environmental departments, as part of their routine
reporting systems); this data could be accessed from anywhere in the group,
permitting quality control;
(b)    an on-line data bank of up to date environmental legislation, regulations, norms and
standards and agreements at federal, state and municipal levels (including conditions
and mitigating measures imposed as conditions for licenses), and proposed as part of
EIA/RIMAs, accessible to all within the group;
(c)   the annual audit programs and their implementation status;
(d)    records of audit results and recommendations;
(e)    records of action plans and implementation reports;
(f)    roster of qualified internal and external auditors; and
(g)    training program and implementation status.
Responsibility
7.     Design of the system would be the responsibility of GIMAR and its up to date maintenance
would be the joint responsibility of GIMAR and the entities environmental departments.



- 112 -
ANNEX 12
C- Implementation Schedule and Reporting
8. It is expected that the system will be established over a period of four years. Significant
advances have taken place since 1993, when training and preparation of documentation started and an
audit test was performed at Tubarao, followed by several full scale internal audits since. A
sunmmarized schedule is presented on the next page. Each superintendency, subsidiary and affiliate
would be subject to a cross/audit and/or external audit at least once every second year. Based on the
results of the monitoring and information system and of the audits performed, GIMAR would issue an
Environmental Diagnostic of the CVRD group once a year. The Bank would finance technical
assistance required to design the system, carry-out and prepare methodologies for risk assessments;
and external audits.
March 28, 1995
Note: this annex is based on "Programa de Auditoria Ambiental da Companhia Vave do Rio Doce",
dated March 1993. This document is available in the Project File.



Environmental Information, Monitoring and Auditing System
Implementation Calendar
993                                                  1994                                                     I995                                                 1996
I rst  ier   12d Quarer   |3d Ouer    414t            yier     l  ner 2ro Qtier | M    arer  F411 (u r  Irst Quarr 12nd Quarer |3d Qurer  14th  urter   l Quarte2rd (1nd                    r 13dQuar -     414th    er
Program Proposal
Prnoram  Resiesw                                                                                _
Prgm  Approval
11- Team Fornation
Team Seectin
Dcfir  of Training Neecks
Imer-I Aidit Training                                            _
Croa-Arcas Audit Trairing
II]- Domtmeru Design
Iil Audit Mami_
Crras-Areas Audit Maml 
Corp Pr
Specitfic ra
Audit Qusoiuires
IV- E rotmaneal Infrmation Ssem
Symms Im Lalltm
Is~imio   Iqtuing                                                ___                                     ___         _ _            _ _        _ _
V- Emwionneiaal LcaLion
WrFn Compilation
Iqaaiq i[to System
Vi- lImes  Audits
lImplemenution__
Cotaulaaiotn by GIMEZ
Prelimirey Repont
VIl- Cross-Area Audits                                                                                                                                    ___________________
Vlil- External ALdits
First Environmetnl Diagnostic
VlIl- Risk Asmerets                                                                                                                                                 _
z
z
xr






ANNEX 13
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES' DEVELOPMENT PLAN






- 114-                                ANNEX 13
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 13 - Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan
1.    The main purpose of the project would be: (i) to support the formulation by CVRD of a
strategy and program which will govern the company's future assistance to Amerindian Commnunities
in the Carajas railroad corridor impacted directly or indirectly by its presence and operations, taking
into account results and lessons from its now ten-year old experience under the Special Project
(financed by CVRD in the framework of the Carajas Iron Ore Project); and (ii) finance selected
investments and programs which will result from these efforts. Since these subprojects have
consequently not been formulated in detail (although some broad priorities and lines of action are
already emerging), this annex does not present details on technical aspects of projects, implementation
mechanisms, cost estimates and recovery mechanisms and actual methods of community
representation and local participation. Rather, these will be formulated later according to a set of
agreed criteria (presented in para. 40) and submitted to the Bank for review and approval as a
condition of disbursements. This annex therefore provides: (i) basic information on Amerindian
Groups most affected by CVRD's presence; (ii) current legal and land tenure status; (iii) results and
lessons from experience of CVRD's Special project and assistance programs; (iv) proposed criteria for
CVRD's action; and (v) timing and mechanisms for the formulation of an action program.
A - Background: Amerindian Communities in CVRD's Area of Influence.
2.     Some 14,000 tribal Indians, on 24 different reservations, live in the general area of CVRD's
Carajas mining operations and the ore railway from the mine to the port of Sao Luis, in the states of
Maranhao and Para (Map). These groups are highly diverse in their language and culture. With the
exception of the Parakana and Awa/Guaja groups, almost all of these indigenous groups had been in
permanent contact with the Brazilian national society before the initiation of the Carajas iron ore
project, some of these groups, such as the Guajajara and Apinaje groups, for centuries. Nevertheless,
change accelerated in this region since the seventies, as a result of the construction of two federal
highways (the Belem-Brasilia and Trans-Amazon highways), the Tucurui Dam and the considerable
immnigration which took place as a result of lumbering, garimpo mining, and agricultural and
livestock development stimulated by road access and Government incentives. Pressure on indian
lands was thus intensified by these developments as well as the subsequent construction of the Carajas
railroad.
Diversity of Tribal Groups
3.     There are vast differences between these groups in terms of contact with, and adaptation to,
national society. Some have been in contact for over 200 years, while others have only recently come
into regular contact or may even be still uncontacted. Since length and history of contact affects the
health, diet, demography, subsistence practices, consumption habits and needs, as well as the skills
needed to deal with outside society and modem technology, each group has specific problems and
potentialities.



- 115-                                 ANNEX 13
4.     Moreover, the internal social structure of a group may condition its style of interaction with
national society. The Indians in this area belong to one of two major language and cultural groups,
Ge and Tupi. The Ge, in general, have tightly organized societies, with relatively strong leadership.
and formal social categories. The Ge style of dealing with outsiders is often aggressive, and some
groups, such as the Kayapo, exploit their bellicose reputation to considerable effect. Tupian groups
tend to be more loosely organized with weaker leadership.
5.     Indigenous areas vary greatly in size, population density, and natural resources. However, all
groups now have needs for Western goods, including such manufactured products as shotguns and
shells for hunting, cloth, soap, metal tools, prescription and non-prescription drugs, as well as the
desire to acquire such "luxury" goods as radios, wristwatches, and tape recorders. They pursue a
number of strategies to acquire these, including handicraft manufacture, paid labor, cash cropping,
and sale of natural resources, including lumber and mining rights. The Indians are often at a
disadvantage in these transactions because of lack of knowledge of Portuguese, illiteracy, and inability
to understand accounting procedures, and thus are often cheated.
Relations of Dependency
6.     The tribal Indians of Brazil live on government-designated reservations under the tutelage of
FUNAI, the National Indian Foundation. In addition to assist with the demarcation and protection of
reserves, FUNAI has the responsibility to provide health services, basic education, and develop
community economic self-sufficiency. In practice, these services have seldom been provided in a
consistent way, but have been supplied piecemeal in accordance with the resources of FUNAI at any
particular time and the strength and effectiveness of the Indians' demands. In many cases the
equipment provided is inappropriate for the Indian's needs, and no provision is made for maintenance
There have been few efforts to foster true self-sufficiency by training for the manual skills needed to
maintain equipment and practical education to develop the abilities needed, especially knowledge of
simple accounting and market conditions, to handle their own economic affairs.
7.     Health services are also often provided in an assistential and inconsistent way, with the village
clinic often left without a supply of essential drugs for months, even though seriously ill patients may
be evacuated to area hospitals at great expense. Preventive medicine, including basic sanitation and
clean water supply, has often been neglected, although vaccination has recently lowered infant
mortality.
8.  Such dependency acquired by historic experience has distorted the relations of many Indian
communities with outsiders. Commercial enterprises may offer "gifts" -- now sometimes upgraded
to airplanes -- in exchange for concessions of timber and mining rights of whose value the Indians
have little conception. Even though many reservations have ample natural resources, few groups
have been able to use these effectively to attain economic self sufficiency.
Population Growth
9.     Newly contacted Indian groups usually experience an abrupt and disastrous drop in population
because of epidemic diseases to which they have not acquired resistance, typically measles, grippe,
whooping cough, malaria, and even colds. Fertility also often drops during this period, and the
group may become extinct. However, if it survives the acute crisis and people gain immunity to
infectious diseases and can benefit from health care, then mortality drops and fertility may become



- 116-                                ANNEX 13
higher than before contact, leading to rapid population growth. This seems to be happening with
many groups in this area. For example, in five indigenous communities in the FUNAI administrative
district of Maraba, 55 percent of the population is 15 or under, and the average annual population
growth rate is 11.69 percent. As a result many of these groups have probably reached their pre-
contact numbers, and because they are very young populations will continue to increase rapidly.
10.   While population increase assures the physical survival of these groups, and often leads to
cultural revival, because there are the numbers and confidence to perform rituals that were abandoned
during the "bad years," it also is causing population pressure on some reservations, and will soon do
so on others. The young population puts a heavy burden on adults to provide for children not yet
contributing economically. Also larger populations become more sedentary, with the result, if there
is no basic sanitation, that garbage and feces accumulate, polluting the water supply and bringing
diarrheal and parasitical diseases.
11.   Population growth makes it more imperative that these populations find a self sustaining
economic base, and grow away from the paternalistic dependency model into which they were drawn
by the circumstances of contact and ongoing relations with outsiders. FUNAI has many excellent
workers in the field, and now has a president drawn from the ranks of those workers, but it has
meager resources to provide services for 200,000 plus tribal Indians in Brazil, and in the present
economic climate those resources are likely to be cut further.
Groups most affected by CVRD's Operations
12.    Most directly affected by CVRD operations are five groups: the Xikrin of Catete, whose
reservation borders directly on the CVRD mining concession, the Gaviao of Mae Maria, whose
reservation is crossed by the railway line, the Guajajara of Pindare and Caru, whose reservations lie
very near the railway, and the Awa (or Guaja), a nomadic hunting and gathering people that wanders
throughout the area in small family groups, some of which are still uncontacted. The following
paragraphs provide a description of each of these groups, illustrating the diversity of situations.
The Pindare
13.    Pindare is only about 15 minutes' drive from Sta. Ines, and the main village is at the entrance
to the reservation, so the Indians have easy access to the town which has a station on the CVRD
railway line. It is a relatively small reservation with 79,520 ha, of which about 10,000 ha, according
to FUNAI officials, are arable land. Official population data indicate 545, but the Indians claim they
are many more. The Pindare Indians are Guajajara, one of the largest native groups in Brazil, with a
total population of over 11,000 on nine different reservations in Maranhao.
14.    This community lives much on the level of the surrounding non-Indian population, or perhaps
slightly better. Community organization is relaxed, with the chiefs having little ascendancy. Most
income is from working off the reservation, or from selling agricultural produce.
The masonry houses of the village were built under the Special Project, as were most of the other
buildings in the village: the school, the infirmary, and the flour mill. The primary school is
functioning to the fourth grade, in Portuguese only, but with a Guajajara teacher. Most people here
speak Portuguese fluently. The infirmary, has a basic supply of drugs.
15.   Interviews with the village chief and the president of the recently formed Guajaraja



- 117-                              ANNEX 13
Association, and other community leaders did not show a tendency for this community towards self
reliance. Their requests revolved around 300 head of cattle, and a motor launch, as well as a new
truck. The speakers complained of a shortage of agricultural land for a growing population and
neglect by FUNAI. Nevertheless, Pindare seems to be a thriving community with healthy looking
children. The growing town of Santa Ines is certainly a market for agricultural produce. Better
sanitation and water supply system would seem to be the most urgent need of this community, as well
as of other surrounding, non-indian communities.
The Awa
16.   The Awa are a Tupian group that apparently abandoned agriculture generations ago. They
live by hunting and gathering in small groups of several families. They are highly nomadic and may
range over several hundred square kilometers. Their staple food is babassu palm nuts which are
abundant in Maranhao. No one knows how many there are, as the majority are probably not yet in
contact, but estimates range from 200 to 350.
17.   As migration into the region became more intense, with forest clearing for ranching and
agriculture, Awa groups became more isolated from one another and increasingly exposed to disease
from contact with local populations, or were sometimes killed, especially if they were caught shooting
domestic animals for food. Survivors are usually the remaining members of a broken family group.
18.   FUNAI has three advanced posts for the Awa: Posto Guaja in the Alto Turiacu reservation,
with 44 people, Posto Awa in the Caru reservation with 82 people, and Posto Juriti in the Awa
reservation with 19 recently contacted people. Present FUNAI policy is to make no deliberate
attempt to change Awa life style, but to provide protection and medical care.
19.   Since 1982 FUNAI and CVRD have been working for the demarcation of an Awa reservation
with would link Alto Turiacu with Caru. It would border on the West with the Gurupi Biological
reserve (under the responsibility of IBAMA, not FUNAI), which was designated in 1961 but never
protected. The most serious problem is keeping reservation land from being invaded by farmers and
ranchers who claim that it is unoccupied federal land. Once they are in and have cleared forest it is
difficult to get them out, and the process must go through the courts, and even when it is won they
must be physically ejected. A satellite photograph shows that the Gurupi Biological Reserve has
already been extensively deforested and there are incursions into the Awa reservation, especially on
the northeast and south. FUNAI has two patrol teams, eight men in all, but they need reinforcement
to be effective. The most urgent need of the Awa is the definitive demarcation of the reserve and its
protection in order to provide a secure environment for them to pursue their way of life and gradually
adjust to contact with outsiders. This is still a rescue operation, as the Awa are in serious danger of
extinction as a group.
The Gaviao of Mae Maria
20.   Mae Maria is unique among all Indian reservations in Brazil because of the "wealth" acquired
through several indemnizations from ELETRONORTE and CVRD to compensate for breaches of
reservation territory, and the resulting life style of the Indians. The Mae Maria Indians are Gaviao, a
northern Ge people contacted in the 1950's and 1960's. There are several subgroups, all of which
now live together in one village on the reservation with a population of 284.



-118-                                 ANNEX 13
21.   TIhe reservation is about one hour by car from Maraba. A highway, BR 332, and the high
tension wires fromn Tucurui cut across the middle of the reservation, which has an area of 62,488 ha.
In 1980 the Gaviao were indemnified by ELETRONORTE to allow the high tension wires to cross
the reservation. Part of the money was spent to build a new village in the traditional circle of the
northerii Ge, but all of them masonry houses built by a contractor.
22.   In 1984, after a period of negotiation, the Gaviao received indemnization from CVRD to
allow the railway line to cross the southern part of the reservation. This money, equivalent to about
one million U.S. dollars, was deposited in a joint bank account in the name of the community and
CVRD. The interest from this account is distributed in monthly payments to the Gaviao. Most
recently, to comply with Senate resolution 331, CVRD signed an agreement according to which
CVRD is to assist the Mae Maria Indians for an indefinite period.
23.    T here is every indication that CVRD has lived up to this agreement in terms of health and
educationi. The newly refurbished infirmary is well stocked with medicine, and the detailed plans for
a new sanitation system to be installed by CVRD engineers were being debated with the community.
24.    T'here have been several attempts to start projects that would give the Gaviao an economic
base indepenident from the income from indemnization. In the 1970's the Gaviao were leaders in
econiomilic indepenidence when they learned to market their own Brazil nut production. But they now
farm-out their Brazil Nut crop to non-Indians who collect it for a 60 percent share of the crop.
Attempts hy CVRD to involve the Indians in cacao growing and fish farming have not had much
success. After a short period of enthusiasm, interest dies down.
25.    Thle present chief has been a strong and effective leader and negotiator for his people.
However, there is considerable economic differentiation in this community. At present it does not
seeii likely that any project of community-based economic development will take root in Mae Maria,
althouglh individual entrepreneurs will probably eventually appear. The Gaviao have more than a
sufficiency ot advisors: as well as an anthropologist they have medical, legal, financial, and
educational conisultanits. From the point of view of efficient management, probably far too much time
of CVRD staff members is taken up with details of their involvement with Mae Maria. For example
CVRD is installing the new sanitation system and directly supports a bilingual school program. It
would seeni1 advantageous to delegate more responsibility for program implementation to FUNAI,
whichl has an excellent staff in Maraba. The problem is that both the Indians and their advisors know
where the money comes from, and therefore bring pressure directly on CVRD.
Tlhe Xikriin of 'Catete
26.    The Indianis of Catete belong to the Xikrin branch of the Kayapo, a large northern Ge group
totaling arounid 3,500 living on a number of different reservations. At present Catete, which has an
area of 439,131 lia. has a population of 435 living in one village. There is a smaller number of
Xikrin living on Bacaja reservation.
27.    Off and on for the past several years the Xikrin have been selling mahogany from their
reservation to a lumber company. CVRD has been trying to dissuade them from doing this, and two
years ago they agreed. But the lumber company counters with tempting "gifts" and favors, including
an airplane and pilot which makes it possible for the Xikrin to do what they like best: make frequent
trips to Maraba and Tucuma and visit other Kayapo communities. According to the contract the



- 119-                               ANNEX 13
community signed with the lumber company the community is to get U.S. $70 per cubic meter of
mahogany, but no money changes hands, and at the end of the season the company tells the Indians
they are in debt, so the company will return to take out more mahogany next year.
28.   The latest is that the company has offered to build mnasonry houses for a new village. This is
something the Indians have been asking CVRD to do for some time, but CVRD has only been willing
to build a few houses at a time, while the lumber company offered to build them all immediately. A
visit to the four or five new houses the lumbermen had already built show a large new house with
veranda all round for one of the chiefs, but the rest were hot little boxes with low asbestos roofs.
29.   One of the problems in dealing with the Xikrin is that Catete has four chiefs: two "old
chiefs," and two "young chiefs," their sons. While the old chiefs and one of the young chiefs, with
the support of most of the commnunity, are willing to break off with the lumber company, one young
chief sides with it. The lumber company is apparently working intensively to get out the remaining
mahogany as quickly as possible. According to one estimate, around 25,000 m3 of mahogany were
taken out last year. It should be pointed out that almost all the Kayapo communities are now in the
business of selling timber and getting royalties from gold mining concessions - the Xikrin were
among the last to do so.
B- Legal Status
30.   Article 231 of the new Brazilian Constitution (ratified in 1988) explicitly recognizes
indigenous social organization and the right of Amerindian to the land they immemorially occupy.
The process of land regularization is long and complex and consists of several steps: (i) the
identification and interdiction (prohibition of entrance by outsiders) of an indigenous area; (ii) the
delimitation of the area on a map and its physical demarcation (authorized by a decree from the
Minister of Justice); and (iii) its full legal regularization by Presidential Decree confirming the
demarcation and its inclusion in the national and local property registries.
31.   Between 1983 and 1989, as part of the Special project (para. 34), FUNAI identified,
demarcated and registered 3.4 million hectares of land in 24 indigenous areas in the area of influence
of the Carajas Iron Ore mining project. All 24 were identified, 22 were demarcated (all but the Awa
and Krikati areas), and 12 were fully registered, i.e 50% of the total, including the Alto Turiacu,
Caru, Pindare and Catete Areas -this is a significant achievement when compared to the rest of Brazil,
where it is estimated that, of 400 indigenous areas, only 10% were fully regularized during that time
period. Nevertheless, as of the end of 1994, although their boundaries have been approved by the
Minister of Justice in July 1992, demarcation of the Krikati and Awa areas had not yet been carried-
out.
32.   Demarcation of the Awa area has been particularly problematic. The original agreement
governing the Special Project (1981) did not specifically include the Awa people because little was
known about them at the time. In 1984, the CVRD consultant recommended the creation of an
Indigenous Area (Area Indigena, Al) for the Awa, and in 1985 a working group was officially formed
to recommend the boundaries of this Al for demarcation. In 1987, when all the areas originally
contemplated under the Special Project had been demarcated, CVRD decided to dedicate the balance
of funds to the demarcation of three additional reserves, including the Awa, Krikati and Apiuterewa
Indigenous Areas. The process, however, has been seriously impeded by a series of government
decisions to divide the area into a biological reserve (Gurupi, under the responsibility of the Federal



- 120-                                ANNEX 13
Environmental Agency, now IBAMA) and the Awa Al, under the responsibility of FUNAI, and
subsequent measures which resulted in a drastic reduction in the size of the proposed Awa reserve.
At that point, CVRD, with Bank support, protested this reduction and refused to release the resources
assigned for the demarcation of such a small area. This action, jointly with pressures from
indigenous support groups, in fact prevented the officialization of a drastic reduction in the Awa Al.
33.    After additional delays due to IBAMA's reluctance and court actions initiated by settlers, in
1991, a new working group was formed which recommnended a return to substantially larger
boundaries. The proposed boundaries were finally approved by FUNAI and the Minister of Justice in
July 1992. The Geographical Service of the Army, which had been contracted in July 1993 to carry-
out their demarcation cancelled the contract after meeting with resistence from settlers. At the end of
1994, FUNAI contracted private demarcation services (for the Krikati and Awa Guaja reserves),
which will operate under Federal Police protection, but the start of demarcation works now awaits
clearance from the Ministry of Justice. The Governor of Maranhao has agreed to seek a political
solution with local communities so that demarcation can proceed peacefully. Demarcation is
particularly urgent for the Awa group, since protection of boundaries and eviction of settlers cannot
start until the area has been officially demarcated.
C- CVRD's Involvement with Amerindian Communities
The Special Proiect
34.    Under the Carajas Iron Ore Project, which was approved by the Board in August 1982,
CVRD, the borrower, was to dedicate the equivalent of US$13.6 million under an agreement with
FUNAI (referred-to as "the Special Project") to finance support to Amerindian communities in the
vicinity the Carajas mine and railway. The original agreement, signed on June 25, 1982, initially
covering only 11 areas with a total tribal population of about 4,500 found within 100 km. on each
side of the railroad, but it was subsequently amended several times to enlarge its coverage. By 1988,
it covered 24 areas, with a total population of about 14,000 (para 31). The primary goals of the
project were: (i) to provide secure land tenure; and (ii) to provide adequate health conditions to the
tribal peoples in the general area of the Carajas mine and railroad.
35.    CVRD charged FUNAI with the design and implementation of the project, with initially
unsatisfactory results, as FUNAI spent most of the funds on equipment and hiring new employees. In
March, 1986, CVRD suspended all disbursements under the Special Project to force FUNAI to
address the unresolved land issues, mainly demarcation of reservations and removal of non-Indians
from reservations. Land regularization activities then intensified significantly leading to results
presented in para. 36 above.
CVRD and Senate Resolution 331
36.   In 1986, when the funds available from the Special Project had nearly all been spent, the
Brazilian Federal Senate passed a resolution requiring CVRD to provide assistance to the Indian
populations near the CVRD mining concession. As a result, CVRD signed two agreements, one in
1989 with FUNAI and the Xikrin community of Catete, and another in 1990 with FUNAI and the
Gaviao community of Mae Maria, specifying how these responsibilities are to be carried out. There
is no expiration date set for these agreements, implying that CVRD's obligation to assist these groups



- 121-                                ANNEX 13
will continue as long as its mining concession is held.
37.   Essentially, CVRD accepts the responsibility to fund health and educational services, FUNAI
providing the personnel to carry them out. CVRD also is to guard the boundaries of the reservations
and plan "productive activities" leading to economic self-sufficiency. In the case of the Xikrin, until
this self-sufficiency is attained, CVRD is to open a bank account in the name of the community and
make a monthly deposit in it. The administrative committee consists of a representative of each of
the parts and community consultants.
Experience under the Special Project
38.   As extensively reported and documented in the PPAR for the Carajas Iron Ore Project', the
Special Project appears to have resulted in substantial improvements in the conditions of indigenous
communities in much of the Carajas operation area of influence, particularly in terms of health care
and land demarcation, especially when compared to other areas of the country where FUNAI
programs exist without financial and strategic support from outside agencies. The benefits from land
demarcation have already been presented in para. 36. During the period from 1982 through 1988,
the mean change of population for these communities was 26.1 %, the average annual population
growth rate across all communities was 3.7%; and the range of population increases was from 8.2%
to 41.0%. This growth has been attributed to the health care delivery system which the CVRD
medical consultant, in collaboration with FUNAI, established in the Maraba area, and to the
reorganization of the work of the FUNAI mobile medical units. However, from about 1987 onwards,
when funds had been largely spent, there appears to have been a decline in the quality of health care,
raising questions about the financial self sustainability of the scheme. Insufficient attention appears to
have been paid to the training of indian health monitors, community health education, and the
adaptation and incorporation of the health care system into the culture of the indigenous groups.
39. CVRD has taken a very active role in the implementation and day to day supervision of the
project and consultants (medical, anthropological and legal) involved in the project. While this has
yielded the above-mentioned results, it has also developed dependency and a view on the part of
Amerindian Communities that CVRD should provide for their needs and wishes. The report
concludes that future support for tribal communities should continue to concentrate on the
demarcation and protection of reserves, the provision of health services, and educational campaigns
designed to prepare tribal communities to better manage, protect and develop the natural and other
resources available to them for their own benefit. It was urgent that continuity of the program be
ensured beyond the legal obligations of CVRD under the Special Project, and that FUNAI should
define as soon as possible and implement a longer-term strategy for the protection of Amerindian
populations and other self sustainable programs requiring their active participation in the design and
implementation of these programs.
D- Proposed Program
40. CVRD has determined to continue its support to Amerindian communities in the Carajas
corridor, independently from, and in addition to, its legal obligations, now limited to the completion
of the demarcation of the Awa and Krikati lands and assistance to the Xikrin and Gaviao
'Report No. 8869, dated June 29, 1990, and its Background Paper on the Amerindian Special Project.



- 122 -                               ANNEX 13
communities. CVRD wished to redirect its action along the following lines and principles:
(a)    progressively reduce dependence on its actions and funding, by promoting self
reliance and community participation;
(b)    remove itself from involvement in day to day management of the program by acting
through other institutions/organizations;
(c)    finance actions which have been designed with the active involvement and support of
the commnunity; and
(d)    emphasize actions which will eventually lead to self sufficiency and which incorporate
ways to achieve self management and financial self sufficiency in their design.
41.  Accordingly, it is expected that CVRD will focus on:
(a)    a limited number of communities most impacted by CVRD's operations;
(b)    the provision of health services emphasizing preventive health care, based on training
and supervision of local health monitors from the local community and health
education programs;
(c)    the provision of training in practical skills to lessen dependence on outsiders and
prepare communities to manage their transition to the national society;
(d)    the provision of basic sanitation infrastructure (water supply and waste disposal)
emphasizing simple, easily maintained systems, and community responsibility for their
operation and maintenance;
(e)    technical assistance for sustainable management of resources or other productive
schemes enhancing financial self sufficiency; and
(f)    provision of legal advice if needed to complete demarcation (or re-demarcation), and,
in the case of the Awa group, provision of funds to ensure the adequate protection of
the reserve.
42.  In order to help design this program, CVRD plans to appoint a group of experts (including
representatives of FUNAI, Amerindian communities, anthropologists and community development
specialists as well as other specialists as required) to assist in the formulation of a company policy and
action program. More specifically, this task will consist of:
(a)    defining priorities for action (types of actions and groups);
(b)    based on (a), drawing a strategy and action plan for each of the selected groups;
(c)    recommending appropriate mechanisms to ensure community participation in the
program design and implementation;



- 123 -                               ANNEX 13
(d)    recommending implementation mechanisms, i.e. agencies and consultants most
suitable to implement and/or supervise the proposed actions;
(e)    establishing reporting, monitoring and evaluation systems; and
(f)    reviewing the final design of each subproject included in the program, its
implementation mechanisms (including an evaluation of responsible entities), and
procedures and systems to be set in place to ensure long term sustainability.
43.  It is expected that CVRD would complete this work by the end of December 1995.
E- Costs
44.  Funds totalling US$4.9 million have been reserved under the project to carry-out this program.
In addition, US$540,000 will be used from the Japanese PPHR grant to finance complete inventories
of forest resources in five reserves (Xikrin, Awa Guaja, Mae Maria, Caru and Pindare).



ANNEX 14
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE






- 124 -                              ANNEX 14
BRAZIL
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 14
List of Documents in the Project File
Reference A- Pig Iron Plants
-      'Basic Information Regarding Pig Iron Production in the PGC Area"- CVRD, 1993.
-      "Financial Resources for a Forestry Program in Carajas and Sustainability of the Pig Iron
Industry"- CVRD, 1993.
-      "Scenario for the International Pig Iron Market in the Year 2000"- CVRD, December 1992.
-     CVRD Policy Statement and Program with Respect to the Supply of Iron Ore to Pig Iron
Smelters in the Carajas Corridor- Letter from CVRD's President to the Bank P/EXT-202/93,
dated August 6, 1993.
-     Agreements between CVRD and Pig Iron Producers Establishing Conditions for the Supply of
Iron Ore (in annex to above-quoted letter):
1.    MARGUSA (May 20, 1993)
2.    VIENA SIDERURGICA DO MARANHAO (May 20, 1993)
3.    GUSA NORDESTE S.A. (February 25, 1993)
4.    COMPANHIA SIDERURGICA VALE DO PINDARE (May 20, 1993)
5.    COSIPAR (May 20, 1993)
6.    SIDERURGICA DO MARANHAO (SIMASA) (May 20, 1993)
-     Cooperation Agreement No. 024/93 between IBAMA and CVRD, dated November 3, 1993.
Reference B
-     CELMAR S.A.- Environmental and Social Sustainability of the Forestry Component"-
CELMAR S.A., December 1992
-     Letter GIMEZ/EXT 176/94 from Mr. Mauricio Reis, Chief, Environmental Department,
CVRD, dated May 20, 1994, concerning the Polos Florestais Program.
Reference C
-     CVRD's Environmental Audit System and Role of the Environmental Department- Letter
DDE/SUMAF 179/92, dated September 9, 1992
-     CVRD's Environmental Audit program- Letter SUMAF/GIMEZ/EXT-029/93, dated January
28, 1993



- 125 -                              ANNEX 14
Reference D
-     Amerindian Component- Report and Recommendations- Appraisal Mission- Nancy Flowers,
Anthropologist
Reference E- Subproiects and complementary environmental information
Note: These files also contain information on subprojects which were reviewed but eventually
deleted from the project for a number of reasons. Nevertheless, the information they provide
is useful for assessing CVRD's entire environmental program.
0.     Capital Cost Estimates
1.     Superintendencia de Minas de Carajas (SUMIC)- 2 files
2.     Superintendencia da Estrada de Ferro de Carajas (SUFEC)
3.     Superintendencia de Metais Nobres (SUMEN)- 2 files
4.     Superintendencia de Minas (Minas Gerais) (SUMIN)
5.     Superintendia de Pelotizacao (SUPEL)
6.     Superintendencia do Porto (Tubarao and Cais de Paul) (SUPOT)- 5 Files
7.     Superintendencia da Estrada (Vitoria-Minas) (SUEST)
8.     Superintendencia de Comunicacao Empresarial (SUCEM)
9.     Superintendencia de Meio Ambiente (SUMAF)
10.    ALBRAS
11.    CENIBRA- 2 files
12.    MRN (Mineracao Rio do Norte)
13.    Nova Era (ELETROVALE)
14.    MSG (Minas da Serra Geral)
Reference F- CVRD Financial Information
-     Annual Reports- 1986-1993
Auditors' Reports- 1986-1993
Reference G- Environmental Information
1.    CVRD Environmental Master Plan- 1989-1993- CVRD/CME Projetos Consultoria Ltda
2.    Agreements between CVRD and Federal, State and Municipal Environmental Agencies and
Governments and other institutions (Convenios and Termos de Compromisso)
3.    Evaluation of the Environmental Situation of the Ponta de Tubarao Complex at the end of the
Decade 1980-90- Jaakko Poyry Engenharia (Exerpts)



- 126 -                             ANNEX 14
4.    Environmental Master Plan for the 1990-1999 Decade- Ponta de Tubarao Complex- Executive
Summary- Jaakko Poyry Engenharia
5.    Elements for the Natural Resource Master Plan for the Tubarao Complex- CEPEMAR, July
1990
6.    Audit of CVRD's Air Pollution Monitoring System in Vitoria- CETESB, October 1990
7.    Industrialization of Grande Vitoria and Environmental Consequences- Centro de Tecnologia
Promon and Jaakko Poyry Engenharia Ltda, February 1987
8.    Urbanization and Industrialization of the Municipality of Itabira and their Environmental
Consequences- Natural Resources- Jaakko Poyry Engenharia Ltda, May 1990
9.    Itabira Iron Ore Mine District: Plan of Restoration of Degraded Areas (PRAD)- Consultoria e
Engenharia de Meio Ambiente, August 1990
10.   Capanema Iron Ore Mine: Program of Restoration of Degraded Areas (PRAD)- ENGERIO,
December 1989
11.   CENIBRA- Environmental Master Plan- April 1989
12.   CENIBRA Integrated Forestry/Industry Plan (PIFI)- November 1991
13.   CENIBRA- Expansion of Cellulose Production- EIA/RIMA- NATRON, 1989
14.   Preliminary Study on Auto-depuration of the Rio Doce at Effluent Reject of CENIBRA-
CEPEMAR, 1990
15.   ELETROVALE Environmental Assessment- CVRD, January 1993
16.   ELETROVALE Integrated Forestry/Industy Plan (PIFI), November 1991
17.   ELETROVALE Environmental Control Plan (PCA), June 1990
18.   Environmental Impact and Socio-economic Development Along the Carajas Railroad- CVRD
19.   Environmental Study in the CVRD Area of Influence in the Carajas Mineral Province- Fabio
Marton Consultoria, October 1989
20.   Carajas Iron Ore Project- Environmental Management Program- Briefing Paper- CVRD,
August 1989
21.   Parauapebas/Rio Verde: Guidelines for Integrated Development- CVRD



ANNEX 14
- 127 -
22.   Fazenda Brasileiro Project (Gold Mine)- Environmental Impact Statement (EIA)-
NATRON/MINERART (Exerpts)
23.   Igarape Bahia Project (Gold Mine)- Environmental Impact Statement (EIA-RIMA)- Jaakko
Poyry Engenharia Ltda, April 1990
24.   Report on Water Monitoring for the Ouro-Bahia and Cobre Salobo Projects- CVRD, March
1991
25.   Report on Water Quality Monitoring at Igarape-Bahia- CVRD, 1991
26.   ALBRAS/ALUNORTE Industrial Complex- Environmental Impact Report (RIMA), 1986;
Environmental Impact Assessment Updating, 1990- Engenheros Consultores (ECOPAM)
27.   Industrialization and Urbanization in the Sao Luis Region and its Environmental
Consequences- SMEMA/CVRD (Jaakko Poyry Engenharia Ltda), 1989.
28.   Diagnostic of Urban Solid Waste in Sao Luis (OMEGA Engenhieria/SUFEC), May 1991



SURINRARE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRED 23514
1'2                 6.                                   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ENEZUELA  SURINAM
COLOI             - *0  |   / -4REN H GUIANA        AA S I I CRA BRAZIL
COLOMBIA                                             \OCE.                     ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION AND
(, -/1 "                                             NLLHERNSPSTM 9REHABILITATION  PROJECT
-  ,,                                                                .A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECOLOGICAL STATIONS
AMERINDIAN RESERVATIONS
CoraBelos ~~~~~~          B  RAZ  iL                           \,RL i    INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS
2E   SELECTED MINES
;   ,P I  N   A   S   g   R   -  C   le  rERU   \  u   0  B7  09  -#GP                             =MAIN ROADS
M   I  N   A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  10 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED RAILLROADS
| i 1 l EOLIV A -~~~~~~~~ ;XusiLas~~~ RIVERS
BOLIVIA 
T STATE CAPITALS
G E R A I S   .                 -.k <IR                                                                                    I~ O S A N T O                                    ST AT!  g  ^ /  {     |  _  _  A E   B O U N D A R IE S
\ 3G    -' ,.' / I    /L                                                                                                                            N                                                  INTERNATIONA ITUNDARIES
20'     s>>    .    t   20O_ ~~~' D ' .__ At/antic Ocean 'T    KILOETE;
'Ra n V o <  . 'r- O G 6 r - tJ ~~ Y i o L n r                                 S O U T H E R N   S Y S T E M
LiRFIRrOS  CRIER~~~~~~~~~CTAIN
9   AT Xc~0  -                                                       Rosorve                       S            Cv            R ca  N       A  AT NT IC                                                        a   Z
ARGENTINA                                                                   .      1c, U, 4., ,.A  .b.d.,.A     '
L    _   , - i  -   X                                               0                         '           \                        ; w   9/  @''taoll  ,<.>=.,>                                                         /> 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00Sil    4.'.y...0..1IL AId*M ......i.p..
s A                                                                          DC 5u       C                           48                      4A                      44
M~olonca   Q/F-- i               \_                  A                  iLinh -. Ocean
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*I                                                        ,                                                "     "'00KILOMETERS ,  _jrp  =j  Joqlh_j
-24o    i,.                     I                                               SYSTE M P            N O RTH TRN        S    ,   '                    C                                           --                            {O                200
_ J4s                           4;2-                                   40-~~~v~al                        5'4                     52-                        ASrrl!                i                        '                      4'4'              UE19
AIbIUM                                         Ponto~~~~~~0 to  2 do 300m,
22~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,2
6~~~~  I~~~~                           Par   opobo~~~~~~~~~6. ,                          *,.,,hMd,i
T-rui~ ~ ~ ~ Pro rnc                    ,.f.
22~~               2KILOMTERS           20                                                                                                    -r( 2D..
Rio   e      a                                                                                                                                        C.2          TA .W.di
E~~~~~~~i--W N~i. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~JNE19









IMAGING
Report No:        145835 BR
Type: SAR



