Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3924 BR
Loan Agreement
(Environmental Conservation and Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA VALE DO RIO DOCE
Dated November 14, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3924 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 14, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA VALE DO RIO DOCE (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated February 9, 1993 (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Carajas Corridor" means the area of direct influence of the railway 
linking the Carajas mine, in the State of Para, to the Ponta da Madeira maritime 
terminal, in Sao Luis, in the State of Maranhao;
(b)
"Estatutos" means the statute that established the Borrower, Decree Law 
No. 4352 of the Guarantor, dated June 1, 1942, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement and the Borrower's By-Laws approved by the Borrower's stockholders on April 
25, 1995, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(c)
"Executing Agencies" means Nova Era or any other entity that may be 
considered eligible by the Bank to carry out any part of the Project, and "Executing 
Agency" means any one of them;
(d)
"FSRMM" means Adicional ao Frete para a Renovacao da Marinha Mercante, 
the Guarantor's freight surcharge for the renewal of the Merchant Marine established 
by Decree Law 1142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other 
tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may substitute it, in 
whole or in part, after January 1, 1988;
(e)
"FUNAI" means Fundacao Nacional do Indio, the Guarantor's indian 
foundation;
(f)
"Implementation Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, to be entered into between the Borrower and a 
Public Entity (as hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Nova Era" means Nova Era Silicon S.A., an associated company of the 
Borrower;
(h)
"Pig Iron Program" means the program to promote that the pig iron 
producers in the Carajas Corridor, using iron ore supplied by the Borrower, carry out 
their operations in an environmentally sound manner, as such program is described in 
the Borrower's letter to the Bank number P/EXT-202/93, dated August 6, 1993;
(i)
"Public Entities" means the municipalities of Parauapebas, Itabira and 
Vitoria or any other municipality, State or public entity in the Guarantor's territory 
that may be considered eligible by the Bank to participate in the carrying out of Part 
C.1 or Part C.4 of the Project, and "Public Entity" means any one of them;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(k)
"Subloan" means any loan to be made by the Borrower to an Executing 
Agency under a Subloan Agreement;
(l)
"Subloan Agreement" means any of the agreements, referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, to be entered into between the Borrower and an Executing 
Agency;
(m)
"Subproject" means a specific project, approved by the Bank, to be 
carried out by the Borrower, on its own name or on behalf of a Public Entity, or by an 
Executing Agency under the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, by the Bank, or with counterpart funds, by the Borrower or the Executing 
Agencies; and
(n)
"Subsidiary" means any company of which the Borrower owns more than 50% 
of the outstanding voting stock, and has effective and continuous control of corporate 
decisions.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of fifty million Dollars 
($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
Page  3
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of this Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to Single Currency LIBOR, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%), plus or 
minus the Average Margin as provided in paragraph (b) (iv) below.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to but not including the first Interest 
Payment Date and thereafter the period from and including any 
Interest Payment Date to but not including the next Interest 
Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement. 
(iii)
"Single Currency LIBOR" means the London interbank offered rate 
for Dollar, expressed as a percentage per annum, reasonably 
determined by the Bank in accordance with Schedule 7 to this 
Agreement for the January 15 or July 15 on which an Interest 
Period commences (or, for the initial Interest Period, the January 
15 or July 15 preceding the date of this Agreement or on which 
such Interest Period commences).
(iv)
"Average Margin" means, for any Interest Period, the weighted 
average margin, for the Semester preceding the relevant January 15 
or July 15,  between: (A) the cost of the outstanding borrowings 
of the Bank or portions thereof allocated to the funding of single 
currency loans in all currencies, and (B) the specific London and, 
for French francs, Paris interbank offered rates or other such 
reference rates attributable to such borrowings in each such 
currency, all as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per annum. For any Interest Period in which (A) 
exceeds (B), the Average Margin shall be added under paragraph (a) 
above. For any Interest Period in which (B) exceeds (A), the 
Average Margin shall be subtracted under paragraph (a) above.
(v)
"Semester" means the first six months or second six months of a 
calendar year.
(c)
After the Bank shall have determined the Single Currency LIBOR and the 
Average Margin for any Interest Period, the Bank shall promptly notify the Guarantor 
and the Borrower of such determination.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out and cause, through the Subloan Agreements, the Executing Agencies to carry out, 
the Project, as specified in a letter of even date herewith from the Borrower to the 
Bank, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate industrial, 
engineering, environmental and administrative practices, and shall provide or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
with each Executing Agency (the Subloan Agreement) for the purpose of: (i) relending 
to each Executing Agency the portion of the Loan allocated to the components of the 
Project to be carried out by such   Executing Agency; and (ii) causing each Executing 
Agency to carry out its component of the Project and to undertake certain other 
obligations, such Subloan Agreement to include the terms and conditions set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, 
with each Public Entity (the Implementation Agreement) for the purpose of the carrying 
out of Parts C.1 and C.4 of the Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank, including provisions for: (i) relending to each Public Entity the portion of 
the Loan allocated to the Subprojects to be carried out under such Implementation 
Agreement; (ii) authorizing the Borrower to carry out the Subprojects to be 
implemented under such Implementation Agreements on behalf of the respective Public 
Entity; and (iii) requiring the respective Public Entity to establish and thereafter 
maintain cost recovery mechanisms for the respective Subprojects.
(d)
The Borrower shall enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with FUNAI, for purposes of the carrying out of Part C.3(b) of the Project, 
whereby FUNAI shall undertake to carry out the demarcation of the areas referred to 
therein in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations 
under each Subloan Agreement, each Implementation Agreement and the contractual 
arrangements referred to in paragraph (d) above in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or fail to enforce any Subloan Agreement, any Implementation
Agreement and the contractual arrangements referred to in paragraph (d) above or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
develop, in consultation with multidisciplinary experts of recognized 
experience and qualifications, and, not later than three months after the Effective 
Date, adopt a statement of policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank describing 
the principles, methods and criteria to govern the Borrower's program to assist 
Amerindian communities in the Carajas Corridor, to review and select the Subprojects 
to be carried out under Part C.3 of the Project, and to develop a methodology to 
monitor and evaluate the impact of such Subprojects; and
(b)
carry out its program to assist Amerindian communities in accordance with 
such statement of policies and procedures.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, in the month of July of 1996, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to the progress in: (i) the execution of the Project; and 
(ii) the implementation of the Pig Iron Program.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank: (a) not later than June 30 
and December 31 of each year during the execution of the Project, a report on the 
progress in the execution of the Project and on the performance by the Borrower of its 
obligations under this Agreement (except those under Section 4.01 of this Agreement), 
such report to be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and (b) not later than January 31 of each year during the execution of the 
Project, a report on the performance of the Borrower, its Subsidiaries and the 
Page  5
Executing Agencies with respect to control and mitigation of environmental and social 
impacts of their operations in the immediately preceding year.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall maintain, in its main office, during the 
execution of the Project, a unit within its environmental area in charge of the 
overall Project coordination, such unit to be headed by a Project coordinator and to 
be adequately staffed at all times.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall complete the carrying out of Parts D.1, D.2, 
D.3 and D.4 of the Project not later than December 31, 1996, July 31, 1998, June 30, 
1996 and December 31, 1996, respectively.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in a manner so as to 
ensure that, by the Closing Date, the aggregate amount of expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be approximately equivalent to 50% of the aggregate 
amount of all expenditures under the Project, not including taxes.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall: (a) carry on, and shall cause the Executing 
Agencies to carry on, its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, business, industrial, engineering, port, railway, mining, 
environmental and socially fair practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; (b) comply, 
and cause the Executing Agencies to comply, at all times, with norms, standards, 
licensing requirements and obligations imposed to the Borrower and the Executing 
Agencies by the applicable legislation, or by contractual or judicial arrangements; 
(c) cause its Subsidiaries to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound environmental and socially fair practices; (d) take all action 
in its power to cause its associated companies to carry on its operations and conduct 
its affairs in accordance with sound environmental and socially fair practices; and 
(e) take all action in its power to cause its associated companies to comply, at all 
times, with environmental norms, standards and licensing requirements and obligations 
imposed to such companies by the applicable environmental legislation, or by 
contractual or judicial arrangements related to environmental matters.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate 
practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall continue to implement the Pig Iron Program in 
accordance with the terms thereof.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including records and separate accounts in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and consolidated financial statements 
(demonstracaes financeiras consolidadas), including balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements, 
and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its consolidated financial statements for such 
year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said 
Page  6
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and consolidated financial statements as well as 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain at all times a ratio of debt to equity not greater than 55 to 45.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred, provided, however, that any such debt which 
is due and payable in the fiscal year in which the calculation is 
made shall be excluded.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment, on the date, and to the 
extent, the amount of such debt has become outstanding pursuant to 
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed 
debt is outstanding.
(iii)
The term "equity of the Borrower" means the sum of the total 
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of the 
Borrower not allocated to cover specific liabilities.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain a ratio of consolidated current assets to consolidated current liabilities of 
not less than 1.2 to 1.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "current assets" means cash, accounts receivable and due 
within twelve months, marketable securities, pre-paid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next twelve 
months following the date in which such pre-paid expenses were 
made, and all other assets which could, in the ordinary course of 
business, be converted into cash within twelve months, and 
"consolidated current assets" means the aggregate of the total 
current assets, as defined herein, of the Borrower and the 
Subsidiaries; and
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" means accounts due and payable 
within twelve months, customer advances, income taxes, dividends, 
Page  7
bonuses and all other liabilities (including debt) which will 
become due and payable or could, under circumstances then 
existing, be called for payment pursuant to their terms, within 
twelve months, and "consolidated current liabilities" means the 
aggregate of the current liabilities, as defined herein, of the 
Borrower and the Subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the 
Borrower to any of the Subsidiaries or by a Subsidiary to the 
Borrower or to any other Subsidiary.
Section 5.04. Whenever, for the purposes of Sections 5.02 and 5.03 of this 
Agreement, it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor, 
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence 
of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a change in the Estatutos shall 
have been made which materially and adversely affects the operations or the financial 
condition of the Borrower.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the 
Central Bank of Brazil.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil; and
(b)
that all acts, consents and approvals, together with all necessary powers 
and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and 
that no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to authorize the 
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower and the Guarantor to perform 
all of their respective covenants, agreements and obligations contained in this 
Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement, respectively.
Section 7.03. The date  February 14, 1966 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  8
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
SUDES - Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento
GIMAR - Gerencia Geral de Desenvolvimento Sustentavel
Av. Graca Aranha, 26, 15o andar
20005-900 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
VALERIODOCE
2121975
Rio de Janeiro
2123205
2123162
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio do Planejamento e Orcamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco K, 5o andar
70.040-906 Brasilia, DF
Brazil
Telex:
61-1146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA VALE DO RIO DOCE
By /s/ Anastacio Ubaldino Fernandes Filho
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  9
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated                 % of
                               (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Goods, works and
    consultants' services
    under Part A of the Project   29,280,000              100%
(2) Goods, works and
    consultants' services
    under Parts B, C.2 and
    C.4 of the Project             5,220,000              100%
(3) Goods, works and
    consultants' services
    under Part C.1 of
    the Project                   11,030,000              100%
(4) Goods, works and
    consultants' services
    under Part C.3 of
    the Project                    1,700,000              100%
(5) Consultants' services
    and training under
    Parts D and E of the
    Project                        2,770,000              100%
        TOTAL                     50,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after a date falling one year 
prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
under any component of the Project to be carried out by an Executing 
Agency, unless a Subloan Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and such 
Executing Agency;
(c)
under Subprojects under Parts C.1 and C.4 of the Project to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, unless the Borrower has entered into the 
Implementation Agreement with the relevant Public Entity;
(d)
under any Subproject to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
unless the Bank has approved such Subproject;
(e)
under a Subproject of basic sanitation infrastructure under Part C.3(a) 
of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, unless such Subproject 
includes mechanisms aiming at the operation and maintenance of such infrastructure; 
and
(f)
under a Subproject under Part C.3(b) of the Project to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, unless the Borrower has entered into the contractual 
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement.
3.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statement of expenditures for expenditures under contracts costing less than the 
equivalent of $300,000 for goods, $1,000,000 for works, $100,000 for consulting firms' 
services and $50,000 for individual consultants' services, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to support the high-priority investments 
of the environmental program of the Borrower; (b) to support the changes in the 
Page  10
Borrower's systems and procedures needed to reinforce sound environmental policies and 
management; and (c) to mitigate some of the environmental and social adverse impacts 
of the operations of the Borrower, in particular in the Carajas Corridor, and of the 
Executing Agencies in certain portions of their direct area of influence.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A
Subprojects designed to control pollution and recuperate degraded areas in the 
Borrower's and/or the Executing Agencies' facilities, consisting of: (a) dust control; 
(b) gas effluent treatment; (c) industrial liquid drainage, treatment and discharge; 
(d) liquid effluent minimization; (e) sewage treatment; (f) mining waste and tailings 
disposal; (g) industrial solid waste disposal; (h) noise control; (i) reclamation of 
areas degraded by mining; (j) reclamation of waste deposits; and (k) revegetation of 
degraded areas.
Part B
Subprojects to: (a) protect ecosystems, consisting mostly of the preparation and 
implementation of management plans in the forest and biological reserves under the 
Borrower's or any other Executing Agency's management; (b) reforest degraded areas, 
consisting mainly of the establishment of green belts along railways and around mining 
sites, industrial plants and ports of the Borrower and/or any Executing Agency; and 
(c) carry out other activities and studies aimed at improving the knowledge of, and 
protecting and conserving, natural ecosystems (including fauna and flora inventories), 
sustainable management of natural forests and environmental education.
Part C
1.
(a)
Subprojects for installation of basic water supply and sewerage 
infrastructure in the municipality of Parauapebas, in the State of Para.
(b)
Subprojects for installation of sewerage infrastructure in the 
municipality of Itabira, in the State of Minas Gerais. 
2.
A Subproject consisting of the construction and management of a small business 
technical assistance center in a community to be selected by the Borrower on the basis 
of the recommendations of the study referred to in Part D.4 of the Project.
3.
(a)
Subprojects to provide to the Amerindian communities of Xicrin do Catete, 
Gaviao de Mae Maria and Awa, and other Amerindian communities acceptable to the Bank, 
located in the Carajas Corridor: (i) basic sanitation infrastructure; (ii) preventive 
health services; (iii) informal training; (iv) basic education; and (v) technical 
assistance for the development of forest management techniques and other 
self-sustainable economic activities.
(b)
Subprojects to provide the necessary infrastructure and services to 
assist FUNAI: (i) in the protection of Amerindian communities in the Borrower's direct 
area of influence; and (ii) to complete the demarcation of the Amerindian areas of 
Krikati, Awa, and Governador, in the State of Maranhao.
4.
Subprojects and studies to improve welfare of the communities under direct 
influence of the Borrower. 
Part D
1.
Monitoring of pollution at the Timbopeba and Itabira mines.
 
2.
A consolidated environmental impact study of the Tubarao maritime terminal, in 
the State of Espirito Santo.
3.
Review and testing of alternative low-cost systems for better sanitation in 
low-income communities near the Ponta da Madeira maritine terminal, in Sao Luis, State 
of Maranhao.
4.
A diagnostic study to review the economic and social situation of the 
municipalities in the direct area of influence of the Borrower, listed in the letter 
from the Borrower to the Bank dated May 20, 1994, and the methodology to be used for 
the selection of communities to be attended under the Borrower's program to help such 
Page  11
communities in the identification and development of self-sustainable economic 
activities.
Part E
Design and establishment of a system in the Borrower's organization to: (a) 
monitor and control the environmental and social aspects of the operations of the 
Borrower, its Subsidiaries and the Executing Agencies, and to report inadequacies and 
recommend remedial actions to the general management of the Borrower with respect 
thereto; (b) carry out periodic environmental audits of such operations; (c) review 
the environmental impact assessments of the new Subprojects to be carried out by the 
Borrower, its Subsidiaries and the Executing Agencies, and monitor the implementation 
of the mitigation activities, when necessary; (d) identify the environmental and 
social risks in the implementation of the operations of the Borrower, its Subsidiaries 
and the Executing Agencies, and take the corrective measures, when necessary; and (e) 
monitor and evaluate the impact of the Subprojects under Part C.3 of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each January 15 and July 15
beginning January 15, 2001
2,500,000
through July 15, 2010
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
Page  12
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use or cause to be used the relevant standard bidding documents issued 
by the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as the Bank 
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant 
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use or 
cause to be used bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard 
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Bidders for the supply of dust control systems for the Subproject to be carried 
out by Nova Era under Part A(a) of the Project shall be prequalified as provided in 
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject  to, the following provisions:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference, and the methods and stages that will be 
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that 
such goods contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 
50% of the value of the complete goods.
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or 
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the 
goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with 
each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, 
it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (a) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (ii) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (b) to the evaluated bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or 
(ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this 
comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if 
not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, 
shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $16,100,000, and goods estimated to cost less than 
the equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
Page  13
$4,900,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three contractors or suppliers, as the case may be, eligible 
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
procedures referred to in Part A.1 hereof; (ii)the first contracts for goods and works 
to be awarded pursuant to the procedures referred to in Part C.1 hereof; and (iii) 
each contract for civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, 
to be awarded pursuant to the procedures referred to in Part C.1 hereof, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Part E:
FSRMM
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
Part F:
Special Provisions
 
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to Part C.1 hereof:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, 
to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of 
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification 
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
2.
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
3.
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (consorcio) 
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case.
4.
The invitiation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids 
maximum and/or minimum amounts for the contract prices.
Page  14
5.
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity 
of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms 
and conditions of sale.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower and the Executing Agencies in the carrying out 
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, and cause the Executing Agencies to employ, 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have 
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use or cause to be used other standard 
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each with firms or to contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each 
with individuals. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to single 
source selection of consultants, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably 
determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above for contracts with firms or $50,000 equivalent or above 
for contracts with individuals.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
Page  15
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account, such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the Subloan
Agreements
1.
The Subloans shall be made under the same financial terms and conditions of the 
Loan, and the Executing Agencies shall also pay to the Borrower an administration fee 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The Subloan Agreements shall include provisions which will enable the Borrower 
Page  16
to:
(a)
require the Executing Agency to carry out and, if applicable, operate the 
components of the Project under its responsibility with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate industrial, environmental, engineering and 
administrative practices, and to manage its operations in accordance with 
environmentally sound and socially acceptable practices;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the components of the Project under the Executing Agency's responsibility, 
the operation thereof (if applicable), and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Executing Agency shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall 
be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Executing Agency to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
require the Executing Agency: (i) to maintain records and separate 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures of the Executing Agency in respect of the 
components of the Project to be carried out by such Executing Agency; (ii) to have 
such records and accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank and the Borrower; (iii) to furnish to the Bank and the Borrower as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) to furnish to the Bank and the Borrower 
such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank or the Borrower shall from time to time reasonably request;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Executing Agency; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Executing Agency to the use of the 
proceeds of the Subloan upon failure by such Executing Agency to perform its 
obligations under the respective Subloan Agreement.
SCHEDULE 7
Single Currency LIBOR Determination
1.
Single Currency LIBOR for any Interest Period shall be the offered rate for 
deposits in Dollars for a period of six months which appears on the display designated 
as page "3750" on the Telerate monitor (or such other page or service as may replace 
it for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of major banks for 
Dollar deposits), as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second day on which banks and 
foreign exchange markets are open for business in London prior to the relevant January 
15 or July 15 (the Interest Determination Date).
2.
If such rate does not appear on the Telerate monitor or on such service as may 
replace it, the Bank shall request the London offices of four major banks to provide 
the Bank with the rate at which deposits in Dollars are offered by such banks on the 
Interest Determination Date to leading banks in the London interbank market for a 
period of six months ending on the last day of such Interest Period. Single Currency 
LIBOR for such Interest Period shall be the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards if 
necessary to the fifth decimal place) of such offered quotations as determined by the 
Bank.
3.
If not more than one major bank provides the Bank with such quotations under 
paragraph 2 above, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the arithmetic mean (rounded upwards 
if necessary to the fifth decimal place) determined by the Bank of the rates quoted by 
at least two major banks in New York City selected by the Bank on the Interest 
Page  17
Determination Date for loans in Dollars to leading European banks for a period of six 
months ending on the last day of such Interest Period. If fewer than two of the banks 
so selected are quoting such rates, Single Currency LIBOR shall be the single currency 
in effect for the last preceding Interest Period.
