Page  1
January 8, 2002
Mr. Gabriel Stoliar
Executive Vice President
Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
Centro Corporativo
Av. Graça Aranha, 26
20005-900 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Dear Mr. Stoliar:
Re: Loan 3924-BR (Environmental
Conservation and Rehabilitation Project)
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated November 14, 1995, between the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (the 
Borrower) and to the letter of April 3, 2001 from Mr. Tito Martins to the Bank.
I
am pleased to advise you that the Bank hereby agrees to waive the requirement that the 
Borrower comply with the financial ratio set forth in Section 5.03 of the Loan Agreement during 
the fiscal year 2000, and propose to amend said Section 5.03 to read as follows in its entirety:
“Section 5.03. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain 
a
ratio of EBITDA to Interest Expense of not less than 2.0 in each fiscal year after the 
fiscal year 2000.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
the term “EBITDA” shall mean earnings before interest, taxes,  
depreciation and 
amortization for the fiscal year as audited; and 
(ii)
the term “Interest Expense” shall mean total interest expense with respect 
to all 
outstanding indebtedness for the fiscal year as audited.”
If you agree with the foregoing amendment, please sign and date the two originals of this 
letter in the space provided below, and return one original to us.  The amendment will take effect 
upon receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter duly countersigned by you.  We are sending 
a
copy of this letter to the representative of the Federative Republic of Brazil in the Guarantee 
Agreement for the above referenced Loan.
Sincerely yours,
Page  2
Luiz Gabriel Azevedo
Acting Director
Brazil - Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
COMPANHIA VALE DO RIO DOCE
By:
Fernando Nobrega
Authorized Representative
Andrea Marques Almelda
Authorized Representative
Date:
January 15, 2002
cc:  Mr. Tito Martins, Chief Financial Officer, CVRD
       Mr. Almir Martins Bastos, PGFN
