Document of
The W orld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
J 3   z,-C,
Report No, 9100-CY
STAFF APPRIASAL REPORT
CYPRUS
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
APRIL 1, 1991
and Finance Operations Division
Department IV
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
nt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cypriot Pounds (CL)
US$ 1.0 = CL 0.46 (av. for 1990)
CL 1.0 = US$ 2.17 (av. for 1990)
US$ 1.0 = CL 0.44 (February 28, 1991)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEs         -     Beneficiary Enterprises
CBC         -     Central Bank of Cyprus
CCB         -     Cooperatives Central Bank
CCH         -     Consultants Clearinghouse
CDB         -     Cyprus Development Bank
CPC         -     Cyprus Productivity Center
CYS         -     Cyprus Organization for Standards and Control of Quality
EC          -     European Community
EFZ         -     Export Free Zone
EIB         -     European Investment Bank
ERR         -     Economic Rate of Return
ERTI        -     Environmental Research and Training Institute
FFPP        -     Fund for Financing Priority Projects
FI          -     Factory Inspectorate
FRR         -     Financial Rate of Return
HTI         -    Higher Technical Institute
ITA         -     Industrial Training Authority
ITDC        -     Industrial and Technological Development Council
MCI         -    Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MOF         -    Ministry of Finance
MOLSI       -    Ministry of Labor and Social Insurance
PB          -     Participating Bank
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditure
CYPRUS - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CYPRUI
INDUSTRIAL RESlRUClURING  PROJENm
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
I.     INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
II.    THE SETTING   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
A.  The Economic Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
B.  The Manufacturing Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
1. Current Status and Recent Developments   . . . . . . . . .  3
2. The Policy and Institutional Framework   . . . . . . . . .  4
a.  Constraints Faci.lg the Sector   . . . . . . . . . . .  4
b.  The Current Policy Framework . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
3.  Prospects for the Industrial Sector   . . . . . . . . . .  7
a.  Further Improvements in the Policy Environment . . .  8
b.  Restructuring Needs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
C.  The Financial Sector in the Macroeconomic Setting   . . . . . 11
1.  The Institutional Setting   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
2.  Monetary and Credit Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
a.  Liquidity Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
b.  Interest Rate Ceilings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
c.  Exchange Controls   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
d.  The Fiscal Deficit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
3.  Development Constraints   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
a.  Resource Mobilization and Allocation . . . . . . . . 16
b.  Availability of Term Financing . . . . . . . . . . . 17
c.  Capital Markets and Industrial Structure . . . . . . 17
D.  Bank Assistance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
1.  Past Bank Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
2.  Bank Role in the Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
III.   THE PROJECT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 .   . . . . . 20
A.   Project Rationale and Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
1.  Project Rationale   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
2.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
|Of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



Table of Contents  (Continued)                                  rggJLE-.
B.  Project Description    . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
1.  Policy Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
a.  Framework for Restructuring the Industrial Sector. . 21
b.  Financial Sector Reforms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
2.    Credit  Component  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   24
3.  Technical Assistance Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
a.  Industrial Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
b.  Financial Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
C.  Project Cost and Financing Plar. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
D. Credit Demand             . . . ....... . 28
IV.  PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF THE LOAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
A.  The Loan and Institutional Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . 30
B.  Eligible Financial Intermediaries  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
C.  Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects . . . . . . . . . . . 30
D.  Subloan Processing and Administration  . . . . . . . . . . . 31
E.  Onlending Terms and Conditions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
F.  Project Implementation Arrangements and Schedule . . . . . . 32
G.    Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    32
H.  Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan   . . . . . . . . . 33
I. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting Requirements . . . . . . 33
J.  Environmental Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . 34
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
VI.  AgEEMENTS LREACHEDI AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
ANNEXES
1-1  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File  . . . . . 39
2-1  Key Economic Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
2-2  Gross Domestic Product by Sector     .......... . 43
2-3  Gross Output/Value Added by Major Manufacturing Group:1979-88.   44
2-4  Schedule for Dismantling Tariffs under Agreement with the EC    46
2-5  Statement of Policy .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   54
2-6  Deposit Money Banks: Structure/Maturity of Deposits 1983-89 . . . 62
2-7  Deposit Money Banks: Sectoral Distribution of Credit 1983-89 . . 63
2-8  The Cyprus Development Bank .................. . 64
2-9  Nominal Rate Structure of Core Deposits 1983-89 .    . . . . . . . 73
3-1  Competitiveness Enhancement and Environmental Studies, and
Consultant Training   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  74
3-2  Environmental Research & Training Institute: Description & Cost. 83
3-3  Industrial Environment Specialist:  Terms of Reference . . . . . 87
3-4  Enhancing Environmental Auditing Capacity  . . . . . . . . . . . 89
3-5  Regulating the Cooperative Banking System - Proposal
for Simplified Legislation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91



fable of Contents   (Continued)                                                           Pace No.
3-6    Training of Participatitig Banks'  Staff  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  94
3-7    Development of Capital Markets  - TOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  97
4-1    Participation Agreement between MOF and Participating Banks.  . .  99
4-2    Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks  . . . . . . . . . . 105
4-3    Criteria for Eligible Enterprises   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
4-4    Domestic Resource Cost Measures of Project Merit  . . . . . . . . 110
4-5    Project Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Bank Loan  . . . . . . 111
MAP    IBRD        No.  22694
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Cyprus in June
1990. The mission consisted of Messrs. Toureille (Task Manager), Colje. Oundon. Gaspar. and
Manes.  Mme. Kaplanis and Messrs. Kwaku, Margetis, and Thorne also contributed to project
preparation. Mme. Alemu provided secretarial support.



CYPRUS
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Cyprus
Beneficiaries:           Ministry of Finance (MOF), Cyprus Development Bank (CDB),
other participating  banks   (PBs),   and   industrial
enterprises.
Amount:                  US$30 million equivalent
Terms:                   15 years, including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable rate.
Onlending:               The Government will lend US$25 million equivalent to
eligible PBs for on-lending to industrial enterprises.
The funds will be loaned to the PBs in foreign currencies
(British pound, German mark, Japanese yen, Swiss franc,
or U.S. dollar), at a floating rate based on the six
month LIBOR rate for that currency; the spread (initially
not more than one percent) over LIBOR will be determined
by the Government, in agreement with the World Bank.
PBs would onlend these funds to eligible enterprises,
in the same currencies as those borrowed from the
Government, and at a rate that PBs will be free to
determine, in accordance with their lending policies and
procedures.
Project Descrigtion:    The project's principal objective would be to assist the
Government in undertaking a substantial adjustment of
its industrial sector in view of a gradual integration
with the EC. The project would consist of: (i) support
for setting up a framework of policies and programs for
restructuring   the   industrial   sector,   including
dispositions concerning environmental considerations;
(ii) the introduction of a strengthened regulatory and
supervisory framework for increasing the soundness and
efficiency of financia'. institutions, particularly as
regards the cooperative banking network (currently not
properly regulated and supervised); (iii) a program for
increasing the financial autonomy of the CDB; and (iv)
a credit facility to support the investment and working
capital needs of eligible industrial enterprises
undertaking restructuring programs. Technical assistance
would be provided in five areas: (i) assistance in
undertaking competitiveness enhancement and environmental
impact studies for specific enterprises; (ii) assistance
in developing quality control mechanisms for manufactured



ii
products;  (iii)  development  of  project  appraisal
capabilities within PBs; (iv) the preparation of an
action program fez developing capital markets; and (v)
development of the local industrial and environmental
consulting capacity along with strengthening of the
environmental auditing and control mechanisms.
L t8
The Project would foster a program of actions aimed at
facilitating the restructuring and modernizing of the
manufacturing sector in Cyprus, with a view to enhance
its competitiveness in European and other international
markets. Support is also being provided to assist in
the implementation of the new envirotnmental standards.
Finally, a number of actions will be aimed at the
financial sector, to ensure that it is in a better
position to provide the required support to the
adjustment process.
Three main risks may have to be faced in the context of
the proposed program. First, the Government may face
some resistance to its efforts in fostering industrial
liberalization, particularly when the program starts
having its full effect on inefficient enterprises. To
alleviate this, the Government is willing to commit
substantial technical and financial assistance to
restructuring enterprises, as reflected in the design
of the Project. Second, the Government could run into
difficulties  in  its  attempt  to  restructure  the
cooperative banking system.   To minimize this risk,
substantial technical preparation has already been
undertaken, with a view to establishing a consensus basis
among concerned parties. The third risk is that credit
demand could be insufficient, leading to a slow
disbursement of the credit facility.   Regarding this
risk, the credit component, which will be onlent on terms
competitive with other financial sources, is estimated
to amount to only 4% of the current financing needs of
the manufacturing sector, needs which should be
substantially increased by the restructuring process.
The expected involvement of several PBs would be an
additional way to ensure a broad reach for the Bank's
funds.



iii
Estimated Cost:
Local             Forein                   Total
-------------US $ million equivalent----------.
Credit Facility          10.8               25.0                     35.8
Technical Assistance       2.0               3.4                      5.4
Unallocated                                  1.6                      1.6
Total        12.8
Financing Plan:
World Bank                 -                30.0                     30.0
PBs                       3.6                -                        3.6
Enterprises               8.4                -                        8.4
Local Consultants         0.4                -                        0.4
Cyprus Development Bank   0.4                -                        0.4
Total        12.8               3.0                      2.8
Estigated
Disbursements:
World Bank FY                  19   1993  1994   1995  1996 19   1998
---------US$ million equivalent---------
Annual                          7.0   6.0   5.5   4.0   3.3   2.3   1.9
Cumulative                      7.0  13.0  18.5  22.5  25.8  28.1  30.0
EconuMic Rate
of Return:        Subprojects with total costs above US$750,000 would be required
to have an economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 12X.
Economic viability will be established via a simplified
benefit-cost ratio criterion for subprojects with total costs
below US$750,000.



fl E APPRAISAL  R I
CYPRUS
INDUSRIAL RESTRUCiJURING PREiu
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The Government of Cyprus has requested a Bank loan of US$30 million
equivalent for an Industrial Restructuring Project (the Project) consisting of
a comprenensive package of reforms in the industrial and financial sectors,
financial support, and technical assistance for Cypriot enterprises undergoing
restructuring programs.
1.02        Cyprus' economic performance has been good over the past ten years.
High growch in output and income has been combined with high levels of employment
and a steadily improving record of inflation.   Growth in tourism has been
impressive, while industry and agriculture have remained important contributors
of GDP. The long-term sustainability of such performance is a source of concern,
however. It is clear that expansion of tourism could not continue unchecked for
to.. long and new strategies are needed as regards industry and agriculture, given
the small size of the Cypriot market and the diminishing prospects for Cypriot
products in traditional export markets such as the Middle East.   Additional
concerns result from the persistence of a growing fiscal deficit, and a
deteriorating current account position.
1.03        To improve Cyprus' external and internal balances, the Government
has embarked on a significant restructuring program aimed at making the
industrial sector more efficient and internationally competitive.   In this
context, the Government is developing closer ties with Europe and in July 1990,
it applied for full membership in the EC. As a first step, an agreement to
proceed to a Customs Union was signed in Janutary 1988. The Agreement envisages
phasing out tariffs and other trade restrictions between Cyprus and the EC on
a large number of agricultural and industrial products over a ten year period.
The Government has also introduced a comprehensive tax reform package, which was
recently passed by the House of Representatives. It would make the income tax
burden more equitable, and also calls for the implementation of a value added
tax (VAT). While these reforms are expected to greatly benefit the economy, net
foreign financing would be required during the initial few years to support the
adjustment process.
1.04        The Project would consist of: (i) a program of reforms for the
industrial and financial sectors, aimed at improving the framework for
enterprises to restructure and modernize; (ii) a credit facility to finance
restructuring enterprises; and (iii) technical assistance to support enter:prise
restructuring, product upgrading, and environment control, along with assis'ance
to help develop a reform program for the financial sector. Selected docum.ents
in the Project file are detailed in Annex 1-1.
1.05        The Project will require total financing of about US$43 million
equivalent, including US$30 million in foreign exchange. The proposed Bank Loan
of US$30 million will cover 70X of the total financing required.



II. THU SEIMNG
A.    The Erzonomi; Environment
2.01        Cyprus, a small, island economy with a pnrulation of 686,000 and a
per capita income of $7,050 in 1989, has a long history of good economic
p rfornmance characterized by high growth, low unemployment, reasonable price
stability and a relatively high proportion of trade to GDP. Exports and Imports
combined averaged 56% of GDP during 1987-1989 (Anrex 2-1). The economy recovered
rapidly from the severe recession created by the 1974 dislocations when GDP fell
by 30% from 1973 levels, industrial output fell by almost 50% and a third of the
labor force was unemployed. By 1978 the pre-war output was regained and full
employment restored. Continued gains in output and income have been recorded
in the last decade led by a real growth in tourism of 10% per annum. GDP growth
averaged 5.9% per annum for the 1980s, and with the exception of the economic
slowdown during 1985-86, growth was relatively stable over the decade. The sharp
fall in oil prices in 1986, coupled with the effects of dollar depreciation in
raising the dollar price of internationally traded manufactured goods, has
resulted in a terms of trade boost to domestic income of about 1% annually since
1986.
2.02        Partly because of this, but also because Cyprus has taken advantage
of the substantial global recovery in goods and services trade, the economy has
now bounced back from the slowdown to sustain the growth rates achieved earlier.
All sectors of the economy, excluding mining, have shown strong positive growth
rates, with manufacturing and agriculture growing by about 8% in 1989. Though
growth of agriculture and manufacturing products played an important role,
tourism remained the most dynamic sector.  Within the services sector, above
average performance was exhibited by subsectors directly related with tourism,
offshore activities and the provision of professional services abroad.
2.G3        However, thera are signs that the rebound in the economy during the
second half of the 1980s was too expansionary and may have created inflationary
strains. Though inflation rose only slightly in recent years (annv1' rate of
4.5% as of June 1990), due to the availability of foreign borrowings (external
debt as a percentage of GDP increased from 24% to 36% between 1980 and 1989),
the Government's share of external borrowing rose to 70% in 1989 as compared to
57% in 1980.    The main concern at the moment is the Government's fiscal
position. With expenditure growing along current trends, the overall fiscal
deficit is expected to widen from 1.4% of GDP in 1989 to 2.3X in 1990.
Increasing the prospects for a rising deficit is the fact that the scheduled
reduction in import tariffs--to conform to EC guidelines--together with an
expected decrease in revenue from the oil tax, would slow revenue growth
beginning in 1990.
2.04        Bas d on its small size, commercially strategic location and its
advanced social and economic indicators, Cyprus had developed primarily as a
service oriented economy with trading and tourism activities leading the
expansion during the 1980s.  Industry contributed 27% of GDP (Annex 2-2) and
employed 38% of the labor force while the service sector contributed about 61%
of GDP and employed 45% of the labor force in 1988. While the economy exhibits



I 3-
relatively low level of industrialization by European or ever middle income
developin&g country standards, manufacturiig's share of value added fell from
17.6% of GDP in 1980, to 15.1% by 1.989.  Services on the other hand, which
accounted for 53% of GDP in 1980 increased to 61.1% by 1989 based on a rising
tourism share from 15 to 21%.  In line with the increasing share of output
accounted for by service activities d1uring the decade, the majority of
incremental resources also flowed toward services.   In 1980, twanufacturing
accounted for 11% of total fixed investment while services accounted for 52%.
By 1989, the service share rose to 77% and the manufacturing share fell to 7.5%.
B.    The Menutacturing Ssetgr
1.    Current Status and Recent Developments
2.05        In contrast with the relatively advanced state of the rest of the
economy, and as a refleution of excessive protection provided to this sector,
manufacturing production and exports have been dependent primarily on labor-
intensive activities, clothing and footwear, with much of the production oriented
towards the low end of the quality scale. Increased competition from Asia's low
coat mass producers has gradutally eroded Cyprus' dominant position for these
products in the Middle-Eastern market.
2.06        Nevertheless, as the economy has maintained the expansion enjoyed
since 1974, manufacturing growth also remained high by international standards.
Apart from a slowing in the mid-1980s, reel growth of manufacturing iialue added
has been close to CDP expansion, averaging 8% in 1987 and 6.8% in 1988 (Annex
2-3). Though it has been primarily based on buoyant domestic demand, increased
tourism driven demand and a revival in re-export growth have also played an
important role. There are positive signs in the export performance as well, as
Cypriot producers have already achieved some initial success in the reorientation
of exports to <*e EC, primarily to the UK and Greece.
2.07        Yet, along with the rebound in manufacturing growth following the
1985-86 slow-down, was an expansionary policy framework in 1987-88.  Despite
the availability of external financing of deficits, the increased public sector
borrowing requirement is creating concerns about crowding out of private
investment, particularly given interest rates restrictions and a booming service
sector.   Nevertheless, while the macroeconomic framework requires continued
attention, instability does not seem to be, at present, the primary threat to
the growth of the manufacturing sector.
2.08        The recent demand expansion did, however, help to reveal significant
deficiencies in the technical, market, and even psychological orientation of
Cypri.-t manufacturing. Despite the rapid growth during the past 15 years, the
stru ture of the sector has remained stagnant, concentrated in low-technology,
labor-intensive activities. The sector is dominated by relatively low-quality,
light industry operated by family firms with production primarily aimed at the
domestic market. Exports have expanded to satisfy minimum scale requirements
due to the small size of the Cypriot economy, with primary markets in the Middle
East oil-exporting countries where quality demar,ds until recently have been low.
As a result, there has been little rationalization and specialization along world



market lines and a large proportion of Cyprtot manufacturing is currently
vulnerable to international competition both in its export markets and at home.
The effect of the underlying weaknesses is alreadv being felt as growth in
irndustrial value added fell from 7% in 1988, to only 3% in 1989 as compared to
the 10% expansion of the service sector for both years.
2.    The Policy and Institutional Framework
a.    Constraints-Facing -the SeIctor
2.09         Many of the difficulties anticipated for the manufacturing sector
result from a legacy of public intervention in the market through protection and
other forms of insulation from competition. Industry developed under protective
trade barriers, specific subsidies and promotional activities, restrictive
licensing procedures, price and interest rate restrictions and other
distortionary policies.  As in most cases of intervention to promote certain
activities, protection was incorporated into business practices and became
increasingly difficult to remove. At the same time the long-term development
of activities in terms of physical, human and technological investment was based
on a set of distorted price rignals which lacked close linkage to world market
conditions.
2.10        In addition to the lack of competitive forces in the output and
capital markets, industrial competitiveness and flexibility have been severely
hindered by the presence of an extremely tight and rigid labor market. Powerful
unions andc collective bargaining have restricted labor mobility, suppressed a
productivity-based wage nystem and, with the help of buoyant demand polices,
driven real wages higher than those of many competitors. Understandably, the
insulation of domestic industLy from competitive forces has allowed the labor
distortions to persist despite declining competitiveness.
2.11        The lack of competitive forces in Cyprus has not only distorted
production incentives and structures, but it has also hindered the development
of demand driven support activities in the field of training, indust:ial
consulting, and technological development. Existing institutions, which provide
training and technology services, hav3 a number of useful activities and have
the potential to provide effective support to industry; however, they are
basically supply driven and therefore often uot relevant for a particular
enterprise's situation.
b.    The Current Policy Framework
2.12        In response to uncertain and declining demand in traditional export
markets and increased competition from low cost Asian producers, Cypriot
authorities have taken potentially far reaching steps to stem the declina in the
competitiveness of their manufacturing activities. There is broad consensus in
Cyprus that the history of protection and direct assistance to industry has left
many manufacturing activities unable to survive in a more competitive
environment, and a substantial restructuring will be necessary. In this context
restructuring implies that some inefficient activities would not survive, while
others which are economically viable will need a major overhaul of technical



operations, internal structure and market orientation in order to be successful.
2.13        The need for restructuring has been revealed by the program for
liberalization, largely motivated by the effort to align and harmonize the
Cypriot policy framework with that of the EC. The set of policy reforms implied
by such harmonization will have far reaching effects in numerous areas of the
economy, including trade policy, domestic competition, taxation, pricing, labor
and financial policy. Ultimately the realignment of the policy framework should
help to provide the competitive pressure needed to stimulate restructuring,
efficiency and innovation.   However, the introduction of the new incentives
framework and the opening of the economy will not be painless as associated
adjustment costs must necessarily accompany the restructuring process;   the
challenge for the Government will be to prevent this from slowing the current
momentum towards rapid liberalizaticn.
2.14        Trade Policy.  Import barriers played a prominent role in protecting
Cypriot industry and have been a key impediment to competition and efficient
production. Until recently, Cypriot manufactures enjoyed the benefit of binding
import res.trictions, including one of the highest levels of tariff protection
in the industrializing world, import quotas and complete import bans on some
items.   This protection has, among other things, caused product quality to
suffer,   distorted the incentive to compete in demanding export markets and
hindered efficient import substitution activities.  To reform the situation the
Government decided to enter into a Customs Union agreement with the EC, effective
at the beginning of 1988. This constitutes a radical change in Cyprus' trade
policy orientation and will eventually move the country from a relatively closed
to an open economy. The agreement covers 80X of imports and provides for the
reduction of pr)tective barriers in two phases. All tariffs, vis-a-vis the EC
would be dismantled (Annex 2-4) by the end of the first phase, i.e. by 1998,
and a full Customs Union, complete with the Common Customs Tariff (CCT) for third
countries, would be achieved by the end of the second phase, four to five years
later.
2.15        Domestic ComRetition.  Complementing the liberalization of the trade
regime which will be taking place under the Customs Union agreement, are a number
of policy reforms affecting competition among domestic producers. First, import
licensing and some forms of investment restrictions (in industrial estates, for
example) have in the past been a discretionary tool of the MiniLcry of Commerce
and Industry (MCI) to restrict entry into the market.   Some movement has been
made to make the licensing more automatic but this could be improved further.
Second, as imports were banned in many areas, the market power of monopolists
was kept in check through the use of price controls.   As imports are being
liberalized, so too are price controls, which are dependent on progress in the
liberalization of competing imports.  Finally, as cooperation among economic
agents, rather than competition, has been the standard practice, a law against
anti-competition practices which prevents collusion, price fixing and other anti-
competitive practices was passed in 1990 and follows precisely the law on
competition found in the original EC charter.
2.16        Taxation Policy. A new tax law was recently passed by the Parliament
as an additional effort for rationalizing and strengthening the economy, and for
harmonizing its operational patterns with those of the EC. Its main features



- 6 -
include the introduction of a value added tax, the reduction of the corporate
tax from 42.5 to 20% for income up to CL100,000 (increasing to 25% for income
above this limit), and modifications of individual tax rates to provide a more
equal incidence. In addition to a more favorable tax environment for industry,
there are provisions in the new tax law which are aimed at assisting the
restructuring effort. For example, the new tax law calls for a 40% deduction
of actual expenditures on computer hardware and software. An allowance of 20X
is provided for investment in machinery used directly in manufacturing (it will
be raised to 40% if the investor is a consortium).
2.17        Technology DeveloRment Policy.   Comparing Cyprus' socio-economic
development indicators to those of other countries, industrialists, Government
officials and labor now realize that Cyprus' level of technology and product
development is lower than where it ought to be.  In this context, technology
includes those embodied in capital equipment and also encompasses such facets
as product mix, production techniques, product design, as well as applied human
capital. In other words, the distorted incentive system which insulated industry
from competitive pressures for fifteen years, has created an environment which
hinders technological advance and product upgrading. A broad consensus has been
reached that the Cypriot industry and applicable technologies should now
concentrate on "intensive" rather than "extensive" technology development if the
country is to maintain growth in the rapidly evolving competitive domestic and
external environment.
2.18        In December 1989,  the Government established an Industrial and
Technolog-ical Development Council (ITDC), whose objective is the "formulation
of policies and the adoption of measures for enhancing industrial growth and
promoting technological development". The joint public/private council consists
of representatives from the MCI, the Planning Bureau, the Chamber of Commerce
and Industry, and the Federation of Employers. The Council's activities to this
point have been somewhat limited except for a notable effort to produce a
document outlining an industrial strategy for the economy which embodies the
concept of flexible specialization.
2.19        The most relevant facet of the industrial strategy is a two-level
approach 'which concentrates on both the national and the enterprise level. At
the national level, the strategy supports the Government's role as a
"facilitator" of industrial development and views the liberalization of the
economy and the maintenance of a competitive environment as the most important
aspect of the function.  The full release of competitive forces into the economy
would then induce the second level of the restructuring strategy: the firm's
active investment into new techniques, products, and structures.
2.20        Industrial TraininZ.   Cyprus's relatively low labor productivity
stems not only from a lack of modern equipment but also from the incentive system
surrounding the labor market. Given the tight labor market and the lack of a
competitive environment, there has been little incentive for owners/managers to
invest heavily to train and upgrade worker skills.  Correspondingly, the two
training institutions viz., the Cyprus Productivity Center (CPC) and the Higher
Technical Institute (HTI), which provide management, vocational and technical
training at different levels in support of the industrial sector receive little
input from industry regarding training needs and therefore their programs are
I



supply rather than demand driven. Increasingly, however, there is recognition
that quality manpower and an upgraded stock of human capital are integral parts
of a program for technological growth and are key determinants of productivity
and  competitiveness.    Spurred  by  the  increasing  competitive  pre3s_res,
enterprises will gradually become mota capable to assess their industrial
training needs.
2.21        Environmental Policy.  A further benefit to be derived from Cyprus'
harmonization of policies with those of the EC is in the area of environmental
policy. Legislation has recently been introduced on industrial water and air
pollution, which will require environmental standards comparable with, and in
some instances stricter than those of the EC. The Factory Inspectorate (FI) at
the Ministry of Labor and Social Insurance (MOLSI), which is charged with the
task of monitoring and controlling industrial pollution has competent experts
with the technical capability for setting, implementing, and enforcing the new
standards. The introduction of the new law, however, and the FI's envisaged role
in monitoring environmental auditing would require a substantial increase in the
number of its qualified staff. As with the industrial consulting field, there
will be a lag in the economy before adequately skilled and equipped consultants
are capable of performing environmental audits reflecting the latest in
technological know-how.   The Bank is supporting the Government's keen interest
in environmental protection. The recently approved Limassol Sewerage Project
and the Southeast Coast Sewerage and Drainage Projects currently under
preparation, include several innovative environmental studies in addition to the
pollution control provided by the physical works.
3.    Prosgects for the Industrial Sector
2.22        As the country faces sharply increasing competition in the external
environment as well as in the domestic market, pressures are mounting to shift
industrial development to the "intensive" phase and to deepen the technology base
of the economy.    The  industrial  restructuring program envisioned by the
Government  and  the  business  community  aims  at  enhancing  industrial
competitiveness through changes in production organization, marketing and new
technology.     Much effort has been extended through seminars and formal
diszussions to make business and labor aware of the need to begin restructuring
immediately in anticipation of stronger competitive forces in the economy.
2.23        However, the expectation of significant adjustment costs at the
enterprise level has led the Government to take a cautious view of economic
liberalization, and to adopt rather a gradual reform program which extends over
a long period of time.    While in theory, a significant adjustment time for
industrialist may lessen the pain of reform by stretching out the costs over a
period, in practice it has allowed firms to continue old practices and to defer
restructuring until the pressure of competition is really felt. Therefore, while
industrialists seem cognizant of the need for change, their direction is unclear
and action is not yet occurring as competition will not enter the domestic
economy for some time to come.



- 8 -
a.    Furtherl morovements in the Poliec  Envixonment
2.24        The Government is now considering whether the program should be
accelerated in order to provide the competitive pressure to induce industrialists
to take action sooner rather than later. While no specific modifications to
the program have been announced as of yet, the acceleration of the program comes
within the context of Cyprus' application for membership in the EC. To prepare
for the consideration of the application, the Govtrnment is committed to a number
of improvements in the sequence of reforms. The set of reforms which have been
implemented or are underway, as well as those the Government is committed to for
the future are articulated in a Statement of Policy (&Max 2-5), which has been
endorsed by the Government. Some of its main points are highlighted below.
2.25.       Macroeconomic Stability.   While considerable progress was made in
reducing the fiscal deficit in 1989, preliminary estimates indicate that the
deficit increased again in 1990.  The increased deficit along with the other
factors which keep demand buoyant, e.g. interest rate ceilings on loans and wage
increases with little connection to productivity growth, threaten the
liberalization program as excess demand during liberalization of the external
sector could lead to increased external imbalance and macroeconomic instability.
Therefore, an appropriate macro-economic framework, as such is currently the
case, whereby excess demand is kept in check, is a critical prerequisite for a
successful industrial restructuring effort.
2.26        Increased Liberalization.    The movement of the economy toward a
more liberal external and domestic environment will undoubtedly lead to welfare
gains for the country in terms of increased competition, more appropriate
relative prices, and a more efficient and rational allocation of resources across
activities. Furthermore, the consumer will not have to pay for the protection
offered to producers through higher prices and limited access to imports.
However, to maximize efficiency gains and minimize adjustment costs, the pressure
for enterprise restructuring could be increased during the early part of the
liberalization process and the pace of the program could be accelerated. A list
of products receiving continued protection is found in Annex 2-4 (pps.4-8).
2.27.       There are still significant market restrictions and interventions,
which allow some discretion on the part of the Government to provide "made-to-
measure" protection.   In particular, during the period of tariff reduction,
quantitative restrictions (QRs) and import bans have been introduced to protect
the vulnerable products shown in Annex 2-4.
2.28        While the Customs Union agreement represents an important step
forward in the industrial strategy of the country, the agreement itself along
with complementary policies could be further improved.   First,  the tariff
reduction could be rationalized to provide a more equivalent protection across
products. Second, the distortive effects of QRs are sufficiently severe to cause
concern regarding their use, even during the period of implementation of the
Customs Union. The use of QRs could therefore be eliminated sooner as their
presence will serve to offset the benefits from the tariff reduction and may
introduce other distortions. Finally, as QRs have distortive effects which may
extend beyond price distortions, so do licensing requirements. While the use
of import and investment licensing to control entry of activities and products



has been lessened recently, the mere presence of a licensing system is worrisome,
as it allows the re-introduction of greater restrictions at the discretion of
the Government. Therefore, consideration would be given to eliminating licensing
requirements for imports and investment as soon as possible.
2.29        Labor Market Issues.   The tight, inflexible labor market has been
cited by Cypriot industrialists as a significant barrier to the expansion and
reorientation of the manufacturing sector. The historical strength of unions
in establishing binding collective bargaining agreements has been facilitated
by the relatively high protection enjoyed by the manufacturing sector.   The
strains in the tight labor market have surfaced recently in large part because
of increased competition faced by Cyprus' labor-intensive exports in overseas
markets along with the expansion in the Cypriot service sector which has drawn
much of the lower skilled labor away from the manufacturing sector.
2.30        While  these  conditions have pressured officials  to allow  for
importing cheaper unskilled labor from overseas, it is likely that unsustainable
social strains would result and the undarlying problems of the labor market would
not be solved. Instead, accelerating the liberalization process would induce
industrialists to restructure their product and factor mix to reflect better
Cyprus' true position in the international division of labor. Labor would become
more productive and would be released from inviable activities, thereby relaxing
the labor market constraints, leading to upgraded productlon less unskilled-
labor intensive manufacturing, and forcing wage rates to reflect better the
marginal value of labor. Over time, training programs would evolve which would
respond to the expressed needs of industrialists and labor, because of the
competitive environment.
b.    RestructurinQ Needs
2.31        With  the  gradual  elimination  of protection  and  subsidies,  a
significant adjustmernt will be needed.   While the economic gains due to
restructuring under a neutral incentive regime are widely accepted in principle,
there is the risk that Government will face pressure for discretionary
assistance. To minimize the risks involved with implementing the program, there
is a need for strengthened advisory services both at the Goverrnent and the
enterprise level. At the Government level, a private sector oriented entity
could provide advice to Government regarding future policy proposals, and through
its ties to industrialists and labor, help suggest, organize, evaluate and in
some cases oversee, the wide range of public and private programs and services
aimed at assisting industry adjust to the new environment. At the enterprise
level, professional advice, which could add value to manufacturing in such areas
as marketing, and technical, environmental and management consulting, will be
necessary.
2.32        Policy Information and Government Advisory Function.   As a policy
advisory board, the ITDC through its working level committees, should have the
potential to help facilitate the restructuring program through its broad
constituency of actors involved in the restructuring process.   As its first
activity, the Committee on Restructuring, a working level committee of the ITDC,
led by prominent business leaders, proposed a broad strategy for the
restructuring process based on enterprise specific adjustment within a relatively



- 10 -
neutral incentive environment and motivated by increased competition at home and
abroad. ITDC's future role naturally must involve ensuring that this strategy,
which has been endorsed at all levels, is implemented and maintained.
Specifically, this would mean assisting in future policy formulation and
implementation by ensuring that policies which lead to anti-competitive behavior
or biased incentives are quickly phased out and avoided in the future so that
a neutral  environment  is maintained.    The  ITDC  should ensure  that  the
restructuring will be undertaken within a competitive framework, through its
connections in all areas of the economy. Recognizing the need for strengthening
the ITDC as an advisory group, the Government with UNDP support has established
a multi-faceted project which as one of its components aims at helping to
strengthen the ITDC as a policy advisory body.
2.33        Restructuring Advice for Industrialists.          As the process of
harmonization with EC policy framework is just underway in a number of areas
industrialists are only now beginning to feel the need to alter their production
standards and structures in order to survive in the new, more competitive market.
Yet, despite the cognizance that restructuring is needed, a legacy of the
insulated economic environment is the lack of experience on the part of
industrialists with adjusting and upgrading production to higher standards and
demands.   Questions concerning investment in appropriate technology,  both
hardware and software, aggressive marketing strategies, better organizational
structure, have not until recently been faced by the Cypriot industrialist. At
the same time the lack of a need for extension services and investment in
'competitiveness enhancement" has left the economy with a shortage of consulting
services geared toward manufacturing activities.   Some foreign management
consulting firms have contacts and branches in Cyprus, but apart from the
consulting arm of the Cyprus Development Bank, industrialLsts have limited
restructuring related services available to them from the local market. While
the development of such services will be related to the speed of the
liberalization program, the need for preemptive action on the part of
industrialists, makes it desirable to support the development of such services
through training and through active participation in specific enterprise
restructuring plans.
2.34        Ouality Standards.      Recent industry experiences indicate that
products manufactured to quality standards are being increasingly demanded by
quality conscious consumers. This trend is particularly noticeable by Cypriot
exporters in the more recent shift towards the new and relatively sophisticated
markets of the EC. There is a corresponding and growing awareness, within
Government and industry alike, of the need to upgrade the quality of manufactured
goods (and services) through the introduction of appropriate, internationally
accepted standards. The adoption of ISO 9000, in particular, as the European
quality standard is a clear sign of the focus, witnin European markets, on
quality recognition.
2.35        Upgrading quality standards and associated procedures when correctly
implemented would result in reduced waste of both materials and manpower
resources.   At the same time, the benefits of quality control would not be
restricted to production activities alone. The realization, especially on the
part of market led companies, that the application of quality systems can also



. 11 -
form an integral part of the individual firm's marketing strategy can be equally
-if not more - significant to the firm's operating performance.
2.36        The following areas need to be upgraded to implement testing and
quality standards for industry: (i) information exchange & dissemination; (ii)
accreditation board; (iii) testing organizations; (iv) quality systems; and (v)
harmonization of standards.
2.37        Environmental Assessment and Auditing Capacity.    Similar to the
other aspects of production already discussed, industrialists will face a need
to adjust to new environmental standards resulting from the recent introduction
of legislation on industrial pollution.   The current regulatory environment
provides for MOLSI's Factory Inspectorate (FI) to enforce the new legislation,
but  it  is the  industrialists'  responsibility  to  invest  in environmental
protection and abatement. The new legislation has heightened the need to develop
the environmental consulting profession in order to assist industrialists in
assessing their restructuring plans in line with the stricter pollution control
requirements. Currently the profession suffers from a shortage of experienced
professionals and existing resources are poorly organized and utilized.
Similarly, enforcement of the new legislation, including additional audit
services supported under the Project wiil justify supplementary human and
physical resources for the FI.
C.    The Financial Sector In the Macroecon6mic Setting
1.    The Institutional Setting
2.38.       The  Banking  System   consists  of seven commercial banks,  one
development bank (Cyprus Development Bank), and a housing-finance bank. In
addition, 362 cooperative societies engage in banking activities, under the
aegis of the Cooperative Central Bank, which plays the role of apex institution.
Three commercial banks, viz., the Bank of Cyprus, the Popular Bank, and the
Hellenic Bank dominate the banking sector with 42%, 24.2%, and 7.5Z respectively,
of the banking sector's deposits.   Each of these three banks has adopted an
identical development strategy in terms of services provided, including the
establishment of a costly network of branches throughout the country (as of
December 1988, bank branches totalled 370, in addition to the 362 credit and
savings cooperatives, corresponding to one branch for 940 inhabitants) and the
development of complementary financial services (Insurance companies, Investment
companies, and Hire-Purchase companies). The distribution of deposits among the
three major banks has not changed substantially over the recent years. As of
December 1989, deposits with the banking system (licensed banks) totalled CLl911
million, consisting of 12.5% in demand deposits, 7X in savings deposits, and
80.5% in time deposits (Annex 2-6).
2.39        Loans and advances totalling CL1581 million as of December 1989 were
made principally to Trade (28%), Manufacturing (21%), Construction (15%), and
Personal and Professional services (19%). The pattern of commercial bank lending
during the 1983-89 period has remained stable for most sectors (Annex 2-7), viz.,
public corporations (1%), agriculture (between 4-6%), mining (1X), tourism
(between 7-9%), transport & telecommunications (2%), foreign & domestic trade



- 12 -
(27%), and building & construction (15%). The significant change in sectoral
loan demand has been in manufacturing and personal loans, e.g., the manufacturing
sector's share of total outstanding loans decreased from 29% in 1983 to 21% in
1989, whereas the demand for personal loans increased from 11% to 19% over the
same period reflecting consumer confidence in the economy.
2.40        The Cyprus DeveloRment Bank (CDB) (Annex 2-8),  is a government-
owned institution, which has played a unique role in promoting new approaches
to enterprise financing by directly assisting in the development of a number of
projects and providing project financing in the form of loans, equity, and
venture capital to Cypriot enterprises.  In addition, CDB provides fee-based
technical and management consulting service to companies and the Government,
and is also involved in investment banking activities including mergers and
acquisitions. As the country's sole development institution, its mission is to
facilitate the growth and international competitiveness of the private sector
based economy through the mobilization and allocation of scarce domestic human
and financial resources. CDB has become an important term-lending institution
in Cyprus, and has developed a team of capable management and staff. CDB is not
a deposit taking institution and its main funding source is foreign loans
guaranteed by the Government. The Government assumes the foreign exchange risk
of these loans and because of the interest rate structure in Cyprus, it allows
CDB to enjoy a gross 3% spread by guaranteeing funds at 6%.   CDB's loan
portfolio, while similar to those of the commercial banks, represents only 2%
of the total of which 99% is the form of medium and long-term loans and 43% is
provided to the manufacturing sector. Its overall impact has remained limited
however, primarily because of funding constraints. CDB's financial situation
is sound although it faces difficulties in controlling arrears, and has low
profitability mainly due to the prevailing interest rate structure in Cyprus.
The removal of the interest rate ceilings, as well as the agreed broadening of
the equity base, and the freedom to mobilize resources are necessary to
strengthen CDB's profitability and also its ability to mobilize domestic and
foreign resources based on its own reputation and performance.
2.41        The Cooperative Banking System consists of over 312 Credit Societies
(unlimited liability companies), and about 50 Savings Banks (limited liability
companies). Total loans of the cooperative system amounted to CL636 million as
of December 1989 (corresponding to about 48% of credit to the private sector by
commercial banks), and total deposits amounted to CL735 million. The largest
credit cooperative society accounts for over 11% of total loans made by the
cooperative system, and the 61 largest, located mostly in urban areas, account
for close to 85% of the total. An apex unit, the Cooperative Central Bank (CCB),
was established to act as a clearing house for the cooperative banks, collecting
surplus resources from cooperatives and providing credit facilities to others
with liquidity needs. The capital of CCB amounting to C.100,000 (for deposits
well in excess of CL100 million),  is held by the member cooperatives.   In
addition to its apex function, CCB engages in direct lending activities. Until
1987, the cooperative banks were regulated by the Cooperatives' Law Cap. 114.
Under its provisions, directives were issued by the Commissioner for Cooperative
Development to ensure inter alia that: (i) cooperatives follow Government policy
concerning monetary matters (deposits, credits, liquidity etc.); (ii) long-term
financing be provided with utmost care and only for viable and productive
projects; and (iii) cooperatives should generally be expected to observe business
q3



- 13
like practices. A new cooperative law was introduced in 1985-87 (laws 22/85 and
68/87) to replace the outdated Cooperative Law Cap.114.  The auditing of the
cooperative societies would be exercised oy the Auditor-General, assisted by an
Audit Committee (the Independent Audit Committee).
2.42        The Government has repeatedly demonstrated its continued support to
the cooperative movement, inter alia, through the provision of a favorable
incentive framework, and recently through the extension of a concessionary
subordinated loan to the Cooperative Central Bank, to ensure its proper
capitalization. In the mid-seventies, CCB engaged in a number of ill-prepared
lending activities which proved unsuccessful.   This resulted in an enquiry,
which was undertaken under the authority of the Central Bank which concluded
that the losses incurred amounted to about CL40 to CLSO million. A temporary
bridging facility (at 41 per annum) was granted to CCB, and in return a number
of corrective actions were taken, which included replacing the elected Management
Committee by an appointed Management Committee, and nominating a representative
of the Minister of Finance to monitor the affairs of the Bank on behalf of the
Minister. Consideration is now being given to replace the bridging facility with
a subordinated loan provided at a rate of 1% per annum. Since CCB is currently
enjoying a comfortable liquidity position, it is envisaged that these funds would
be relent back to the Government (at 5). The spread would accumulate into a
reserve account and be incorporated into the capital of the bank. Additional
capital contributions would be made by individual co-operative societies for a
total amount of CL3 million. To ensure the soundness and sustainability of the
cooperative banking network, the Goverrment is committed to doing the following:
(i) developing and adopting a set of prudential regulations adapted to the
special nature of cooperatives; (ii) strengthening the Commissioner of
Cooperatives' supervisory functions by providing the appropriate means and
skilled staff; and (iii) designing and implementing a mechanism which would
ensure a more formal integration of the cooperative network, including possibly
the extension of cross-guarantees. An important development implemented by the
Government in early 1991 relates to the introduction of instructions for
regulating and supervising cooperative credit societies and savings banks. Under
the new instructions, the first returns were received in February 1991.
2.43        Non-bank Financial Institutions include investment institutions,
pension funds,  and insurance companies.   The largest single institutional
investor is the Social Security Fund, which was introduced in 1980 and had CL452
million available for investment in 1989. However, nearly all the funds (991)
ara currently invested with the Central Bank at an interest rRte of 6.75X. The
Social Security Fund is used to finance the government deficit at below market
interest rate (most government bonds yield about 8%). In addition to the Social
Insurance Scheme, most companies administer provident or pension funds. There
are about 1000 provident funds, and the surplus available for investment amount
to CL164 million. About CL4O million is invested in Government Development
Stocks, and the remainder with commercial banks. Finally, there are 44 domestic
and 18 offshore insurance companies, which are subject to the Insurance Company
Law (1967).   The Ministry of Finance sets guidelines for their investment.
Although none of the constraints imposed by the government is strictly binding,
the abolition of constraints could have an effect on insurance company
portfolios.



- 14 -
2.44        The Securities Market in Cyprus is small relative to the size of the
financial system as a whole. One of the main reasons for the securities market's
small size is that its potential role as an alternate source of term financing
is not yet fully understood. The Government securities market is more active
than the corporate bond market with outstanding government debt (including
Treasury Bills) totalling CL985 million in 1989 compared with CL35 million
outstanding for corporate bonds. The ceiling on interest rates, coupled with
the Government's good credit standing, makes the credit situation tight for the
private sector. The crowding out problem is unlikely to improve in the near
future because of the Government's desire to reduce foreign borrowing, and
because of the tax exemption on interest paid on all government bonds.
2.    Monetary and Credit Policies
2.45        Because of the lack of efficient monetary policy instrument, and
the ceiling on interest rates, savings mobilization and financial resource
allocation have not been efficient  in Cyprus.   The monetary authorities
essentially rely on liquidity requirements as the major monetary policy
instrument. Government Treasury Bills, which could be used as an open market
instrument if the interest rate was available as a tool of monetary policy, are
sold to banks and the Social Security Fund. The Fund for Financing Priority
Projects (FFPP), which was established in 1975 for promoting long-term financing
in priority sectors was abolished in early 1989. The authorities believe that
the Fund had served its purpose during the post-1974 reconstruction period, and
that its administration had become too cumbersome both for the commercial banks
and the Central Bank.
a.    Liguiditv Requirements
2.46        The Central Bank's most important monetary policy instrument is the
liquidity ratio, which was increased from 21X in 1979 to 29X in 1989. Banks
perceive liquidity requirements as an instrument of public financing rather than
as a monetary policy instrument.   The conflict over the true function of
liquidity requirements became acute in 1989 when the public sector decided to
issue bonds directly in the market by raising their yield to about 8.52.
Concerned that they would lose their deposits, because of the 7X interest rate
ceiling on deposits, commercial banks offered instead to place the bonds in the
market.  This clearly illustrates the close linkage between monetary policy,
public finance, and interest rate ceilings.
b.    Interest Rate Ceilin_s
2.47        Interest rates on loans and deposits are fixed in nominal terms
through the Interest Rate Law of 1944. While the ceiling on lending rates is
91, banks in practice charge additional fees and provide financing through hire-
purchase schemes, so that actual lending rates are much higher than 91.
2.48        Interest rate ceilings have prevented the Cypriot financial markets
from undertaking efficient intermediation between borrowers and savers.  The
rationing function performed by interest rates, --to discourage excess demand
for loans and encourage savings through increased interest rates-- has



- 15 -
effectively been absent and banks had to ration borrowers. Furthermore, interest
rate ceilings failed to curb loan demand contributing to loose monetary policy.
In the absence of interest rates as a price-rationing instrument, banks have
resorted to various means of raising tbe return on loans, and increasing the loan
supply. This has resulted in non-transparent competition among banks and between
banks and co-operatives. The administrative fixing of interest rates imposes
barriers to the smooth and efficient response of financial flows to changing
economic conditions; eases pressures on financial institutions to minimize the
costs of intermediation; creates opportunities for economic rents; and, to the
extent interest rate adjustments lag behind inflation and exchange rate
expectations, it contributes to disintermediation and capital flight.
2.49        Proper  sequencing of financiaL sector reforms  calls  for  full
liberalization of interest rates before the capital account is freed, so as to
minimize the risk of capital flight. Interest rate liberalization should be:
(i) coordinated with structural reforms in the productive (i.e., real goods and
services) sector to encourage efficient and sustainable growth; and (ii) aimed
at encouraging transparent competition among financial institutions, and
preventing a foreign exchange crisis. Given the Government's policy framework,
the primary objective of interest rate liberalization is to facilitate efficient
resource mobilization and allocation. Furthermore, this move will ease Cyprus'
integration with the EC. A phased liberalization approach is recommended to
enable financial institutions to adapt to a full market-determined system.
C.    Exchange Controls
2.50        The Cyprus Exchange Control Law is based on the UK Exchange Control
Act of 1947. Exchange control is exercised by tne Central Bank of Cyprus on
behalf of the Minister of Finance.   There are no effective restrictions on
current payments, and imports can be freely made through the commercial banks
upon producing the necessary documents. A permit for the release of foreign
exchange, however, is first required from the Ministry of Commerre and Industry.
Residents are not allowed to hold foreign currency. Yet, expatriate Cypriots
can hold foreign currency accounts either in Cyprus or abroad. And, traders of
transit goods could also hold foreign currency accounts. Outward investments
by residents are restricted, and permits are granted provided the investment will
contribute to developing Cyprus' export capability and will basically be self
financing.   Furthermore, institutions like insurance companies may invest a
certain portion of their assets in foreign securities. In addition to exchange
controls on outward investment, there are a number of restrictiens on inward
investment by non-residents. These include: (i) limits on foreign participation
depending on the type of activity e.g., 49X for certain tourist related projects,
24X for agricultural activities, and no participation in "saturated activities"
such as retail and wholesale trade, real estate, etc.; and (ii) limits on foreign
shareholding in public companies: not to exceed 30% in new public companies, 5S
in banks, and 10 in existing public companies. However, once foreign investment
is approved by the Government, on a case by case basis, there are no restrictions
on the repatriation of capital or profits.



- 16 -
d.    The Fiscal Deficit
2.51        With expenditure growing along current trends, the overall deficit
of the consolidated Central Government would widen markedly over the medium term.
The scheduled reduction Li import tariffs --to conform to EC guidelines, together
wiLh the expected decrease of revenues from z'e oil tax-- would slow revenue
growth beginning in 1990.   In addition, if the development projects in the
pipeline were to be fully implemented without expenditure cuts, the overall
deficit is estimated to have widened from CL31.2 million (1.4X of GDP) in 1989
to CL56.8 million in 1990 (2.3X of GDP). A temporary enhancement of government
access to Central Bank finance was recently authorized by the Parliament. The
enhancement raises the limits of direct advances to the Government and the
holdings of Treasury Bills by the Central Bank from 551 to 651 of the
government's estimated ordinary revenue, while the limit on holdings of
government securities by the Central Bank was raised from 201 to 251 of the total
sight liabilities of the Bank. This relaxation will lapse at the end of 1991.
3.    Development Constraints
a.    Resource Mobilization and Allocation.
2.52        Because of their pervasive influence on resource mobilization and
allocation throughout the economy, interest rates are major factors affecting
the speed and composition of a country's economic development.  .Overall
development strategies and programs of adJustment and policy reform cannot,
therefore, ignore the level and structure of interest rates in the economy, as
well as the manner in which they are determined. Intcrest rate ceilings have
prevented the Cypriot financial markets from undertaking efficient intermediation
between borrowers and savers, and have also slowed the country's financial sector
development.   A structure of interest rates that does not properly reflect
differences in risk, liquidity, and transactions costs may reduce total financial
savings and encourage their suboptimal use. Even where interest rates are not
presently playing a significant allocative role, market-based or market-
approximate interest rates can serve to mobilize savings, facilitate monetary
control, and improve foresight of government planners, as well as of lenders and
borrowers who are eventually to bc subject to competitive market forces. The
structure of deposits, loans and interest rates is given in Annex 2-6, and Annex
2-7,  and Annex 2-9,  respectively.    To  increase  loan yields,  banks have
diversified into hire-purchase loan agreements where interest rates are between
15 and 17X. Furthermore, to meet the excess demand for loans, banks resorted
to issuing bonds and/or guaranteeing their client's corporate bonds. Banks have
also set up investment subsidiaries to underwrite equity and bond issues, as well
as to trade in stocks. To overcoma the Central Bank's liquidity requirements,
and at the same time to increase their earnings through commissions, banks
encourage their large depositors to directly lend to the bank's borrowers for
a fee. The bank would then guarantee the loan to the depositor as a security.
2.53.       By placing deposits at below market interest rates, depositors who
are mainly private individuals ate effectively subsidizing borrowers who are
primarily medium to large private firms. The elimination of ceilings on interest
rates should allow banks to compete for funds more aggressively and should allow



- 17 -
the market to equate the demand for credit with the supply. The liberalization
of interest rates would lead to higher domestic savings, and in   addition
increase the range and type of financial instruments available for increased
resource mobiliz&tion. The choices currently available to Cypriot savers are
limited largely to savings deposits with commercial banks and co-operatives,
although some corporate stocks are available through the Cyprus Stock Exchange.
b.    Availability of Term Financing
2.54        The current industrial restructuring program is predicated upon the
rationalization of existing firms that will be affected by the new competitive
environment brought about by the Customs Union agreement with the EC; the new
economic environment may also attract new investors. Investment in restructuring
(for fixed or working capital or human resources training and technical
assistance) will require additional (domestic and external) resources from both
the public and private sectors. A major weakness of the Cypriot financial systam
is its inability to generate sufficient amounts of long-term financing, which
is mainly due to the ceiling on interest rates and an under-developed capital
market. The combined effect of credit ceilings in the banking system, and the
low risk associated with short-term loans has rendered the provision )f long-
term credit to be inadequate.   The limited amount of term financing made
available by commercial banks is usually through "roll-over" of short-term loans.
Some domestic long-term resouress are available from institutional savers like
insurance companies, provident and pension funds. These institutions are willing
to invest long-term in the private sector if suitable opportunities are
identified i.e., they are willing to assume the maturity risk.   As for the
interest rate risk, while borrowers may be willing to assume loans on a variable
rate basis, the interest rate ceiling is an impediment. Cyprus should develop
financially viable institutional arrangements such as mutual funds and other
capital market activities to bring together the providers and users of long-
term funds.
c.    Capital Markets and Industrial Structure
2.55        The banking system's ability to lend to the manufacturing sector is
currently constrained by the relatively high liquidity requirements.   In
addition, Cyprus' private sector faces serious problems in obtaining term
financing because of the sizable collateral required by banks. The interest rate
ceiling in the financial system also creates a bias, which favors banks to
finance government borrowing as lending to the target groups is generally
associated with higher unit costs and risks.  Corporate investment in Cyprus is
primarily financed by bank borrowing. However, small and medium size companLes
are constrained from expanding because of:  (i) the reluctance of commercial
banks to make sizable long-term loans; and (ii) the demand for personal
guarantees and collateral. More equity financed investment is therefore needed.
The presence of a more liquid and dynamic Stock Market may help in the industrial
reorganization by allowing companies to expand their capital base or by
encouraging companies to merge and go public. The Government could encourage,
at this stage of economic development, other means of financing industry such
as venture capital geared toward small companies. The Cyprus Development Bank
has been involved both in venture capital financing and mergers with some



- 18 -
success, and one could expect commercial banks to follow suit through the
merchant banking activities which they are setting up.
2.56        The current composition of the equities market in Cyprus is not
representative of the real economy. About 57% of the market's capitalization
is in the financial sector and only 14% in manufacturing, while their respective
shares in GDP are 14% and 15.3%. A major reason for this is the organizational
structure of Cypriot industry, whlch is based on small family-owned units. In
1988, about 77% of all industrial enterprises employed less than 4 persons, and
only 2-3% employed more than 50 persons. Since the major benefit expected from
stock market development is raising finance for industry, the prospects for the
success of the stock market depend crucially on raising Cyprus's industrial
consolidation.   Because of the industrial fragmentation, large institutional
investors such as insurance companies are not actively involved in finanring
Cypriot industry. In addition, institutional investors are directed to deposit
their funds with C3C.
D.    Bank Assistance
1.    Past Bank Involvement
2.57        Bank lending in Cyprus began in 1963.  As of September 1990, loans
totalling $302 million (net of cancellations) have been made. The main areas
of concentration have been infrastructure (power, sewerage, highways and ports),
industry (through the Cyprus Development Bank), agriculture and water resource
development. The Bank has supported activities leading to higher productivity
and exports, essential infrastructure and, more recently, has focused
increasingly on critical projects of a complex and innovative nature that aim
at relaxing major sectoral constraints. To fully benefit from the economic and
financial advantages of its location in the eastern Mediterranean region, Cyprus
needs to enhance its transport and communications infrastructure along with the
implementation of improved environmental standards. Within this framework, a
loan for a sewerage and drainage project for Limassol-Amathus, with an important
environmental component, was approved in FY90.
2.58        Since 1972, CDB has been involved in onlending World Bank f$mds
(first in 1972, then in 1976 and 1979) primarily to the industrial and tourism
sectors.  These loans have performed satisfactorily (Annex 2-8 Appendix II).
Bank assistance to the industrial sector in the recent past was constrained
because of subsidies on local interest rates. In 1981-82 a number of viable
energy conservation projects had been identified for possible Bank financing but
it was decided not to provide Bank assistance for these projects in view of the
prevailing negative real rates of interest (9% on-lending rates compared to local
inflation rates in excess of 10% in 1980/81) at a time of high international
rates (Bank rates of 11-12%).
2.    Bank Role in the Sector
2.59.       The Bank's strategy in Cyprus is to support the Government's efforts
aimed at liberalizing and diversifying the country's economic base, which is



- 19 -
highly dependent on tourism, and at fostering exports. This is in accord with
the Government's request for the Bank to assist Cyprus in the transition period,
as it focusses its efforts on industrial restructuring to compete with the EC.
By modernizir~g its industrial and financial sectors, Cyprus would be better able
to compete effectively within the EC, and elsewhere. Industrial and technology
sector strategy studies were completed in 1987 and 1988 respectively by the
University of Sussex (United Kingdom), under financing from UNDP.
2.60        Bank assistance under the proposed Project would compleme&.t the
Government's policy reforms by enabling private entrepreneurs in the real goods
and service sectors to restructure, expand and diversify businesses to become
more competitive, and establish new enterprises consistent with Cyprus's more
open economic environment.   To facilitate the transition of industry from a
highly protective environment to an internationally competitive regime, there
is a need for greater amounts of long-term investment resources in the private
sector. In departure from the Bank's past approach of lending to the industrial
sector through single intermediaries (e.g., CDB), this Project will encourage
commercial bank participation to enhance the efficiency, competitiveness as well
as extend the outreach of the credit delivery system. The proposed Project would
complement the limited term resources available to industry and also improve the
quality and range of financial services available to the industrial sector. It
would link private entrepreneurs, banks and sources of technical assistance, and
thereby make the whole system more market driven.



- 20 -
MI. THE PROECTi
A.    Prolect Rationale and Oblectives
1.    Project Rationale
3.01        The Project is an integral part of the Government's plan to
liberalize the country's industrial and financial sectors to enable it to compete
effectively within the EC and elsewhere. While integration with the European
market will obviously offer challenging prospects for Cypriot exporters, it will
also necessitate profound readjustment of their production patterns.  Radical
changes will result from increased import competition in the Cypriot market,
particularly in those sectors which have traditionally enjoyed a high rate of
effective protection.  In addition, a growing awareness of the adverse effects
of uncontrolled agricultural and industrial development on the environment is
expected to lead to further adjustment.  Finally, the Project will support a
number of reforms in the financial sector, which will be strengthened to enable
it to provide the required support.
2.    Proiect Obiectives
3.02        The Project is designed to: (i) assist the Government in undertaking
substantial adjustment of its industrial sector in view of a gradual integration
with the EC; (ii) assist in the adjustments needed to meet new environmental
standards; and (iii) support selected reforms in the financial sector since
efficient financial intermediation would be crucial to the success of the
adjustment process.
B.    Prolect Description
3.03        In line with the above objectives, the proposed Project would consist
of:
(a) a Rolicy/institutional develoRment comnonent to support:  (i)
policies and programs for restructuring the industrial sector, with due attention
given to environmental considerations; (ii) introduction of strengthened
regulatory and supervisory system for increasing the soundness and efficiency
of financial institutions, particularly as regards financial cooperatives
(currently not properly regulated and supervised); and (iii) a program for
increasing the financial autonomy of CDB (para 3.04 to 3.15).
(b) an investment comRonent (credit facility), to support the working
capital and investment needs of eligible enterprises for restructuring
subprojects (para 3.16).
(c) a technical assistance comRonent to support five areas: (i)
assistance in undertaking competitiveness enhancement and environmental
adjustment studies for specific enterprises; (ii) assistance in developing
quality control mechanisms; (iii) development of project appraisal capabilities
within PBs; (iv) the preparation of an action program for developing capital



- 21 -
markets; and (v) development of the local industrial and environmental consulting
capacity along with strengthening of the environmental auditing and control
mechanisms (para 3.17 - 3.25).
1.    Policy Component
3.04         The policy measures that the Governme..t intends to carry out to
support its industrial restructuring program are embodied in a Statement of
Policy.  This statement, (Annex 2-5) which was endorsed by the Government on
March 21, 1991, and which was a condition of Board presentation, indicates the
specific reforms already taken and outlines a program for further steps. The
principal areas of reform along with the anticipated benefits are described
below.
a.    Framework for Restructuring the Industrial Sector
3.05        The development of dynamic, internationally competitive manufacturing
activities is central to the 0overnment's strategy for continued growth and
increased diversification of the economy,  The process of transition from a
highly protected, inward oriented production structure is currently underway
within an explicit strategy to libealize trade, pricing, tax and competition
policies, which will, at the same time prepare Cyprus for membership in the EC.
The resulting reorientation of relative prices will provide a more appropriate
environment to make unbiased restructuring decisions.
3.06        The catalyst for the industrial restructuring effort is an import
liberalization program aimed at introducing import competition into previously
insulated manufacturing activities. The trade reform program as it now stands
(para 2.14), will undoubtedly lead to welfare gains for the economy, but
accelerating the pace and reassessing the structure of the liberalization would
help to minimize adjustment costs and accelerate restructuring action on the
part of enterprises (paras 2.26-2.28).   Quantitative restrictions should be
removed and import licensing abolished. As price liberalization naturally must
coincide with the elimination of import restrictions, the degree of price control
in the economy will be reduced along with the elimination of quotas and reduction
in tariffs. Increased flexibility and competition in the labor market (paras
2.29-2.30) will naturally follow.
3.07        The broad program to enhance the incentives framework through policy
reform will, of course provide an improved environment for unbiased, efficient
decisions for resource allocation, but will also require adjustment in attitude,
behavior and techniques on the part of policy makers, service providers,
industrialists, and labor. To complement the policy changes, the ITDC was formed
to foster active communication among all parties by providing a forum to discuss
new ideas and make recommendations (para 2.18). This policy advisory committee,
composed of representatives of the Government, business, and labor, has the
potential to not only create a strong constituency for a competitive environment,
but also, through its wide participation, can establish working groups to advise
institutions and service providers as to the needs of industry.   The UNDP
financed project should help in focussing ITDC's efforts at "facilitating"
enterprise restructuring.  At the same time, one of the technical assistance
components associated with the proposed Loan will provide, through consultant



- 22 -
studies, immediate advice to industrialists regarding their current state of
international competitiveness and steps necessary to improve it (para 3.17).
3.08        The Government has recently introduced legislation concerning the
control of water and air pollution from industrial sources and is preparing
similar legislation covering soil pollution and protection from noise which will
be introduced soon. The regulations and environmental standards to be followed
are generally along those of the EC.  According to the new legislation, all
industries will register with MOLSI's Factory Inspectorate which will be
responsible for issuing the required permits after review of the submitted
documentation concerning their installations and operating methods. Moreover,
subloan applications by enterprises under the credit facility would include
environmental impact assessments of the proposed subprojects, to be audited by
the FI on behalf of PBs as part of the subproject appraisal process. To comply
with these requirements, industrial enterprises will need extensive assistance
from environmental consultants' services, which are currently vury limited in
Cyprus. Similarly, despite the competence of its staff, it will be difficult
for the FI, under its present human and physical resource constraints, to carry
out its auditing, inspection and control functions arising from the new
legislation. To address these deficiencies, one of the Technical Assistance sub-
components will support the development of local environmental consulting
services and the strengthening of the FI's capacity (para 3.23 and 3.24).
b.    Financial Sector Rerorms
3.09        A  number  of  financial  sector  reforms  will  be  simultaneously
undertaken by the Government since progress in real sectors cannot proceed
without adequate support from the financial sector, which is handicapped
presently by major rigidities. Financial reforms would be undertaken as per the
following sequence, although simultaneous actions on a number of fronts should
not necessarily be precluded: (i) strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory
framework, particularly as regards the cooperative banking network; (ii)
institutional restructuring and strengthening of the CDB; and (iii) a gradual
relaxation of the interest rate policy, with a commitment to ensure that interest
rates remain positive at all times in real terms, and removal of exchange
controls on the capital account.
3.10.       The legal framework for regulating and supervising the banking system
is embodied in the Central Bank Act and the Banking Business Law (Temporary
Restrictions). Given the deficiencies in the present banking laws, the growing
sophistication of banking activities, and the perspective of EC membership, new
banking legislation is to be introduced.  A draft Banking Bill is currently
being discussed by relevant entities in the public and private sectors and the
Government intends to submit this bill to Parliament by the end of 1991. The
measures being proposed are aimed at enhancing prudential practices in banking
activities,   including  revised  capital  adequacy  guidelines  along  the
recommendations of the Basle committee, improved portfolio classification,
exposure limits, auditing and reporting standards.
3.11        The Government recognizes the unique role of the cooperative credit
societies in providing specific facilities and reaching areas or clientele not



- 23 -
served by commercial banks, thereby providing a crucial complement to the formal
system. It is of utmost importance that the integrity, and therefore the long-
term sustainability of this system be preserved. The Government has repeatedly
demonstrated its continued support to the cooperative movement, inter alia
through the provision of a favorable incentive framework, and recently through
the extension of a concessionary subordinated loan to the Cooperative Central
Bank, to ensure its proper capitalization. Further actions aimed at ensuring
the long-term sustainability of the cooperative banking network include: (i)
the development of a set of prudential regulations adapted to the special nature
of cooperatives; (ii) the strengthening of the supervisory functions of the
Commissioner of Cooperatives through the provision of appropriate means and
skilled staff; and (iii) the study and implementation of mechanisms which would
ensure a more formal integration of the cooperative network. The Government will
adopt an action plan for the above by December 31, 1991.
3.12        In addition, appropriate accounting and auditing standards will be
developed to meet the needs of the co-operatives, along with a simple reporting
system for off site surveillance. This should be supported by a training program
directed to the concerned staff. Consideration should be given to graduating
the large co-operatives especially those in urban areas, into fully licensed
banks.
3.13        The Government intends to undertake the relaxation of interest rates
and exchange control in phases, as dictated by the economic situation. In this
context, appropriate measures will be taken to maintain positive real interest
rates at all times.   Monetary discipline  is key to the success of the
Government's economic program. Due compliance with monetary targets need to be
closely monitored, and to that effect, all deposit taking and credit institutions
with assets in excess of CL10 million have started since December 1990 to forward
to the Government and to CBC periodic moneLary returns.
3.14        vestructuring of CDB.  Funding has always been a major constraint
to CDB's growth. Over the years, CDB has suffered from low equity levels and
has had to depend heavily on borrowing from international organizations, most
often  at  concessional  terms  (Annex  2-8).    The  main  objectives  of  the
restructuring program would be to: (i) increase CDB's autonomy vis-a-vis the
Government, in particular as regards strategic decisions and resource
mobilization; and (ii) ensure the sustainability of CDB's unique role in the
banking industry as a catalyst for providing term-financing to the corporate
sector, directly or through loan syndication, and through equity participation
in the capital of industrial corporations.
3.15        To support the anticipated growth of its portfolio, and with its
current capital/risk assets ratio exceeding 8%, CDB will need to substantially
raise its capital base.  In this context, and in order to increase its financial
and operational autonomy, CDB intends to broaden its capital base, and will seek
equity funding from international institutional investors such as the European
Investment Bank (EIB) and the IFC. To complement deposits by the Go-vernment and
loans from international institutions, CDB will also pursue an active policy of
domestic resource mobilization which would include inter alia the issuance of
certificates of deposits and borrowing on the interbank market. A restructuring



- 24 -
plan for CDB currently being prepared and to be endorsed by competent
authorities, will be adopted no later than January 1, 1992.
2.    Credit Component
3.16        The Credit Component will help to finance the investment and
permanent  working  capital  needs  of  enterprises  undergoing  extensive
restructuring. Since the evolving competitive environment will impact subsectors
differently, restructuring in this context is essentially the process by which
specific subsectors adapt to changes in the economic environment, either actual
or anticipated. The scope embraces three main aspects: reorganization (e.g.,
increases in plant size, phasing out uneconomic units, consolidation of smaller
units into larger ones, etc.); changes in output structure (e.g., greater
specialization, shifts to new types of output aimed at rapidly evolving markets
and/or at exploiting new technologies, etc.) and, finally, increased efficiency
in the use of productive factors, (e.g., improved training, technology,
management, technical assistance support, etc.). The credit facility would also
finance investments rendered necessary by the more stringent environmental
policies recently introduced by the Government. In order to benefit a reasonable
number of enterprises, a subloan to an enterprise would not exceed US$2 million
equivalent.   Eligibility criteria for restructuring enterprises and other
onlending arrangements are detailed in Chapter IV.
3.    Technical Assistance Com2onent
a.    Industrial Sector
3.17        The technical assistance component will principally focus on three
areas as regards the industrial restructuring process: (i) undertaking company
level assessment of competitiveness and restructuring needs as well as of
environmental soundness and adjustment requirements; (ii) upgrading quality
standards based on EC specifications; and (iii) developing the environuiental
consulting industry, and strengthening of environmental auditing and control
mechanisms.   The development of subproject appraisal capacities within banks
will also be supported under the proposed Project (para 4.03). Annexes 3-1 to
3-4, and 3-6 detail proposed arrangements for technical assistance under the
proposed  Project,  while  Table  3-1    summarizes  its  main  sub-components,
implementing agencies, and cost.
3.18        Competitiveness   Enhancement   and  Environmental   Studies   for
Enterprises.    The proposed technical assistance component will follow the
"company level" approach to directed assistance for industrial restructuring,
by establishing a fund to finance competitiveness and environmental assessments
of enterprises. The competitiveness analysis will be undertaken by a team of
foreign and local consultants on a project by project basis, initiated at the
request of a particular enterprise contemplating a restructuring program. The
team of experts will prepare a report for the firm (referred to as a
Competitiveness Enhancement Study), covering, inter alia, the enterprise
operations and its current state of competitiveness based on Western European
pricing and quality standards, problems in production technology, marketing
strategy, labor skills. The Study will recommend specific restructuring actions



- 25 -
which could then form the basis for a comprehensive forward-looking investment
strategy. The environmental analysis will follow a similar approach. It will
be carried out in response to an industrial firm's intention to undertake the
required investments under the credit facility, for compliance with the newly
introduced environmental legislation (para 3.08). The analysis. will provide
an assessment of the environmental implications of the enterprise's operations
as a basis for undertaking requisite technological and operational adjustments.
3.19        The funding of the Competitiveness Enhancement and Environmental
Studies, will be on a cost sharing basis. The bulk of the cost will be funded
by the enterprise requesting the study, with the balance provided by a study fund
set up under the Project. The exact percentage of the funding provided by the
study fund will depend on whether the firm takes further action following the
completion of the study, thereby providing the firm with an incentive to
implement the study's findings.   The administration of the fund, including
appraising proposals, verifying consultant teams, approving proposals, conducting
follow-up evaluations, along with reporting requirements, will be performed by
a Consultants Clearinghouse (CCH), to be set up as an independent non-profit
legal entity with initial financing from the proposed Project. The CCH, staffed
by two professionals and two support staff, will have complete autonomy in its
funding decisions but will be required to report to the HOF, the ITDC, and the
World Bank. In addition to administering the funding, the CCH will compile a
database of accredited foreign and local consultants to assist the enterprise
in the recruitment of a suitable team for competitiveness enhancement and/or
environmental studies.



- 26 -
TABLE 3-1
summarv and Estimated Cost for the Technic-I Assistance Comconent
OblectyeC                                                                 Institutfonal Remonsibitity
kgca   Foen Toa
. -         - -USS'0OOO- -......
A. Administrative Unit
Establishment of Consuttants                                                    CDB
Clearing-house
Facility Cost                             40         23          63
Staff Cost                               360        140         500
Sub-Total                          400         163        563
B. Coimetitiveness
Enhancement Furnd                                                               CCH
Foreign Consultants                       -        1500        1500
Local Consultants                      1200          -        1200
Sub-Totat                         1200        M00        2700
C. Consultant Trainina Fund
Overseas Experts                          -         700         700             CCH In
consultation with ITA
D. Study on Cyprus Standards
Institute                                           90          90             CCH
E. Enhancina Environmental
Auditins Capacity                                                               MOLSI (FI)
Foreign Consuttants                       -         240         240
Training of Cypriots                      -         100         100
Pollution Measurement Equipment                      70          70
Contingencies                             -           10         10
Sub Total                           -         420         420
F. Envir_tuentat Research and
Training Institute
Foreign Consultants                       -         240         240             CDB
Software & Equipments                     -          35          35
Local Consultants                        250          -         250
Facility Cost & Training                  70         -           70
Sub Total                          320         275        595
G. Develoament of Capital Markets                                                  MOF
Foreign Consuttants                       -         200         200
Travel and Subsistence                    -          50          50
Miscellaneous                                         10         10
Sub Total                           -         260         260
Total                       1920        30         5328
3.20               The expert assessments and advice received by the enterprise as the
result of the Competitiveness Enhancement and Environmental Study, will likely
come predominantly from international consultants. The current deficiency in
the local consulting capacity is understandable since the need for production
upgrading has been minimal in the past. Thus, an important external benefit of



- 27 -
the Project to the industrial sector will be the building of the consulting
capacity in the local market.   In this regard, the consultant team will be
required to include one foreign and one local consultant. To support the on-
the-job experience acquired by the local staff of the consultant team, a second
fund will be set up under the Project to establish a training or scholarship fund
for the local consultants to be disbursed on a 50/50 cost sharing basis. The
fellowship fund would help finance academic courses and participation in
seminars.    Details  of  the proposal  for  the  Competitive  Enhancement  and
Environmental Studies Program are in Annex 3-1.
3.21        Ouality Standards. Accreditation and Testing Facilities.           The
adoption of ISO 9000, in particular, as the European quality standard is a clear
sign of the focus, within European markets, on quality recognition.
Organizations, both suppliers and customers, not certified to this standard are
realizing the commercial threat posed by noncompliance.   However, successful
recognition has meant a surprising spread of benefits for many companies
including increased control, reduction in rejects and a better monitor of overall
performance. The Cyprus Organization for Standards and Control of Quality (CYS)
is the national standards body residing within the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce (MIC).  To upgrade CYS' capacity to keep up with the new standards
being introduced, particularly in the EC, the CCH will organize a study by
technical experts to provide the recommendations for an action plan aimed at
building the CYS capacity.
3.22        Environmental  Assessment  and  Auditing.    The  third  technical
assistance subcomponent would address: (i) the development of the consulting
industry in the area of environmental analysis, assessment, and training; and
(ii) the enhancement of MOLSI's audit, control and enforcement capacity in the
area of industrial pollution.
3.23        In order to comply with the new environmental regulations in general
and to fulfill the eligibility criteria for borrowing from the credit facility
in particular, industrial enterprises will have to rely increasingly on
consultants for advise on pollution abatement measures and environmental
assessment of their operation.  To meet the expected increase in demand for,
inter alia, such consulting services, the creation of an Environmental Research
and Training Institute (ERTI) is planned. ERTI is envisaged to start as small
unit with a core staff and modest work program, initially attached to CDB and
gradually develop into an independent regional environmental networking center
as justified by growth in the demand for its services. One of its principal
roles will be to analyze the various industrial processes used and assess their
environmental implications and to assist interested industries in their
prevention and/or mitigation. It would operate as an apex organization which
would make full use of the considerable availability of trained professionals
and would mobilize and promote the current embryonic and fragmented environmental
consulting  potential.    Details  about  ERTI's  objectives,  scope  of work,
organization, staffing, and estimated resource requirements are provided in Annex
3-2. The funds necessary to establish and launch the operation of ERTI will be
provided by CDB.   The proposed Project would finance about 15 manmonths of
international consultants' services, office technology and training required to
develop and consolidate the operation of the initial unit during its first two
years.



- 28 -
3.24        The implementation of the new environmental legislation and the
requirements for environmental appraisal, and approval of industrial subprojects
would increase substantially the demand for the services of MOLSI's FI.  To
fulfill its role in auditing, on behalf of PBs, environmental assessments
accompanying the subloan applications, it is estimated that the Fl would require
the services of two additional inspectors supported by international experts for
subloan applications above $500,000. The profile and role of the international
experts to provide such support are presented in Annex 3-3.   In order to
strengthen the environmental auditing capacity of the FI, the proposed technical
assistance  subcomponent would finance  the provision of:    (i)  the above
international experts' services; (ii) training; and (iii) instruments and
equipment. Their description and cost composition are provided in Annex 3-4.
b.    Financial Sector
3.25        The implementation of the proposed actions in the financial sector
will have to be supported by the provision of suitable technical assistance and
by carrying out a number of studies. It will entail: (i) assistance in drafting
the legislation for the cooperative system, and carrying out a study to lay the
ground for reforms which will ensure the sustainability of the system (Annex 3-
5); (ii) assistance for improving the expertise of PBs in project evaluation
(Annex 3-6), and (iii) carrying out a study on prospects and an action program
for developing financial markets (Annex 3-7).
C.    Prolect Cost and Financing Plan
3.26        The estimated Project cost and financing plan are summarized in
Table 3-2. Technical assistance costs are summarized in Table 3-1 and detailed
in Annexes 3-1, 3-2, 3-4, 3-6, and 3-7. Total Project cost is estimated at US$43
million equivalent, including US$30 million in foreign exchange. The proposed
Bank loan of US$30 million would finance 70X of the total Project costs (1OOX
of foreign exchange requirements)
D.   Credit Demand
3.27        In the absence of a quantified assessment of restructuring needs in
the industrial sector as a result of the current adjustment process, and of
accurate data on new credits to the possible target groups of the proposed
Project, it is difficult to correlate closely the proposed credit amount with
the potential credit demand.  Total credit outstanding to the manufacturing
sector is estimated to amount to about US$600 million in 1990, with an average
maturity of four years.   New industrial credit would therefore amount to
approximately US$150 million per year. Estimates by the ITDC, corroborated by
those of CDB, provide for a rapid increase in these amounts during the 1990s,
with a potential of reaching US$300 million per year by 1994. The proposed US$25
million credit facility, to be disbursed over a seven year period represents
about 4X of the banking system's estimated total outstanding credit to the
manufacturing sector in 1990. The foreign exchange portion (direct or indirect)
of subprojects is estimated at 70X of their total cost. The credit facility,
which would be onlent in foreign currency to the final borrowers would be



- 29 -
competitive and would be based on international market rates. Domestic currency
loans, on the other hand, are governed by the 9% interest rate ceiling. Yet,
when coupled with the payment of various fees, and funding portions of project
costs though hire-purchase schemes (at about 17%), the effective cost of domestic
loans average between 12 and 15% thereby making the Bank's credit facility
competitive.
TABLE 3-2
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
X of          X of
Co2Msnents                       Local     Foreian   Total             Suibtotat       Total
-------USS million------
Credit Facility
World Bank                                     25.0       25.0             70
Enterprises                          7.2         -         7.2             20
Participating Banks                 3.6          -         3.6             10
Subtotal                   10.8       25.0       35.8            100               83
Technical Assistance
World Bank                            -         3.4        3.4             63
Enterprises                          1.2         -         1.2             22
Local Consultants                    0.4                   0.4            7.5
Cyprus Dev. Bank                     0.4                   0.4            7.5
Subtotal                    2.0        3.4        5.4            100               13
Unallocated
World Bank                                      1.6        1.6            100
Subtotal                               1.6        1.6            100                4
Total Project Cost              12.8       30.0       42.8                             100
333=      =3=       3:=3                              3=
SummarY Financing Plan
World Bank                                     30.0       30.0                             70.0
Enterprises                          8.4         -         8.4                             19.6
Participating Banks                  3.6         -         3.6                              8.4
Locat Consultents                    0.4                   0.4                              1.0
Cyprus Development Bank              0.4         -         0.4                              1.0
Total Financing                 12.8       30.0       42.8                              100
3333      =33=S      3=3s                              3==



- 30 -
IV. PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF 1HE LOAN
A.    The Loan and Institutlonal Arrangments
4.01     The proposed Loan of US$30 million equivalent will be made to the
Republic of Cyprus at the Bank's standard variable rate for 13 years, including
five years of grace. Total Loan proceeds would be allocated as follows: (i) a
credit facility equivalent to US$25 million for participating banks; (ii) about
US$3 million would finance technical assistance and studies; and (iii) about
US$2 million is unallocated.
4.02     The Directorate of Finance within the HOF will ensure the overall
administration of the Loan.  Funds lent to PBs will be administered under a
participation agreement (Annex 4-1) between the Government (tiOF) and PBs.  A
subsidiary agreement will be prepared for arrangements between the MOF and the
CCH (para 3.19).  The signing of the subsidiary agreement between the Government
and CCH. as well as the signing of a particiRation agreement with at least one
PB will be conditions of effectiveness for the Project.
B.    Eliaible Financial Intermediaries
4.03      In order to reach a broad spectrum of enterprises across the country,
the Loan will be made available to all banks which are: (i) in compliance with
CBC's creditworthiness criteria and other terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank (Annex 4-2); (ii) interested in term-lending and project financing; and
(iii) willing to adhere to the specific guidelines as reflected in the Loan and
participation agreements (para 4.02) under the Project. The PBs will bear the
full credit risk of subprojects they finance, and also be responsible for the
appraisal and supervision of those projects.
4.04     A circular outlining the conditions and procedures for the utilization
of the credit facility, including a standard participation agreement to be
entered between the MOF and participating banks, will be prepared by the MOF and
CBC in consultatioii with the Bank.  Prior to drawing on the funds under the
credit facility, each PB would be required to sign a Rarticipation agreement.
The  signing of such a Rarticipation agreement would be  a condition of
disbursement for that bank.
C.   Eligible Beneficiaries and Suborolects
4.05     All restructuring subprojects of enterprises in the industrial sector
would be eligible for financing provided they meet the eligibility criteria
(Annex 4-3). To ensure that the Project will benefit a reasonably large number
of beneficiaries, only subloans of less than US$2 million equivalent would be
eligible for financing under the credit component.  Subprojects eligible for
financing under the Project would have to be technically, environmentally,
financially and economically sound, demonstrating good potential for adjusting
to the new economic framework. An evaluation of the market potential as well
as technical and managerial capabilities of the enterprises would have to be
carried out.   The methodology for subproject appraisal would depend on the



- 31 -
subproject size. Subproject appraisal will include calculating the Financial
Rate of Return (FRR), and also the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for all
subprojects exceeding US$750,000 equivalent. For subprojects below US$750,000,
a simplified benefit-cost ratio (Annex 4-4) will be calculated.  The cut-off
level for ERR and FRR would be 12% in constant terms. As long as a portion of
the subloan is still outstanding, beneficiaries would be expected to maintain
a debt-to-equity ratio of not more than 3:1, a current ratio of at least 1.2,
and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.4.
D.    Subloan Processing and Adminitatlon
4.06      The first three proposed subloans for each PB will be sent to the Bank
for review prior to approval. Based on this review, and the assessment of the
appraisal standards of the PB concerned, the Bank will consider establishing an
appropriate free limit of US$750,000 equivalent per subloan, under which the PB
would be authorized to extend financing directly. The PB's compliance with the
eligibility criteria for free limit subprojects will be monitored by independent
auditors during the annual audits of the PB's project accounts.   Subprojects
above the free limit would continue to be sent to the Bank for its review and
approval. The PBs would be fully responsible for the supervision and monitoring
of subprojects both during and after implementation. Orientation seminars will
be organized during. Project implementation for the staff of interested
participating banks on the procedures of subloan processing and administration;
and appropriate format for subproject appraisal of various sizes will also be
prepared.
E.    Onlendina Terms and Conditions
4.07      Funds will be made available to the PBs in foreign currency at a
variable rate, which would be based on LIBOR - plus a spread initially not to
exceed 1%, which would reflect cross-currency risks, and cost of administering
funds. The specific currencies (British pound, German mark, Japanese yen, Swiss
franc or U.S. dollar) in which the subsidiary loans will be denominated and the
spread over LIBOR will be agreed upon between the HOF and the Bank, and would
be reviewed from time to time. Maturities would be identical to those of the
related subloans.
4.08      Beneficiary enterprises will stipulate the currency in which they
intend to borrow.   Funds borrowed by PBs would be in the same amounts and
currencies, and have the same maturity. The onlending rate to the beneficiary
enterprises will be variable, determined by the PBs in accordance with their
lending policies and procedures, and would include a spread (estimated to be
between 2 and 3%) over the PBs' borrowing rate to reflect the commercial risk
of the borrowing enterprise. Onlending to beneficiary enterprises would be under
subloan agreements on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (standard
subloan agreements will be prepared to that effect).
4.09      Subloans under the credit facility would be for capital investments or
free-standing permanent working capital, and have maturities depending upon the
financing needs of the concerned subprojects, of up to twelve years including
a grace period of up to three years for capital investments and of up to four
years including a grace period of up to one year for working capital. The above
maturities are substantially longer than those currently extended by Cypriot



- 32 -
banks, including CDB. This should provide an incentive for banks as well as for
enterprises to make use of the funds under the Project.
4.10      Repayments by the PBs to the MOF for each subsidiary loan would be
determined at the time of subloan approval, on the basis of a fixed amortization
schedule derived from that of the related subloans. The PBs would be authorized
to utilize any prepayment of subloans from the final beneficiaries to finance
additional subprojects.
F.    Prolect ImRtementatlon Arranaements and Schedul
4.11      The Government will vest the MOF with the overall coordination of the
Project, and quarterly progress reports would be forwarded to the Bank.
4.12      The PBs will submit semi-annual progress report on their subprojects
to the MOF. A copy of these reports would be forwarded to the Bank, as part of
the regular reporting requirements under the Project. The technical assistance
component wi'l be implemented by the concerned implementing agencies.
4.13      Implementation Schedule. Funds under the credit component are expected
to be committed over four years, following the approval of the Loan, i.e. before
December 1995. This commitment period, which may appear to be somewhat long is
realistic because of the relatively gradual restructuring of enterprises brought
about by the phased trade liberalization. Subprojects are expected to have a
maximum implementation period of about 36 months, giving an overall
implementation period of about seven years for the Project.   Agreed actions
relating to policy reforms are expected to be completed within 24 months after
loan approval, and all funds relating to technical assistance or studies should
also be committed within 24 months of loan approval.
G.    Procurement
4.14      Procurement  under  the  proposed  Project  will  concern  goods  for
restructuring enterprises under the credit component, and the procuwement of
consultant services will be under the technical assistance component.
4.15      Since the enterprises to be restructured are private enterprises, and
the maximum amount of the subloan would be $2 million equivalent, procurement
of goods would be based on commercially established procurement practices,
acceptable to the Bank.   PKs, which have sufficient experience  in local
industrial financing costs, will be able to verify that these costs reflect
market condition.
4.16      Consultant services for technical assistance and training would be
contracted in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on the use of consultants,
and would be subject to Bank's prior approval.



- 33 -
H.    Allocation and Olsbursement of Bank Loan
4.17      The Loan proceeds would be disbursed as follows:
Loan Disbursement
Amount Allocated      % of Expenditure to be
Category               (in USS eguivalent)         Financed
1.  Credit Component         $25,000,000         up to 100Z of foreign
expenditures and 50% of
local expenditures
2. Technical Assistance,
studies and training       3,400,000         100%
3.  Unallocated                1,600,000
Total                 S30.000.000
4.18      Disbursements would be fully documented except for contracts valued
less than $250,000 for the credit facility and for training, which would be
disbursed against statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents for
SOE would be retained until one year after loan closing by the implementing
agencies and made available to the Bank for review during supervision mission.
4.19      To facilitate timely implementation of the Project, it was agreed that
the Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, two foreign currency special accounts, one for the
credit component in an amount equivalent to about $1,500,000 and the other for
the technical assistance component for an amount equivalent to about $250,000,
both to be administered by the MOF.  These allocations represent about four
months projected Bank disbursements. CBC will be the depository bank and the
currency of the special accounts would be the U.S. dollar. The special accounts
would be replenished at least every three months or whenever one-half of the
amounts of the initial deposit has been withdrawn, whichever comes first.
Documentation for replenishment of the special account would follow the same
procedures as in paragraph 4.20. In addition, monthly bank statements would
accompany replenishment requests.   The minimum size withdrawal application
acceptable by the Bank will be $100,000 equivalent.
4.20      Disbursement Schedule.  Disbursements of the Bank Loan are expected to
be completed by December 31, 1997, and is the expected disbursement schedule is
given in Annex 4-5. The Loan closing date will be June 30, 1998.
1.    Accountina. Auditina. and Reporting Requirements
4.21      MOF would maintain separate accounts and adequate records to reflect
the Project's operation and financial situation, as well as separate accounts
and adequate records related to the PBs in accordance with sound accounting
principles being consistently applied. MOF would submit the Project accounts,
and related audit reports including special accounts and SOEs, audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with appropriate
accounting principles, to the Bank within six months of fiscal-year end. HOF



- 34 -
would also submit monthly reports on the transactions of the special accounts.
MOF will require the PBs to submit their audited accounts within six months of
fiscal-year end.  The audits should include a statement from the auditors on the
compliance by the PBs to the eligibility criteria for subprojects financed by
them, as well as specific notes on any problem subloan.
4.22      PBs will be required to submit to the MOF semi-annual progress reports,
and the MOF will in turn submit a semi-annual progress report annexing PBs'
individual reports. The implementing agencies of the three industrial sector
technical assistance components (para 3.17) would be required to submit quarterly
progress report to the Bank.
J.    Environmental AsRects
4.23      The proposed Project will have considerable positive effects on the
environmental quality of Cyprus, as it represents an important vehicle for
undertaking industrial pollution control measures under its various components.
At the policy level, the requirement for an environmental assessment of each
subproject as one of the eligibility criteria for the credit component, will
guarantee the environmental soundness of the investments to be financed under
the Project.   The environmental studies for enterprises (para. 3.18) will
identify the measures required to comply with the provisions of the new
environmental legislation. The development of the local environmental consulting
industry (para 3.22) will reduce the reliance on foreign expertise for
preparation of such "pollution control packages" as their demand grows, and the
strengthening of the auditing and control mechanism (para 3.24) will ensure the
proper enforcement and monitoring of compliance of industrial enterprises with
the new legislation.   Finally, the implementation of such measures will be
assisted through their financing under the technical assistance component. The
signing of the CDB-ERTI Administration Agreement for executingz the- environmental
assessment and auditing subcomponent will be a condition of disbursement for
ERTI.



- 35 -
V. PROJECT BENEFTnS AND RISKS
5.01     The Project would support a program of actions aimed at facilitating
the restructuring of the manufacturing sector in Cyprus, with a view to enhance
its competitiveness in European markets and other international markets. Actions
are also being supported to assist in the implementation of new environment .1
standards. Finally, a number of actions will be aimed at the financial sect r,
ensuring that it is a better position to provide the required support to the
adjustment process.
5.02      The continued liberalization of the incentive regime will contribute
to removing the main distortions in the policy framework for the manufacturing
sector.   The credit facility will help financing the investment needs of
enterprises undergoing restructuring programs. In addition to complementing the
financial resources already flowing to the manufacturing sector, this component
will be instrumental in familiarizing Cypriot banks with the concept of project
financing; it should eventually lead these banks to devote more resources to this
sector through a better understanding of the benefits they could derive from such
lending. The undertaking of competitiveness enhancement and environmental impact
studies, which the Project is facilitating through the provision of financing
and institutional support, would include a detailed assessment of the companies
under review and lead to the development of company-specific restructuring plans.
The Project also supports the development of local consulting capabilities in
these areas.
5.03     Additional  restructuring  needs  resulting  from  more  stringent
environmental regulations would also be supported.   On-going efforts by the
Government have already led to the recent introduction of new environmental
legislation.   The Project would help to develop the required monitoring and
enforcement capacity within the Government, as well as local consulting
capabilities in environmental analysis, assessment and training. Moreover, the
credit facility would facilitate the adjustment of manufacturing enterprises to
new environmental standards under preparation through the financing of their
environment-related restructuring subprojects.
5.04      Finally, the Project would also help to undertake the much needed
modernization of the financial sector.   Important reforms pertaining to the
proper regulation and supervision of the cooperative banking system will be
introduced, the Cyprus Development Bank will gain in autonomy and accountability,
and the commercial banks will expand their services and coverage.
5.05     Three main risks may have to be faced in the context of the proposed
program. First, the Government could face resistance to its efforts in fostering
industrial liberalization, particularly when the program starts taking full
effect over inefficient enterprises. Pressure on the Government will be acute,
given the small size of the economy, the close relationship between business and
Government, and the past history of high protection for this sector.   To
alleviate this potential risk, the Government while working towards an
acceleration of the current reform program, is willing to commit substantial
technical and financial assistance to restructuring enterprises, and the proposed
Project  is  designed  to  that  effect.    At  the  Government's  initiative,
industrialists are already associated to the process, inter alia through the ITDC
and other professional bodies, and they have expressed their support to the
reform process. Second, the Government could also run into substantial political



- 36 -
difficulties in its attempt to restructure the cooperative banking system. To
minimize this risk, substantial technIcal preparation has already been
undertaken, with a view to establish a consensus basis among concerned parties.
Collaboration with a comparable associations within the EC will be encouraged,
as this should facilitate a smooth transition toward a more efficient set-up.
The third risk is that credit demand could be insufficient, leading to a slow
disbursement of the credit facility. Regarding this risk, it appears that on
the basis of outstanding credit to the sector, the credit facility would amount
to only 4X of the financing needs to the sector; izreover, these needs should
be substantially increased as a result of the restructuring process. Besides,
the expected involvement of several PBs in the Project should ensure a broad
reach for the Bank's funds.



- 37 -
Vl. AGREEM   RED AD INDAMNS
At negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Republic that it
(a)   in accordance with the Statement of Policy and the Customs
Union Agreement between Cyprus and the EC, take all measures
necessary for: (i) the elimination of quantitative restrictions
on imports; (ii) the termination of the import licensing
system; and (iii) the minimization of tariff rates across
product groups (para 3.05);
(b)   by December 31, 1991, in consultation with the Bank adopt an
action plan with respect to: (i) the development of prudential
regulations for cooperative credit societies; (ii) the
strengthening of the supervisory responsibilities of the
Borrower for the cooperative credit societies; and (iii) the
study and implementation of mechanisms to improve integration
of the cooperative credit societies (para 3.11);
(c)   by October 15, 1991, prepare and furnish to the Bank for review
and comment a plan for restructuring CDB, and by January 1,
1992 adopt and put into effect the restructuring plan (para
3.15);
(d)   by December 31, 1991, in consultation with the Bank, adopt an
action plan including a timetable, to strengthen the
competitiveness enhancement and environmental appraisal
capabilities (paras 3.18 - 3.20);
(e)   by June 30, 1992, in consultation with the Bank, carry out a
study, including the preparation of an action plan and a
timetable, on strengthening quality control standards and
accreditation and testing facilities in Cyprus (para 3.21);
(f)   by June 30, 1992, carry out a study, including the preparation
of an action plan, on the prospects for enhancing the domestic
capital market, and thereafter consult with the Bank on the
implementation of the recommendations (para 3.25);
(g)   ensure that the PB staff obtain training in project appraisal
and supervision in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and the provisions of their respective
Participation Agreements (para 4.03);
(h)   onlend in accordance with agreed eligibility criteria for PBs,
and on agreed terms and conditions to eligible restructuring
enterprises  for    subprojects  with  appropriate  subloan
processing and administration (paras 4.03 - 4.07); and
(i)   follow  the Bank's  procurement,  disbursement,  monitoring,
accounting, auditing and reporting requirements (para 4.21 -
4.22).



- 38 -
6.02      The proposed conditions for Loan effectiveness will be:  (i) the
establishment of CCH and signing of subsidiary administration agreement between
the Government and the CCH for executing the competitiveness enhancement and
environmental subcomponent (para 4.02); and (ii) the signing of a participation
agreement between the Government and at least one participating bank (para 4.02).
6.03      The signing of a participation agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government and each PB will be a condition
of disbursement for that bank (para 4.04).   The signing of the CDB-ERTI
Administration Agreement for executing the environmental assessment and auditing
subcomponent will be a condition of disbursement for ERTI (para 4.23).
6.04      The endorsement by the Government of a State.. 4nt of Policy satisfactory
to the Bank proposed as a condition for Board presentation has already been met
(para 3.04).
6.05      Based on the staff appraisal and the above mentioned agreements, the
Project is considered suitable for a Batk loan of US$30 million equivalent for
fifteen years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate to the Republic of Cyprus.



- 39 -
ANNEX I1-1
Page 1 of 3
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Central Bank of Cyprus
*    Export  of  foreign  exchange  by  resident  employees  of  Offshore
enterprises. (Circular OBU/6 dated October 11, 1986).
*    A Law Regulating the business of Banking.
*    Domestic Banks.
*    Cyprus Offshore Banking Units.
*    Cyprus: A Guide for Foreign Investors.
*    The Central Bank of Cyprus Law, 1963.
*    Capital Adequacy guidelines, Circular letter of April 27, 1990
Republic of Cvprus
*    Social Insurance in Cyprus
*    The Social Insurance Law
*    Social Insurance Fund, 1988
*    Report on Insurance in Cyprus, 1970-86
*    Register of Investments as of June 30, 1989
*    Summary Statement of Investments made by Insurance Companies, November
17, 1989
*    Summary of Life Assurance Business, December 31, 1988
*    Directions on Approved Investments
*    The Minister of Finance's address before the House of Representatives
on the occasion of the debate on the budget for 1990
*    The New Development Plan 1989 - 1993, Planning Bureau
*e   Law on Competition, N.207/89
*    Tax Incentives in Cyprus, January 1988
*    Principles and Composition of the Consultative Committee on Technology
and Industrial Development
*    Full Text of the Agreement between the Government of Cyprus and the
EC on the Establishment of a Customs Union
Ministry of Commerce & Industry
*    Customs and Excise Tariff Schedule 1989
Ministry of Justice
*    The Housing Finance Corporation (Amendment) Law, 1982
*    The Housing Finance Corporation Law, 1980



- 40 -
ANNEX I - I
Page 2 of 3
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
*    Law on Environment
European Investment Bank
*    Etude prealable a la mise en place des capitaux a risques a Chypre
Cvorus DeveloDment Bank (Confidentiol. Reports)
*    Marketing Analysis in Project Evaluation
*    Paphos Holiday Complex: A case study.  November 1989
*    Annual Report: 1987, 1988, 1989
*    Financial Performance Evaluation 1985-89
*    Evaluation of Bank's profitability 1986-88, February 1989
*    Report and Financial Statements December 31, 1987 (Touche Ross)
*    Report and Financial Statements December 31, 1988 (KPMG Peat Marwick)
*    Financial Statements and Operational Data, October 31, 1989
*    Financial Projections 1990 - 1992
*    Budget for 1990, and Financial Projections for 1991 and 1992
*    Activities, Scope and Strategies for 1990 to 1992
*    Indicators of CDB's contribution to the Economic Development of Cyprus
through the Financing of Manufacturing Investment Projects
*    An introduction to the Business Opportunity Development Activity of
the CDB
*    CDB - An Overview
*    CDB at a Glance
*    Organizational Structure and Staff Profiles
*    Challenging the Future
*    Government Support in Funding the CDB
*    Resource Mobilization Program - Options for the CDB, June 5, 1989
*    Short-term debt instruments as a means of raising finance, September
28, 1988
*    Strengthening the CDB, May 31, 1988
*    Strengthening the CDB, May 21, 1988
*    CDB Funding and Resource Mobilization, June 1989
*    The Dynamics of CDB Profitability
*    Definition of Capital Base as of March 31, 1990
*    CDB's views on the Draft Banking Law proposed by the Central Bank of
Cyprus
*    Miscellaneous Notes



- 41 -
ANNEX 1-1I
Page 3 of 3
Department of CooRerative DeveloRment
*    Cooperative Banking Law of 1987 (in Greek)
*    Performance of the cooperatives, 1987 (in Greek)
*    Performance of the cooperatives 1982-86 (in Greek)
*    Report for the years 1978 - 1981 (in English)
Cyprus Tourism Organization
*    Annual Report 1988
Commercial Bank/ Consulting Firm Regorts
*    Bank of Cyprus: Annual Report 1988 and 1989
*    The Cyprus Popular Bank Ltd.: Annual Report 1988
*    The Cyprus Popular Bank Ltd., Business Profile Series: Cyprus March
1989
-^- The Cyprus Popular Bank: Economic Review, August 1989
*    Hellenic Bank Ltd.: Annual Report 1988
*^ Hellenic Bank Review, Issue #2 1988
*# Arab Bank Limited: Annual Report 1988
*    Investment in Cyprus, KPMG Peat Marwick/Metaxas Loizides Syrimis, 1989
edition.
*    Cyprus  Industrial  Strategy,  Report  of  the  UNDP/UNIDO  Mission,
Institute of Development Studies, June 1987
*    Cyprus  Technology  Strategy,  Report  of  the UNDP/UNFSTD Mission,
Institute of Development Studies, June 1988



- 42 -
ANNEX 2- 1
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
-----Actual..- - - Prelim-
1987        1988         1989         19
-----------------(in X)--------------
GDP Growth Rate                        7.0          8.5          6.0          5.5
GDY Growth Rate                        9.1          7.9          6.0          5.9
GDY/Capita Growth Ratey                7.6          6.4          4.5          4.4
Total Consump./Capita Growth Rate    3.9            8.7          6.3          6.1
Debt Service, MLT (in US$ M)           271          274          239          214
Debt Service/XGS                      13.7         12.1          9.2          7.2
Debt Service/GDP                       7.4          6.4          5.4          4.2
Gro s Investment/GDP                  25.3         26.7         29.5         26.5
Dc astic Savings/GDP                  26.6         25.5         24.9         23.9
Nacional Savings/GDP                  29.3         28.2         27.8         26.9
Public Investment/GDP                  3.4          3.1          3.1          3.1
Private Investment/GDP                21.9         23.6         26.4         23.4
Ratio of Public/Private Invest.        0.16         0.13         0.12         0.13
Government Revenues/GDP               25.6         26.6         28.4         27.9
Government Expenditures/GD?           29.3         29.5         29.8         30.0
Deficit (-) or Surplus (+)/GDP        -4.1         -3.2         -1.4         -2.3
Export Growth Rate                    16.5         10.5         17.5          7.3
Exports/GDP                           15.3         15.2         16.0         15.6
Import Growth Rate                     7.9         21.9         31.5          6.3
Imports/GDP                           35.9         39.0         46.3        44.7
Current Account Balance (US$ M)       90.8          7.9       -131.2        -42.0
Current Account/GDP                    2.5          0.2         -2.9         -0.8
Source: Department of Statistics & Research, Ministry of Finance.
3 GDY per capita - GDP per capita adjusted for changes in the terms of trade.



CYPRUS - INDUWM                                                                     A PRNEOJ2-2C
Gross Domestic Product BY Scector
(Itllions of Current Pounds)
193  1?rW 19M 1979 n                                                            w   I  n 
ADioa*nw  FfUsey              5       99      .3    6B.S   72.9 55.    93.0    P.8  119.6 C11.0  11.3 l1                 2 3
Yh*w                           7.3   8A       8.r    9.S    9.9    9.8      U      Lo      U     7.1    7.5    6.7    3.2 1
MWOMM                  RA~~~7.    752    seAs  llOJ   MA   1542   1743    W.9   252    M.9A S UU      2       XV.1  m
EleFnrv, cm & w5.1  5.    7.0o 71 .I                                14.      7 1 ?  2Z.2  3.0 5      32  37.0         4 
Cmacn                         25.3   41.7 59.5   MA         MS 1.2  11f    1529 l           0   V48     US   1U    W.2  21:
Tru                           47.8   63.0   74.3   9.4   I1SA  1u3.5  1I6.8   V.0   Z1.7  z7.0    L    39WY   35.2   45
Ttnwnmim, Cani=un              .A   34.2   41.7   487   605    72O   M6   1A   1MA   13                  .9   10   W1        1
FkM4 IU       t, fsm          23    12.9   74W    SU    I.9-  31            . T =5   16A    MA   2F.?   W.7   2.1  3MS   31!
rt I,         b     lsw        10.3   142    16T   21.0   38    2.         7.7    W9    5U       48.     89   I.1   W.6  1t
To Udaws                     3.4 3M1A   3   4C3   s91.   0.    741.1   Q9   W.?  15.7  1Z83  1h   1VMS  10.1  IS
aGin  w"vics                  40.4   46    54.9   19.9   &A    L9.   15   19   14.   15.7  2012   219.0  VA9   a
0Wc  Wmwiet &pf.U.    3.8 Zr.9   31.6   40A4    33O   6.0   77.9    .S    3.6   1M.   119A   1NS   13    152
ARic SM wi                    14.    189    ZS3      .S  37A 47   5S.9 6           A . 6     74.9   181 A 2    W.9 1W
QVWpvnas                       1.3    1.5    1.9    2.4    3.1    3.7    42        5.9    7.7    .1    9.1    9.5   11.4   12
MP a    w cm1 32                     4(A   419.1  604.1  73.0             99L9  105.5  1.U   1415.1  15UJ  11(.3  inMA  21CC
um  b* aw                      8g*   11.9   13.1    .3 Z5.0    5          36.    31.1   3.5   39.9   40        4.    47.0   55
I=    DM                       137   Z5.    3S    4.0   51.3    5.9    7          5.3    %.   15.   1.1  114.5  IV.3  '.
MP at   m                         .9 4Z5.1 5SW    E.8  7kw'  IOU0   M.9  1136.  15.0  14.2  15U0  1719.1  13L7 Z7
So : Domg act Statistics6 & Riw Iirmsty of Firam.
Percentage Share of Total
APRIL1I                        15.9   132    10.9   10.2    9.6    93    93        7.9    89    7.5    7.3    7.4    7.2    I.
sunDr                         za      3.0 3o.1    52    3M6    Z4    30.9   30.1    2.0    a4    Z.5   VA    2V.5  2V.
91J8D                        173    173    1       17.    T7.5   17.6   17.0   1.    16.        5.7   15.1    SA    1535   15.
M& QNtIIC                    2.2    2.0    1.7    1.5    1.3    1.1    0.9    0.7    06         -.5    3.5    0.4    0.4    0.
9b.    12    13.1   1.1  4.8    3.7    1.0    V9    t23    *'3   612    11.6   11 60    1.
iidSCE 535    52A  5Z1  5Z5  53.0  S5 5S.4    %A3 SA    578                                             6 2   6N.1 Nu        6



CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Grcss Output By Major Manufacturing Group
Gross Output by major Nanufactug iiug Gsoup
1919-88
(L million)
1979    1980    1981      1982    1983    1984    1985        1986    1987    1988
food. lev. & tobacco                     88      102   120.1   132.9       144   168.9   181.7   192.3   206.4   221.2
lextiles. Apparel 9 teather            71.S    83.7   103.8        101    120.9   150.3   145.9   140.5   174.1   203.5
MoodI Mood Prod * Fuarniture          2Z.5    27.S    3S.7          42    49.6    54.6    61.0    62.1    63.4    68.9
Paper. Paper Prod & Print             1i.7    23.1    29.5    30.8    29.3           35    40.8    37.2    41.0    45.5
Chemicals. Rubber 9 Plastics           51.2    81.1    98.4    10?.7   121.2   127.2   115.9    93.3   105.8   114.3
Non-metallic Minerai Prod              32.2    39.7    45.4         46    43.4    45.2    42.4    46.9    52.0    S6.8
Metal Prod, machinery & Equip            34    40.1    50.5    60.4    61.9    68.9    81.4    81.5    87.6             101
Others (Inci cottage indas)               6      ?.5      7.5      J.7    t0.1       13    16.2    t1.2    20.1    21.?
Total Manufacturing                 322.1   404.7   488.9   535.5         58    663.1   686.1    6o1    752.6   832.9
Gross Output bv Malor t Nfacturing Group
1919-846
(2)
1979    1980    1901      1982     19       19"      1965     1986    1907    1985 4v1979-o8
food  lav. & Tobacco                   27.3    25.2    24.6    24.6    24.6    25.5    26.S    28.?    27.4    26.6    26.1
legtilee  apparel A Leather            22.2    20.r    21.2    20.0    20.0    22.?    21.3    20.9    23.2    24.4    21.7
Wood, Wood Prod & Furniture             6.?      6.0      6.9      ?.a      6.5     6.2      9.0      9.3      5.4      6.3      J.0
Pa4er Paper Prod & Print                S.S      5.7      6.0      5.0      5.0     5.3       5.9     5.5      5.6      5.5      5.6
ChemIcal1 Lhaber I Plastics            1S.9    20.0    20.1    20.1    20.9    19.2    16.9    13.9    14.1    13.7             VA.5
Uon-mtalll,  Nineral Prod              10.0      9.8      9.3      8.6      t.5     6.6      6.2      7.0      1.0      6.0      1.9
Netal Prod. Machinery * Equip          10.6      9.9    10.3    11.3    10.1    10.4    11.9    12.1    11.6    12.1    11.1
Others (nel cottage incus)              1.9      1.9      1.5      1.6      1.0     2.0      2.4      2.6      2.7      2.6      2.1
Total lanufacturing                   tOO      1OO      100      100      100      100     100      100      100      t00
Growth of Gross Output by Major Manulacturlng Broap
1979-88
(S)
1979     1980    1981     1982    1985    1964    1985        1986    1987    1988 av1960-06                           CD
Food Bev  tobacco                              15.9    IZ7.    10.        6.4    17.3       7.6      S.8      7.3      7.2    10.9 9i
extiles. ATrel * Leather                        17.1    24.0       3.1    13.      24.3    -2.9    -3.?    24.3    16.S    12.9
Wood. Vood Prod  Furniture                     27.9    22.S    24.6    16.1        1 0.t    13.2     0.5      2.1      W.1    14.2                           o
Paper, Paper Prod  Print                       30.5    27.1       4.4    -4.9    19.5    16.6    -8.0    12.4          6.9    111.81
Chemicatls  Ruber a Plastics                    58.4    21.3       9.5    12.S      5.0    -8.9    -19.5    13.4        5.0    11.1
iin-metal, c Mineral Prod                       23.3    14.4       1.3    -5S7      4.1    -6.2    10.6    12.6         1.6     4.9
Metal Prod, Machinery I Equip                   17.9    25.9    19.6        2.5     1t.3    10.1      0.1      7.5    15.3    13.1
Others (Inec cottage indus)                     25.0      0.0    16.0    23.0    21.5    24.6         6.2    16.9       8.0    II.?
Total Manufacturing                           2S.6    20.8       9.S      8S.    14.1      3.5    -2.2    12.2    10.7    11.4



CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTtRING PROJECT
GDP Value Added By Major Manufacturing Group
GDP Value Added br Nalor nauufactui ing Croup
1979-88
CL si llo l)
1979    1980    1981      1982    1983      1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
food. Bev. 4 Tobacco                   31.6       37    42.4    48.4    52.8    60.S    63.5    69.5    76.7             83
textile,. Appel 4 teather                26    31.2    37.2    41.8    46.2    56.5    56.8    54.1    67.4   ?l.S
oad. llood Prod 4 furniture             9.7       12       IS    19.3    22.2    24.8    27.3    27.5    28.1            31
Paper. Paper Prod t Print               6.S      8.6       10    10.1    10.5    13.2    15.5    14.4    16.2          17.6
ChemIcals. RPbber I Plastics            8.5    10.7      11.8    13.6       16    16.8    18.8    19.8    22.6    26.9
mon-metallic Mineral Prod              13.5    15.5    16.3    15.7    13.6    13.4    15.3    19.6             23    24.?
oetel Prod, Nachinery I Equip          12.4    15.2    18.8    22.3    22.7    25.9    29.2    29.7    32.2    37.1
Others (Inc[ cottage indus)             2.6      3.2      2.8      3.2      3.8      4.3     5.5        6      7.1      1.7
total Naiwfacturlng                 110.8   133.4    154.3   174.4   187.8   215.3   231.9   240.6   2n.9   306.5
GDP Value Added by Major Neawlacturing Group 
1979    1980    1981      1982    1983      194      1985    1986    1987    198 Av1979-80
food 3ev * Tobacco                     28.5    27.7    27.5    27.8    20.1    28.1    27.4    28.9    28.0    27.1    27.9
Tentils. ,Apparel S Leather            23.5    23.4    24.1    24,0    24.6    26.2    24.5    22.5    24.6    25.6    24.3
60d*  Wood Prod A Furniture             8.0      9.0      9.7    11.1    11.8    11.5    11.8    11.4    10.5    10.1    10.6
Pa 4r. Paper Prod S Print               5.9      6.4      6.5      5.8      5.6      6.1      6.7     6.0      5.9      S.?      6.1
C lciM.s (tLber S Plastics               .7      8.0    7t1.       7.0      8.5      7.      8.1      0.Z      8.3      8.8      0.1
lon- atelie Mineral Prod              12.2    11.6    10.6        9.0      7.2      6.2     6.6      0.1      8.4      8.1      .8
Metal Prod, Machinery & Equip          11.2    11.4    12.2    12.8    12.1    12.0    12.6    12.3    11.8    12.1    12.3
Othra tinetl cottage indus)             2.3      2.4      1.8      1.8     2.0       2.0     2.4      2.5      2.6      2.5      2.2
Total Mwnufcturing                   100      100      100      100      100      100     100      100      I00      100
Grouth of GOP Value Added by Major Manufacturing Group
1979-88                                                                                                            
CX)
1979    1980    1981      1982    1983      1984    1985    1986    1987    1988 Av19S0-88
Food Bev 4 tobacco                              17.1    14.6    14.2        9.1    14.4      5.1      9.4    10.4       0.2    11.4
Textiles.'Apparel S Leather                     20.~'    19.2    12.4    10.5    22.3        0.5    -4.8    24.6    16.5    33.5
Wood. llood Prod & furniture                    23.7    25.0    28.7    1S.0        11.7    10.1      0.5      4.4      8.0    14.1
Pae*Paper Prod 9 Print                      32.3    16.3       1.0      4.6    25.7    17.4    -7.1    12.5          8.6    32.3
Chemcal.  bibser 4 Plastics                     25.9    10.3    15.3    17.6         5.0    11.9      3.S    14.1    19.0    13.6
Non-mtetliIc Mineral Prod                       14.8      5.2    -J.?   -33.4    -1.5    14.2    2.           17.3      7.4      ?.S
Metal Prod. awhinery S Equip                    22.6    23.7    18.6        1.8    14.1    12.7       1.       8.4      3.2    t3.2
Others (inel cottage irdus)                     23.1   -12.5      14.3    18.7    13.2    279         9.      18.3      8.5    13U
Total  anulacturing                           20.4    15.7    13.0        7.      14.6      7.7     3.8    13.       11.9    12.1



CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING  PROJECT    - 46 -
Agreement  Between the EC and  the Government  of Cyprus                               ANNEX 2-4
On the Establishing of a Customs Union                                      Page  1 of 8
FIRS  PHASE                                          razux                     teoxz
Two  onuths after the an of the scd o w      9%
Onee after the art of the second MPg        t%
CHAPTER I                           Two yeas afwr dw am of dw second  g         27%
MOVEMENT OF GOODS                        Thtee yu af5  tw tn of the second Wtae       36%
Four yer dr the st  of the scond s          45%
Fone Yasafter the am of rhtsecadsopdu4
Sixne  dw doe sn of dw scon MP              631
Aril 2               *Sb    dlyeatrbUfhgeOUdUS_                          .    65%
Sevm lemaseshe wamof dbewoeadssa           72%
Durizgthefirtph eoftheecdae,tdebetwe  the               E41h yans a   the sa of the sewod  t        91%
Community and Cypu shall rmain based on the dyuem of    Nine yeasn after vtset of dte scond  p      90%
origin rule  set out in the Protocol to the Agreement   Ten yean afer the st  of thsecond stF      100%
detemining the rules of origin to be applied to the products                                         -
covered by the Agrnea.
2.   For each product, the basic duty on which Cypu I to
apply the scasive educons shll be sh duy actually
appin   pof she C_mmANk7 1&lJanuv196
INDSrRIAL PRODUCTS                                             Ar'l 6
1.   Nowithstanding Aricle S, Cypns shall, on the
products originating in the Community listed in Annex 2
Ark 3                             progrssivdy abish cusoms dutes and charges having an
equivalent effect, induding customs duties of a fiscal atuwr,
Artides 4 to 14 shll apply to industrial products; these mean  according to the following timetable:
ptoducts other than those falling under Annex 11 of the
Treaty esublihing the European Economic Community.                                                 -  of
rUWW*              r~~~~eagalaf
Two months afte the sa  of the second        4%
One year after the stars of the second stge  8%
Section I                          Two yea after the am of the secnd sae        12%
Elimination of custos duties betw te  C                 Three year afte the ar of the second ae     18%
5ypw                              Four yeas after the ae of the "ed Ma        24%
Five yea   r the sutat of the seod stae     30%
Six yean after the sa  of the second sap    45%
Articke 4                         Seven years after the strt of the second supe  60%e
Eight yeas after the sta of the secondsuge   S%
On the entry into force of this Protocol, the Community shall  Nine yeas after the stan of the second ge  90%
abolih the annual ceilinsp for the following products   Ten yes after the st  of the wecond se     100%
originating in Cypun:
ccr     i                                          2.  For each produa listed in Annex 2, the basic duty on
headg No                       o                     which Cyprus is to apply the successive reductions shall be
the duty actually applied in respect of the Community on 1
56.04     Man-made fibres discontinuous or wase),    January 1986.
carded. combed or otherse  prepaed for
spinng
61.01     Uens and bo  outer urments                                     Artcle 7
1   The rates of Cypriot tariff dismanding set out in
Article S                          Articles 5 and 6 may, in the first phase of .10 yean, be
adapted as necessary by the Association Council to take
1.  Cyprs shall, on  products originating  in the       account of the economic development of Cyprus and the
Commnity, apar ftom those prodcu list in Annex 1 to     prioritis laid down in the Cypriot development pla.
di Protocol ad in An       , tist Bw the Agmement,
progessaiv7 aboish  air  duies and cdax    baving an   2.  Following  an  applatio   by  Cypru  to  the
equivalm efic, includingcustoms duties of * fisl nature.  Commuity, the Asso _ation Coundl may, in ord  to men
according to the following timetable:                   the requirements of industrialization and development in



- 47 -                                        ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 8
Cypnu, authorize Cyprus to reintroduce, increas  or    List B to the Agreement, shall be progressively aligned on the
establish customs duties on products originating in the  CommonCustomsTariffasitstands atanygivenmomenton
Commity by up wo 20 % ad valorem and ian exceptional    the basisof thedutiesactuallyappliedbyCyprus in espectof
cases by up to 2S % ad valoraem.                       thirdcountrieson I January 1986 and in accordance with the
following rules:
3.  Cvprus may take appropriate measures, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 after informing the  1. In the cases of roducts on which the duties actuall
Associaaon Counci, where an increase in imports of a given
product is or is likely to be seriously detrnmental to the  air ,d by Cyprus at the date Tdicated above dotno
reuiemnt o ndstiaiztonan dveomet nCprr          diffc rom the Common Customs Tariff by more than
and where thi ineae ls  donan deveopmentunCypt               % either way, Ae latter shall be applied by Cyprus
awrtfrom  the ent uo force of this Protocol.
- the partial or total reduction by Cyprus, as provded for
in Artcles S and 6, of cusoms duties and chaxes havisg  2. In other caes, Cypnus shall apply, two months after th
equivalent effect levied on the product in question,    entry itO force of this Protocol, duties reducing by 9 %
and                                                    the difference between the rate actually applied and the
- thefactthattheduties orchargeshavingequivalenteffect     duty in the Common Customs Tariff.
levied by the Community, on imports of raw materias or
intermediate products used in the manufacture of the    Ninefurther      s,eachof9 % sllbetmdearthe
product in question are significantly lower than the    begnring of the second, third, fourth fifib, ixth,
c      ing duties or char  levied by Cyprs              swevb, eighth, nith ad nint years respeivy aftw
the emyt forse   of dais ProtocoL
4.  The measum    ofrred to in paramph 3 sh         be c
examined within the Assoction Councl. This exai  nation    Th Con Custm   Taff s'hall be applied in ts
shall take place within 30 w^rking days of the notification of   entirety at the beining of the Pelenth year folobwing
such measures by Cyprus. L the Association Council has not  the entry into force of this Protocol subjeet to the
approved, within 30 working days, the measures taken by    provisions of Artc 7(6) and ().
Cyprus, these measures shall be abolished.
3. In the event of the Common Cusons Tariff being
S.  The measures referred to in paragraphs 2and 3 maybe    modified dutiag the above period of 10 yes, dte rte of
applied only to a maximum volume of IS % of Cyptiot        alsment sall  be adire to ensure atthe diffeane
imports from the Community calculated on the average total  between the Cyprot Customs Tariff and the CCT is
value in the two preceding years for which Community       eliminated in equal steps between the dare of
statisrics are available.                                  modification of the CCT and the begminng of the
eleventh year.
6.  In the event of Cyprus applying tariff ieasur referred
to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4, preference in favour of
products onginating in the Community shall be maimtaned
byanadaptazonof thedudesappliedbyCyprus in -Ppecrof
imports from third count.                                                    Ari  9
The measures referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4  Notwithstanding Arcle 8, Cyprus shall, for the products
shall be progressively eliminated according to a timetable    listed in Annex 2, align its customs tariff on the Common
agreed by the two contracting parties and abolished at the  Customs Tariff in accordance with the following ruls
latest by the end of the first phase of the second tag of the
1. Cyprus shall apply, two months after the entry into force
The Association Council in exceptional cases may approve   of this Protocol, duties reducing by 4 % the diffeence
the extension of cetain measures beyond the first phase.   between the rate applied on 1 January 1986 and the duty
in the Common Customs Tariff.
2. Two furher reductions, each of 4 % shall be made at the
beginning of the second and third years.'
Section 11                             This difference shall be further reduced by three
reductions, each of 6 % at the beginning of the fourth,
Adoption by Cyprus of the Comcon Customs Tariff         fifth and sixth years and by four reductions each of 15 %
at the beginning of the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth
years.
Arnclk 8
The Common Customs Tariff shall be applied in its
Thc Cypnot Cusoms Taiff ipart from that appied on          entirety at the beginning of the eleventh year following
products lisd in Annex 1 to this Protocol and in Annex 1,  the entry into foce of this Protocol.



- 49 -                                    ANNEX 2-4
Page 3 of 8
Section III                       -  100 % in 10 equal annual steps of 10 % for quantty
limits,
Elmination of qutitative restrieions by the Conaqacag  -  150 % in 10 equal annual steps of IS %  for value
Parties                             iits.
4. Notwithstanding paragraph 3, during the first phase
of the second stage the rate of increas of the quantites for
Articl 10                         the following products in Annex 3 shall be:
Cyprus shall aboL;sh quantitative restritdons and all     c
measure having equivalent effect on imports from the        uifl  jPJducda         Rsamf agsiumpbm
Community upon the eat into force of this Protocol apart  h din   I
from products listed in Annex 1, List B to the Areemnent.  36(0     Mth,          60% in 10 equal annual steps
I of 6%
69.05    Roofing tiles     80% in 10 equ  nnual stp
Artick It                                                     of 8%
1.  Notwithstanding Artide 10, Cyprus may impose
impon  licens on  impos for home consumption           S.  The first incease shal be made   theinitiqte
originating in die Comni-'y for the produas listed in  or values on 1 Januy of the yea following the atey into
Annex 1, according to the  les set out in paragraphs 2, 3, 4  force of this Procol. Subsequept  aeam shll be a the
and 5.                                                 beginning of each calendar year.
2.  WithinthequanideslaiddowninAnnex l,theimport    6.  Where imports into Cyprus of a product originating in
licence shll be issued automancally within a period of five    the Community Hled in Annex 3 have for three consecutive
working days from the submission of the request. Should it    yers been less than 80 % of the quanti limit or value lHit
notbeissued witinthisperiod,the productsin quesskonmay  established under the provisions of paragaphs 3, 4 and S,
mrtheless be fredy tiportd.                            imports of that product from the Member Stares of the
Community shall be liberalized as from the bqeinning of the
3.  During the first phase of the second stsge, the    year following thes three yeas.
quantities for cerain products listed in Annex I sbal  7.  The Association Council may, in the contt of the
increase by S0 % in 10 equal annual.steps ofS%.        Decision to pss from the first phase to the secotd phase of
the second stage, approve the extension of the provisions of
4.   The first incrmse shall be made to the initial quantities  paagraph I for products in Annex 3 beyond the first
on I January of the year following the entry into force of this    phase.
Protocol. Subsequen incrases shall be at the beginning of
each year.                                             8.  Anaex Vll shall define the rules which shall be appied
by Cyprus for the administration of the quantity and value
S.  Annex 7shaildefinethe nleswhichsl.   eappliedby    limits laid down in Annex 3.
Cyprus for the administration of the quatities laid down in
Annex 1.
Article 13
Cyprus shall progessively adjust any State monopolies of a
Arflcir 12                        commercial character, so as to ensure that, when the first
phase of the second stage has ended, no discrimination
I..  Notwithstanding Article 10, Cyprus may impose    regarding the conditions under which goods are procured
and marketed exists between nationals of Member States of
import licences on  imports for home consumption       the Community and nationals of Cyprs.
originating m the Community up to the end of the first'phase
of the second stage for the products listed in Annex 3,
according to the rles set out in paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and S.
.   Within the quantities or values laid down in Annex 3,                  Section iV
the import licences shall be issued automatically within a
penod of five working days from the submiss:on of the              Processed agriculturd products
request. Should it not be issued within this period, the
products in question may nevertheless be freely imported.
Article 14
3.  During the fint phua  of the second sa, the
quantities or values for the produs listed in Annex 3 shall  The Community shal abolh the fixed component for the
increase by:                                           prodrtcts mentioned in Annex 1, List A to the Agreement, as



- 49 -                                             ANNEX 2-4
Page 4 of 8
ANNEX I
List erefd wo in A ntdes 5, 8 and 11
Tanff eadmin                           Desripton of goods                             quaniti
17.04         Sugar confectionary (not containing cocoa) (')                    |       530 t
18.06.20       Chocolates (C)                                                           780 t
18.06.90
19.03          Macarom and other similar products                                          I t
19.08          Pastry, biscuits, cakes, etc. (*)                                       1 060t
21.04.10       Tomato ketchup and other sauces containing tomato                          40 t
21.07.20      Ice cream, tce cream powder, etc.                                            I t
22.03          Beer made from malt                                                  250 0001
22.06          Vermouths and other flavoured wines (1)                               29 0001
22.08          Ethyl alcohol or neutral spiri.s, undenatured. of a  Se' of 140e proof
or higheb, dred spiins (incudiged   aleohol and via spip ) of
any s g, not obtaed from agicaa producn 1iisd in A           U of
the Treaty establishing the European Economic Communtty (t)            10 0001
22.09          Spirits (')                                                          230 3001
25.23          Cement                                                                     lOt
44.02        | Wood charcoal (induding shell and nut charcoal), agglomerated or
not                                                                         I t
44.15.90       Plywood(2)()                                                               43 m'
cx 44.18.10       Reconstituted wood in boards or sheets other than of a thickness not
! exceeding 6 mm (')                                                     7 120 m'
ex 84.10.90      Water pumps (i):
-  centrifugal deep-well turbine pumps                                    IOu
-  centrifugal surface pumps                                           2 3S0 u
'  The itial quanty shal tnese bv S0% in 10 equl teps of 5 % in tde first pha.
t = metic tonne
I  = litre
ml _ cubic mcmi
u  = unit
t Impoma wail be allowed onlv for absolute alcohol for mdutnal use.
2) For exdusive use in the manufacture of travel goods.
(') For exdusive us in die producton of boards of sheetfxced with low presureatemune tmated paper.
(! Imports wil be allowed only for these pumps of hiher performance than those produced in Cyprus.



- 50 -                                              ANNEX 2-4
Page 5 of 8
ANNEX 2
List r{ef    to io Anides 6 and 9
TaC                                        Deipuon of goods
heading
ex 19.05.99            ChepuKffs, chpio, and sima goods
21.07.30             Table jilie  ee
22.02                Lmoade, flavurmd sp  wates and flaveuted aead waw   an   othd
l~~~~qneo  1d  giandegetbh wham fafslink wesd  beadn
No 20.07
25.01.90             Common sat
'5.20                Gypsum
'S2.2Z               Quick lime
ex 28.04.10            Oxgn
28.13.10             Carbon diomde
29.04                AJcic skobol
29.14.10             A     i_  d
31.02.04             ?buW or du  lam
ex 31.05               Odb. ferudh s
32.09                Paints, varni., lacques, distempe, etc.
33.06                Paefumery, cosns and odtr wilet preparadons, ec
34.01                SOaPS
14.02.19             Dcgent
35.06                Prepard glues
36.06                Marches
39.07                Plastic artades
ex 39.01 - 39.06       Pipes and tubes and polyethylene sheets
ex 40.11. 10           Used or retrearted tyres
40.13.19             Rubber gloves
42.02                Travel goods, etc.
s2.03                Apparel and odh  articles of leather or tmiuation leather
44.13.10           | Bbxlo, uips and frezes fot pq   flooing
-x 44.21               Packing cawes boxes and crates of wood
44.23620             Assembled parquet
48.16:10           , Two-ply or mote paper bags
48.16.20           i Cigarette packet
*x 48.16.90            Carton boxes
48.21.30 + 90        Paper towels tissues and napkins
50.09              I Woven fabrics of silt, etc.
51.04                Woven fabncs of man-made fibrn (continuousl, etc
52.02               Woven fabncs of metal thread, etc.
5 3.11               Woven fabrics of sheep's or lamb's wool
i3.12                Woven fabncs of horshair or other coarse animal hair
Z4.os               Woven fabncs of flax or of rami
5508;               Terrv toweiling, etc.
59.03.11 + 19
-5.09               Other woven fabnes of corion
56.07                Woven iabncs of man-made fibres (discontnuous)
58.01               Carpets, carpenng, etc.
8.02                Other carpets
58.04                Woven pie fabrics, etc.
60.01                Knitted or cocidemed fabncs
6e 03 90             Stockng and socks, etc.



-    -                                     ANNEX 2-4
Page 6 of 8
Cyprust
Tariff                                   Dao of goods
heading      j
60.04              I Knitted undergarments
60.05.10            Jeneys, pulloven, ec., dress, skis, suits and costumes, tracksuuts
60.0S.71. 72, 79    Bed, table, todet and lktchen linen
62.02.12, 13, 19
61.01               Men's and boy' outtgunets
61.02               Women's, girl' mnd innts' outprrmn
61.03               Men's and boys' unams
61.04               Women's, gir  and inats' undarment
62.01               Travelling ugs and blankets
62.03.10            Sacks and bags, of a kind used for packing of goods (polypropylene)
64.01-04            Footwear
68.11.21            Seats, flags and pavung, heath and wall tiles
69.05               Roofing tiles
71.12-16            jewellry, goldsm ' and sitvanit' ware
ex 73.13.10           Galvanize  _vumd _me Aes
ex 73.18              Tubes and pqp. iro or std.
ex 73.23              Metal containers (for packing of goods exduding those for caning of frit or
vegetables or juices of fruit and vegetables)
ex 73.31.19           Nails
73.32.10            Wood soews
73.36.10            Space gas heaters
73.38.12            Buckets, iron or steel
73.38.30            Iron and steel wool
76.02               Wrought ban, rods, angles, shapes and sectons, of aluminium; aluminium wire
ex 76.02.10           Bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections, polished, gnodized, coated or covered
ex 76.02.90           Odher:
- except wire
76.06               Tubes and pipes and blaks theefor, of aluminium; hollow ban of aluminium
83.02.10            Hinges
83.13.10            Crown corks, Pilfer proof corks
831S.10             Electrodes
84.18.93            Air, oil and diesel fiel odl filters for ca
84.56.10            Concrete mixen
8S.04.10            Electic accumulators for motor can
85.19.12            Switches
ex 87.06.90           Exhausts
ex 87.06.90           Motor vehicles; wheels with used ryres
93.07.10            Cartridges
94.01 + 03          Furnture
94.04               Mattesses
97.03               Balloons



- 52 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 7 of 8
ANNEX 3
Listidedwint: to 4 Ate 12
Tanff                           Descnpton of gr                       quanntyvalue
ex 19.05.99           Cheesepuffs. Chipitos and suimda goods                          It
21.07.30          j Tabl jellies. etc.                                            13 t
'5.01.90          9 Common sait for table and kittben use                        280t
Common salt for industrial Ue exdusively in food and comnetic  200 t
industnes
:5.20               Gypsum and plasters                                          IS0 t
25.22               Quick lime                                                   105 t
ex28.04.10            OxygenI OOOkg
28.13.10            Carbon dioxide                                                 I t
:9.04               Acyqdic alcohol                                          4900001
:9.14.10           Acec acid                                                     165 t
31.02-04            Mineral or cheici  fetiliers                               4 500 t
36.06               Matches                                                   38 th gos
ex 40.11.10           Used or reteatedys                                        40 000 u
40.13.19            Rubber gloves                                              3 000 dz pr
ex 44.21              Packing cases boxes and crates of wood                    46 th pc
4S.16.10            Two ply or more paper bags                                     2 t
48.16.20            Ciprte packets                                            50 000 kg
ex 48.16.90           Carton boxes                                                 180 t
S3.08;             Terry towelling                                            0 000 CL
'9.03.11 + 19
'30.03.90           Stocings and socks. etc.                                 240 000 pr
60.04               Knitted undergarments including nghts:               i
ugbts                                                  Ig180000pr
shirts                                                    16000pc
other undergarments                                      291 000 pc
60.05.10            lery, pullovers, etc.                                     60000 pc
Dresses skis, suits and costumes                          36 000 pc
Outergarments kntted                                      48 000 pc
"1.01               !tMen's and bovs' coats                                    3 300 pc
Men's and boys suits                                       4 100 pc
Men's and bovs' trouse                                    32 900 pc
Men's ano bovs' jackets                                    3 000 pc
Mien's and bovs' O/GMT                                    12  000 pc
"1.02               Women's and girls' coats and jackets                       - 000 pc
Women's and girls' suits                                  16 000 pc
Women's and girls' dres                                  49 000 pc
Women's and girls skirn                                   32 000 pc
Womnens and gitr' blouses                                 52 000 pc
Women's and girls' OtGMT                                  56 000 pc



- 53 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 8 of 8
C=                   ~~~~~~~~~Dumync. of P                __d__
61.03              Mm'sandbbos'hir                                   !   20600pe
Mm's an boye' py!ms                                  1 soo P
Men's and bos' U/GM'    3 000 pe
61.04              wommns andW gs'afrw                                       l 2 OpC
Women's and gia' U/GM?                                 10000 pC
60.05.71 + 72 + 79  Bad, tgale,l m de andodki  linen                     360000 CA
62.02.12 + 13 + 19
62.03.10           Saeks and bap of a typ used for pacoof oods           120000.
(pcN)
64.01-04           Footwer                                               165 000 pC
69.05              Roofing Wu                                            560 000 u
ex 73.13.10          Galvanized conunpted $ad t ss                            1000 t
ex 73.18.            Tube and pipe of ion and sed
23                                                                    200W
24                                                                    1 000
92                                                                      100
93                                                                    ISOOt
94                                                                    2000t
ex 73.23             Mehu container (fo packing of pais  only)               3300 u
73.31.19           Nabs                                                        2 t
73.32.10           Wood wews                                                 400 kg
73.36.10           Spac gas heats for dAoMese UKs                           600 u
73.38.12           Bucks, ion or sted                                        136 u
76.02              Wroughtban, rods, angles, shapes and setis,of aluminiut)
duminium wem
ex76.02.10           Bar, rods, angls, shpes and sectons, polised, anodied.    240t
coated or coaed
ex 76.02.90          Odtier
-Extept wie
76.06              Tubes and ppes and blanks heref, of alumtnu; hollow       190 t
ban of aluminim
83.02.10           Hinge (of size x0 x 55 90x SS. 110 x S5)                2 000 PC
83.13.10           PDir proof corks                                      423 th pc
Crown corks                                         2 520 th pe
83.15.10           Elecurode                                              16 200 kg
84.18.93           Air oil and diesd fuel; oil filtes for canr            30 000 pC
84.56.10           Conaet mixen                                               20u
85.04.10           Electrc accumulators for motor cars                     I S00 u
93.07.10           Carmtdges loaded                                      800 000 u
Caruedges empty                                       300 000 u
94.01 + 03         Fumure                                                  2 mio CL
ex 97.03             Balloons                                                   SS pss
Nows:
t     M InMc ton"
I  sh.
th   thouund
pc   pIeM
.pr * par
u    unit
kga kilog
WAn  -  uin
C m CYPn_poam



- 54 -
Page 1 of 8
STATEMENT OF POLICY
The Government of Cyprus recognizes that industry has reached the
limits of import substitution behind a protective wall snd can no longer
expect the easy exporting to the Middle East markets which, until recently has
facilitated relatively strong growth in manufacturing output. In response to
the more competitive demands on the industrial sector, the Government has
embarked on an active program aimed at upgrading manufacturing output and
increasing factor productivity. The catalyst for the restructuring effort are
the provisions for the harmonization arising from the Cyprus-EC Customs Union
Agreement (which came into effect on January 1, 1988), and the harmonization
policies resulting from the application for full membership (submitted on 4th
July, 1990). A major impli ation of the harmonization policies will be an
opening up of the economy to world price signals and foreign competition.
This statement outlines the policy framework within which the restructuring
will proceed and defines an action program to help smooth the transition
toward the new, more liberal policy regime.
A.    Background
Cyprus has overcome many serious constraints since 1974 to reach
the present, relatively well advanced state of social and economic
development. While growing at a respectable rate of 5.9 percent annually
during the 1980s, the economy has operated at practically full employment,
with relatively low inflation and manageable external debt burden. Export
growth has also been respectable averaging 14.5% (in dollar terms) over the
1985-1989 period, although the growth rate has declined steadily from 23% in
1986 to about 10.8% in 1989.
Yet, thwarting the promising potential of Cyprus' highly educated
labor force, its advantageous geographical location, a relatively good
infrastructure and its well developed institutions, is an incentives framework
which, until the recent decision to align policies with the EC, led to
production patterns which are more appropriate for countries at lower levels
of income and education. The strong push toward light, labor intensive
manufacturing behind protective barriers, aimed at rectifying the mass
unemployment which appeared in the early 1970s, as a result of the Turkish
invasion and occupation, has left Cyprus fully employed, but with a production
structure which, as whole, will likely face difficulties in competing outside
of the Middle East markets, which are experiencing sluggish import demand.
Even in these export markets, the entry of countries with lower labor costs
and mass production techniques, primarily from Asia, together with the
instability of certain markets, have led to a deterioration of the
historically strong Cypriot market position. In addition to an inappropriate
product mix, the industrial sector suffers from low level of technology,
fragmented and organizational weaknesses of productive units and a tight labor
market all leading to low productivity growth.
While industry has shown some signs of adjustment to the
deterioration of its traditional export markets by increasing the share of



- 55 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 2 of 8
exports to the more demanding European markets in recent years, manufacturing
output and export growth has deteriorated to 3% and 10.8% in 1989 from 6.8%
and 15.5% respectively in 1988. The expansion of the economy is becoming
increasingly dependent on the growth of tourism, services and construction.
B.    The DeveloDment Plan: 1989-93
Following the change of Government in February, 1988, a new
Development Plan for 1989-93 was initiated, which called for reforms in the
macroeconomic, financial an industrial policy framework. At the macroeconomic
level, the Government's program is centered on a reduction of the public
budget deficit through a reduction in some subsidies, improved tax
administration and the proposal for the adoption of a value-added tax. On the
supply side, the new tax law aims to induce greater productive efficiency.
The Government has achieved considerable success in this area reducing the
deficit from over 3 percent of GNP in 1988 to around 1.4 percent last year.
In the financial markets, improved domestic savings mobilization and
allocation should result from the phasing out of interest rate ceilings,
[improved banking regulation, supervision and competition and the development
of the capital market]. In the industrial sector, a program to gradually
liberalize imports from the EC and the rest of the world in accordance with
the Customs Union Agreement and introduce tax incentives for product upgrading
is well underway. The current challenge facing the economy is to embark on an
active restructuring program for industry and eventually other sectors of the
Cyprus economy in order to better face enhanced import competition from Europe
and eventually other countries in the Cypriot market and to allow increase
market penetration into EC markets by Cypriot exporters.
The Development Plan envisions GDP growth of 5 percent per year,
consistent with a 1.8 percent employment growth and a 3 percent gain in labor
productivity. The Government hopes to achieve these goals through not only a
more appropriate policy framework, but also through an active program to
restructure or modernize a large proportion of firms in a relatively short
period of time. Specifically, the Government's policy is geared toward:
1.    Reforming fiscal policy by reducing government expenditure
growth, reforming the tax system and curbing the growth of
civil service work.
2.    Rationalizing industrial incentives to reduce unit costs and
enhance efficiency.
3.    Strengthening existing institutions in order to support the
efficiency drive in the economy.
4.    Upgrading the technological base of the economy to allow the
introduction of improved production techniques and
processes.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 3 of 8
C.    Policy Framework for Industrial Restructuring
For the industrial sector to reach its full potential, existing
trade and price distortions must be removed to allow resources to flow to
their most productive and economically profitable activities. In order to
eliminate the price distortions in the goods market and to introduce import
competition into the economy, the Government has begun the program which
attacks the distortions and lack of competition. While the program, as it
currently stands, is staged in deliberate steps and provides for only partial
liberalization, particularly on the side of foreign trade, it lays the ground
work for further steps toward a fully open regime consistent with requirements
of EC.
The Current Program - In line with the Government's strategy to
strengthen competitive forces in the economy, and its deire to harmonize its
policy framework with that of the EC, the Government has embarked on a
sequenced program of trade liberalization vis a vis the EC and third
countries, in return for greater access to the EC market by Cypriot exporters.
The program is currently in its third year of a gradual but progressive
process to reduce the barriers to imports for products originating in the EC
and from other countries. Under an agreement with the EC to establish a full
customs union by the year 2003 and the application for full membership, Cyprus
is bound to eliminate tariff barriers against EC imports, eventually adopt the
Common Customs Tariff (CCT) for imports from other countries which is
currently much lower than the existing Cyprus tariffs, enlarge quotas for
products imported from the EC, and make the import licencing requirements more
automatic. In addition to the efficiency gains at the enterprise level which
will inevitably result from enhanced import competition, the authorities are
now better able to proceed with a staged removal of price controls for
imported and domestically produced goods.
The gains from even partial liberalization of domestic competitive
forces and of the import regime are well known from the experiences of other
countries. Resources will be allocated toward more competitive activities and
firms will be induced to compete in terms of quality and efficiency. At the
same time, domestic producers will be better able to feel the need to innovate
and upgrade their production. Furthermore, the bias against exporting
activities will be lessened from more equal returns between production for the
domestic market and production for export. Perhaps more important for the
Cypriot situation (since the small size of the domestic market induces
producers to export) the policy induced biases for and against particular
industries will be reduced and investments will be promoted based on private
sector perception of relative economic profitability and not just financial
returns.
Next Steps - However, given that industrial restructuring at the
enterprise levels seems to be lacking, the Government is aware of the economic
rationale to accelerate its original liberalization schedule to speed the
process to make the liberalization bite at the company level to come about
through the process of application for EC membership covering all sectors.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2-$
Page 4 of 8
More importantly, as efficient restructuring requires a neutral incentive
regime which does not favor one activity over another, the policy framework
must be neutral. The acceleration and revision of the original liberalization
schedule will take place within the process of the application for membership
to the EC. Within the context of negotiating Cyprus' application for full
membership and depending on the country's prevailing economic condition, the
following three areas that would enhance the neutrality of the incentive
regime will be pursued.
(i)      The elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports;
(ii)      The termination of the import licensing system; and
(iii)      The minimization of differences in tariff rates across
product groups.
With an accelerated and restructured import liberalization
program, industrialists will move faster to initiate investigations into
restructuring possibilities, labor should become more flexible in terms of
wage negotiation and in terms of recognizing the need for a productivity based
wage rate, a new investment will take place based on economic profitability as
well as financial profitability. Without the full liberalization, the
industrial entities will not be induced to innovate and upgrade production
speedily and move out of activities more suited to the mass production and
cheap labor characteristics of less developed countries.
The new industrial strategy and the recognition that new
industrial activities should receive some sort of financial promotion, has led
the Government to introduce incentives for the industrial sector within the
framework of the new tax law. Corporate taxes were reduced from 42.5 to 20
percent for income upto CL100,000 and it increases to 25X for income over this
amount. Furthermore, the new tax law calls for a 40 percent deduction of
actual expenditures on computer hardware and software. An allowance of 20
percent is provided for investment in machinery used directly in
manufacturing, and it can be raised to 40 percent if the investor is a
consortium.
A further complement to the program of trade liberalization will
be the casing of restrictions against direct foreign investment. While
Government is wary of investment in the service sector, specifically tourism,
foreign investment has important characteristics of technology and skills
transfer which can aid the program of industrial restructuring.  The
Government plans to encourage joint ventures by shortening the time required
for processing of applications while maintaining a neutral tax regime.  At the
same time the Government will be considering the implications of easing the
equity restrictions on foreign direct investment.  In addition, a rapid growth
in new foreign investment regime as foreign investors weigh the Cypriot market
against other markets with relatively tight but skilled labor markets.
Coalitions which have formed among labor groups have been very
strong and have led to an inflexibility in the labor market and the lack of



- 58 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 5 of 8
productivity based wage system. While there is some urging on the part of
industrialists regarding the possibility of importing labor into the economy,
particularly during the restructuring and adjustment process, there are
reasons for continuing the restrictions on foreign labor, given the Cypriot
current situation. With such restrictions the introduction of modern
technology will be accelerated and social effects will be avoided. While
there may be a need to allow increased flexibility in the temporary hiring of
some foreign labor in specific sectors (such as infrastructure) there are
great difficulties in enforcing "sunset clauses" in labor contracts and work
permits. While there is no explicit policy based barrier preventing the
hiring of new labor (apart from the floor in the wage scale) the Government
could play a more active role in this area by encouraging stronger competitive
forces in the goods and capital market to encourage increased flexibility and
competition in the labor market, especially during the restructuring process.
At the same time, the Government will encourage and promote, through
discussions with labor and management, the benefits of a productivity based
wage policy, to help improve factor efficiency. However, in view of the
application for full membership of the EC, factor mobility may be increased
automatically as harmonization of policies implies free mobility of labor
across member countries.
D.    Institutional Mechanisms for Industrial Restructuring
At the same time as policies are being reformed, there is a need
to simultaneously provide direct assistance to industrialists in assessing
their competitiveness, exploring their options and preparing a restructuring
program. This "company level approach" would involve a technical appraisal by
a team of external and domestic consultants and envisions technologic-al
upgrading through a dual approach of investment in new products and new
activities (hardware) complemented by an adjustment in production techniques
and procedures as well improved export marketing (software). At the same
time, the capacity of Cyprus to provide consulting services would be developed
and strengthened through the transfer of skills from the external sector, and
through a training program for industrial development consultants.
The implementation of the company level approach to restructuring
assistance will require a very small administrative body (a so called
"consultant clearinghouse" to facilitate the process, assure that only
competent, local and foreign consultants are used and to arrange for training
of the local consultants.
The Government is committed to support of the restructuring
effort, recognizing the need for independence and autonomy of the unit. It
will allow the unit to be established as an entity under the direction of the
private sector.
The benefits of the company level approach to restructuring are
self evident. Direct advice to enterprises will enhance their ability to
formulate restructuring plans which are based on world market conditions and
on techniques and processes currently found outside the domestic market by
maybe are more appropriate to the Cypriot market conditions. At the same time



- 59 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 6 of 8
the company level approach will have the sica benefit of building the
consulting capacity of Cyprus which at present is deficient relative to the
needs of the industrial sector.
E.    Financial Sector Reforms
Despite some major handicaps, including significant policy and
institutional weaknesses, limited mobilization of long-term financial
resources, and deficiencies in credit allocation, Cyprus's financial sector
has played an important role ir the economic progress enjoyed over the last
decade. Yet with the increase competition expected in the real sector, these
severe handicaps, if left unaddressed, would severely hinder the financial
sector's ability to provide adequate support to the adjustment process.
The Government and Central Bank have therefore decided to initiate
in due course a comprehensive reform and action program (including
consultations with the House of Representatives) for the financial sector,
aimed at improving the efficiency of monetary and credit policies,
strengthening the regulatory and supervisory fre'mework, ensuring the soundness
of and competition in the banking system, and promoting active financial
markets.
1. Ensuring effective monetary and credit Rolicies
It is the firm intention of the authorities to continue working
towards the relaxation of interest rate ceilings and exchange controls on
capital accounts, both essential to ensure a more efficient mobilization of
resources and allocation of credit. It is also clear that efficient
management of monetary aggregates, through open market operations, will only
be possible if more flexible interest rates induce grater competitiorn in the
banking and financial markets.
The Government intends to undertake the relaxation of interest
rates and exchange control in phases, as dictated by the overall economic and
political situation. The Government also intends to take appropriate actions
to maintain positive real interest rates. Eventually, the commitments for EC
membership could also play an important role in the sequencing and speed of
financial liberalization. With increased competitive pressures on the system,
the Government will ensure that strengthened prudential regulations are
introduced to detect at an early stage signs of weakness in the banking
system.
Monetary regulations are edicted by the Central Bank of Cyprus
(CBC), which is vested with the responsibility of conducting the Government's
monetary policy. Yet the effectiveness of monetary policy is currently
greatly impaired by the fact that these regulations are adhered to by a
diminishing proportion of the banking system. The cooperative network, which
has rapidly grown over the recent years to account for over 34X (December 31,
1990) of total banking assets, is not regulated by the Central Bank and
cooperative banks do not closely observe monetary targets. Monetary



- 60 -
ANNEX 2-5
Page 7 of 8
discipline is key to the suocess of the Government's economic program, and the
Government is determined to retain full control over the instruments which
have ensured the sustained growth and prosperity of this country for the last
decade. Due compliance should be monitored, and to that end the Government
has requested that as of December 1990, all deposit taking and credit
cooperatives will prepare and forward to the Government, and the CBC, periodic
returns to ensure, inter alia, the proper monitoring of monetary aggregates.
2.    Strengthening the Reaulatory and Supervisory Framework
The legal framework for regulating and supervising the banking
system is embodied in the Central Bank Act and the Banking Business Law
(Temporary Restrictions). It now seems appropriate however, given the
deficiencies in these laws, the gradual sophistication of banking activities,
the growth in banking assets, and the perspective of the EC membership, to
introduce banking legislation which would enhance prudential practices in
banking activities, including revised capital adequacy requirements, portfolio
classification, exposure limits, and auditing and reporting standards, These
measures are embodied in a draft Banking Bill which is currently being
discussed by relevant entities in the public and private sectors. The
Government will bring such a bill to Parliament in due course.
The Government recognizes the unique role of the cooperative
banking system in providing specific facilities and reaching areas or
clientele not served by commercial banks, thereby providing a crucial
complement to the formal system. It is of utmost importance that the
integrity, and therefore the long-term sustainability of this system be
preserved and depositors be more firmly protected. The Government has
repeatedly demonstrated its continued support to the cooperative movement,
inter alia through the provision of a favorable incentive framework, and
recently through the extension of a concessionary subordinated loan to the
Cooperative Central Bank, to ensure its proper recapitalization. Further
actions aimed at ensuring the long-term sustainability of the cooperative
banking network include: (i) the development of a set of prudential
regulations adapted to the special nature of cooperatives; (ii) the
strengthening of the supervisory functions of the Government through the
provision of appropriate means and skilled staff; and (iii) the study and
implementation of mechanisms which would ensure a more formal integration of
the cooperative network.
3.    Increasing the autonomy of the Cyprus DeveloRment Bank
The Cyprus Development Bank (CDB) has played a unique role by
promoting and financing developmental projects, which substantially
contributes to the overall economic growth of the country. Over the years, it
has responded to the objectives which led to its establishment by the
Government, and to the introduction of a number of new instruments and
techniques in Cyprus, organizing itself into a cluster of semi-autonomous
entities, ranging from development banking to equity shareholding, venture-
capital, consulting and training. It hes also assembled within its various
entities a pool of talents which are regularly consulted by enterprises and



- 61 -
ANNEX--2-5
Page 8 of 8
other financial institutions. These achievements have been made possible by
its management's commitment to constantly maintaining a challenging and
motivating environment, conducive to sustained performance and innovation.
The Cypriot authorities are convinced however that further progress in the
development of CDB, which rests in large part on the competitive environment
in which it has been operating, is hindered by the structure of its capital
and its lack of flexibility in mobilizing resources. The Government has
therefore decided to open CDB's capital to a number of institutional
investors, including the European Investment Bank and International Finance
Corporation (World Bank Group), as a first step towards widening the
distribution base of CDB's capital. In this process, the Government will pay
particu'ar attention to avoiding further concentration in the banking sector,
which is already excessively concentrated. The opening of CDB's capital is a
first step in a developmental process which should enable more autonomy and
flexibility for CDB, to be encompassed in a comprehensive plan currently under
preparation. This plan will be endorsed by the competent authorities, and its
implementation will commence by January 1992.
March 21, 1991



- 62 -
ANNEX 2-6
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Deposit Money Banks: Structure of Deposits 1983-89
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Distribution of Deposits(CL million)
Demand Deposits                        136   144   162   157   181   208   238
Savings Deposits                        87    95    98   103   110   120   133
Time Deposits                          570   696   768   895  1022  1251  1540
Total Deposits                      792   935  1028  1155  1312  1580  1911
Distribution of DeRosits (Z)
Demand Deposits                         17    15    16    14    14    13    12
Savings Deposits                        11    10    10       9     8      8     7
Time Deposits                           72    75    74    77    78    79    81
Deposit Honey Banks:  Maturity of Time DeRosits 1983-89
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Deposits (CL million)
7 days                                  88   104   106   109   120   142   180
7 days to 3 mos                        141   189   220   268   264   345   420
3 to 6 mos                              41    49    52    64    81    81    96
6 to 13 mos                            290   344   383   446   548   669   822
Other                                   10    11      7      8     9    14    22
Total                               570   696   768   895  1022  1251  1540
Distribution (M)
7 days                                  15    15    14    12    12    11    12
7 days to 3 mos                         25    27    29    30    26    28    27
3 to 6 mos                               7      7     7      7     8      7     6
6 to 13 mos                             51    49    50    50    54    54    53
Other                                    2      2     1      1     1      1     2
Source:  Central Bank of Cyprus "Bulletin".  Various Issues.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2-7
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DeRosit Money Banks: Sectoral Distribution of Credit 1983-89
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
loans (CL million)
Public Corporations                     12     9    10      9    10    13
Agriculture                             34    39    42    47    51    55
Mining                                  10    10    11    11    12    11
Manufacturing                          169   201   215   224   240   261
Tourism                                 42    51    58    66    74    85
Transport & Telecom                      9    15    16    16    17    22
Foreign & Domestic Trade               168   173   207   229   264   315
Building & Construction                 80    97   111   128   149   175
Personal Loans                          68    78   105   131   148   209
Total                            593   672   774   861   966  1145
Distribution (X)
Public Corporations                      2     1      1     1      1     1     1
Agriculture                              6      6     5     5      5     5     4
Mining                                   2     1      1     1      1     1     1
Manufacturing                           29    30    28    26    25    23    21
Tourism                                  7     8      8     8      8     7     9
Transport & Telecom                      2     2      2     2      2     2     2
Foreign & Domestic Trade                28    26    27    27    27    27    28
Building & Construction                 14    14    14    15    15    15    15
Personal Loans                          11    12    14    15    15    18    19
Source:  Central Bank of Cyprus "Bulletin".  Various Issues.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 of 5
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The CYPrus Development Bank Limited
A.    Introduction
Background: The Cyprus Development Bank (CDB) was established in
1963 as the country's only development bank.   Before the 1974 event, CDB's
ownership consisted of some private investors who had voting rights, and the
government.  Following the 1974 event, CDB effectively lost about 47% of its
loan portfolio and about 30% of its equity portfolio. Consequently its financial
position was greatly impaired. The Cypriot government, aware of this serious
predicament and acknowledging the exogenous reasons, recognized that the Bank
had an important role to play in reactivating the economy.   It accordingly
introduced special measures for restoring CDB's credit-worthiness under the title
Scheme of Arrangement of May 1976. Details of this and its principal provisions
are given in Appendix I. CDB is a government-owned institution with a share
capital of CL 4.2 million of which CL 1 million was subscribed in January 1991.
CDB has played a unique role in promoting new approaches to enterprise financing
by directly assisting in the development and financing of a number of projects.
Business Activity: CDB does not have a branch network, and operates
from its home office in Nicosia by providing project financing in the form of
loans, equity, and venture capital to Cypriot enterprises.   In addition, it
provides technical and management consulting service to companies, and is also
involved in investment banking activities including mergers and acquisitions.
As the country's sole development institution, its mission is to facilitate the
growth and competitiveness of the private sector through the mobilization and
allocation of scarce human and financial resources.
CDB has 329 clients, of which 100 are small and medium-size
businesses. CDB operates in the private sector, and its financing activity is
directed to that sector. Its consultancy activity, however, includes the public
sector.   Thus far, the client base has proven to be stable.   CDB has been
involved both financially and on an advisory capacity in all industrial sectors,
agro-processing, tourism and other services.  In 1989, about 54% of the loan
portfolio was in the industrial sector, 35% in tourism and 11% in the remaining
sectors of the economy. Reflecting the expansion in the bank's activities, CDB's
staff increased by 20% in 1987 to 50, and it has increased gradually to 60 at
present.
Involvement in World Bank Projects:   Since 1972, CDB has been
involved in onlending World Bank funds (first in 1972, then in 1976 and 1979)
primarily to the industrial and tourism sectors.  These loans have performed
well, as shown in Appendix II.



- 65 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 5
B.    Institutional Aspects
(i)   Institutional Strategy
As a development bank, CDB's objective has been to accelerate the
pace of economic growth through private sector development by providing financial
resources and technical assistance to er.terprises to render them internationally
competitive. Financial support is provided to these enterprises primarily in
the form of long term loans and equity investment, convertible bonds, convertible
shares, preferential shares, etc., and it covers a wide spectrum of business
activities. Consulting services, a form of technical assistance, is provided
to customers normally on a fee basis and is directed toward resolving issues
related to project and strategic management, new business development, and
training. To this end CDB seeks to restore and strengthen the competitiveness
of the manufacturing, tourism and other services sectors of the economy.
Consulting services are also provided to government agencies to help streamline
areas such as information systems. Furthermore, CDB is also strengthening its
financial position by improving the capital base, resource mobilization, cash
flow, and lending on a selective basis.
(ii) Organizational Structure
CDB has a nine-member board of directors who represent the
shareholders of the Bank. Of these, one position is vacant, and three of the
remainder are civil servants. The Board of Directors have the responsibility
to determine and monitor the Bank's economic and social role in the country.
The Board also has the responsibility for establishing the business statutes of
the bank, and for approving its business rules and policies.  Its day-to-day
operations are managed by the General Manager, assisted by managers who are the
heads of major divisions.   The organizational function is established along
important functions, and CDB groups its functions into logical clusters for
management purposes, and clarifies the role of each division, and follows sound
organizational principles.
The chief executive of the Bank is the General Manager who has the
responsibility to determine the overall corporate strategy through which the
Bank will achieve its business orientation and objectives. General management
responsibility is delegated to five core divisional units comprising (a) capital
allocation, (b) consultancy, (c) human resources, (d) operations and finance,
and (e) corporate administration. The Capital Allocation Division provides
financial and managerial support to large, medium, and small-size enterprises
in almost all sectors of the economy. The financial support is in the form of
long and medium-term funds, while the managerial support cover project
formulation and implementation, strategic planning, and financial, marketing,
information and operations management. The Consultancy Division offers clients
advice in the areas of general management, project management and business
development. The Human Resource Division provides professional expertise in
corporate finance, strategic management, project and business economics,
technical analysis, and information technology to all activities of the Bank.
The Operations and Finance division raises and manages the financial resources



- 66 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 3 of 5
of the Bank, and consists of the treasury unit, the systems and accounting unit,
the legal unit and the activity administration unit.  Finally, the Corporate
Administration Division focusses on offering services to the Bank in office
acministration, personnel management, employee training, bank marketing and
promotion.
(iii) Status of Human Resources
CDB's major strength is its well qualified and trained staff. Over
the years the Bank has recruited, trained and retained a core of professional
and dedicated staff. Adequate training, on an ongoing basis is provided to staff
who need them, both in order to fulfill daily obligations as well as for
professional development. CDB also draws upon its network of associate domestic
and international consultants to provide client services that is not readily
available in-house.
(iv) Key Banking Functions
Proiect Appraisal. CDB has a developed Project Appraisal System,
and has detailed appraisal guidelines that outlines appraisal procedures, and
client qualification criteria.  CDB has a standardized format for presenting
the feasibility and appraisal reports. A new system for classifying customers
along the Basle Committee guidelines could be implemented, and decisions on
follow-up of delinquent debtors could be made based in part on this system. The
Bank should place even more emphasis on project supervision.
Treasury.   Because of the legislated interest rate ceilings, and
also because of its strategic decision not to set up a branch network system
(since CDB is not allowed to provide commercial banking services like overdraft
facilities, open letters of credit, etc.,), CDB does not collect house-hold
deposits. Unlike commercial banks that have access to low cost deposits (average
cost of funds is between 5-6%), CDB would have to compete against government
treasury bonds (at approximately 8%) for tapping market resources. To overcome
this comparative disadvantage vis-a-vis the commercial banks, the government
reached an agreement with CDB to provide it with local currency funds at 6%.
CDB's treasury function is therefore limited, despite the fact that there are
adequate skills within the Bank to pursue a more aggressive, capital market
oriented borrowing strategy.   In anticipation of the liberalization of the
financial sector, the government has decided to open CDB's capital to the
European Investment Bank, and the international Finance Corporation.
Planning. Budgeting and Performance Measurement.   CDB currently
prepares one-year and three-year strategic plans which are used to set goals,
in terms of business volume, for the various divisional units.  The plans try
to create  opportunities  in various  sectors  of  the  economy by providing
appropriate professional services, and finance in the form of loans or equity.
Profitability is monitored on a monthly basis for all revenue centers (divisional
units). The process establishes performance measures, such as collection rates,
arrears analysis, profitability, provisions, etc., for the Bank overall, as well
as for the divisional units. Further enhancement of the system is envisaged.



- 67 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 4 of 5
Time sheets are being used to allocate human resources division's (as well as
those of other common cost centers) staff time to specific projects and units.
Management Information Systems.  A considerable portion of CDB's
management information is now provided through Microvax-II. In addition, various
units of the Bank have their own PC-based applications program and data bases.
The Bank is currently meeting its MIS requirements internally, with client-
specific information being provided by customers.
Internal Audit. Because of the existing internal control procedures,
the lack of a branch network, and relatively small size of the institution's
operations, external auditors are relied upon to perform thorough audit of CDB,
semi-annually.
C.    Financial Structure and Performance
The following tables provide an overview of the key elements of
CDB's financial structure, and of key indicators of financial performance.
Cyprus Development Bank
Changes in Financial Position
1987        1988         1989        87-B8    88-89
%changLe  Xchange
---Cyprus Pounds Million---
Total Assets             28.5         28.4        35.4          -0.4     24.6
Total Loans              21.0         21.2        24.4           1.0      15.1
Capital                   2.7          2.7         2.8           0.0       3.7
Operating Expenses        0.7          0.8         1.0          14.3     25.0
Net Income                0.09         0.11        0.09         22.2    -18.2
CyD3rus Development Bank
Financial Performance Indicatols
1987        1988         1989
Loans/Borrowed Funds                  98.3        99.3         89.6
Net Profit/Equity                      3.5         4.2          3.4
Net Int. Margin/Ave Assets             2.8         2.9          2.9
Net Int. Income/Ave Assets'            1.4         1.9          2.0
Total Op. Exp/Ave Assets               2.8         3.3          3.4
Debt Service Ratio                     1.1         1.3          1.42
'Net Interest Income after Provisions
'Prepayment of CL10,374,000 Eurodollar loan to Manufacturers Hanover
Trust was excluded for this computation.



- 68 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 5 of 5
Structure.  Funding has been a major constraint to CDB's growth.
The high loans to borrowed funds ratio reflects the fact that CDB suffers from
low equity levels, and depends heavily on borrowed resources.   CDB's total
assets, for example, grew by about 25% in 1989 primarily because of a CL5 million
floating rate debenture loan stock 1999-2001, and a $30 million loan from
Sumitomo Bank, bulk of which was used for replacing existing loans.   The
significant increase in total assets in 1989 more than offset the marginal fall
in 1988.  Given the fact that lending rates are administered, and commercial
banks have access to low cost funds, CDB should try to increase over time the
proportion of its total funding mobilized competitively from the market.  In
light of the tight funding position, CDB in collaboration with the Government
is exploring the possibility of mobilizing resources at rates competitive to
those of commercial banks. Furthermore, by .ricouraging local commercial banks
to get involved in industrial restructuring project lending, CDB's activities
will have a "demonstration effect" , i.e., set an example to commercial banks,
which will make the whole financial system more competitive.
Capital Adequacy. As of December 31, 1989, CDB's Asset Based Capital
Adequacy Ratio3 was at 5.5%, substantially lower than the minimum requirement of
8% by the Central Bank of Cyprus through its circular of April 27, 1990. This
ratio relates the minimum desired level of capital to the different categories
of assets weighed by their respective degrees of risk. However, with an infusion
of CL1.2 million as paid in capital, in the form of Class B shares subscribed
by the Government on January 26, 1990, the capital adequacy ratio as of March
31, 1990 improved significantly to 10.5%. Yet, with the projected increase in
CDB's business volume, it becomes imperative that the capital adequacy ratio be
maintained close to current levels. This implies that further portfolio growth
should be conditioned on CDB's recapitalization. Equity funds from institutional
investors such as the European Investment Bank, and the International Finance
Corporation could be mobilized for this purpose.
3Based on the "International Convergence of Capital Measurement and
Capital Standards" issued by the Basle Committee on Banking Regulations and
Supervisory Practices.



- 69 -                        ANNEX 2-8
APPENDIX I
Pagel of 2
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Cyprus Development Bank Limited
THE SCHEME OF ARRANGEMENT OF MAY 1976
In May 1976 a scheme cf arrangement, introduced to restore the Bank's
financial strength, was approved by the members of the company and sanctioned
by the court.
Pursuant to the Scheme:
-     Class "A" shares, held by the public at large, ceased to have any voting
rights;
-     Class "B" shares, held by the government, became voting shares, and were
the only shares with voting rights;
-     the 400,000 issued and fully paid up class "A" shares are entitled to
the 5% fixed preferential dividend and rank, in a winding-up of the
company, in priority to all other shares, but do not confer the right to
any further participation in the company's profits or assets;
-     the government undertook that during the term of twelve years from the
date of effectiveness of the scheme to purchase for cash the 400,000
class "A" shares in issue at their nominal value of CL1 each;
-     the governunent guarantees to the holders of the existing 400,000 class
"A" shares for as long as these are not purchased by the government, the
payment of the 5% fixed preferential dividend to the effect that if the
whole or any part thereof is not paid by the Bank in any particular
year, the gove ninent will pay to the holders an amount equal to such
unpaid dividend;
-     all the Directors of the Bank are appointed by the government through
the Council of Ministers;
-     the government undertook to provide the necessary financing to the Bank
for strengthening its creditworthiness and solvency and to assist the
Bank by way of guarantees or otherwise to secure funds from external and
domestic sources.
The Bank's Memorandum and Articles of Association were amended to give effect
to the provisions of the scheme of arrangement.
Since the sanctioning of the scheme of arrangement:



- 70 -
ANNEX 2-8
APPENDIX I
Page 2 of 2
the government has purchased no class "A" shares from the public. The
total number of 400,000 shares should thus be purchased for a cash
consideration of CL400,000 by the Government by the 9th June, 1988, the
twelfth anniversary of the Scheme of Arrangement.
the government made CL3,500,000 available to the Bank, interest free,
over a period from June 1976 to December 1982, in fulfillment of its
undertaking to strengthen the creditworthiness and solvency of the Bank.
This amount represented the monies the Bank would have received by way
of principal and interest on a year-by-year basis to final settlement
from its loan and equity portfolio in the occupied area. These loans
and investments are thus, for all intents and purposes assigned in favor
of the government and consequently any monies that the Bank may receive
from the displaced debtors are for the account of the government.
The resource so received are being held by the Bank in a special reserve
which cannot be utilized for any purpose without the approval of the
government. If any balance is left in the special reserve after full
repayment of the loans concerned or otherwise dealt with, this shall be
made available to the government.
The enactment however of the Debtors Relief Law 1979-1983 precludes the
Bank from charging any interest on the debts concerned from the 15th
August, 1974. As a result, after obtaining the agreement of the
government, the. Bank appropriated CL890,000 from the special reserve
against the interest that had to be written-off under the above law.
The present balance of the reserve amounts to CL2,610,000 and
approximates to the balances outstanding on the occupied area portfolio.
For every financial year since 1976 rnclusive, the Bank paid a 5% fixed
preferential dividend on the 400,000 class "A" shares in issue.



- 71 -
ANNEX 2-8
APPENDIX II
rage l ot 2
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
IBRD Loans to CyRrus DeveloRment Bank
The Bank's first loan to CDB, amounting to US$3 million was approved
by the Board on June 13, 1972. In making the loan, the Bank's objectives were
to (1) support CDB, which was the only Cypriot bank making medium- and long-
term loans at that time, (2) encourage the development of industries as well as
tourism, (3) assist in the application of proper financial and economic criteria
for project appraisals, and (4) enable CDB to achieve a solid standing in the
financial community that would enable it to attract outside sources of funds over
time. In 1974, when the Bank loan was in effect, a major political upheaval took
place in Cyprus. Therefore, in assessing the degree to which CDB was able to
achieve the objectives underlying the first Bank loan, it is difficult to
distinguish between the lack of performance attributable to purely extraneous
events and that which is attributable to reasons internal to CDB or inherent in
the environment in which it operates. Overall, CDB's performance was only a
small  improvement  over  the period  immediately preceding  the  loan.    The
distribution of CDB's portfolio, however, remained well balanced between
manufacturing and tourism and was consistent with the economic priorities of the
nation. In terms of promoting new projects, and assisting the development of
the local capital market, CDB's contribution was not significant. Part of the
reason for this deficiency was staff constraint, which characterized CDB since
inception. Furthermore, CDB's role in development of the local capital market
was constrained by the business environment in which it operated and by its own
lack of profitability. The specific areas where CDB had not adequately met Bank
objectives relate to project appraisal, organizational development and
supervision.
The second industrial credit loan extended by the Bank to CDB was
signed on June 3, 1976 amounting to US$6 million, of which $0.75 million was
allocated to small scale industries.  The objective of this loan was to help
finance small- and medium-size industrial and tourism projects that would provide
substantial employment opportunities and foreign exchange earnings. Furthermore,
the loan was to act as conduit of Bank assistance for rebuilding CDB since the
political events of 1974, and to prepare CDB for its assigned role of stimulating
industrial development in Cyprus.   These objectives were achieved.   CDB's
financial situation was restored in spite of high arrears which were primarily
caused by external conditions.
The Bank's third loan to CDB, amounting to US$5 million was signed
on July 5, 1979, and it achieved its main stated objectives. Along the lines
of the earlier loan, the focus was on promoting actively the industrial and
tourism sectors. CDB became an innovative financial institution in Cyprus, and
built up a capable management and staff. In addition to its traditional function
as a financier of industry and tourism, CDB also provided technical, financial
and managerial advice. However, CDB continued to experience difficulties in



- 72 -
J&pPASDIX II
Page 2 of 2
controlling arrears, and had limited profitability mainly due to the prevailing
interest rate in Cyprus. These difficulties were aggravated by CDB's inability
to charge penalties on overdue interest and principal payments. However, all
Bank loans to CDB have performed satisfactorily, and were all fully disbursed
by the end of June 1983.



- 73 -
ANNEX 2-2
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Nominal Rate Structure of Core De2osits:  1283-1989
Deposit Type                                       X per annum
Demand Deposit (balance over CL 1000)              2
Savings Deposit                                    4
7 days to 3 months                                 5.0 to 5.25
3 months to less than 12 months                    5.5 to 5.75
12 months and above                                6.0 to 7.0
Source: Central Bank of Cyprus "Bulletin". Various Issues.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3-
Page I of 9
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technical Assistance Froposal
Competitiveness Enhancement and Environmental Studies. and Consultant Training
I. Background
1.    The recent policy initiatives of the Government to alcer its industrial
strategy by opening up the economy will necessitate enterprise restructuring
to upgrade the manufacturing sector's output. Anticipating increased
competition, which would result in restructuring requirements on the part of
Cypriot manufacturing, the Government has offered seminars and courses for
industrialist to become familiar with the various options available for
restructuring. Furthermore, the existing tratning institutions are gearing
new programs toward the reorientation of Cypriot labor and management toward
the EC. However, due to the relatively slow pace of economic liberalization,
and the consequent lack of competitive pressure on Cypriot industrialists,
enterprises have taken limited action.
2.    With the scheduled acceleration of the liberalization program over the
next few years, and with the prospect of a more competitive market at home and
in the EC, the need to restructure production at the company level has now
gained urgency. Similarly, the new industrial pollution legislation will
require technical and operational adjustments by industrialists in order to
comply with the resulting stricter environmental regulations and standards.
3.    The technical assistance (TA) component of the World Bank's proposed
Industrial Restructuring Loan to the Government of Cyprus seeks to assist this
endeavor by dezveloping a program to provide direct, on-site guidance and
advice by exp3rts to enterprise managers in the formulation and implementation
of restructuring and pollution control plans. While the program is aimed at
all manufacturing firms affected by the changes in the incentive regime, the
primary candidates will be firms that are willing to undertake concrete
enterprise restructuring and pollution control. The TA component is outlined
below.
II. Objectives and Goals
4.    To help industrialists evaluate their production and develop
restructuring and pollution control programs, it is proposed that TA be
provided to help locate, facilitate, and finance on-site evaluation and advice
by expert foreign and local consultants. This TA will therefore help
encourage firms to take immediate action to restructure in anticipation of the
increasingly competitive environment.
5.    By marketing such consulting services directly to the industrial
enterprise, TA would also fulfill another important goal, i.e., enhancing
Cyprus' consulting capacity in the area of industrial operations and pollution



- 75 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 9
control. The domestic consultancy expertise will be enhanced through a
combination of on-the-job experience with established international experts
complemented by more formal training for employees of local consulting firms.
6.    In addition to these direct and indirect benefits, the program's
implementation would enhance the cooperation among public and private sector
organization involved in industrial structuring and pollution control. A
network has already been designed and established for the combined private and
public efforts, but the operational structure has been delayed. The
integration among enterprises, consultantn banks will be enhanced through
development of this multi-level assistance structure under the World Bank and
other similarly focused TA programs.
III. Basic Principles
7.    The primary objective of this TA program is to provide expert advice to
Cypriot firms contemplating enterprise restructuring and pollution control
plans. Tnis advice will come through a thorough study [entitled,
"Competitiveness Enhancement (or Environmental) Study" (CES)] of the firm's
competitive or environmental position, carried out by a team of consultant-
experts (foreign consultants would preferably come from the EC). Following
the principle of company-level approach for restructuring and pollution
control studies, the consultant team will work for the enterprise requesting
the study since the bulk of the financing will be borne by the enterprise.
Naturally, for confidentiality considerations, the CES itself will be the
property of the enterprise.
8.    The TA program will finance two areas to help speed this proces.  First
is the establishment of the Consultant Clearing House (CCH) for a temporary
period of time (estimated to be 3 years) to initialize the process, establish
a database of consulting services, and help develop the capacity of Cypriot
industrialists to carry, out this process on a fee basis if it continues to be
desirable. Second, a small portion of the total cost of the CES will be
provided as a grant, and will be used as an incentive for firms to evaluate
their operations in advance of the accelerated liberalization program.
9.    The broad guiding principles behind the implementation of the TA
component are as follows:
i. An industrial CCH managed by local professioral and support staff,
and benefiting from expert advice from a foreigr expert management
consultant, will be stationed in Nicosia, Cyprus to administer the
project. Financing of the CCH will be made available through the
proposed World Bank Restructuring Loan to the Government of Cyprus.
ii. The CCH will be established as a nonprofit institution reporting to a
five vember executive board consisting of the officials appointed by
the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Planning Commission, the
Employers and Industrial Federation, Ministry of Finance, the Chamber
of Commerce.



- 76 -
ANNEX 3- 1
Page 3 of 9
iii. Proposa1l for enterprise restructuring or environmental studies,
referred to as CES will be developed by local consultants, (and
perhaps banks) at the request of Cypriot manufacturing firms and
submitted to the CCH for partial funding.
iv. The CES will be carried out by teams of local and foreign consultants
identified by the enterprise, with the assistance of the CCH. Within
yet-to-be established guidelines, discretion will be provided to the
CCH, in the selection of the consultants and the assurance of quality
studies. A wide variance in the scope and depth of each CES should
be allowed, however.
v. The CCH will technically and financially evaluate each study
proposal, ensuring that the consultant team fulfill accreditation and
other guideline. For projects proposals under CL 5,000 the CCH will
have full discretion in the approval or denial. For projects greater
than CL 5,000, the CCH will provide written recommendations to the
Executive Board, who will vote on funding and send the proposal
through the standard procurement process.
vi. At the time of project approval, partial (see vii) funding will be
made available from a revolving fund, entitle Competitiveness
Enhancement and Environmental Fund (CEF) established at the CCH under
the World Bank Industrial Restructuring Loan.
vii. The financing of the CES would be on a cost sharing basis with 40
percent of cost financed by the enterprise (at the time of project
approval), a portion provided by the CEF as a loan (30 to 40
percent), and the remainder provided by the CEF as a grant. The
criteria for the higher grant portion is based upon whether the study
leads to a project (see ix).
viii. As financing from the CEF will begin after the approval of the
project proposal, local consultants could recover, retroactively,
preparation costs for projects accepted for funding.
ix. While the enternise's share of CES cost will be 40 percent of the
contract fee, the relative share the grant portions will increase
from the 20 percent initial levels to 30 percent, if the study leads
to a restructuring project on the part of the enterprise. Approval
for an increase in the grant proportion will follow the same
procedure as the original project proposals.
x. At the option of the enterprise, retroactive financing of both the
loan and up-front portion of the cost of the CES can be made
available undex the credit line established under the propose'4 World
Bank Industrial Restructuring Loan.



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 9
xi. The CCH will fulfill all accounting, financial report keeping,
disbursement and collection responsibilities under the this TA
component of the proposed project.
IV. Institutional Framework and Organization
10.   The responsibility for the initial stages of implementation of the TA
(e.g., legal establishment of the CCH, and the organization of the executive
board) will be with CDB.
11.   The Consulting Clearing House (CCH) -- The administration of the CEF
and the CTF will be the responsibility of CCH, a small unit established under
the Project in Nicosia, staffed by one senior manager, one deputy and two
support staff. CCH's role will be to assist firms in identifying appropriate
consultants for development project proposals, provide initial recommendations
regarding their approval, and to help locate accredited consulting teams to
fulfill the project, assist in locating training programs for local
consultants and to establish a database of foreign and local consultants, and
organize specialized studies.
12.   More specifically, the CCH will:
i. Promote and market the concept of the CES;
ii.  Prepare guidelines for submitting project proposals;
iii.  Assist in the development of project proposals for CES;
iv.  Ensure the legitimacy and competence of local consulting firms;l
v.  Recommend foreign consulting firms and assist in the development of
specific proposals, upon request;
vi.  Field and evaluate proposals for individual CES in terms of funding
possibilities;
vii.  Administer the grant and loan portion of the contract fee;
viii. Monitor the payment of the local and overseas consultants;
ix.  Compile a computerized information base of overseas consultants and
relevant project information; and
x.  Organize a study of the Cyprus Standards Institute (CYS) on how to
upgrade its capacity to conform with ISO 9000 (see paras. 21-24).
13.   The Executive Board -- The CCH will periodically report to a five member
executive board with periodic operational reports and for the approval of
funding decisions for projects greater than CL 5,000 (including both the



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-1I
Page 4 of 9
xi. The CCH will fulfill all accounting, financial report keeping,
disbursement and collection responsibilities under the this TA
component of the proposed project.
IV. Institutional Framework and Organization
10.   The responsibility for the initial stages of implementation of the TA
(e.g., legal establishment of the CCH, and the organization of the executive
board) will be with CDB.
11.   The Consulting Clearing House (CCH) --  The administration of the CEF
and the CTF will be the responsibility of CCH, a small unit established under
the Project in Nicosia, staffed by one senior manager, one deputy and two
support staff. CCH's role will be to assist firms in identifying appropriate
consultants for development project proposals, provide initial recommendations
regarding their approval, and to help locate accredited consulting teams to
fulfill the project, assist in locating training programs for local
consultants and to establish a database of foreign and local consultants, and
organize specialized studies.
12.   More specifically, the CCH will:
i. Promote and market the concept of the CES;
ii.  Prepare guidelines for submitting project proposals;
iii.  Assist in the development of project proposals for CES;
iv. Ensure the legitimacy and competence of local consulting firms;l
v.  Recommend foreign consulting firms and assist in the development of
specific proposals, upon request;
vi.  Field and evaluate proposals for individual CES in terms of funding
possibilities;
vii.  Administer the grant and loan portion of the contract fee;
viii. Monitor the payment of the local and overseas consultants;
ix. Compile a computerized information base of overseas consultants and
relevant project information; and
x.  Organize a study of the Cyprus Standards Institute (CYS) on how to
upgrade its capacity to conform with ISO 9000 (see paras. 21-24).
13.   The Executive Board -- The CCH will periodically report to a five member
executive board with periodic operational reports and for the approval of
funding decisions for projects greater than CL 5,000 (including both the



- 79 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 6 of 9
involved in the Competitive Enhancement and Environmental Studies. The fund
will also be administered by the CCH, with the assistance of the Industrial
Training Authority (ITA). Alternatively, if the ITA agrees, the fund can be
established by the ITA, with funding decisions made under a coordinated
umbrella between the ITA and the CCH.
19.   The nature of the training should concentrate on bringing in foreign
experts in the field, in order to include the largest number of Cypriot
consultants in the program and to provide a atmosphere of cross fertilization
among the trainees. For a firm to have its staff including in the training
program, the local consultant must submit a proposal for training to the CCH
and to the Industrial Training Authority. As the training fund is intended to
concentrate on competent local consulting firms which have expressed interest
in participating in the Competitiveness Enhancement or Industrial Pollution
Control Studies, preference should be given to employees of those firms which
have produced a proposal at the request of an enterprise.
20.   It is estimated that this type of training program costs around $10,000
per training week. Given a fifty percent cost sharing between the CTF and the
consulting firm, it is proposed that the CTF be established with $350,000 to
buy 70 training weeks.
VII.  Study on Cyirus Standards Institute
21.   Recent industry experiences indicate that products manufactured to
quality standards are being increasingly demanded by quality conscious
consumers. This trend is particularly noticeable by Cypriot exporters in the
more recent shift towards the new and relatively sophisticated markets of the
EC.   There is a corresponding and growing awareness, within Government and
industry alike, of the need to upgrade the quality of manufactured goods (and
services) through the introduction of appropriate, internationally accepted
standards.
22.   The adoption of ISO 9000, in particular, as the European quality
standard is a clear sign of the focus, within European markets, on quality
recognition. Organizations, both suppliers and customers, not certified to
this standard are realizing the commercial threat posed by noncompliance.
However, successful recognition has meant a surprising spread of benefits for
many companies including increased control, reduction in rejects and a better
monitor of overall performance.
23.   The Cyprus Organizat'on for Standards and Control of Quality (CYS) is
the national standards body residing within the Ministry of Industry and
Commerce (MIC).  The World Bank appraisal mission identified weaknesses in the
CYS capacity to keep up with the new standards being introduced, particularly
in the EC. Areas such as testing facilities, information flow, and technical
software and hardware seem to be deficient areas.
24.   As one of its first activities, the CCH will organize a study by



- 80 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 7 of 9
technical experts of the CYS and its ability to keep up with the rapidly
changing standards around the world. If the CYS is found to be deficient, the
study will go further to provide the recommendations for an action plan aimed
at building the CYS capacity.
VIII. Supervision and Reporting Reauirements
25.   The CCH will be required to prepare a quarterly and end-year report on
the activities of the CEF and the Training Fund. The reports should be issued
to the Executive Board of the CCH and copied to the World Bank. The purpose
of the quarterly report would be to evaluate the operations for the past
quarter and chart direction for the coming quarter. A channel should be
established which would allow reaction by the various agencies as well as
input into the CCH's future operation.
IX. Cost Estimate
26.   The cost of the project is broken down into three components, the
establishment and operations of the CCH, the CEF established to finance CES.
As described in detail below, the total project cost for a three-year period
would equal about US$3 million, of which enterprises would finance US$1
million and US$2 million would be financed under the proposed project. Of the
US$2 million portion, US$100,000 will go toward establishing the CCH (i.e.,
the GOC will provide the local costs equal to US$400,000 foreign exchange
component of cost); between US$500,000 and US$750,000 will be grants provided
by the Government to the industrial sector, and the remaining amount (between
US$750,000 and US$1 million) will be disbursed to the industrial sector as a
loan.
27.   The cost breakdown of the project is as follows:
A. Administrative Unit
1. Staff Cost
Position         Yearly Cost          Total      Local      Foreign
$                $          $            $
Administrator       60,000 per year         180,000   180,000
Assistant           30,000 per year          90,000    90,000
Advisor Fee         150 days @ 800 per day 120,000                120,000
Advisor Travel                               20,000                20,000
2 support Staff    15,000 per year           90.000    90.000
Total Staff                                 500,000   360,000    140,000



- 81 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 8 of 9
2. Facility Cost
Item             Yearly Cost          Total      Local      Foreign
$                S          $            $
Facility            ($7,000 per year)        21,000    21,000
Furnishings                                   5,000     4,000       1,000
Automobile                                   12,000    10,000       2,000
Business Expenses  ($3,333 per year)         10,000      5,000      5,000
Computer & Software, Misc. exp.              15-000    _           15.000
Total Staff                                  63,000    40,000      23,000
B.   Comnetitiveness Enhancement and Environmental Fund
28.   A standard CES is envisioned to require approximately 6 days for one
overseas expert consultant and 10 days each for 2 local consultants. The
description below indicates that 200 projects would be financed at a cost of
US$13,500 per project.
Item             Unit Cost       Total      Local      Foreien
O           $          $           $
overseas Consultant   800 per day    5,000                  5,000
Local Consultant       300 per day    6,000      6,000
Subsis. (overseas cons.) 100 per day   500                    500
Travel (overseas cons.)                2.000                2.000
Total Staff                           13,500     6,000      7,500
Up-front cost to enterprise                      6,000
Loan to enterprise from CEF                                 5,000 - 3,750
Grant to enterprise from CEF                                2,500 - 3,750
29.   Assuming that the CCH could process between 5-6 projects per month, the
total number of studies financed over three years would be estimated at 200.
Therefore, the fund should finance US$2.5 million in project costs, of which
US$1 million would be provided by the enterprise, and $1.5 million would be
provided by the CEF. Of the $1.5 million, as between 33 ($500,000) and 50
percent ($750,000) would be offered as a grant by the Government. The
remaining portion of the US$1.5 million financed under the Project will be a
loan allowing an increased number of studies, new activities, or just reserves
against contingencies.



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-1
Page 9 of 9
C.   Summary and Sources of Financing
Component               Cost           Source of
($000)         Financing
Admin. Unit (foreign cost)         163          GOC borrows from
the World Bank
Admin. Unit (local cost)           400          GOC borrows from
the World Bank
Study on CYS                        90          GOC borrows from the
World Bank
Competitive Enhanc. Fund         1,500          GOC borrows from
the World Bank
Up-front Cost of CES
(local cost)                    1,000           Enterprises
Consultant Training Fund           350          GOC borrows from
______  the World Bank
Total Project Cost               3,503



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 4
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Environmental Research & Training Institute
Description & Costs
A.       Backgroun
The steady economic growth of the Cypriot economy over the last two
decades has been accompanied by a considerable threat to the country's
environmental quality. Increasing environmental awareness and the expectation
of joining the EC have led the Government to undertake several institutional,
technical, and policy measures in order to protect the island's environmental
resources. One of these measures is the introduction of legislation on pollution
from industrial sources while preparation of similar legislation on pollution
from other sources is underway. Moreover, this regulatory framework is planned
to cover all the remaining aspects of the environment spectrum (e.g., national
parks, nature reserves, cultural property, land use planning, wildlife
protection, etc.).
B.       Rationale
Adjustment to the new regulatory requirements will create demand for
research, training and consulting services from a private sector which is
unfamiliar with the new concepts and seeks to minimize the costs of compliance.
There will also be demand from the public sector on ways and means to increase
the cost effectiveness of compliance with the new regulations through economic
incentives and self enforcement. Inevitable conflicts between the regulators
and private developers and industries will also generate demand for objective
scientific analysis and documentation by independent consultants. Environmental
impact assessments are technically  complex, interdisciplinary studies that
cannot be done internally by private developers and individual industries.
Finally, demand is anticipated for integration of environmental considerations
into the appraisal of public and large private projects.
In light of the expected growth of the demand for profescional advice,
consulting services and related training, as well as the existing professional
capability in Cyprus, it is both timely and feasible to establish an
Environmental Research and Training Institute (ERTI). The Cyprus Development
Bank (CDB), as a development institution and a bridge betwean the private and
public sectors, is in an ideal position to launch such a pioneer initiative, by
establishing an Environmental Research and Training Unit (ERTU) within its own
structure.   Such a unit could, in a few years, develop into an independent
institute and regional center of excellence in areas such as business and the
environment, development and the environment, and economic policy and the
environment.



- 84 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 4
B.       Objectives
The general objective of the proposed Institute is to develop and serve
as a center of excellence in environmental research, technical assistance and
training that would:
(a) Contribute to the environmental sustainability of the economic
development of Cyprus.
(b) Contribute to the resolution of development/environment and
public/private sector conflicts, through the application of
scientific knowledge, empirical research and policy analysis.
(c) Promote the development of professional and consulting services
in an area of growing market potential.
C.       ScoRe of Oierations
The ERTI's activities will be demand-driven.   Therefore,  not all
specific objectives and instruments would be developed and utilized from the
start.   It is envisaged, however, that the main instruments will be applied
research, consulting services and training, although eventual participation in
longer-term assistance and environmental education and awareness is not ruled
out. While initially emphasis will be placed on pollution control and land use
planning, the Unit, and eventually the Institute, will built capability for
conducting research, supplying consulting services, and providing solutions in
the following areas:
(a) Natural Resource Management (land and soil resources; surface and
ground water; fisheries, wildlife and biological diversity; energy
and mineral resources; national park management; unique sites,
habitats and cultural heritage assets).
(b) Environmental Management (water, air, noise and visual pollution;
solid and hazardous wastes; haphazard urban and tourism
development; marine and coastal oil pollution; occupational safety
and accident risks).
D.       Organization. Staffing and Training Reguirements
Initially, the Unit will have a very simple organizational and
administrative structure, and very few staff of its own. As part of CDB, the
Unit will hs re access to and benefit from CDB's existing organizational and
administrative structure and professional staff. Yet it is important that the
Unit be semi-autonomous, w'th its own Director reporting directly to the General
Manager of the CDB.



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 4
The organization structure of the Unit is given below:
Director
Manager
Admin. ,Finance
& Secretarial
Support
Research       Consulting/         Technical       Information
&         Environmental        Support &       Dissemination    Training
Policy          Impact           Data Base         Awareness
Development     Assessment
The staff of the Unit in its initial phase would be as follows:
*    Director
*    Manager
*    Senior Economist
*    Junior Economist
*    Environmental Impact Assessment Specialist
*    Environmental/Chemical Engineer
*    Lawyer (part-time)
*    Computer Programmer/Statistician
*    Budget/Administrative Assistant
*    Secretary



- 86 -
ANNEX 3-2
Page 4 of 4
In the first two years, the Unit will rely extensively on outslde
experts and consultants while it is being developed.   It will also require
training of its staff in the following areas:
*    environmental economics
*    environmental impact assessment
*    risk assessment                    )
*    valuation techniques               )   If not already required
*    project appraisal                  )
E.       Resource Reguirements
The estimated human and physical resources required to establish and
set up the Unit in its first two years, and their respective costs, are:
Cost
Local       Forein            Total
----------Us$      oo.-
Foreign Consultants (15 man months)          -           240              240
Local Staff/Consultants (72 man months)    250             -              250
Office Equipment & Software                  50           15               65
Training Expenses                            20           20               40
320          275             595
m:)sm\cy5./f&
11/15/6



- 87 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 2
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Industrial Environment Specialist - Terms of Reference
Oualifications:          A minimum Masters' degree in chemical or industrial
process engineering, and preferably a post graduate
degree in environmental engineering or in
environmental sciences.
snerience:               At least 10 years actual industrial experience in
pollution control, particularly in textile or chemical
industries. Additional experience with an
environmental regulatory agency would be desirable.
Experience in the areas of occupational health and
safety in the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
process, would also be desirable.
Language:                English
Job DescriDtion:  -      Assist and advise a five-person Cypriot team that
would be the focal point for all inquiries from
enterprises regarding assistance to comply with the
Government environmental and pollution control
requirements.
Advise enterprises on actions required to prepare
subprojects for review by participating financial
institutions (PFIs), including guidance in the
preparation for required EIAs.
Review completed EIAs when requested by the PFIs.
Assist enterprises in undertaking necessary surveys of
their existing plants to determine their current
status in relation to the Government environmental and
pollution control requirements. This assistance would
include advice on survey terms of reference, review of
the completed survey, recommendations on measures to
bring the enterprise into compliance with the
Government requirements, and assistance in preparing
detailed compliance plans.
Advise enterprises on clean technologies, and methods
to reduce pollution and improve process efficiencies.



- 88 -
ANN@& 3- 3
Page 2 of 2
Assist enterprises to identify suitable consulting
companies (domestic and foreign) with the capability
of preparing EIAs, undertaking surveys, and advising
on pollution control.
Remain available to provide enterprises with further
advice, as may be required to complete subproject
preparation and implementation.
Prepare evaluation reports highlighting the successes
and failures of the program as a vehicle for providing
enterprise with assistance in the environmental and
pollution control areas. This report will include
specific recommendations and proposals for future
action.
The Industrial Environment Specialists would assist FI
in the recruitment of the Cypriot members of the team,
who would have education and professional
qualifications similar to those of the Specialist.
These requirements, however, would need to be adjusted
as appropriate, given the relative scarcity of such
specialists in Cyprus.



- 89 -
AUNNE 3-4
Page 1 of 2
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Enhancing Environmental Auditing CaRacity
Expert(s) in the field of industrial liquid effluents and treatment and
air pollution control systems.
Expert(s) are required for:
-     organization of and provision of guidance to the Factory
Inspectorate for supervision and evaluation of industrial projects
in the field of pollution control;
=     provision of advice to industrial pollution control consultants,
enterprises, technical industrial personnel, etc., on measures to
be taken by industry for compliance with the Government
environmental and pollution control requirements/standards; and
-     on-the-job training of the technical personnel of the
environmental auditing unit as well as of other technical staff
within industry, in the field of industrial pollution control,
including EIAs, taking into account the specific needs of each
group.
Estimated needs in man-months:              12
Estimated cost:                             US$240,000
2. Training
Training for Cypriot counterparts abroad is anticipated to be necessary
as follows:
Study visits to agencies/organizations dealing with environmental
auditing, to gain practical experience/knowledge on
organizational, institutional and technical matters.
Study visits to industries where specific types of wastewater
treatment plants and/or air pollution control systems are
installed and operating.
Seminars/short courses/workshops on environmental auditing, EIA,
antipollution measures, process evaluation, etc.



- 9o -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 2
Estimated needs in fellowship-months:       10
Estimated cost:   Travel and subsistence: US$ 60,000
Seminar/course fees:    USS 40.Q0Q
Sub-total:               US$100,000
3.  Equipment and Instrumets
Equipment (computer hardware and software) and laboratory instruments
will be needed for sampling, monitoring and control of industrial pollution.
This equipment will be used:
-     for technical data collection at the stage prior to the design of
pollution control systems
-     for the assessment of performanco. of the installed pollution
control systems.
Estimated cost:                      US$ 70,000
4.  Contingencies:                          USS 10.000
Total Cost:                          US$420,000



- 91 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 1 of 3
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Regulating the Coogerative Banking System
Proposal for SimRlified Legislation
Introduction
Cyprus' banking system is stable, however, it is segmented into
two groups: (i) the commercial banks, and (ii) the cooperative societies
engaged in banking activities. Commercial banks have been steadily losing
their market share to the cooperatives, whose share of total deposits in the
banking system increased from 19.4X in 1974 to 33X in 1989. This reflects the
fact that although in principle the cooperatives are required by the
Commissioner of Cooperative Development to maintain liquidity ratios identical
to those of commercial banks, in practice it has been much lower. The
supervision of the cooperatives by the Commissioner of the Department of
Cooperative Development, for example, is more informal and non-binding in
character, e.g., general regulations and/or penalties are lacking, and
liquidity requirements are less strictly enforced. Strengthening the
regulatory and supervisory framework of cooperatives would be desirable so
that it conforms, as much as possible, with those of the commercial banks.
Furthermore, commercial banks and cooperatives need to meet EC's banking
requirements since Cyprus has applied to become a full member of the European
Community. A proposal for simplified legislation is given below.
Objectives
1)    developing prudential regulations adapted to the special nature of
cooperatives
2)    strengthening the supervisory functions of the Commissioner of
Cooperatives
3)    integrating the cooperative network.
The proposal for strengthening the regulatory and supervisory framework of
cooperatives is as follows:
a)    Liquidity.  The Commissioner of Cooperatives will be empowered to
enforce compliance of liquidity requirements. The seasonally
adjusted liquidity requirement, which will not be lower than those
for commercial banks, will be based on the cooperative's
historical experience over the past 5-7 years. Cooperatives not in
compliance with this requirement will not be allowed to extend
long term loans (of say, more than five years average maturity),
and in the worst cases new lending by the concerr,ed cooperative
will be curtailed.



- 92 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page 2 of 3
The Cooperative Central Bank (CCB) will invest the deposits of the
cooperatives in liquid assets (currently partly invested in long
term loans), thereby enabling it to draw on those liquid assets
even when a large number of cooperatives face liquidity problems.
Liquidity requirement for permanent deposits, however, will not be
necessary since withdrawal would be permitted only under special
circumstances such as at retirement or withdrawal as a member of a
cooperative.
b)    Solvency.  Cooperatives will be required to achieve, over a four-
year period, a weighted risk adjusted assets ratio of 8X to
conform to EC standards. The Commissioner will schedule a phased
introduction of this solvency requirement. Cooperatives not in
compliance with such a schedule will be invited for discussions
with the Commissioner, who would then give advise or issue
directives on lending policies, and on ways to increase own funds.
c)    Provisioning.  Specific provision will be made for bad loans.  For
example, if the value of the collateral is lower than the
outstanding amount of the loan, provisions will equal the
difference. Debtors in arrears with principal and interest
payments, will be put under pressure, and legal proceedings will
be undertaken with the help of persons appointed by the
Commissioner. Furthermore, specific provisions will also have to
be made against these loans.
d)    Exposure Limits.  In 1987 the Parliament withdrew the
Commissionet's power to set the upper limit on individual loan
size. Since then, the members determined the ceilings during the
annual meetings. For the proper regulation of the cooperatives,
changes in these amounts will be done with the permission of the
Commissioner, who would implement the change after careful
consideration of the cooperative's development.
e)    Internal Controls.  In many cooperatives, especially the smaller
ones, all loan-related transactions, are conducted by one or two
persons. To properly supervise loan processing, in the larger
cooperatives, and to avoid problem loans like those in
cooperatives of Askas and Pallouriotissa, loan processing will go
through the following separate steps.
i)   A loan officer will be responsible for the examination of the
loan, the collateral, and for the preparation of the loan
agreement. He will pay special attention to collateral
evaluation, which will be done by an authorized evaluator
(chartered surveyor).
ii) The Secretary/Manager will be responsible for the
approval of the loan (which would also need the



- 93 -
ANNEX 3-5
Page. 3 of 3
endorsement of the Management Committee of the
Cooperative).
iii) The cashier will be responsible for the disbursement of the
loan.
iv) The bookkeeper will record the transaction, and where the
recording is computerized, none of the persons mentioned
earlier will be allowed to make entries or changes to the
accounts.
For the withdrawal of deposits -especially large transactions-
more than one officer's signature will be required.
In smaller cooperatives, where such a separation of
responsibilities is not always possible, the Commissioner will
have an important input in the organization of the cooperatives.
Also close attention in the form of frequent inspections by his
officers, will be undertaken.
f)    Enforcement Powers and Problem Cooperatives.  Cooperatives will be
obliged to inform the Commissioner as soon as a problem arises,
which could potentially affect the health of the cooperative, or
could hinder approval of annual accounts by the Auditor.
In case of financial problems the Commissioner will have the power
to dissolve the Management Committee of a Cooperative and appoint
an Administrator for upto two years. The Administrator's
permission will be required for undertaking all important
transactions, and he will prepare the selection of a new
Management Committee. The power to appointment a new Secretary
will be returned to the Commissioner.
If members of the Management Committee of a Cooperative fail to
comply with the regulations set by the Commissioner resulting in
losses, those members will be held responsible, even after their
resignation.
Finally, an Advisory Committee for Cooperatives (consisting of
persons from Industry, Trade Unions and Consumers, and as foreseen
in the Cooperative Law 1987) that will advise the Commissioner in
critical cooperative issues will be established



- 94 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 1 of 3
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Training of ParticiRating Banks' (PBs) Staff
1.        Background:   The experience and quality in credit evaluation and
enterprise appraisal varies among the four potential PBs.'/ For most PBs, credit
evaluation entails an overall review of the financial and organizational
background of the enterprise. This primarily involves financial analysis, whilc
economic evaluation and environmental impact assessment are not normally included
as part of PBs' subproject appraisal. For most PBs, experience in term lending
for industry is limited since the main focus of their lending activity has been
short term.  CDB is an exception with solid term lending experience and its
appraisal guidelines include both financial and economic analysis.
2.        Training of PBs' staff in conducting comprehensive financial and
economic appraisals, including environmental impact assessments, especially for
industrial restructuring investments, would be essential to the effective
implementation of the credit component of the proposed Project. In addition,
the training program will also include some understanding of, and therefore, a
better appreciation of industry characteristics such as production inputis, scope
of operation, technological choices and key environmental considerations.
Depending on individual PB's experience with the Bank, the training content would
need to include also familiarization with Bank procedures.
3.        Obiectives of Training Program. The main goal of the proposed training
program is to strengthen enterprise appraisal and supervision capability of
existing staff at the three PBs, with specifiu reference to term-lending for
industry. The program will focus on financial, economic, marketing, technical,
environmental, and management aspects of enterprise appraisal, as well as on
essential matters related to project supervision. It is also expected that the
experience of the participants will filter through the institution and will
contribute to reducing the incidence of bad projects due to deficient appraisal
and thus to an overall healthier portfolio.
4.        Training Program Content.   The training curriculum will cover, in
depth, a range ot methodologies applicable to project appraisal and supervision,
as detailed below:
(a)  A review of appraisal coverage to include:   existing enterprise
operations (management and organizational systam), markets and
marketing, project design, selection of appropriate production
1/ Cyprus Development Bank (CDB), Bank of Cyprus, Cyprus Popular Bank,
and Hellenic Bank.



- 95 -
&ANNEX 3- 6
Page 2 of 3
technology   and   arrangements   for   investment   implementation,
environmental impact assessment, project costs, procurement and
disbursement procedures, financial, economic and risk analysis;
(b)  A review of financial analysis techniques to include:   cash flow
analysis, capital budgeting, projection techniques dealing with
revenue, production costs and inflation, financial rate of return and
sensitivity analysis;
(c) A review of economic analysis to include: adjustments for taxes and
tariff, shadow-pricing of inputs and outputs, economic rate of return
and sensitivity analysis;
(d) Environmental impact assessment of projects, to include industrial
pollution, overview of pollution control techniques, analysis of
enterprise environmental control plans; and
(e) A review of project supervision techniques, including a review of the
role  of  the  PBs  in  project  supervision,  including  reporting
requirements,  and  supervision  of  physical  implementation  and
procurement.
5.        It is estimated that between 20 to 30 PBs' staff will participate in
the training program which will span over three years, with two courses to be
conducted each year. The duration of each course will be two weeks, although
some adjustments could be made, depending on the experience of the participants.
Due to the urgent need for such training, an initial training course will be
conducted by CDB staff. This will serve to provide key PB staff with the skills
and techniques on project financial, economic and environmental analysis.
6.        Participants will be nominated by each PB, from middle to senior level
officers with at least three years of experience in loan appraisal approval or
supervision experience in the credit/loan marketing department.   It would be
desirable that participants have a university degree in a relevant discipline
such as business administration, accounting, economics, marketing, although
backgrounds in other disciplines such as engineering, mathematics and physical
science will be adequate.
7.        The program would include one or a combination of the following:
formal lectures, selected readings, case studies, group discussions, simulations,
exercises and tests. Individual as well as group work will be emphasized. At
the end of the program, each participant will have applied each concept or "tool"
at least once in some form of exercise and have received feedback on his
understanding and success in application.  More time will be devoted to the
market and technical aspects of project appraisal because in the Bank's
experience with PBs reflect analytical weaknesses on these aspects.
8.        The program will introduce a framework for decision analysis which
enables credit analysts to systematically formulate decision criteria and



- 96 -
ANNEX 3-6
Page 3 of 3
evaluate options for all types of decisions.   This process facilitates the
evaluation of decisions in various aspects of enterprise appraisal. As part of
the training program, simulated appraisal of a subproject will be made where the
working teams will present the results to a "Board" for approval.   It is
anticipated that the review and presentation techniques will be taught to enable
the participants to carefully explain the important aspects of the analysis and
to defend their recommendations. Depending on the extent of computer usage by
the participants in their respective institution, the program will introduce,
as required, a computer model for use in project evaluation.
9.        Organization.  In order for this training program to be implemented
effectively and successfully it is essential that an agency or institute already
established in Cyprus and experienced in development banking will be entrusted
with its implementation.   The Cyprus Development Bank  (CDB)  is the only
development bank in the country and it could fulfill this role.   CDB could
develop an ongoing training curriculum in various banking and related disciplines
at the Cyprus International Institute of Management, which was established in
1990 in Nicosia. This business school could utilize CDB's experienced staff,
and also draw upon instructors from local banks, supported from time to time by
expatriate consultants. For the training program under the proposed loan, CDB
could plan, coordinate and implement the program at the business school, assisted
by consultants as needed.   The business school will provide the required
facilities such as classrooms, equipment, and course materials.
10.       As the implementing institution, CDB will review and assess the quality
of the course through interviews with participants and trainer(s) and recommend
adjustments to be incorporated in future courses, as deemed necessary, to make
the program more effective.
11.        In consultation with the PBs,  CDB will prepare annual training
programs which will be submitted to the Bank for review and approval.  It is
recommended that after the first year of project implementation and after two
training courses have been conducted, to undertake a program review to assess
the course results and make specific recommendations for the next courses.
12.       Staffing.  To ensure the effective preparation of the program, it is
proposed that CDB suggest to the Bank two qualified and experienced trainers.
One senior trainer would be internationally recruited for a period of about 24
months and would be responsible for assisting CDB in the overall organization
of the program, preparation of syllabus and materials for the courses and setting
up a review process. The second trainer would be a Cypriot (either existing CDB
staff or to be recruited) with experience in project evaluation methodologies.
13.       Cost.  Each participant that undergoes the training from the PB will
be charged a commercial fee that recovers a reasonable amount of the total cost
of providing such training, by the business school.



- 97 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 2
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Development of Capital Market
Terms of Reference
A.    Objectives
The primary objective of developing Cyprus' capital market is to
increase the volume, and diversify the source of medium- and lcng-term financial
resources available for the country's economic development. This would offer
greater freedom of choice to both the providers as well as users of capital, not
only in terms of institutions but also in terms of instruments.  It would allow
as much flexibility and freedom of action to the institutions comprising the
system as is prudent from the point of view of the system's overall stability.
Collectively, the recommendations to be made, when implemented, should result
in better, more diversified financial intermediation services, being offered at
lower costs, thus furthering the overall economic development of the country.
B.    Constraints to CaDital Market Growth
Cyprus' Capital market development is impeded by several factors,
both on the supply and on the demand sides. Four major factors are responsible
for the lack of an active capital market in Cyprus.   First, the ceiling on
domestic interest rates prevent efficient financial intermediation and term
tranaformation. Second, capital controls prevent free movement of capital in
and uat of Cyprus. Third, the numerous small, family-owned Cypriot enterprises
operate under a relatively protected environment and they tend to rely heavily
on internal funds generation to meet their growth and modernization needs, which
in turn limits their access to term financing. Finally, financing the fiscal
deficit preempts the private sector's long-term capital needs. While the banking
system has been able to meet short-term credit requirements, long-term funds
availability has been inadequate.
C.    The Project
1.     Obiectives
The project's goal is to focus attention on the regulatory, fiscal
and institutional aspects of Cyprus' incipient securities market, and to develop
an  action plan  to  implement  the  policy  recommendations.    The  existing
deficiencies in the basic framework of law need to be corrected,  and the
institutional infrastructure needed to support an active and stable securities
market should be clearly identified and programed.  Attention will be paid to
the following areas to suggest appropriate detailed implementation procedures
as it relates to (a) legislative and institutional reforms for capital market
development, (b) accounting and auditing standards for listing corporate shares
in the stock exchange, and (c) timing, sequencing and implementation of items
(a) and (b).



- 98 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 2
Specific issues which need to resolved by the consultants with regard
to capital market development include:
(a)   a reform program for enhancing the supply of shares and bonds
available in the market, inter alia, reform of company law,
securities law, a code for mutual funds and mutual fund management,
and listing requirements
(b)   tax reforms to stimulate capital market development
(c)   institutional strengthening to stimulate the secondary market, inter
alia, setting up of rating agencies, supervision of securities
market, underwriting structu're and practice, and trading practices
(d)   measures  to  enhance  protection  of  investors,  e.g.,  minority
shareholders' rights, conflict of interest among shareholders,
regulating insider trading, etc.
(e)   the potential role of the public sector, in particular,
the Social Security System in providing long term
funding to the securities market
2.    Timing
The Project should take about six months to complete, and would
involve 10 man-months of work time requiring consulting services of a firm
specialized in Capital Market development.   Services of several consultants
specialized in legal and regulatory issues, international accounting and
auditing standards, as well as taxatior will be required.   The Project team
should commence work in Nicosia on July 1, 1991 and provide a final report for
implementation beginning in early L992, detailing the timing and priorities of
actions to be taken to accelerate the growth and development of Cyprus, capital
market. This report should be made available to the Central Bank of Cyprus and
the Ministry of Finance by December 31, 1991.
3.    Costs
Man weeks         Rate ($/week)         Total
Consultant fees            40                 5000             200,000
Travel and Subsistence                                          50,000
Miscellaneous                                                   10,000
Total                                                    260,000



- 99 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 1 of 6
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURIING PROJECT
Participation Agreement
between
The Ministry of Finance and Participating Banks
Under the Loan Agreement for the Industrial Restructuring Project
(the Project) dated                 , 1991, between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Republic of Cyprus (the
Bo--.-ower), the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower a loan (the
Loan) to help finance investment projects (Investment Projects) for the
establishment, restructuring, rehabilitation and expansion of investment
enterprises (IEs).
The Borrower will onlend part of the proceeds of the Loan to
participating banks (PB) to finance term loans extended by the PB to lEs to
finance fixed investments, working capital, and services contracts. Part of the
proceeds of the Loan will be administered a special account (to speed up the
disbursement process) located at the (CBC) for the credit component of the
Project.
The Borrower and the PB hereby agree as follows:
1.    The Borrower agrees and undertakes to provide term loans to the PB
to finance Sub-loans under the Industrial Restructuring Project which
meet the requirements specified under the present Agreement and in
the Loan Agreement for the Project.
2.    The  PB agrees  and undertakes  to maintain  its  eligibility  to
participate in the Project in accordance with the criteria set forth
in Annex 1 to this Agreement and to:
(a) be duly established and operating under the laws of Cyprus;
(b) maintain a sound financial structure, a healthy portfolio, and
the organization, management, staff and other resources requLred
for the efficient carrying out of its activities;
(c) conduct its operations and affairs, including interest rate
policies, in accordance with sound finaitcial principles and
practices;



- 100 -
ANN,EX 4-1
Page 2 of 6
(d) maintain a lending and investment policy acceptable to the Bank
and suitable procedures and an adequate number of suitably qualified
staff to enable it effectively to:
(i) appraise the financial, techni.cal, environmental and
economic feasibility of Investment Projects and to make Sub-
loans to lEs in accordance with said lending and investment
policy and on the basis of the criteria, procedures and
principal terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
and
(ii) supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by the
IEs of Investment Projects financed in part with proceeds of
the Loan, including the procurement of goods and services,
costs and benefits therefor.
(e)   To provide training to th3 staff of the PB, as necessary or
appropriate and at the PB expense, in project appraisal and
supervision.
3.    The PB further agrees and undertakes to:
(a)   make Sub-ioans only to IEs which meet the eligibility criteria
set forth in Annex 2 hereto;
(b)   make Sub-loans only on the following terms and conditions:
(i) The amount of each Sub-loan shall not exceed $2,000,000
equis-alent;
(ii) The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be:
(i) denominated in the foreign currency' agreed to by the PB
and the IE; and
(ii) the equivalent in such currency (determined as of the
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account
or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
the costs of goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time under the Loan
Agreement to Investment Projects.
(iii) Each Sub-loan shall be charged on the principal amount
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time interest at a rate
determined in accordance with the lending policies and
procedures of the PB.
'Deutsche Mark, Sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, or yen.



- 101 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 3 of 6
(iv)   Each Sub-loan snall be made by a PB for capital
investments for a period not exceeding 12 years, including a
grace period of 3 years, and for working capital for a period
not exceeding 4 years, including a grace period of 1 year.
(c) require IEs to maintain the following financial ratios:
(i)   debt for equity ratios not more than 3:1;
(ii)  debt service coverage of not less than 1.4; and
(iii) ratio of current assets to current liabilities not less
than 1:2.
(d) carry out appraisal of Investment Projects in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank,
(e) repay to the Borrower each Subsidiary Loan made available to it
in accordance with the amortization schedule applicable to said
Subsidiary Loan; and
(f) open and thereafter maintain a separate account for the sub-
loan on its books in accordance with its normal financial practices
and on conditions satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower;
(g) upon receipt of payments under each sub-loan, credit the same
to said separate account. All dmounts so credited to said separate
account shall be utilized by the PB, to the extent they are not yet
required to meet the PB's payment obligations to the Borrower on a
Subsidiary Loan, exclusively to finance projects similar to
Investment Projects.
4.    The PB further agrees and undertakes to:
(a) exercise it rights in respect of Sub-loans in such a manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to comply
with its obligations under this Agreement in order to achieve the
purposes of the Project;
(b) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements
providing for Sub-loans or any provision thereof without the approval
of the Borrower;
(c) maintain records adequate to monitor the operations, resources,
expenditures and progress of each Investment Project and maintain
accounts adequate to record withdrawals from the sub-accounts
established for the IEs and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations
and financial condition relating thereto;



- 102 -
ANEX 4-1
Page 4 of 6
(d) have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
including sub-i counts established for the lEs for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors achveptable to the Ba*k;
(e) furnish to the Borrower as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its statutory financial statements
and accounts for the year, and
(ii) supplementary audited statements by the auditors with
respect to the Project of such scope and in such detail,
including the status of sub-accounts and compliance by the PB
with eligibility criteria of Invostment Projects, the Bank
shall have reasonably requested;
(f) furnish to the Borrower and the Bank witlhin six weeks of the end
of the first and the second six months of the calendar year Semi-
Annual Progress Reports outlining the progress of each Investment
Project; and
(g) furnish to the Borrower monthly reports on the operation of the
sub-accounts.
5.   The PB further agrees and undertakes to:
(a) ensure that the IEs comply with the following procedures with
respect to the procurement of goods and services financed under the
Project:
(i) Goods and services shall be purchased at a reasonable
price, account being taken also of other televant factors such
as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them;
(ii) The final date for PBs to submit Sub-loan requests for
approval is June 30, 1997. The final date for submission by
a PB of Withdrawal Applicr-tions to the Borrower is December
31, 1998.
(b) ensure that goods and services procured under the Project shall
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project.
6.    The PB further agrees and undertakes to assign qualified staff in adequate
numbers to coordinate the tr-ansactions of the PB with the Borrower and



- 103 -
ANEEX 4-1
Page 5 of 6
the IEs and to record accurately each of the transactions effected through
this mechanism.
The PB further agrees and undertakes to make Sub-loans on terms whereby
the PB obtains by written contract with the IE or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Bank, including the right to:
(a) require the IE to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial, environimental and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records and accounts;
(b) inspect, by itself or jointly with the representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(c) require that:
(i) the IE take out and maintain with responsible insurers such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and
(ii) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to
the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to
be made payable in a currency freely usable by the IE to
replace or repair such goods;
(d) obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall
reasonably  request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and  to  the
administration, operations and financial condition of the IE and
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Projects; and
(e) suspend or terminate the right of the IE to -he use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such IE to perform its
obligations under its contract with the PB.
If the PB defaults on any of its obligations under this Agreement, the
Borrower may suspend temporarily or permanently the participation of the
PB in the operations of the Loan, including the suspension temporarily or
permanently of current disbursements for any or all Sub-loans.
If the Borrower and the PB should decide to make amendments to this
Agreement, such amendments shall be made by means of a written exchange
of letters or if necessary by means of a rider to this Agreement.



- 104 -
ANNEX 4-1
Page 6 of 6
10.   This Agreement shall remain in force until such time as the Borrower or
the PB shall express in writing its desire to terminate it. Nevertheless,
the obligations which shall have been contracted by either party shall
remain in full force until such time that they shall have been completely
executed.
In WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in t,heir respective
names in Nicosia, Cyprus as of the day and year first above written.
Ministry of Finance                                      Participating Bank



- irn5 -ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 3
CYPRUS: INDUSTRIAL kESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks (PBs)
1.          Objective.   A central objective of Financial Intermediary Loans
(FILs) is to promote efficiency and competitiveness of the PBs. The following
guidelines derive directly from this fundamental orientation, and apply to all
FILs regardless of the type of intermediary involved.   These intermediaries
could include, singly or in combination, commercial banks, merchant banks, and
development finance institutions. Through their intermediation, IBRD (the Bank)
is able to support the activities of a larger number of (and usually smaller)
end-borrowers, especially private sector enterprises, than would be possible to
reach directly.
2.          The loan will be made available to all banks which are (i) in
compliance with the Central Bank of Cyprus' (CBC) creditworthiness criteria,
and other terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) interested in
term-lending and project financing; and (iii) willing to adhere to the specific
guidelines under the project.   The PBs will bear the full credit risk on
subprojects financed by them, and be responsible for their appraisal and
supervision. Prior to drawing on the funds under the line of credit, each PB
would be required to sign a participation agreement with HOF on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.          Regulatory Requirement.  Specifically, the following criteria would
be used by the Bank and MOF to assess the eligibility of PBs in the industrial
restructuring project:
(a)   Compliance with monetary regulations and applicable banking laws;
(b)   Favorable rating by CBC in its latest supervision of the PB, which
would include the following:
i)    Compliance with liquidity and reserve requirements as specified
by CBC;
ii)   Adequate provisions for bad and doubtful accounts satisfactory
to CBC; and
iii) Audited annual financial statements, including Income
Statements and Balance Sheets for the most recent financial
year within a period acceptable to CBC; such accounts should
be certified by an independent firm of accountants acceptable
to CBC;



- 105 -                       ANNEX 4-2
Page 1 of 3
CYPRUS: INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Eli&ibility Criteria for Participating Banks (PBs)
1.          Objective.   A central objective of Financial Intermediary Loans
(FILs) is to promote efficiency and competitiveness of the PBs. The following
guidelines derive directly from this fundamental orientation, and apply to all
FILs regardless of the type of intermediary involved.   These intermediaries
could include, singly or in combination, commercial banks, merchant banks, and
development finance institutions. Through their intermediation, IBRD (the Bank)
is able to support the activities of a larger number of (and usually smaller)
end-borrowers, especially private sector enterprises, than would be possible to
reach directly.
2.          The loan will be made available to all banks which are (i) in
compliance with the Central Bank of Cyprus' (CBC) creditworthiness criteria,
and other terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) interested in
term-lending and project financing; and (iii) willing to adhere to the specific
guidelines under the project.   The PBs will bear the full credit risk on
subprojects financed by them, and be responsible for their appraisal and
supervision. Prior to drawing on the funds under the line of credit, each PB
would be required to sign a participation agreement with MOF on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.          Regulatory Reguirement.  Specifically, the following criteria would
be used by the Bank and MOF to assess the eligibility of PBs in the industrial
restructuring project:
(a)   Compliance with monetary regulations and applicable banking laws;
(b)   Favorable rating by CBC in its latest supervision of the PB, which
would include the following:
i)    Compliance with liquidity and reserve requirements as specified
by CBC;
ii)   Adequate provisions for bad and doubtful accounts satisfactory
to CBC; and
iii)  Audited  annual  financial  statements,   including  Income
Statements and Balance Sheets for the most recent financial
year within a period acceptable to CBC; such accounts should
be certified by an independent firm of accountants acceptable
to CBC;



- 107 -
ANNEX 4-2
Page 3 of 3
6.          Onlending Criteria.  Consistent with the emphasis on competitive,
market-based resource allocation, and commercially-oriented institutions, the
onlending decisions of PBs should be based primarily on sound business principles
of profitability and risk. With regard to term lending, eligible PBs should have
adequate technical, financial and administrative capacity to manage project
lending or be agreeable to training under the project, and have operating
policies, procedures, organization and professional staff, necessary to evaluate,
appraise,  and supervise loans,  acceptable to CBC and the Bank.   Besides
evaluating the market potential and technical and managerial capabilities of
enterprises, PBs would also require the subprojects to meet Cyprus' new
environmental regulations. For this purpose, the documentation accompanying the
loan application of enterprises should include an environmental assessment of
the proposed subproject to be appraised by the environmental audit unit of the
Ministry of Labor and Social Insurance's (MOLSI) factory inspectorate. Funds
through PBs will be onlent only to those enterprises that meet the "Enterprise
Eligibility Criteria" (Annex 4-3).
7.          Resource Mobilization. Most restructuring enterprises are currently
in need of term credit to improve their capacity utilization and to adjust to
the more liberal trade regime through rehabilitation, modernization, and
expansion, including upgrading the manufacturing process, product quality, and
marketing. PBs would use the line of credit component to help the investment
and working capital needs of restructuring enterprises, and utilize their own
resources to finance equity and quasi-equity investments in under-capitalized
corporate enterprises destined for rehabilitation to improve their capital
structure. To ensure their commitment, PBs would be expected to finance from
their own resources 50X of the subproject's cost and their contribution could
be made as part of, or outside the subloan itself.
8.          Independence of Decision Making.   Managers of PBs must have the
freedom, and be accountable for the institution's credit risk, and make staffing
and other input decisions on a cost-conscious basis.
9.          The ongoing eligibility of PBs, consistent with the parameters
outlined above, will be monitored by CBC annually and by the Bank as part of
its normal supervision.



- 108 -                      ANNEX 4-3
Page 1 of 2
CYPRUS: INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Criteria for Eligible EnterDrises
Existing industrial enterprises, in need of expansion or
restructuring, especially in the manufacturing sector will be eligible regardless
of ownership (i.e., private, public, mixed, domestic or foreign). The project
would finance rehabilitation, and expansion of existing enterprises in the
following general categories: (a) fixed assets (equipment, factory buildings
and related civil works, know-how and consulting services, and training); (b)
free-standing working capital (raw materials and spare parts) to increase
capacity utilization of existing enterprises; (c) permanent working capital (raw
material inventories, components and spares); and (d) consultant services for
technical assistance and training during both subproject implementation and
operation.
To be eligible for financing, enterprises would have to be
technically, financially, economically and environmentally sound, demonstrating
good potential for adjusting to the new, competitive economic framework.
Specific eligibility criteria for beneficiary enterprises and subprojects under
the line of credit component of the Project are given below.    Eligible
enterprises should be be able to contribute at least 20% of the subproject cost
in equity from internally generated cash.   During the entire period when a
portion of the sub-loan is still outstanding, the beneficiary must show that:
(a) the long-term debt to equity ratio of the enterprise will not exceed 3:1;
(b) the current ratio will not be less than 1.2; and (c) the debt-service
coverage ratio will not be less than 1.4.  A minimum economic rate of return
(ERR) of 12% in real terms would also be required for subprojects with costs over
US$750,000 equivalent. For subproject below $750,000, a simplified benefit-cost
ratio (Annex 4-4) will be used, which is satisfactory for projects of this size.
The after tax FRR should be at least 12% in real terms. Financing from the line
of credit would be limited to a maximum of 70% of the subproject cost. Eligible
subprojects should also, (i) comply with the new environmental regulations, or
(ii) incorporate the required mitigative and/or protective measures, as
determined by the environmental audit unit of the Ministry of Labor and Social
Insurance's (MOLSI) factory inspectorate.   To ensure that the Project will
benefit a reasonably large number of beneficiaries, only subloans of less than
US$2 million equivalent would be eligible for financing under the line of credit
component.
Cyprus Development Bank (CDB) would place special emphasis on making
resources available to the smaller enterprises because of the limited experience
of other PBs with term lending to this group, and the higher costs and risks
associa_ed with such lending.  CDB would: (i) coordinate with the Consultants
Clearing House and the Industrial Training Authority to develop programs that
would assist these enterprises to prepare subprojects for financing; (ii)
encourage other PBs to undertake lending to smaller enterprises modelled along



- 109 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 2
the lines of the successful operations; and (iii) reduce the credit processing
cost by using simplified documentation and sight approval for credit.



- 110 -
ANNEX 4-4
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Domestic Resource Cost (DRC) Measures of Proiect Merit
A high financial return cannot be taken as reliable evidence of a
high economic return (ERR) due to the existence of distortions in the Cypriot
economy. However, for relatively small projects with costs less than US$ 750,000
DRC, a simplified benefit-cost ratio criteria would be used rather than the ERR.
DRC is defined as the cost of domestic resources used to earn (or save) a unit
of foreign exchange. This indicator relies on single-year data, and represents
"snapshots" of projects. The year analyzed is usually the first year of full-
scale production. Capital costs are estimated on the basis of notional return
objectives and capital recovery factors.
The "Simple" DRC is computed as follows.   Costs are adjusted to
eliminate local duties and taxes, and divided into local currency (Cypriot pound)
and foreign currency (dollar) categories. Imported items is considered a dollar
cost.   Traded output is valued at FOB ( for exports) or CIF (for import
substitutes) border prices to determine the "gross" benefit of dollar earnings
or savings, from which direct dollar outlays for inputs are deducted to obtain
"net" benefits. The ratio of Cypriot pound resource cost to net dollar benefit
is the cost, in pounds, of earning or saving one dollar. If this DRC is equal
to or less than the official exchange rate, the venture is acceptable.
The "Refined" DRC uses the border-priced cost of locally procured
tradeable inputs instead of their domestic market cost. If border price is below
domestic price, the Refined DRC will be lower than the Simple DRC and the project
will appear more attractive. If on the other hand, the border price is above
domestic price, perhaps because of subsidies or a controlled selling price, the
project will appear less attractive. The Refined DRC captures the effects of
protection and price controls on domestic inputs.



- 111 -
ANNEX 4-5
CYPRUS - INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
.   ..........    .....................................   .. . . . . .
Projected Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Bank Loan
Calendar               Projected Disbursement         Comparator Profile for
Year and          .................................. Industrial Projects (X)
Quarter              Amount       CummuLative         .......................
- ------             ------  Amount         Percent  EMENA a/ Bankwide b/
........  .  ..........   .......   ............. ..
1992   1             1.00     1.00                3
11            2.00     3.00                10        1         1
III            2.00     5.00                17
IV            2.00     7.00                23        6        7
1993   1             1.50    8.50                28
it            1.50    10.00                33        13      14
III            1.50    11.50                38
IV            1.50    13.00                43       23       24
1994   1             1.50    14.50               48
11            1.50    16.00                53       34       30
III             1.50    17.50               58
IV            1.00    18.50                62       46       48
1995   1             1.00    19.50               65
it             1.00    20.50               68       57       60
III             1.00    21.50               72
IV            1.00    22.50                75       68       70
1996   1             1.00   23.50                78
11            0.75    24.25                81       76       79
III            0.75    25.00                83
IV            0.75   25.75                 86       83       86
1997   1            0.75    26.50                88
11            0.50    27.00                90       89       92
III            0.50    27.50                92
IV            0.50   28.00                 93       94       96
1998   1            0.50   28.50                 95
11            0.50   29.00                 97       98       99
III            0.50    29.50                98
IV            0.50   30.00                100       100      100
.... ..... . ... .... ....
a/ Based on 36 industriaL projects in the EMENA region, IBRD financed and
fully disbursed.
b/ Based on 97 Industrial projects, IBRD financed and fully disbursed.



__._w_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A f                                                              t                                         ,   PAN         
AO Si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S.Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t7l~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
'(A    o Cy s 
& ~~~~~~~~  ,~~~~~~~~ ~~CYPRUS
_tso -* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M E   O T E  R R A 'V E A N                                        5 E A55,.
ww                                                                  xtw                                Jr     --_
_                       60y   t>AAroti~~Ar~t ,8oy              M  EDO 7E R R A NE AN               S EA               9.        1  
X~~~~~~~~~o                                                                 v                                                 .    .



