Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20658-CY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(33200)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30 MILLION
TO TBE
REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS
FOR
INDUSTRIAL FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
June 27, 2000
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective
May 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Cyprus Pounds (CYP)
CYP I = US$ 1.614
US$ I = CYP 0.621
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCH    -       Consultants Clearing House
CDB    -       Cyprus Development Bank
CTI    -       Cyprus Technology Institute
CYS    -       Cyprus Organization for Standards and Quality Control
EIB     -      European Investment Bank
EU      -      European Union
ERTI   -       Environmental Research and Training Institute
IAS     -      International Accounting Standards
IDA     -      International Development Association
IFC     -      International Finance Corporation
IMF    -       International Monetary Fund
SAR    -       Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:   Lars Jeurling/Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    9
6. Sustainability                                                                       11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      13
9. Partner Comments                                                                     15
10. Additional Information                                                              15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   22
Annex 8: Borrowers Comments and Contributions                                           23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Pr oject ID: P008373                                      Project Name: IND.FINANCIAL RESTRU
Teanm Leader: S. Brajovic-Bratanovic                      TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date. June 14, 2000
1. Project Data
Nanme: IND.FINANCIAL RESTRU                          L/I/TF Number: 33200
Country/Department: CYPRUS                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: IR - Industrial Restructuring
KEY DATES
Original           RevisediActtal
l'CD:  08/31/89                               Effective: 06/25/91           02/21/92
Appni-isal:  07/15/90                                 MTR: 05/15/94             05/09/97
Approval:  04/25/91                                Closing: 06/30/99            06/30/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  Government of Cyprus/Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Commerce, Industry and
Tourism; Central Planning Commisssion, Planning Bureau; Securities and
Exchange Commission in the Ministry of Finance; Cooperatives Development
Department in the Minsitry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism; Cyprus Institute
of Technology; Cyprus Development Bank; Participating Banks (Hellenic Bank;
Popular Bank and Bank of Cyprus); Cyprus Organization for Standards and
Quality Control; Environmental Research and Training Institute
Other Partners:  Cyprus Chamber of Conmmerce, Cyprus Association of Management Consultants
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                             Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Andrew Vorkink                            Eugenio Lari
Sector Manager:      Paul Siegelbaum                           Anil Sood
Team Leader at ICR.   Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic                Jacques G. Toureille
ICR Primar! Azuthor:   Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: U
Borrover Perfbrmance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entrv: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development of dynamic, internationally competitive manufacturing sector has been central to the
government's strategy for continued growth and diversification of the Cyprus economy in the 1 970s and
1980s. In the late 1980s, a decision has been made for Cyprus to join the European Union. For the
industrial sector, the accession required liberalization of market, trade and competition policies, removal of
non-profit barriers, and a transition from highly protected, micro-oriented production structure into a
modem industrial sector capable of competing domestically and of meeting the challenges of the EU
markets. In addition, the tourism growth in the 1980s has led to the increased cost of labor and has
mandated more strict controls of the environmental impact of industrial production and growth.
This project was conceived to help deal with these challenges and to assist with preparation for the
integration of Cyprus into the European Union. More specifically, the project was designed to: (i) assist
the Government in undertaking substantial adjustment of its industrial sector in view of a gradual
integration with the European Union; (ii) assist in the adjustments needed to meet new environmental
standards; and (iii) support selected reforms in the financial sector, since efficient financial intermediation
would be crucial to the success of the adjustment process.
The measures and actions that were to be specifically addressed by the project, included:
(a) policy support for: (i) policies and programs for restructuring of the industrial sector, with due
attention given to environmental considerations; (ii) introduction of strengthened regulatory framework and
a supervisory system for increasing the soundness and efficiency of financial institutions, particularly as
regards financial cooperatives; and (iii) a program for increasing the financial autonomy of the Cyprus
Development Bank.
(b) investments (through Bank financed credit facility), to support the working capital and investment
needs of eligible private enterprises for restructuring subprojects and for addressing environmental issues.
(c) institutional development support, including: (i) assistance in undertaking competitiveness
enhancement and environmental adjustment studies for private enterprises; (ii) assistance in developing
infrastructure for standards and quality control; (iii) development of project appraisal capabilities of banks
participating under the credit line; (iv) the preparation of an action program for developing capital markets;
and (v) development of the local industrial and environmental consulting capacity along with strengthening
of the environmental auditing and control.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was restructured in 1997. The immediate issue was that there was no interest in the credit line
in the banking system, as the banks had access to better priced funds. The remaining balance of the credit
line component totaling US$20.4 million was canceled. In addition, the original project objectives related
to the financial sector were dropped, including technical assistance to: develop the regulatory framework
and to strengthen institutional capacity of the credit cooperatives; for restructuring and privatization of the
Cyprus Development Bank; and to improve the institutional capacity of banks participating under the credit
line component. The financial sector objectives were dropped because Bank funds were not needed, as
donor funding from the EU became available.
The remaining project objectives were to assist in: (i) supporting adjustment of the industrial sector in view
- 2-



of gradual integration with the European Union; (ii) developing quality standards for manufactured
products; (iii) building institutional and services infrastructure for the manufacturing sector; and (iv)
strengthening capacity of local industrial and environmental consultants.
3.3 Original Components:
1. Policy Component, including:
(a) Industrial Policies and Markets Adjustment. This included a broad program to enhance the
incentives framework through policy reform that would provide for unbiased, efficient decisions regarding
resource allocation and adjustment in attitudes, behavior and techniques on the part of policy makers,
service providers, industrialists and labor. To complement the policy changes, the project supported
establishment of the Industrial and Technology Development Council to foster active communication
among all parties by providing a forum to discuss new ideas and make recommendations. This policy
advisory committee (composed of representatives of the Government, business and labor) was expected to
create a strong constituency that would promote a competitive market environment. As a complement, one
of the technical assistance components aimed to provide consulting services to industrialists regarding
international benchmarks and competitiveness of their enterprises, and to advise on steps necessary to
irnprove their competitiveness.
(b) Credit Cooperatives Program. This included a set of measures to ensure safety and the long-term
sustainability of the cooperative banking network including: (i) the development of a set of prudential
regulations adapted to the special nature of cooperatives; (ii) the strengthening of the supervisory functions
of the Commissioner of Cooperatives through the provision of appropriate means and skilled staff; and (iii)
the study and recommendation to ensure integration of the cooperative network into the financial system.
(c) Program for Restructuring the Cyprus Development Bank (CDB). The main objectives of the
restructuring program were to: (i) increase CDB's autonomy vis-a-vis the Government, especially regarding
strategic decisions and resource mobilization; (ii) ensure the sustainability of CDB's unique role in the
banking industry as a catalyst for providing term-financing to the corporate sector, directly or through loan
syndication, and through equity participation in the capital of industrial corporations; and (iii) capital
increase. To broaden its capital base, the CDB was to seek equity funding from intemational institutional
investors such as the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the IFC.
2. Credit Component
This comprised a credit line to finance, through participating banks, the investment and permanent working
capital needs of enterprises undergoing restructuring. Beneficiaries were private enterprises in sound
financial condition. Eligibility criteria for beneficiaries included debt-to-equity ratio of not more then 3: 1, a
current ratio of at least 1.2 and debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.4. The restructuring eligible for
financing included: reorganization (e.g., increases in plant size, phasing out uneconomic units, addressing
environmental concerns consolidation of smaller units into larger ones, etc.); changes in output structure
(e.g., greater specialization, increase of quality, shifts to new types of output and/or at exploiting new
technologies, etc.) and increasing the efficiency in the use of productive factors, (e.g., improved training,
technology, management, technical assistance support, etc).
The subloans were to be extended through participating banks, which were to take the credit risk on
subloans. The participating banks were expected to meet the eligibility criteria that included sound
financial condition and good standing with the central bank. Subloans to enterprises were limited to US$2
- 3 -



million equivalent and beneficiaries were expected to finance at least 20 percent of the total cost of a
subproject. Investment subloans had maturity of up to 12 years and grace period of up to three years.
Working capital subloans had maturity of up to four years and grace period of up to one year. The
economic and financial rate of return were set at minimum 12 percent. Subloans were extended in foreign
currencies with LIBOR based interest. Beneficiaries were expected to take the interest rate and the
currency risk. The administration fee for the apex services was limited to one percent. Lending margins
for participating banks were expected to be in the range of 2-3 percent.
3. Technical Assistance Component - Industrial Sector Assistance
(a) Competitiveness Enhancement and Environmental Studies for enterprises on a cost sharing basis,
where part of the cost was paid by enterprises and part was subsidized by the Government through Bank
loan. The team of experts was expected to prepare a report for the firm (referred to as a Competitiveness
Enhancement Study), covering the enterprise operations and its current state of competitiveness based on
Western European pricing and quality standards, problems in production technology, marketing strategy,
labor skills, etc. The studies were to recommend specific restructuring actions, which could then form the
basis for a comprehensive forward-looking investment strategy.
(b) Establishment of the Consultants Clearinghouse (CCH) The CCH was to be set as an independent
non-profit legal entity funded by the project. Its operational objectives included: (i) administration of the
enterprise studies provided by the loan, including appraising proposals, verifying consultant teams,
approving proposals, conducting follow-up evaluations and reporting; (ii) forming a database of accredited
foreign and local consultants to assist the enterprises in the recruitment of a suitable team for
competitiveness enhancement and/or environmental studies; and (iii) building of the local consulting
capacity. The loan financed the operational expenses of the CCH. The CCH has been very successful.
After expanding its product range, it later evolved into the Cyprus Institute of Technology (CTI).
(c) Development of the Domestic Consulting Industry. The loan supported establishment of a fund for
financing training and/or scholarships for the local consultants to build their technical capacity in finance,
management, technology and other areas of interest to the local business community and the Government.
(d) Quality Standards, Accreditation and Testing Facilities was to support the adoption of ISO 9000,
as the European quality standard and as a prerequisite for increased competitiveness and subsequent
exports to the European Union. The component included funding of a study and an action plan airming to
strengthen the Cyprus Organization for Standards and Control of Quality (CYS). The CYS is the national
standards body residing within the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism.
(e) Environmental Assessment and Auditing. This component included: (i) development of the
consulting industry in the area of environmental analysis, assessment and training; (ii) the creation of an
Environmental Research and Training Institute (ERTI). The ERTI was to start as small unit and to
gradually develop into an independent regional environmental networking center, as justified by growth in
the demand for its services. One of its principal roles was expected to be the analysis of the various
industrial processes used and assessment of their environmental implications and assistance to interested
industries in prevention and/or mitigation of problems. The ERTI was expected to operate as an apex
organization which would make full use of the considerable availability of trained professionals. The
funds necessary to establish the ERTI were to be provided by the CDB. The project was to finance about
15 man-months of international consultants' services, office technology and training required to develop and
consolidate the operation of the initial.
-4 -



Technical Assistance Component - Financial Sector Assistance
(f) Strengthening of the Credit Cooperatives System, including drafting the legislation for the
cooperative system; carrying out a study to lay the ground for reforms which will ensure the sustainability
of the system; and strengthening of institutional capacity for supervision of credit cooperatives.
(g) Technical Assistance for Participating Banks aimed at improving the institutional capacity of banks
participating under the credit line component, especially their credit risk appraisal and management
capacity and asset/liabilities management.
(h) Capital Markets Study aimed at providing the framework for the capital markets development in
Cyprus, including regulatory and institutional framework, establishment of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, establishment and institutional development of the Cyprus Stock Exchange, etc.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project revision in 1997 included modifications of the following components (see full description of
components in the "Original Component" section)
1. Policy Component.
(b) Credit Cooperatives Program was dropped from the Project. However, the issues were addressed
(but with some delay) in the European Union accession program.
(c) Program for Restructuring the Cyprus Development Bank (CDB). This component was also
dropped from the Project. The restructuring study was financed by the bank itself, and the European
Investment Bank (EIB) became its major shareholder. With the EIB support, the bank continued its
transformation into a modem banking institution. So, CDB restructuring has been actually implemented,
but without Bank finance.
2. Credit Component
The credit demand was weak and the remaining balance of US$20.4 million was canceled.
3. Technical Assistance Component - Financial Sector Assistance
(1) Strengthening of the Credit Cooperatives System was dropped. The necessary technical assistance
was financed by EU grants.
(g) Technical Assistance for Participating Banks. This component was dropped. Bank funding for
project related technical assistance was not needed.
3.5 Qualitv atEntry
Not applicable. The project was not subject to an evaluation of quality at entry.
- 5 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconme/achievement oJ objective:
The Project's development objectives, as redefined in May 1997, have generally been met. In fact, even the
objectives dropped in 1997, as they did not require Bank finance or receive Bank's inputs or advise, have
been met. This project was conceived to help meet the challenges and to assist with preparation for the
integration of Cyprus into the European Union (EU). The Government and the economy were very
motivated to successfully complete the preparation. In addition to assistance offered by the Bank, EU
assistance on concessional terns was readily available. Cyprus is now well on its way to meeting the
accession requirements for the European Union and is expected to join the EU as scheduled.
Policy Components. Policy reforms to address foreign trade distortions and stimulate industrial sector
adjustment. Policy distortions, which were identified in the SAR, were addressed as planned:
quantitative restrictions on imports were eliminated and tariffs were substantially reduced in line with EU
reconimendations. The industrial sector was restructured in the 1 990s. It has now become much more
capital intensive and the average size of firms has substantially increased. Productivity and profitability
have improved. The industrial sector now accounts for about 11 percent of GDP (down from about 18
percent in 1990), but it has not been reduced in absolute terms, it just did not grow as fast as other more
competitive segments of the economy, such as tourism. The industrial sector is now successfully
competing in the EU markets.
The SAR singles out resistance to liberalization as a key risk for project implementation, due to the small
size of the economy, the close relationships between businesses and the Government and the past history of
high protection. The pressure on the Government was expected to be acute. This risk has been effectively
dealt with. The Government was willing and able to commit substantial financial and technical resources
to assist in enterprise restructuring and to building the consensus. The project, with its technical assistance
component, played a critical role in alleviating the industry concerns. In fact, such assistance was the
project's key rationale.
Access to Finance. Improving access to finance for private sector investments, including adjustment
and growth needs. Access to finance for the private sector has been substantially improved in the 1990s.
This includes not only the substantially more responsive banking sector, but also fast growing capital
markets.
Capital Markets Development. The study was funded by the Project and its recommendations were
successfully implemented. The regulatory framework, the drafting of which was supported by the Project,
includes Securities and Stock Exchange Law of 1993 (amended in 1999) and a number of regulations
referring to insider dealing, mergers and acquisitions, registration of securities, registration of dealers and
brokers, dealing and trading rules, etc. The regulations are in harmony with EU regulations. The Cyprus
Stock Exchange started operations in 1996 and is supervised by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The stock market development has been very strong. In 1999, there were 61 listed companies and 23
brokerage firms. Market capitalization in 1999 was about ECU 24 billion or 2.8 times the GDP of Cyprus.
Technical Assistance Component. Preparation of competitiveness enhancement and environmental
adjustment studies for specific enterprises and assistance in developing quality control mechanisms.
Implementation of this component has been very successful. Competitiveness enhancement studies for
industrial enterprises to identify weaknesses and recommend methods to enhance their competitiveness or
develop their restructuring plans have been undertaken for all sub-sectors of interest for Cyprus economy.
- 6 -



Development of the Infrastructural Frameworkfor the Industrial Sector. Development of local
industrial and environmental consulting. These components have been very successfully implemented
andfully meet the intended objectives. A new CTI has been established and is now fully functional. The
infrastructure for implementation of standards and quality assurance has been substantially strengthened.
The consulting industry in Cyprus currently comprises 128 consulting firms and 197 individual
consultants. They serve the domestic market and are major exporters of consulting services to the Middle
East.
Introduction of strengthened regulatory and supervisory system for increasing soundness and
efficiency offinancial institutions, particularly cooperatives. This objective was dropped in the 1997
restructuring of the project. The risk related to this policy component was recognized in the SAR, which
stated that "the Government may run into substantial political difficulties in its attempts to restructure the
cooperative banking system". The SAR mentioned technical assistance as a means to alleviate this
concern, but building the consensus apparently took longer then expected.
However, some of the measures specifically mentioned in the SAR have been implemented. The
Government has reorganized and strengthened the Department for Cooperatives Supervision under the
Ministry of Finance. An external Auditing Authority for Cooperatives has been established and the
cooperatives are now regularly audited according to international accounting standards. A deposit
insurance for cooperatives in line with EU requirements has been introduced in 1999, although such
measure has not been mentioned in the SAR. Further actions are planned to bring the cooperatives sector
under EU framework, which should happen by 2002.
4.2 Outputs by compontents:
This section discusses outputs that are not related to policies and institutional development. (The policy
related accomplishments were covered in details in Section 4.1 "Outcome/Achievement of Objectives". The
institution building accomplishments are covered in Section 4.5 "Institutional Development Impact".)
Credit Component A line of credit, through participating banks, provided finance for investment and
pennanent working capital needs of enterprises undergoing restructuring. Subloans to enterprises were
limited to US$2 million equivalent. Implementation performance of the investment component was
unsatisfactory. A total of nine projects were financed amounting to US$4.6 million, that is, only about 20
percent of the original amount of US$25 million allocated to this component was utilized. The main reason
for the less the successful performance of this component is discussed in the next section. The subprojects
financed included:
Premier Chemical SFR 900.000 by Popular Bank
Viannoplast DM 990,000 by Popular Bank
*     Vassilico Cement US$750,000 by Hellenic Bank
*     Georgios Tsappis Zootrope US$583,000 by Popular Bank
*     Trokoza Knitting Industry DM 800,000 by Popular Bank
Joannides US$600,000 by Hellenic Bank
Epiphaniou Industries ECU 232,000 by Bank of Cyprus
Nicobutton Enterprises ECU 171,000 by Popular Bank
Of the nine projects that were financed, eight projects are financially viable and doing well. One project
has seen some problems.
7-7.



The SAR specifically identified insufficient credit demand as one of the three key implementation risks.
While the risk was identified at the time of appraisal, the level of risk was underestimated, reflecting in part
the difficulty of evaluating a very complex and comprehensive change process expected to take place in
Cyprus during the 1990s. The SAR indicated that Bank loan funds would contribute only four percent to
the total credit market of Cyprus, but the demand was expected to increase due to the need to restructure
the industry. However, it should have been clear that the credit ceilings maintained in Cyprus represented a
major distortion that would undermine the demand for Bank funds. The administrative requirements for
Bank subloans could have been reduced and the clearance process made more efficient.
Preparation of competitiveness enhancement and environmental adjustment studies for specific
enterprises and assistance in developing quality control mechanisms. Implementation of this
component has been very successful. Competiveness enhancement studies for industrial enterprises to
identify weaknesses and recommend methods to enhance their competitiveness or develop their
restructuring plans have been undertaken for all sub-sectors of interest for Cyprus economy. A large
number of industrial enterprises benefited from the Project. In the 1994 to 1999 period, 473 restructuring
studies/proposals were preparedfor 763 enterprises. This was much more effective then anticipated.
The competitiveness analyses were initiated at the request of a particular enterprise contemplating a
restructuring program. There was a cost-sharing for studies preparation. An enterprise paid 30-70 percent
of the total cost of a study.
The studies recommended specific restructuring actions, and assistance was available to implement the
recommendations. The environmental analyses followed a similar approach. They were typically
mandated by a need for compliance with the newly introduced environmental legislation. The analysis
provided an assessment of the environmental implications of an enterprise's operations as a basis for
undertaking requisite technological and operational adjustments.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econonmic late of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable, except for the nine subprojects under the credit component for which the financial rate of
return was higher than 15 percent.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project has had a substantial institutional development impact, especially concerning infrastructure for
the modem industrial sector. The project has been instrumental in initiating or supporting development of a
large number of new institutions and/or in strengthening the existing institutions. Following is the summary
of major accomplishments in the institutional development front.
Industrial and Technology Development Council. The project supported establishment of the Industrial
and Technology Development Council to foster active communication among the Govemment, the public
sector agencies and the private sector industrialists and the private sector associations (such as the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry) by providing a forum to discuss new ideas and make
recommendations. This policy advisory committee (composed of representatives of the Government,
business and labor) was expected to promote competitive market environment and facilitate creating of an
- 8 -



enabling environment for the private sector development in Cyprus.
Cyprus Institute of Technology has grown from the Consultants Clearinghouse established under the
project. The CCH was set as an independent non-profit legal entity funded by the project. This
institutionalframework has been successfully implemented and has then grown well beyond the original
expectations. A new Cyprus Institute of Technology (CIT) is now fully functional. It facilitates the
dialogue between the Government and the private industrial sector and has become a focal point for
Government's support to the private sector for restructuring and competitiveness enhancement. The CIT is
also a licensing authority for the consultants and provides quality assurance for consulting services of
Cyprus consultants. Apart from being a major counterpart for the Project implementation, the CIT has
also started, in cooperation with the Cyprus Chamber of Commerce and the Industrialist Federation, a
number of programs to improve services to the private sector.
Cyprus Organization for Standards and Control of Quality (CYS) is the national standards body
residing within the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism. This institute, including the network of
quality control centers and testing centers, has also been strengthened by the project. The program for
strengthening of quality control standards and for improvement of the accreditation and testing facilities in
Cyprus has also beenfully implemented.
Environmental Research and Training Institute (ERTI) is another institution providing services to the
private sector that has benefited from the project. The ERTI has evolved a network providing
environmental services to Cyprus economy.
Cyprus Development Bank (CDB) A due diligence review and a restructuring study that was mandated
by the Project was financed by the bank itself (rather than using Bank Loan funds). The recornmendations
(addressing most of the measures mentioned in the SAR) have been implemented. By mid-1990, CDB had
completed its transformation from a development finance institution (undercapitalized, in a precarious
financial condition and with a high risk profile) into a modem investment banking institution with a well
diversified risk profile. It has grown from about US$50 million in assets in 1989 to about US$290 million
in assets in 1999. The bank is currently in a sound financial condition. Its capital adequacy ratio has
increased from 5.5 percent in 1989 to about 11.5 percent in 1999. However, the key issue, which is
Government ownership, has only started to be addressed. The bank is now partly owned by the European
Investment Bank, but the Government still holds the majority stake.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside rle control of government or inplementing agencyv.
A number of factors has negatively affected the performance of the credit line, that were outside the control
of the Government or the implementing agencies. This included:
*   Burdensome administration requirements. Procedures agreed between the Government and the
Bank required preparation of all-encompassing feasibility studies, regardless of the size of the
project. This effectively discouraged smaller projects from being financed. Documentation
required under Bank procedures, in terms of financial reporting and disbursements, was much more
than what the banks were used or willing to do.
* Turn around time. The agreed implementation arrangements, which dealt directly with the Bank,
have significantly contributed to implementation problems. It took 2-3 months on the average to
-9-



provide a no-objection for the subloans submitted by banks. There was also a long interval (of
about two years) between the Government's request for and finalization of an amendment to Loan
Agreement allowing subloans to be denominated in ECU.
5.2 xFactors generally subject to government control:
Interest Rate Ceilings. The Bank extended a credit line in a market where the central bank administered
interest rate ceilings, which is normally considered to be a major distortion. In the early 1990, the ceiling
of nine percent was hurting the market. Interest rate subsidies were provided for projects of interest to the
Cyprus economy, but the Bank Loan was not subject to such subsidization (for Bank policy reasons). In
the 1990-1995 period, since the cost of Bank finance was above the interest rate ceiling in Cyprus, there
were very few final beneficiaries willing to borrow above the ceiling and carry the interest rate and the
currency risk associated with Bank finance. The ceilings were removed only in December 1999. The
removal of credit ceilings could have been effected much earlier. (Although, due to the low interest rates of
Western European currencies, the market interest rates in Cyprus were comfortably below the ceiling from
1996 on.)
Credit Cooperatives. The reform of Credit Cooperatives has been initiated, but not in the context of the
project. Many of the measures specifically mentioned in the SAR have been implemented. There have
been improvements in the institutional and regulatory framework for cooperatives, and some rudimentary
regulations have been introduced to limit the credit risk exposure. The Government has reorganized and
strengthened the Department for Cooperatives Supervision under the Ministry of Finance. An external
Auditing Authority for Cooperatives has been established and the cooperatives are now regularly audited
according to international accounting standards. However, these improvements still fall short of meeting
the EU or international standards that reflect international consensus on safe and sound banking. Further
actions are planned to bring the cooperatives sector under the EU framework, which should happen by
2002.
Cyprus Development Bank (CDB) has been restructured. It is, however, still in majority Government
ownership.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implermenting agency control:
There were no factors subject to implementing agencies control that could have been but were not used to
advance the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The interest rate ceiling of nine percent (that was maintained in Cyprus until December 1999) has
negatively affected the subloan demand, especially in the early 1990s when the LIBOR was relatively high.
The final interest rate to the beneficiaries that was based on the respective LIBOR, plus the apex spread
plus the lending margin of a participating bank resulted in rates which were too high by domestic market
standards. The requirements agreed between the Government and the Bank for subproject justification
added additional cost to the banks and final beneficiaries. This resulted in a lack of demand for Bank loan
funds. In 1997, the remaining balance of the credit line component amounting to US$20.4 million was
canceled. However, the technical assistance component has been over 90 percent utilized.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalejorsustainabiliti rating.
- 1 0 -



The objectives of the Project were to assist the Government of Cyprus to prepare for joining the European
Union (EU). Cyprus is by now well advanced in this process, which is expected to be successfully
completed by 2003. Hence, the sustainability of Project's results seems highly likely.
A. Policy and Institutional Development Component
Policy reforms to address foreign trade distortions. Policy distortions were addressed as planned -
quantitative restrictions on imports were eliminated and tariffs were substantially reduced in line with EU
recommendations. Since Cyprus plans to join the European Union, policy reversal is not likely.
Introduction of strengthened regulatory and supervisory system for increasing soundness and
efficiency offinancial institutions, particularly cooperatives. This component was canceled in 1997,
since Bank funding was not necessary, but many of the measures specifically mentioned in the SAR have
been implemented. The changes are likely to be sustainable and further reforms to bring the cooperatives
under the EU framework (by 2002) are in progress. However, the full financial market liberalization that
would be implemented from January 2001, will provide new challenges for the credit cooperatives system.
Program for increasingfinancial autonomy of the Cyprus Development Bank (CDB). This component
was canceled in 1997, since the Bank funding was not needed. The recommendations of the restructuring
study (and most of the measures mentioned in the SAR) have been implemented. The European Investment
Bank has become its significant shareholder and it is likely that the bank will be fully privatized in the next
2-3 years. The re-nationalization is not likely once Cyprus joins the European Union.
B. Credit Component
The sustainability of the credit component can be assessed from two aspects - sustainability of subprojects'
results and sustainability of accomplishments of participating banks in terms of safety and soundness,
institutional strengthening and market position. There were nine subloans extended and all subprojects
have been implemented. Eight subprojects are meeting the expected objectives and the results are expected
to be sustainable. Four banks participated in the project. All four have been able to raise capital through
direct placements and three were very successfiul in capital markets. They have grown to become modern,
well capitalized and safe banking institutions that are able to raise funds in international markets and are
deemed capable to compete.
C. Technical Assistance Component
Preparation of competitiveness enhancement and environmental adjustment studiesfor specific
enterprises and assistance in developing quality control mechanisms. In the 1994 to 1999 period, 473
restructuring studies/proposals were prepared for 763 enterprises and competitiveness enhancement studies
have been completed for all sub-sectors of interest for Cyprus economy. Overall, the industrial sector
successfully restructured in the 1990s. It has now become much more capital intensive and the average
size of firms has substantially increased. Productivity and profitability have improved. While the results
more than met the project objectives and seem sustainable, there are new challenges ahead. Cyprus is a
small country and the future of the industrial sector is now challenged by the more competitive tourism and
services sectors.
Development of Domestic Consulting Services Sector and the Consultants Clearinghouse. A new
Cyprus Technology Institute (CTI) has been established and is now fully functional. Consulting industry in
- 11 -



Cyprus currently comprises 128 consulting firns and 197 individual consultants. It is successfully
competing the Middle Eastern markets. Quality assurance mechanisms have been implemented and a host
of new programs is being introduced each year. This is expected to be sustainable.
Capital Markets Study and Action Program for capital markets development The regulatory and
institutional framework has been very successfully implemented. The stock market development has been
very strong. In 1999, the market capitalization was about 2.8 times the GDP of Cyprus. However, the
strong growth in the last two years does not appear to have been based on changes in fundamentals. The
Government may wish to consider specific measures to increase the depth of the stock market to make it
more liquid and resilient, to improve mechanisms in the stock market dealing with large price swings, and
to significantly improve the timeliness, relevance and quality of information available to domestic investors,
especially private investors.
6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not Applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lendinig:
The Bank lending performance has been assessed as generally satisfactory in meeting the objectives as
redefined in 1997. The Project was prepared within the normal time frame, but the cost of preparation was
substantially higher than average.
However, the objectives were too broad and not well focused and there were too many unrelated
sub-components, especially under the technical assistance component. The problems with the design
became apparent very early, as the loan became effective almost a year after Board approval. The project
implementation time was set at nine years, which is very unusual. This implied high supervision cost,
which was not sustainable.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was less than satisfactory. Because basic design issues emerged early
on, the Bank devoted less than average resources to supervision (i.e., approximately one supervision
mission in two years, the total of four supervision missions. The missions were not adequately staffed for
supervision of such a complex project). The process of the Government and the Bank reaching agreement
to restructure the project and cancel the credit line was protracted. The Government was reluctant to
request a cancellation. During that period, the Bank did not send supervision missions to Cyprus.
Under the agreed implementation arrangements, participating banks dealt directly with the Bank. The
average interval between a participating bank's request for the Bank's no-objection and the receipt of the
Bank's no-objection was about 2-3 months on average. There was also a long interval between the
Government's request for an finalization of an amendment to the Loan Agreement allowing sub-loans to be
denominated in ECU.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance is assessed as less than satisfactory. The decision to restructure the project
and/or cancel the line of credit should have been taken much earlier.
- 12-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is assessed as satisfactory. There were many
counterparts during preparation of this project, but this did not affect the speed or quality of preparation.
Representatives from all counterpart agencies were involved in the preparation and cooperated well. The
meeting of the many conditionalities for loan effectiveness, however, took longer than expected.
7.5 Governrment inmplementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance has been satisfactory, including: (i) the Project
Coordination Office of the Ministry of Finance, that has been the main counterpart for the Project and that
has administered the credit line component; (ii) the Securities and Exchange Commission in the Ministry of
Finance, that led the highly successful development of the Cyprus stock markets; and (iii) the counterpart
officials in the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism that were responsible for creation and
oversight of the industrial infrastructure related to standards and quality assurance and for assistance to
industry.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
There was a number of implementing agencies under the project. Their implementation performance was
satisfactory, but with some variations. The highly satisfactory rating for implementation agency
performance refers to the performance of: (i) the CTI that has acted as administrator of the industrial and
environmental studies program, as a consultant clearinghouse and as an institutions providing training and
quality control and quality assurance for the consulting industry in Cyprus; and (ii) the Cyprus Chamnber of
Commerce, which has managed to develop sophisticated and highly efficient services for the private
industrialists in Cyprus.
The performance of participating banks has been less than satisfactory. The Cyprus Development Bank,
which has managed to transform itself into a safe and sound, modem banking institution has had a
satisfactory implementation performance. The performance of the Department for Cooperatives
Development in the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism has been less than satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower peiformance:
The overall Borrower's performance is assessed as satisfactory. Clearly, the actions of the Government
and the other counterparts were driven by the need to meet the deadlines in preparation for accession to the
European Union.
8. Lessons Learned
There are a number of lessons that can be learned from the implementation experience of this project,
including lessons regarding the project design and preparation, the credit line design and the technical
assistance.
Re: Project Design and Preparation
*   Projects should be simple with clearly defined objectives. Multiple objectives and loosely related
multiple components result in projects which are difficult to supervise and implement, and which
- 13 -



require substantial supervision resources.
*   Eight year implementation periods for projects are too long. The long implementation period imposes
potentially high cost in terms of Government oversight and Bank supervision cost and reduces
flexibility to adjust the content of Bank assistance to changing circumstances.
Re: Credit Line Design
*   Credit lines should be extended in a banking environment where there are no distortions (or where there
are few distortions) in the credit markets. In Cyprus, interest rate ceilings existed at the time the Bank
extended the credit line and that negatively affected the credit demand. Bank subloans were
significantly more expensive than the interest rate ceiling applicable to domestic loans.
*   Although lending through an apex institution provides flexibility in the timing of selection and
qualification of participating banks, which could be important when the banks are undergoing
substantial institutional changes or when markets are unsettled, the added layer of administration
increases the cost of resources to the participating banks and to the final beneficiaries. This increased
cost can prove to be a critical factor and can negatively affect the demand, especially in market
conditions such as those prevalent in Cyprus in the early to raid- 1 990s.
*   During a period of intense restructuring of the enterprise sector, it is difficult to accurately assess
private sector financing needs and the demand for credit. In such circumstances, especially in cases
where Bank experience with the financial sector in the borrowing country and the potential borrowers
is limited, it would be better to start with a smaller line of credit to test and perfect the mechanism and
the system for credit delivery and to establish a more solid basis for assessing the real demand. If this
pilot approach proves successful, and there is a demonstrated demand for additional resources, the
Bank should be prepared to provide additional funds quickly.
*   When working with new borrowers and intermediaries, especially in a market where practical
experience with modem credit delivery and appraisal techniques is limited, the subproject appraisal
requirements should initially be simplified as much as possible and then gradually tightened. At the
same time, sufficient hands-on technical support must be readily available to assist enterprises and
participating banks in putting together subproject proposals.
*   The Bank should strive to provide timely and effective responses in the clearance process. Keeping the
sub-loan approval process as simple as possible is also an important factor in helping to lower the cost
of credit and to attract banks and beneficiaries.
Re: Technical Assistance
*   The objectives of technical assistance should be very well defined. A project should not comprise too
many technical assistance components for purposes not directly related to the achievement of project
objectives. This complicates supervision and increases the cost.
*   Technical assistance should not be financed by the Bank, if grant funds are available from other
sources.
*   The Bank should be prompt in responding to client questions and in the clearance process.
- 14 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/imnplenmenting agency.
Borrower's comments are attached in Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments.
10. Additional Information
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
The Project was prepared in 1989 and 1990. The key performance indicators have not been defined.
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost bv Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     ActuaULatest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate        Appraisal
Proect Cost By Component                 US$ million      US$ million
Credit Facility                                          35.80             10.00           27.9
Technical Assistance                                      5.40              8.00            148
Total Baseline Cost                                      41.20             18.00
Price Contingencies                                      1.60             0.00
Total Project Costs                 42.80            18.00
Total Financing Required                 42.80             18.00
Project Financing by ClonntinUS$millioequIent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Appraisal E ate            Actual/Latest Estmate
Bt-ak    GoVL      cop.     Bank      Govt.    COP.   Book  Govt   CoF.
Credit Facility        25.00              10.80      4.60               5.40    18.4   0.0   50.0
Technical Assistance    3.40               2.00      3.10               4.90    91.2   0.0  245.0
0.0   0.0   0.0
-17 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 18-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions: .
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation     Developmnte
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Concept Review -
August 1989
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1990                     2   Financial Specialist
2   Enterprise Specialist
1   Economist
1   Environmental Specialist
March 1991                    5   Team Leader, Lawer and
Negotiations Team
Supervision
July 1992                      1  Economist                            HS                 HS
I  Enterprise Specialist
Nov. 1993                      2  Financial Specialist                 HS                  S
1  Enterprise Specialist
January 1995                   1  Economist                             S                 U
I  Enterprise Specialist
May 1997                       1  Financial Specialist                  S                  S
ICR
February 2000                 1   Financial Sector Specialist           S                  S
(b) Staff'
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation              Est.40                         150
Appraisal/Negotiation                   Est.30                         141
Supervision                                16                          102
ICR                                         4                          20
Total                                      90                         413
- 19 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                             OH  OSUOM  ON  ONA
FSector Policies                            OH  OSU*M  ON  ONA
M Physical                                  OH OSUOM ON *NA
E Financial
2 Institutional Development                 0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
fEnvironmental                              O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  S NA
ZGender                              OH OSUOM ON * NA
FI Other (Please specify)
X Private sector development                0 H  O SU S M  0 N  0 NA
1 Public sector management                  0 H  O SU O M  * N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                            Rating
 Lending                                       OHSOS  OCu  OHU
 Supervision                                   OHS  Os  *U  OHU
F Overall                                       OHS Os  O*U  OHU
The unsatisfactory rating for the Bank is based on Bank's failure to supervise the Project and to timely
react (in terms of answers, clearances or no-objections and advise) to Borrowers requests.
6.2 Borrowerperformance                         Rating
 Preparation                                   OHS OS  OU  OHU
 Government implementation performance         O HS   s  OU      O HU
 Implementation agencyperformance              O HS   s  OU      O HU
 Overall                                       OHS OS  OLU  OHU
The highly satisfactory rating for implementation agency performance refers to the performance of: (i) the
Cyprus Institute of Technology, that has acted as administrator of the industrial and environmental studies
program, as a consultant clearinghouse and as an institution providing training and quality control and
quality assurance for the consulting industry in Cyprus; and (ii) the Cyprus Chamber of Commerce, which
has managed to develop sophisticated and highly efficient services for the private industrialists in Cyprus.
The satisfactory rating for Govermment implementation performance refers to various Government
departments that were engaged with the Project, including: (i) the Project Coordination Office of the
Ministry of Finance, that has been the main counterpart for the Project and that has administered the credit
line component; (ii) the Securities and Exchange Commission in the Ministry of Finance, that led the highly
successful development of the Cyprus stock markets; and (iii) the Project counterparts in the Ministry of
Commnerce, Industry and Tourism that were responsible for creation and oversight of the industrial
infrastructure related to standards and quality assurance and for assistance to industry.
The performance of participating banks has been less than satisfactory, although this is at least partly
motivated by the less then responsive terms of the Bank credit line. The Cyprus Development Bank, which
has managed to transform itself into a safe and sound banking institution, did satisfactory. The
performance of the Department for Cooperatives Development in the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and
Tourism has been less than satisfactory.
- 21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report dated April 1, 1991
Loan Agreement for Ln.3320-CY
Letter of Development Policy dated June 1990
Back to Office Reports and PSRs of the 4 supervision missions
Back to Office Report of the ICR mission
Subproject files
Cyprus Development Bank - Annual Report as of end 1998
Cyprus Development Bank - Change Management and Business Development Strategy
Cyprus Industrial Statistics - 1998
Other Statistical Tables - structure of GDP, productivity, employment, etc.
Cyprus Chamber of Commerce - Annual Report as of end-1998
Cyprus Chamber of Commerce - Services Manual
Cyprus SEC - Survey of Capital Markets Regulations
Cyprus Stock Exchange - various tables on structure, capitalization, trading and prices
Report on Cyprus cooperatives movement and on ways and means of harmonization with European
legislation
Report of the Cyprus Institute of Technology on activities under the project
Cyprus Institute of Technology - Description of Services
- 22 -



Annex 8. Borrowers Comments and Contributions
In June 1991, a Loan Agreement was signed between the Government of Cyprus and the World
Bank for the financing of the Industrial Restructuring Project.
The objectives of the project and the course of the project implementation are well stated in the ICR.
The project faced serious delays during implementation particularly part B relating to the provision of
credit. As mentioned in the ICR an amount of US$25.0 million from the total amount of the loan was
allocated to this part, for the financing of investment projects through the provision of sub-loans by
participating Bank. Under part B, the objectives of the project were not achieved because the participating
Banks and sub-borrowers were not interested in using this line of credit for the reasons stated in the ICR.
One of the reasons was availablity of cheaper funds and the fact that sub-borrowers were reluctant to take
foreign exchange risks and many of them could easily satisfied their financing needs through the local
Banks which provided revolving credit facilities.
Part C of the project, relating to the provision of Technical Assistance through the Cyprus Institute
of Technology was very successful.
The Republic of Cyprus in 1997 identified a number of factors affecting implementation and
outcome of the project and requested the cancellation of the unused loan balance for Part B (i.e. $20.4
million approximately) and reallocation to Part C the loan balance of $1.6 million classified as
"unallocated" under Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement. The same factors are stated in Section 5 of the
ICR.
The Ministry of Finance and the World Bank had an efficient and fruitful cooperation for many
years and for various infrastructure projects in Cyprus. Industrial Restructuring Project was the last
project before Cyprus graduation. The relationship between the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance
was good through the preparation and implementation of the project. Cypriot Institutions gained significant
experience through their contacts with the World Bank and World Bank practices, though the staff of the
Bank was not active in the implementation of the project.
The key lesson that can be learned from the implementation experience of this project is that World
Bank financing of a project to be attractive should be of lower cost and carry less risk of local financing.
- 23-



