Do:umcnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.8534
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
gCREDIT 1352-MAI)
APRIL 18, 1990
Agriculeure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
flits document has a restricted dishrbton nd may beue by reipetony in th  efra   of
their offichii duties. Its contents mayl not otherwise be discosed withu World Bak _h_



ABBREVIATIONS
ADD            Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC         Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ASA            Annual Survey of Agriculture
FINCOM         Finance Corporation of Malawi
FU             Fertilizer Unit
RAF             igh Analysis Fertilizer
JMC            Joint Management Committee
MA             Management Accountant
MITCO          Malawi International Transport Company
MOA           iMnistry of Agriculture
NRDP           National Rural Development Program
PCR            Project Completion Report
SFRF           Smailholder Fertilizer Revolving Fund



FOt OM CIA   USE ONLY
THE wowsD SANK
Washtngton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
ON" cW Dict4vGwGal
April 18, 1990
MEMORANDM WTO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malawi Smallholder
Fertilizer Project (Credit 1352-HAI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Malawi - Smallholder Fertilizer Project
(Credit 1352-MAl)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office.   No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
This document hs a rsict distribution and may be used by tecipients only in the perfofmance  |
of theit offlcial duties. Its contents may not otwise be disclosed without Wold Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONI
MAL~AW~I
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT (CR. 1352 - HAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe
Preface                                                                                                    i
Evaluation  Summary                                                                                       ii
PART I
A.  PROJECT BACKGROUND
. Introduction ................    .....                                                           1
B Background .....................................  1
P Project Formulation  and Objectives  .............................   1
P Project Design and Organization  ................................   2
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Establishment of the Fund and overall  Implementation  .......... .                             3
, Procurement  and Distribution  .......................................   3
, Financial  and Physical Performance  of the Fund  ...............                          ..   4
, Institutional  Support  .....................................................    5
, Policy Dialogue  ..............................................                        .        6
Monitoring and Evaluation  . ............ .    ............* ..... .. .                     .   6
C.   PROJECT RESULTS
. Fertilizer Procurement and  Sales                         ...............................    7
Financial Results                 ............................................    7
. Agricultural  Impact  ...........                 .................          ...............  8
. Social  Impact           .............................................8...... 
. Economic  Impact  ........................................... ......   9
. Sustainability  .....              ............................................   9
Borrower's  Performance  ...............................................  10
IDA  - IFAD Performance  ......................................... 10
D.   CONCLUSIONS
. Lessons  to be Derived  ...                  .......................................  11
ATTACHMENT As                Bank Comments                                                               12
ATTACHMENT B:                IFAD Comments (1)                                                           16
IFAD Comments  (2)                                                         18
PART II
(No comments)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III . TABLES
TABLES
1 -  Related Bank Loans andlor Credits                                  21
2 -  Project Timetable                                                  22
3 - Credit Disbursements                                                23
4 - Project Implementation                                              24
5 - Project Costs and Financing                                         25
6- Project Results                                                      27
A.  Direct Benefits                                                H
B.  Economic Impact                                                28
7 - Status of Loan Covenants                                            31
8 - Use of Bank Resources                                               31
A.  Staff Inputs                                                   31
B.  Missions
PART III - ANNEX                     32
FIGURES
1.   Project Staff Imp'ementation                                       32
2.   Gross Margins for Various Crops                                    35
TABLES
1.   Exchange rates                                                     36
2.   Schedule of project disbursements                                  37
3.   Financing contributions                                            38
4.   Schedule of application of funds                                   39
5.   Revolving fund                                                     41
6.   Schedule of interest and subsidy                                   42
7.   Fertilizer procurement and sales                                   43
8.   Fertilizer demand and sales - Appraisal and actual                 45
9.   External transport costs                                           47
10.  Port distances and freight costs                                   48
11.  Fertilizer consumption (nutrient)                                  49
12.  Fertilizer consumption by product                                  50
13.  Current fertilizer prices and subsidy levels                       51
14.  Projected and actual subsidy levels                                52
15.  Fertilizer sales forecasts                                         54
16.  Cropped hectarage 1982183 - 1988189                                55
17.  Distribution of farm holdings and cultivated area by farmsize   56
18. Maize cultivation as a percentage of cultivated area by farmsize 57
19.  Fertilizer use by farmsize and crop                                58
20.  Smallholder fertilizer and maize prices                            59
21.  Nutrient price/maiz, price ratios for smallholders                 60
22.  Comparison of nutrient costs of fertilizers                        61
23.  Gross margins for various crops                                    62
24.  Maize cultivation and production                                   63
25.  Seasonal credit and fertilizer sales                               64
APPENDICESs
1.   Economic Analysis                                                  66
2.   Monitoring of Fertilizer Delivery                                  75



(i)
K4AWI
SMALEOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
PROECT COMPLETION REPORT
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Smallholder
Fertilizer Project in Malawi for vhich IDA Credit 1352-MAI in the amount of
SDR 4.6 million was approved on May 5, 1983 to supplement IFAD Loan 120-4W
in the amount of SDR 8.5 million and IFAD Grant 1.0 million which were
approved on May 24, 1983. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1988, the
original closing date, while the IFAD Loan and Grant closed on March 31,
1989, one year behlnd schedule. At closing the Credit showed a balance of
SDR 18,388 which was cancelled on September 30, 1989, while disbursement of
the IFAD Loan and Grant for commitments entered into before the closing
date continued until September 30, 1989 when the Loan showed a balance of
SDR 5.672 and the Grant SDR 113,541.
The PCR Part I and Part III Annex were prepared by the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program, while the Bank and IFAD provided comments on the PCR
(Attachments A and B respectively). The Agricultural Division of the
Southern Africa Department prepared the Preface, Evaluation Summary and
Part III tables. The Bank sent the Borrower the Evaluation Summary and
Parts I and III of the draft PCR with the request to prepare Part II but no
reply was received.
Preparation of this PCR was started by the Cooperative Program
team which visited Malavi during February 1989 and is based, inter alia on
information gathered during the Mslawi visit, the Staff Appraisal Report,
the Development Credit Agreement, the IFAD Financing Agreement, supervision
reports, the Mid-Term Review prepared by IFAD, correspondence between the
Bank, IBAD and the borrower and studies financed by USAID on institutional
aspects of the fertilizer agency and on the impact of fertilizer sub'tidy on
farmers and the economy. The mission also reviewed the accounts and audit
reports of the fertilizer agency.



(ii)
MALAWI
SHALLEOLDER FlRSTLIZER PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
Ci)       In densely populated Malawi, additional agricultural production
must come from intensified farming. Fertilizer is the most importaut input
for sustaining and increasing agricultural production. In the early 808,
fertilizer supplies were jeopardized by financial problems of the
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMhRC) responsible for
importiug and distributing fertilizer to smallholders. Consequently, the
pro4ect was designed to increase the productivity of the smallholder
agriculture through improving MQA'8 policy making ability, sufficient and
timely financing for fertilizer procurement. and technical support to the
subsector. These objectives were to be achieved by improving procurement
and distribution procedures; establishing a fertilizer revolving fund into
which all revenues would be paid; strengthening ADMAICs and Ministry of
Agriculture's (MOA) capacity to deal with fertilizer and related issues5
end helping to reforn policy issues particularly with respect to input and
crop pricing (para 3). Of the SDB 14.1 million IDA and ITAD finance, SDR
13.1 million were for the purchase of fertilizer (foreign costs) and SDR
1.0 million for technical assistance.
Imulementation ineerience
ii)       The project was identified by IFAD and appraised by a joint
BankI/FAD team. Identification to effectiveness took only 16 months (para
1)  The Government established the Fertilizer Revolving Fund promptly and
operated it effectively (para 7). Fertilizer procurement and transport
from port to depot were handled efficiently by contractors, but transport
from depot to consumer and distribution did not improve during the project
(para 9-11).
(iii)     The Fertilizer Unit (FU) in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
was established 15 months late. Despite transport and commnication
problemL, the Unit did good work notably improving demand projections,
introducing *Eigh Analysis Fertilizer (tAF)v to save transport costs, and
introducing small bags to make fertilizer use accessible to low income
farmers (para 21).
(iv)      The Management Accountant to operate the Fund was appointed on
time (appointment was an effectiveness condition). The three other TA
posts were appointed with a 12-15 months delay. Three of the four
appointments were considered to be effective, but the transport adviser
left no impact. Short term TA for monitoring and evaluation was not used.
Disbursements of the IFAD loan and IDA credit were made as scheduled, but
the TA Grant (72 of total assistance) was drawn down more slowly than
projected due to delays in TA appointments and was not fully disbursed
(Part III Table 3).



(iii)
Results
(v)       Fertilizer sales in terms of nutrients were close to appraisal
projection (down somewhat due to a low maizetfertilizer price ratio (from
1985 through 1987), but returning to normal when the ratio increased (para
14). Donor grants were needed to help finance the supplies. While the
Fund has grown to MK 95 million (para 31 and Part III Annex Table 3).
partly due to the EEC buffer stock project and other donor grant
contribution, this is not enough to cater for the growing fertilizer demand
and rising costs.
(vi)      Despite higher than projected maize yield response to
fertilizers and increased fertilizer consumption, national agricultural
production of the smallholder sector did not increase. This may be partly
due to falling yields on unfertilized land and partly to the drop in hybrid
maize area. Hybrid maize mainly grown for sale, was adversely affected by
the maize price relative to other cash crops and by temporary maize
marketing problem.
(vii)     The policy dialogue with the Government was, at an early stage,
taken over as part of structural adjustment lendiag and there have been
regular consultations on crop and input pricing. Fertilizer subsidy
elimination, projected at appraisal, was postponed due to steep cost
increases following the closure of Hozambican railways.
(viii)    Overall, the project succeeded in its main objective of
maintaining the fertilizer supply for the smallbolder sector. There were
two disappointments. The first, the lack of improvement of fertilizer
distribution due partly to unsatisfactory monitoring of fertilizer
movements, but mainly due to the ageing and dwindling transport fleet and
inadequacy of the Government prescribed transport rates (para 12). The
other is the lack of monitoring and impact evaluation that persisted,
despite repeated consultants' efforts funded by IFAD to redress this
defect.
Sustainability
(ix)      1hile the resources of the Fund built up to beyond appraisal
projections, partly because of support from USAID, EEC and other donors, it
is not able to meet the rising fertilizer demand in the face of increasing
fertilizer and transport costs. New capital injections will be needed for
the foreseeable future, while the fund cannot recover the full cost plus a
margin for expansion (para 38). The direction of the Fund and of the
Fertilizer Unit benefitted from effective technical assistance. The
handover of Fund management to local staff and replacement of technical
assistance to manage the buffer stock was a major issue during the last two
project supervisions and had not been finalized at the time of PCR
preparation; The process will receive attention from the ongoing sector
adjustment operation and is likely to attract EEC support. The Fertilizer
Unit, in KOA, has reverted to a one person unit that cannot provide all the
services requested by the Ministry. With possible staff changes that are
cowmon in the Ministry, the long term effectiveness of this unit may be
doubtful.



(iv)
Findings and Lessons Learnt
(x)       The project restored reliable fertilizer supplies and
established an institution that, with further external assistance, should
be able to meet Malawi's groving needs for fertilizer. Introduction of HAP
fertilizer to reduce transport costs and of small packs to give low income
farmers access to fertilizers count among other project benefits. However,
the long term objective of increasing national produetion was not achieved.
Fertilizer alone is not enough for that purpose and policy issues and the
role of other agricultural services that affect production are being dealt
with by other Bank operations. The project fell short in attempts to
improve fertilizer distribution (partly because of shortage of vehicles in
Malawi), and to introduce effective monitoring and evaluation.
(xi)      To meet the fertilizer supply crisis, project preparation had to
be brief and this factor might have justified earlier mid-term evaluation
to correct shortcomings. In this case there were monitoring and evaluation
problems that IFAD attempted to overcome by repeated consultant assistance
to the project, but in retrospect it seems that the Ministry of Agriculture
Unit did not have the capacity for this work in addition to its existing
commitments. The most important lesson, however, seems to be the
difficulty of satisfactory institution building by a one time only project.
As has been found with research aud extension, support should be continued
over several project cycles.



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTLIZER PROJECT (CR. 1352 - MAI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Names                Smallholder Fertilizer Project
Credit No.:          1352-MAI
RVP Unit,           Africa Region
Countrys            Malawi
Sectors             Agriculture
A. PROJECT LACKGROUND
Introduction
1.        The Smallholder Fertilizer Project was identified and prepared
by IFAD from February to July 1982, appraised in October 1982 jointly by
IDA and IFAD, and negotiated in March 1983. The four-year project was
estimated to cost US$29.97 million to which IDA would contribute by a
credit of US$5 million, and IFAD by n loan of US$9.28 million and a grant
of US$1.05 million. The project became effective in June 1983; Credit
1352-MAI closed on 31 March 1988 but IPAD loan 120-MW and grant 109-MW
continued to 31 March 1989.
Background
2.        Agri.culture in Malawi engaged about 85? of the working
population, and accounted for 401 of GDP and 89Z of export earnings in
1982, at the time of project appraisal. With rural densitiws of 130 to 200
persons per km2 of arable land, and an average farm size of 1.2 ha, fallow
lands have virtually disappeared in smallholder agriculture.  Government
objectives are to maintain self-sufficiency in staple foods while expanding
agricultural exports and improving rural incomes. Fertilizers started to
play a strategic role in the early 1980s, with about 202 of cropped land
regularly receiving fertilizers, as against only 10? in 1977. Marketing
and input delivery services for smallholders are provided by the
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), a parastatal,
which operates a nation-wide network of stores and marketing sheds.
Proiect Formulation and Obiectives
3.        At the time of project appraisal, while research, extension and
credit services were being supported under the National Rural Development
Program (NRDP), further improvement in smallholder productivity was
constrained by insufficient fertilizer supply and late delivery. The
situation became serious during the 1981/82 season because of ADMARC's
growing financial difficulties, and progressively worsened in the
subsequent seasons due to growing insecurity on the Mozambican routes used



-2
for the transport of all fertilizer imports. Non-comercial obligations
contributed to ADMARC's financial difficulties, since it had to bear the
costs of storing surplus maize and of subsidizing fertilizers.
4.        The Project was designed to increase the productivity of the
smallholder sub-sector through improvements in MOA's policy making ability,
the restoration of sufficient and timely financing for fertilizer
procurement and technical support to the sub-sector. It was envisaged that
these objectives would be met through the following componentsx
i)     improvement of ADMARC's procedures for procuring and
distributing fertilizers;
ii)     establishment of a fertilizer revolving fund in the Reservi Bank
of Malawi;
iii)     strengthening of the institutional capacity of the MinWstry of
Agriculture (MOA) and ADMARC; and
iv)     the 'setting in motion of a process to bring about a reform of
all relevant policies,' through agreements on subsidies and
regular consultations on resource allocations, crop and input
pricing and measures to strengthen agricultural research.
Prolect Desian and Organization
5.        The main thrust of the project was to establish a separate fund
sufficient to ensure the timely availability of the required finance. This
Fund would be managed by a small unit within ADMARC, and ADMARC would
continue to be responsible for the physical implementation of procurement
and distribution; however, procurement was to be effected only through its
subsidiary the Finance Corporation of Malawi (FINCOO), and following ICB
procedures. A Joint Management Committee (JMC), consisting of
representatives from MOA, the Ministry of Finance, Department of Statutory
Bodies and ADMARC, would monitor the stgtus of the Fund.
6.        It is now apparent that there were certain shortcomings in
project desigr. These relate, in particular, to the following:
i)     there was no clear indication on how fertilizer distribution was
to be improved;
ii)     the fertilizer unit Was set up under the extension service which
had no authority and very few means to carry out adequately its
wide-ranging functions;
iii)     for M&E activities, there was no clear delineation cf
responsibilities between the different institutions involved
(ADMARC. Smallholder Fertilizer Revolving Fund (SFRF), the
National Statistical Office, and WOA); and nor were the
information requirements clearly defined; and



- 3 -
iv)     the agriculturist TA was given far too many tasks for the period
allocat-A 'der the project.
S. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Establishment of the Fund and Overall Implementation
7.        The Project became effective on 24 June 1983 with the
appointment of the Management Accountant (MA) and the paying in of the
initial deposits, which were set as coaditions of effectiveness. Tenders
for the 1983-84 season had been offerqd prior to project effectiveness.
The Management of the Fund, atrengtheted with personnel seconded from
ADMARC (Part III Annex Fig. 1), became fully operational with the
initiation of new tendering and accounting procedures for tne following
season.
8.        Disbursements from IDA and IFAD loans had been completed by end
March 1987, but IFAD grant financing technical assistance was extended to
30 September 1989, chiefly because of the late appointment of technical
assistance staff and their counterparts (Part III Annex Fig. 1). IDA
supervisions were, however, continued until end 1918.
Procurement and Distribution
9.        Annual tenders are established on the basis of an aggregation of
local demand estimates prepared by staff of the Agricultural Development
Division (ADD) almost two years ahead of delivery; this global estimate is
then revised by HOA an: adjusted to match supply possibilities. The
Finance Corporation of Malawi (FINCOM) has successfully handled the
procurement of fertilizers, complying with Bank/IDA ICB procedures. FINCOM
evaluates tenders and provisional awards are made by the Joint Management
Camittee. It charges a fee of 12 for its services and arranges insurance
for the external transport element.
10.       Since the 1984-85 season, the Fund has tendered separately fcr
the external transportation of fertilizers. The Malawi International
Transport Company (MITCO) was awarded the first contract to coordinate
external transport and has subsequently won the award each year. Due to
the volumit of exports at its disposal which can te matched against imports,
MITCO has been able to charge transport costs below or equal to those
anticipated at appraisal, thereby offsetting the impact of the Beira port
closure (Part III Annex Table 9). Although shorter routing (Dar-es-Salaam,
Beira via Harare, and later, NACALA) will be progressively used more
frequently, it is likely that freight costs will not be reduced
substantially (Part III Annex Table 10). MITCO has experienced no
difficulty in obtaining the requisite foreign exchange for external
transport.
11.       The demand estimates compiled by ADD staff (Part III Annex
Table 10) are used to prepare schedules for distribution from the 2 ADMARC
main depots to its 93 parent markets. There have been every year instances



- 4 .
of late, excess or under supply in many markets. Due to lack of effective
monitoring - by ADD staff as envisaged at appraisal, it is difficult to
demonstrate any significant progress in this respect. Monitoring even
failed to clearly identify major issues. Deviations from delivery
schedules may in rare cases be made deliberately by ADMARC to remedy
inaccurate demand estimates. In most cases, however, .1ey would appear to
stem from transport difficulties and lack of control by ADMARC over
transporters.
12.       The transport situation has, in fact, deteriorated further
during the 1988-89 season, due to increased competition for the transport
of food aid for the estimated 600,000 Mozambican refugees now in the
country. These exceptional circumstances should not, however, hide the
structural causess an ageing and dwindling fleet, and insufficient
Government-fixed transport rates.
13.       Procurement and distribution operations are now undergoing
significant changes with the introduction of the EEC buffer stock scheme.
Initially intended to serve only as a strategic reserve in case of total
closure of supply routes, it is now envisaged to use it also to stagger
imports, thus reducing pressure on transport, and allowing the Fund to
benefit from advantageous spot prices. For the Fund, this will result ins
i)     an increase in the number of annual tenders and in the number of
primary delivery points into Malawis imported fertilizers will
be delivered directly to the three buffer stock stores and to a
number of parent markets in addition to the two ADMARC main
depots through which all fertilizer had to pass until 1988;
ii)     its direct involvement in store management and fertilizer
handling through the buffer stock stores; and
iii)     the establishment of more formal relationships with ADMARC,
particularly regarding delivery schedules and monitoring
mechanisms.
Financial and Physical Performance of the Fund
14.       By 31 March 1988, contributions to the Fund amounted to MR65.ll
million, i.e. about twice the Appraisal Report estimates (Part III, Annex
Table 3). Inspite of this increase, which was due to contributions from
USAID and to a mucb larger than projected contribution of the Government,
the Fund faced serious liquidity problems during the first three years of
the project. About two thirds of the current assets were represented by
debts owed by ADMARC, ADDS, and the Government in regard to subsidy
payments (Part III Annex Table 4). The Government then came to the rescue
of the Fund, which also succeeded in obtaining faster payments from
debtors. As a result, debts amount to less than one third of the current
assets since 1986-87.
15.       Quantities of fertilizer made available every year have always
been maintained at levels close to or above those projected at appraisal.
Quantities bought by the Fund were lower than envisaged, but donor



fertilizers, which amounted to 20-252 of total sales from 1985-86 to 1B87-
88, made the difference (Part III Annex Table 8). Fertilizer sales
increased in the first year but were then static for three years before
resuming a strong growth when maize prices increased in 1987 and 1988.
Sales were constantly and significantly lower than quantities theoretically
available for sale. This may be partly due to a depressed demand related
to low maize profitability in 198586 and 1986/87 (Part III Annex Fig. 2),
but also to the fact that part of the fertilizer was received too late in
many market places.
16.       With a view to reducing transport costs per unit of nutrient
imported, the project has gradually introduced 'High Analysis Fertilizers"
(HAF) which represented over 552 of sales in 1988/89. Thanks to
demonstration and training activities carried out by the project, these are
now generally well accepted, although traditional fertilizers are still
preferred by many farmers.
17.       In April 1988, the Fund was separated from ADMARC to become a
Trust Fund administered by a Board of Trustees and empowered to receive
grants and to enter into contracts for distribution as well as for
procurement; it was then given the responsibility to manage the buffer
stock project and operate the three regional warehouses, which will receive
the bulk of incoming fertilizers (see para. 13).
Institutional Sunoort
18.       The project was to strengthen institutional capacity through the
provision of technical assistance: a management accountant for the Fund (4
years), a transport management adviser to ADMARC (2 years), an agricultural
economist to the Planning Division of WOA (1 year) and an agriculturist to
the extension service of MOA (4 years).
19.       The Management Accountant, appointed before project
effectiveness, initiated the new tendering procedures, established a system
of accounting and prepared reports providing details of the Fund's
activities; the accounts have been audited annually by independent
auditors. His appointment as General Manager of the new Trust Fund in 1988
is seen as evidence of his satisfactory performance. His secondment to the
Fund under IFAD assistance has been extended until September 1989. His
counterpart was appointed only in 1986.
20.       When the Transvort Manatement Adviser was recruited, over a year
behind schedule, arrangements had already been made to overcome external
transport difficulties. There is no evidence that he played a significant
role in internal transport, which still remains one of the weakest links in
the whole supply system. It is only since October 1988, when a new
transport specialist was recruited under FAO assistance to ADMARC, that a
thorough study of the transport system has been undertaken, which should
provide the basis for decisive action to tackle this issue.
21.       The Aariculturist was appointed only in early 1985, together
with his counterpart. They established a Fertilizer Unit (FU) dealing, as
envisaged at appraisal, with three major fields of activity: technical



recommendations, fertilizer demand estimates and distribution scheduling,
and monitoring of fertilizer movements. These tasks far exceeded the
envisaged staffing and the means that MOA could realistically provide. In
spite of this and the lack of transport and office support, the FU has been
instrumental in promoting the use of High Analysis Fertilizers through
trials, training and demonstrations - although further work is still needed
to improve efficiency of application and farmers' acceptability - and the
use of smaller bags to make fertilizers more accessible to low income
farmers.
22.       With an input limited to 12 months, the Pricing Adviser was only
able to participate in one pricing review consultation (1985-86). He was
closely involved with the World Bank pricing methodology using the
econometric model. Since his departure, the Planning Division has
recruited a donor-financed pricing economist, and a further adviser was
provided in 1987 under the World Bank financed Agriculture, Extension and
Planning Support Project.
Policy Dialonue
23.       The Joint Management Comvittee (para 5) was not formally
established until March 1985 although most of the members had met regularly
beforehand. Meetings have subsequently occurred on a quarterly basis,
albeit with a frequently varying membership.
24.       It was intended that fertilizer prices would be kept under
constant review to ensure that subsidies would be completely phased out by
1985-86 according to a schedule based on the routing and CIF prices
prevailing during negotiations. With the closure of the Beira rail line in
October 1982 and the Nacala line in January 1984, however, fertilizer
prices rose and the Government decided to postpone the subsidy reduction
program. These issues were then discussed under the structural adjustment
program (see comments in Part III Annex Table 14). Prices of farm produce
were also to be reviewed with a view to moving them towards farmgate parity
prices. Since 1984, annual price consultations with the World Bank and IMF
have occurred as part of the SAL agreement. In fact, the issue of pricing
policy was taken over by the SAL project.
Monitorina and Evaluation
25.       The project intended to develop a comprehensive system tos (i)
monitor the financial situation of the Fund; (ii) monitor fertilizer
movements from procurement to selling points and sales; (iii) monitor and
evaluate fertilizer use, and evaluate project effects. Since the data
collection system of MOA was considered at appraisal to be well developed
(e.g. The Annual Survey of Agriculture (ASA) program), no additional staff
or budget were provided, other than expert consultancies.
26.       The financial status of the Fund, through its accounts and
regular reports, was efficiently monitored and corrective action taken when
needed. The same occurred with procurement, for which regular data were
contractually provided to the Fund by FINCOM and MITCO. In both cases,
responsibilities were well defined and no extra data collacction was needed.



27.       Data on fertilizer movements beyond the main ADMARC depots were
never known to the Fund in sufficient time and appropriate format to allow
effective monitoring and corrective action; besides, the Fund had no
authority over ADMARC or transporters to take such action. The three M&E
consultancies provided to the project concentrated on data collection,
recommending changes in the distribution of tasks between the various
envisaged partners, in a vain attempt to overcome staffing and equipment
constraints. Above all, M&E suffered from inadequate planning (Part III
App. 2). In particular, data collection was not focused to address key
pre-identified issues; little effort was made to obtain distribution data
from the only direct source - ADMARC - through appropriate changes in field
staff reporting format and in their data processing system; and there were
no time limits in procurement and delivery schedules.
28.       Specific surveys to study fertilizer use and evaluate project
effects were either not analyzed (rapid fertilizer survey) or not
undertaken (socio-economic surveys) due to lack of staff and equipment.
The analysis by the FU of 1982183 to 1984/85 ASA data did however provide
valuable information on doses, and indications of maize yield response to
fertilizers.
C. PROJECT RESULTS
Fertilizer Procurement and Sales
29.       Despite continuous severe cash flow difficulties, due to late
payments, and steeply rising fertilizer and transport costs, the project
has been successful in supplying and distributing the amounts of fertilizer
deemed necessary at appraisal. This achievement is largely attributable to
donor fertilizer grants and to close collaboration between the funding
institutions and the Government.
30.       It is. however, clear that larger quantities could have been
sold, had the project been able to improve distribution, or had maize
prices been maintained at desirable levels (i.e. aimed at ensuring self-
sufficiency in maize under normal climatic circumstances). The amount of
unsatisfied demand cannot be estimated since the market never seems to have
been saturated.
Financial Results
31.       During the fiscal year 1988, contributions to the Fund have
increased from MK65 million to MX95 million largely due to the EEC financed
Fertilizer Buffer Stock Project. This rapid increase has just been
adequate to cope with the fast growing demand in fertilizers and the large
increases in costs. As fertilizers' cost and demand are expected to
increase further, it is very important that adequate financial resources be
made available to ensure adequate and timely fertilizer availability.



Agricultural Impact
32.       Because of generally mediocre soil fertility and relatively
intensive cultivation methods, maize response to fertilizer is generally
high, even with certain local cultivars. Fertilizer is mostly applied to
maize (50Z on local varieties, 32Z on composites and hybrids) and often at
levels considerably below those recommended. Farmers appear to adjust
applications according to personal judgements regarding soil fertility and
expected yield response, and in line with their available resources, and
are probably far less ignorant in this field than extension staff would
often admit. 1/ Therefore, the failure of the project 21 to modify the
nationwide, uniform fertilizer recommendations to applications adapted to
the various agro-climatic conditions may have less impact than feared.
However, farmers' adjustment is based on an insufficient knowledge of plant
needs, fertilizer characteristics and local soil deficiencies, and
therefore such type of training and research would be needed to enhance
fertilizer efficiency.
33.       Despite the increase in fertilizer consumption, maize
productivity - and therefore smallholder productivity - did not improve
(Part III Annex Table 24). Declining soil fertility due to lack of fallow
periods may not have been adequately compensated by the application of
additional fertilizer. Moreover, the share of hybrid maize stagnated at
about 5? of total area sown whereas it was expected to reach 121 in
1987/88. Hybrid maize is not grown for home consumption, due to
unsatisfactory keeping, pounding and eaving characteristics, and is
therefore highly sensitive to market conditions, which became unfavorable
from 1985 to 1987 because of low prices and market insecurity (ADMOC was
relieved from its obligation to buy all maize).
Social Imoact
34.       Only 23? of smallholders used fertilizers in 1i84-85, with great
variations by region and farm size. This figure may have increased to 301
by now, but the general trend remains that fertilizers are used
predominantly on larger farms for commercial cultivation of maize and other
crops, while most farmers with less than 1 _za do .aot use fertilizers,
chiefly for lack of resources, even though fertilizers could often reduce
the amount of food those farmers need to buy on the market.
35.       The magnitude of the food deficiency problem among the poorer
smallholders is way beyond the scope of a fertilizer project. The efforts
made to supply fertilizers in smaller bag sizes are however commendable
(and much appreciated by farmers), since this was probably the only
activity that the project could undertake to directly benefit those
farmers, with limited risks of 'leakage3 to large farms. In 1987/88, 33?
of fertilizers were supplied in small or medium bag sizes (10 to 25 kg),
which increased to 871 in 1988/89.
1/ Much of the resistance to RAF derived indeed from extension staff
disbelief or inability to demonstrate correct utilization.
2/   Due to the FU having had neither the authority nor the means to
undertake or contract out the requisite trials.



- 9 -
36.       Using the appraisal assumptions regarding the benefits of the
project (see Part III App. 1), and assuming that 302 of the smallholders
use fertilizer, the number of smallholders benefited may be estimated at
360,000.
Economic Imvact
37.       Following the approach taken in the Staff Appraisal Report, the
project economic rate of return is very high, at over 1002, and even higher
than calculated at appraisal (over 502). As project costs had been
underestimated, this would result from larger than anticipated benefits.
At appraisal, yield increase resulting from the use of fertilizer had been
estimated at 14 kg of maize per kg of nutrient, while the actual
achievement, based on the work of the FU, would be around 22 kg. The same
methodology as at appraisal was used to estimate the ERR. However, it is
questionable whether all benefits can be ascribed to project fertilizers
and qualifications on this subject are elaborated in Part III, Appendix 1.
Nevertheless, it is evident that the project is economically viable. The
switching values indicate that the rate of return would still be
satisfactory should the economic benefits be divided by more than 10.
Furthermore, the project has played a significant role in the mobilization
of foreign assistance, which is a constant key factor for improved
fertilizer supply.
Sustainability
38.       The Fund's ability to continue to procure the required amounts
of fertilizers, in the context of a fast rising demand and of rising
fertilizer prices and transport costs, is entirely dependent on new regular
capital injections. Assuming the Treasury would pay estimated subventions
quarterly, and ADMARC and ADDs within three months from the time of sale,
it is likely that the Fund could finance its projected procurements for
1989-90 from its existing resources. Additional resources would
nevertheless be necessary from 1990-91 onwards.
39.       The project made provisions to ensure the institutional
sustainability of the Fund as it was originally designed. However, these
proved inadequate when the changes in the Fund's status and role took place
in 1988 (see para 17). Four new managerial positions had to be created and
were filled through technical assistance. Despite efforts for the rapid
nomination of counterparts, the time left for training before technical
assistance expatriates are due to leave (September 1989 for the General
Manager, early 1990 for the others) may be extremely short given their lack
of experience in business operation. Indeed, in view of the more
commercial orientation of the Fund, recruitment for management positions
should be opened to candidates with adequate commercial experience and who
may be outside the public administration, as already recommended by recent
supervision missions.
40.       The FU functioned mainly by virtue of the strong input provided
by the Agriculturist. At present, it is staffed by only one person. It
hbs now become obvious that the tasks assigned to it (para 21) are not



- 10 -
compatible with the institutional set-up. Its head can have no more power
and means than other subject matter specO.alists in the extension service.
The FU could therefore only handle - if properly staffed and better
equipped - technical and training tasks relating to fertilizer
recommendations, in addition to acting as a focal point in the Ministry for
all information on fertilizers. Clearly, there is a need to carefully
review the role which the FU is expected to perform in the future, and
staff it accordingly.
Borrower's Performance
41.       Throughout the project duration, the Government has made every
effort possible to ensure its viability, particularly in providing the Fund
with the resources needed to meet supply requirements. Given the close
collaboration maintained year after year with supervision missions to
address such problems, it is perhaps surprising that the statutory changes
in the Fund in 1988 were made without first consulting the Bank or IFAD.
This could have helped identify in time the present staffing issues (para
39).
42.       As long as the Fund was part of ADMARC, it always enjoyed
considerable support in respect of staffing and material needs.
Cooperation with ADMARC regarding monitoring of distribution was, however,
less satisfactory. A strict adherence to administrative rules precluded
the FU from receiving sufficient staff and means from MOA - particularly
regarding telephones and transport - to fulfil its numerous tasks, even
though these had been increased by NOA.
43.       Increases in fertilizer prices almost immediately relieved the
Government of its obligation, under the project, to phase out subsidies
(this program, together with the pricing policy dialogue, was thereafter
transferred to other projects).
IDA - IFAD Performance
44.       The project preparation process was completed in a remarkably
short time. This was critical for the success of the project, but was
perhaps the reason for some shortcomings in project design (para 6) which
were never successfully addressed later on. The initial supervision
missions played an important role in the recruitment of T/A and
counterparts and in monitoring the financial status of the Fund. The
cashflow problems were constantly highlighted by timely supervisions, which
ensured that they were effectively addressed. The supervisions were,
however, less successful in correctly identifying major issues in
fertilizer distribution and in monitoring and evaluation, or in securing
efficient work conditions for the FU.
D. CONCLUSIONS
45.       The project succeeded in reestablishing Malawi's capacity to
maintain fertilizer supply, following years of erratic supply and despite
the closure of the traditional direct routes. Central to this was the
establishment of the Fund which, with further external assistance, is now



- 11 -
developing into a poteat but still vulnerable tool. The project had a
further impact on fertilizer use through the promotion of HAF and of
smaller bag sizes which helped to contain costs and increase accessibility
to lower income farmers.
46.       The project, however, failed to increase overall smallholder
productivity since gains in fertilizer use were negated partly T.y declining
soil fertility, partly by the stagnation of hybrid maize cultivation, due
not only to the absence of suitable hybrid varieties, but also to policies
which discouraged commercial maize cultivation.
47.       Institutional strengthening was not adequately addressed, but on
an ad hoc basis. The project also failed to improve, or even to clearly
identify, distribution problems, due to inadequate monitoring.  Information
regarding fertilizer utilization remains scanty and inadequate to formulate
further strategies to widen fertilizer use.
48.       Fertilizer is very important for the agricultural economy of
Malawi. Decisive steps have been taken under this project - and the
subsequent buffer stock project - to improve supply. This support needs to
be continued, particularly from the institutional point of view, to put the
Fund on a sustainable footing.
49.       Further progress in reaching the long-term objective of the
project, smallholder productivity improvement, will depend on Malawi's
ability to maintain the integrity of the Fund and further strengthen its
capacity to control procurement and distribution. While research is needed
to improve the genetic material and fertilizer recommendations. little
would be achieved without a sound policy environment which needs to be
based on a better knowledge of existing production systems.
Lessons to be Derived
50.       From the IDA-IFAD point of view, the lessons which can be
learned include the following:
i)     since time for project preparation was not sufficient for
detailed preparation of all components and since supervision
missions are bound to focus on immediate priorities, it would
have been useful to envisage a detailed review after, say, two
years;
ii)     late appointments of TAs and unsatisfactory performances in
transport and M&E expert services seriously affected project
implementation and achievements. Alternative arrangements could
have been sought to perform, in a timely manner, the tasks
considered essential to achieve project objectives;
iii)     the failure of M&E to provide relevant information on fertilizer
distribution and utilization was not primarily due to
insufficient means but inadequate identification of M&E
objectives and data requirements.



- 12 -
PART I
ATTACHMENT A
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANM  CONTS
A. Introduction
(i,    This Project Completion Report (PCR) for Halawi Smallholder
Fertilizer Project (CR1352-MAI) was prepared by Staff of the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program assigned to the Agricultural Division of the Southern
Africa Department for that purpose. It constitutes one of the early
attempts at the new style of Project Completion Report. This note expands
the project background section of the PCR slightly and presents conments to
reflect the views of the last task manager on the PCR findings. These
conments should be regarded as footnotes that amplify PCR material or offer
additional interpretations of the significance of the PCR findings.
B. Prolect Backaround and DescriRtion
(ii)    With intensification the main way to increase agricultural
production in Malawi, fertilizer is a crucial production factor in
attaining the national objectives of food self-sufficiency and higher
export crops production. For the estate sector, fertilizers are imported
and distributed by the p=ivate sector, at full cost. For smallholders, the
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) was the sole
importer and distributor. It has a large country-wide network of stores
and sales (also produce purchasing) points. Fertilizers for smallholders
are subsidized and, because of the price differential, some of the
'smallholder fertilizer' leaks to the estate sector. The extent of leakage
cannot be quantified accurately, but is believed to be about 202 of ADMARC
sales. The price differential is an obstacle to private sector
distribution to smallholders which is under consideration. The
procurement/distribution scenario has remained the same during the project
except that the ADMARC Unit established by the Project to import
fertilizers has become an autonomous trust fund, which continues to depend
on ADMARC for internal distribution.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
remained responsible for demand estimates, recomaending fertilizer types
and application rates, research, extension and pricing recommendations.
(iii)    Before the Project, the Government became concerned at
increasingly erratic fertilizer supplies for smallholders. Supply
difficulties were found to be due to inadequate finance and weak
procurement and distribution procedures, and the Government requested IFAD
and InA's help to overcome the problems. The resulting project, to be
completed over four years comprisedt
Fertilizer Purchases      US$ 28.67 million
Technical Assistance 1/  US$  1.30 million
Total Cost     US$ 29.97 million
1/ Described and evaluated in PCR paragraphs 18-22



- 13 -
C. Comments on Specific PCR Findinps
(iv)    Proiect Deuign
(a) Re Paragraph 6(i) - The project provided for improved
fertilizer demand estimates, procurement and transport.
However, it could not overcome the transport fleet problem
(paragraph 12) that impeded distribution.
(b) Re Paragraph 6(ui) - In the organizational structure of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Fertilizer Unit was
correctly placed, i.e., one of the subject matter units to
advise the Department Head. However, the lack of operating
resources that constrained the work of the unit provides a
lesson for designing similar operations in the future.
(c) Re Paragraph 6(iii) - It seemed clear at appraisal that
ADMARC would monitor progress of procurement, distribution
and performance of the Smallholder Farmers Revolving Fund
(SFRF), while the MOA Central Evaluation Unit would
evaluate the impact of the project on farmers and
agriculture. It is true that fertilizer distribution
monitoring and impact evaluation did not function despite
four subsequent attempts by IFAD consultants to overcome
the problems. It is doubtful whether additional resources
at appraisal would have enabled the project to overcome the
difficulties.
(v)    Implementation
(a) Distribution - Re Paragraph 11 - It is agreed that
monitoring of distribution must be improved and perhaps
some consultancy effort specifically for this issue should
have been used, but in the endt
(i) the majority of fertilizer did reach the consumers
more or less on time; and
(ii) due to transport problems (paragraph 12), there might
have been little that could have been done despite
excellent monitoring.
(b) Policy Dialogue - Re paragraph 24, while it is correct that
the subsidy issue was dealt with by Structural Adjustment
Operations, the consequences of activities and decisions in
connection with the subsidy affected the SFRP. For
instance, the USAID capital injection under its Subsidy
Removal Program helped to alleviate the Fund's financial
problems during the ADMARC liquidity crisis. The subsidy
issue remains central to the Fund's viability, being an
important factor determining fertilizer demand and
resources available to the Fund. The Government agreed in
principle with the desirability of subsidy removal, but



- 14 -
became cautious when faced by lagging maize production, the
need to import maize - particularly to cater for the influx
of refugees, and fflat" fertilizer sales.  In the medium-
term, the Government feels that the value to cost ratio
should be at least 2:1 for local maize. A subsidy for that
purpose may be needed to offset rising fertilizer prices
and is considered preferable to raising output prices in
view of the hardship this would cause to food deficit
households. Total subsidy removal should be possible when
a hybrid variety acceptable to consumers for subsistence is
widely used.
Cc) Monitoring and Evaluation (paras. 25-28) - As indicated
earlier, it should be noted ttat IFAD provided four
consultancy efforts to overcome the problems, which proved
quite intractable to even such intensive efforts to remedy
defects. This is an interesting lesson in the face of
Halawi's reputation for having established at effective
agricultural survey organization.
(vi)    Proiect Results - Fertilizer Sales (nara. 30): Financial Results
(para. 31) - Limited resources for fertilizer purchase was the main
constraint to expanding sales. Despite project funding, SFRP became
increasingly dependent on donor grant finance for expanding sales. This
dependence is as great today as in the past, despite recent success in
higher egearing, of the Fund's resources, due to the buffer stock and
improved financial management.
(vii)    Sustainability
(a) Fund Finances (oara. 38) - Adequacy of financial resources
has become a major focus of the ongoing sector adjustment
discussions. So far, the Government has preferred to
request donor grant assistance to available alternatives
such as IDA credits or bridging finance from local banks;
(b)  Fund Manamement (nara. 39) - Appointment of well qualified
and experienced stsff to take over from technical
assistance staff caused concern during the last two project
supervisions. The Sector Adjustment Operation is also
focusing on this aspect of the Fund's operations.
(c) MOA (Dara. 40) - The Fertilizer Unit has always operated as
an SMS unit to the Chief Agricultural Development Officer.
Resources made available to it rather than its place in the
organization chart determines the scope of its work, but a
review of its most effective size and work program is
important.
(viii)    Conclusions (Daras 45-47)
The main Project objective, that of improving the fertilizer
supply to smallholders was attained, and overall we consider this project
to have been a success. Progress was also made in strengthening



- 15 -
institutions, particularly in the development of the Fund. EEC assistance
in this respect in the later project stages must be acknowledged. However,
there is the delicate hand over of technical assistance
management/leadership to local staff. This had not been accomplished for
the Fund by the Project Closing Date, while the MOA Fertilizer Unit
reverted to a one person opsration, considered inadequate to handle the
workload. Paragraph 47 points to distribution problems, but the main cause
was "the aging and dwindling (transport) fleet and insufficient Government
- fixed transport rates" (para. 12) which could not be remedied by the
Project.
(iZ)    Lessons to be Derived (para. 50)
Failure of monitoring and evaluation measures feature in almost
every section of the PCR. The failure has to be acknowledged and is
regrettable, but it should be reiterated that IFAD made four attempts,
through consultants, to redress the defects, but the problems defied
solutions. The MOA Monitoring and Evaluation Unit seemed to lack capacity
to carry out project evaluation in addition to its other tasks and the work
should have been contracted out. On a more general theme, the most
important lesson seems to be the difficulty of satisfactory institution
building by a one-time only project. As has been found with research and
extension, project support needs to be sustained over two or three project
periods at least. In the case of Malawi's fertilizer institutions, the
ongoing Sector Adjustment Operation is providing an institutional and
financial safety net.



- 16 -                     PART I
ATTACHMENT B
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IFAD COMMENTS (1)
Date: 14 June 1989
TO: Mr. R. Ali
Chief, AF6AG
World Bank, Washington
FAX No.  477 6391                        Through:  Mr. S. Olowude
Deputy Direct'jr, PF
FROMs  C. Dickerson
Project Controller
Africa Division
IFhAD, Rome
SUBJECT:  MALAWI:  Smallholder Fertilizer Proiect
IFAD Loan No. 120-MV. IFAD Grant No. 109-MV
IDA Credit 1352-MAls Completion Renort
The report has been referred to departments of IFAD for comment.
These comments are based on initial review in the Africa Division and we
shall hope to inform you within 10 days if other comments are forthcoming.
The report is well structured, succinct and generally fair in
its conclusions. It is well supported in its tabular and appended
material. In its main thrust to ensure fertilizer supplies to smallholders
in Malawi, the projects achievements are well noted. It might be well to
reflect that had the project not come into being when it did. Malawi's
fertilizer supplies, and Malawi's ability to address the market in view of
closure of main transport routes would have been seriously undermined. The
project enabled Malawi to cope quite well with what otherwise could have
been a most difficult situation. Under the circumstances of starting the
project, there was not time for detailed research and planning (e.g., with
regards to the domestic distribution network). That being said, it is true
to say that better use could have been made of IFAD's grant resource for
studying transportation distribution, and responsiveness could have been
better towards proposals on monitoring and evaluation. Certainly the
Fertilizer Unit has never been accorded the high priority in staff
support/facilities that it merited. Such general policy while reflected,
could perhaps be strengthened.
Concern now must be that achievements are consolidated and that
firm statements of those achievements are used to attract continued support
from donors, to maintain fertilizer supplies, but also to ensure that
institution strengthening is continued with a view to improving the
efficiency of fertilizer procurement, distribution and use, especially by
the smaller of smallholders. There are areas where continued support can
contribute highly to development.



- 17 -
The following are specific paragraph cosments, generally on
matters of emphasis, covered at one point or another in the reports
PARAGRAPH S In this sumnary paragraph, it may be well to reflect. as a
counterweight to the shortcomings listed under paragraph 6, that the "main
thrusto as per this paragraph, did in fact prove efficacious, leading to
substantial improvements in supply and timeliness. It could be noted that
because the project responded to a serious situation in fertilizer supply
(paragraph 3), time did not permit a long preparatory phase - in fact the
project went from initiation to effectiveness in 16 months. That the
necessary appointments of technical assistants were not made on time was
due to lack of response on the part of the Borrower in using IFAD's grant
resources, (although this could be taken "as read').
Parazranh 6 (i): (Also paragraph 20). In Annex 6 (TOR 2) to the SAR,
there is a term of reference for a Transport Management Adviser. This sets
out that the incumbent was to review the present transportation system and
effect improvements. The important task was never carried out. There was
a two year delay in appointment and subsequently the appointee did not
fulfil the requirements and left no report. Had the required work been
done there would have been scope to introduce improvements.
Paragranh 6 (ii) and 25: It is noted that IFAD did provide three
successive technical inputs on M&E. However, it was found that Government
did not decide to react to the recoammendations despite follow-up in
successive supervisions. The reports appear to have been ostensibly
ignored. It may be noted also that a comprehensive mid-term evaluation
report was produced (somewhat late), but it did not appear to solicit the
response on the part of the Borrower to IhAD.
Paragraph (iii) and Uiv)s These comments are valid, taking into account
the importance of the assignments, sufficient strength was not established
in the respective fertilizer and pricing units, a matter that at the time
reflected lack of response on the part of the Borrower. In retrospect,
allowing that time did not apparently permit detailed plan formation the
respective fertilizer and pricing units, and also that of monitoring should
have been obliged to come up with detailed staffing and operational
proposals early in the project period, as a basis for progress. In the
event successive supervisions attempted to address the issues, but without
satisfactory responses.
Paragraph 33: This paragraph may raise questions on the efficiency of
fertilizer use - which is not the intent. Impact assessment is of course
difficult under the variable rainfall conditions and other incentive-
sensitive factors such as price. This is clarified under paragraph 37.



PART I
18 -                    ATACHMENT B
IFAD COM S (2)
IIMU1    lFW               FIDA                  PICA                    IF
IN  NARNFD                              FONDO                JJl
_ ~FUND1;          9    INTRNMNL               N"KOKA                Js tj
a        AGRfA L?TU4AL     0 V10M LOmM3T         03 EAPRROLM
JDlELOPMENT      AGRICOLE               AGICQOLA                ,
107. V1 del S0*o 0814 nomq, ny -elW OM   MAD. tOl. 4501 - FAX
FACUlMIE TRANSIISION                Fax No         47t8164
pt0  1    of   2                    o"o  13 March 1,90
To   Mr. Graham Donaldson            Frofs    Mr coliuDickeron
Chief, Agriculture, InfraAtrltcture       Project Coatrollere
and Human Rsourcees Divisonv
On4rations, valution Dept.       .Mawfiut   Mr. s 1s
The World Bank                              IN   VY      tor. 'Pr
NALWlIro1ct.~pltta fe~u~ Ls   Mlzold.w  Ferlilizee Projct
(1.20 NW)
The Project coupleeion    ort for the Saallho.Wdr F4rtil13,14oject
sent by the Operat tlfn  Eva1u6tton  Department on 30 0Wtober            was
received In IAD 6 February 1990. Mr. Dick*rsou provided ,wrltten comeuts
La June 1989, which are attached as an annex of the curreni toport.
Although at thisa  late date It  any not b  oppo*une to provide
further coments on the PC%, thera are one or two iesuee shicb should he
mentloned, at laast for the record.  In particular, the OCRl vas prepared
without the final report of the Agriculturalist, which vae providQd to the
World Bank in September 1989.  His report provid4e  some of insights Into
the  impact of the  project, which do not com  out o0 the PCRe  in
perticulart
1.   The  total hectar&ge  under *Il  types  of ua.e culti vatilo    A s
actually 20X higher thtn estimated at the time of apprajeel in 1"90/81,
sad by 1987/88 by 31% highet than foreseen at appraisal. The bulk of the
Lincrease In matxo bectarage planted is due to an expanoa In the area
planted with local saize.  over 901 of the area under US.  cultivation to
davotad to local vavietles (white the emainder is ueder hybrid and
COmposite vartettes), snd is cultivated by the smallalder,
The hoctarae devoted to hybrtd and composite mata  varieties hs
remained constant during the project, as a result of goernment pricing
policies, while the area under local maize has gmown from 891,000 hectares
to  about  1,137,600  hectares,    Thus, although  the  A4praisal Report
estimated that only ab;;ut 185,000 bwusLsres 4 local mai* vou1d receive
fertili2er,  about 232,000  hectAro;  has actually  rec"  ferttliaer,
representing a 25S  greater area.  This IncreaAed use of fertiliset on
local eaize can be attributed to the project, and Itt  iutlatAtve of
psoviding small bags of fetilizor,



- 19 -
0
.1,       IPAO P,SmimLS MMIS6IO4N Poe 2 of 2
2.   While the Appraisal forecasc of total naize produceton by 1987/881
was 1,220,000 settic tons, wbile actual ptoductioa mm 1,4Z6,200 KTi.
Thus, the  StAtement on p. 1  pPara.0()  of the *smaty  of the PCR
astional sgricultural ptoducttta  of the  emallboldet Scoto  did  cot
Increase"  seems rather slopliette and catagoric,  noise production did
Increase,  aAd most of this tIcresea came from  tie  aliboldJr nectar.
ftwever, it to tre that maize prdthccion has not b"a Increased  ast
io4ugh to satisfy national food need.
3.   Another issue which does not receive adequate treatsft in the PCI
is the question of ua$xe yields. National hybrid =Laiz y%elds rose from
2,757 l8/ha in 1983/84 to 3,111 kg/ha An 1984/83 and the   dclined every
year reachlog 2,681 kg/h. in 1987/88. ft the other haadt national loal
aaise yields which had been declining from 1981 for l,1i, khg/ha to 957
k8/ha tn 1985/86, stabtllued in 1986 and to" to 1,094 kihae An 1987/88.
Such an Increase over vast area In one seaon ts lteretU*4.  Although
som   observers  attributed  part  of  the  increase  to  better  wtate
conditions, the continuod decline In hybrid yields over qhe mas period
rwfutoe this arSuaent. The bta chuang In local eats. z*y therefore be
attributed to the use of much more fertilizer than before   as a result of
the project.
Copy toS Kr. U,WAn All
Chief A76 AG



- 20 -
Part II
The Borrower was sent Parts I and III of the draft PCR for comments on
October 30, 1989. However, no comments were received.



MAI.AWI
SlUUHOlDER PTtUER PROJECT
Related Bank Logo* and/or Credito
Calendar Yt.v
Loan/Credit Titleo            Puxo                          of Aperoal            St-tuu                               Co_nt
(1) National Ruranl Delopment:                             1961                   Closed 9/39/88                       Tho Fertilizer Project
Dbe. Program, Phase           Including eonouraing                                                                     helped to sustain
SII  (Credit 118-MAX)         fortilitor us  by                                                                        supplies but
farmes and improving                                                                     wealuation sh*o  tht
fertilizer                                                                               there:o  litttl
distribution by credit                                                                   lre n to feot. use.
and *utennion In
Karoog Agricultural
Dew. Divilion (ADD)
(2) National Wural           As In (1) above In            19S3                   Closing Doa* 9"/9/,                  This proj et eovers
Dew. Proorm, Phase IV         part of Li loue ADD                                 extended to 9/06/96                  pert ot L longwe Age.
(Credit 1848-WAR)                                                                                                      Dew. Diviston which In
one of main fertilizer
"uing gren In Malawi.
Fertilizer us  (munt 
of nutrients) has
trebled  ince 1963 and     a
the fertiliser project
assured the supplies.
(8) Agricultural             As In (1) above In            19S D                 Uder lmplmntation                     Fertilizer is the
Extension ond Planning        Mxuzu ADD end with the                                                                   major Input tn tblew
Support                       objective of Improving                                                                   and one of the  mot
(Credit 1626-M1A)            eXt4M on worPk                                                                            Iporta  subjects
nationally                                                                               cowered by extension
services, which play"
* key role in the
change to 'High
Analysis Ferttilizor
(4) National Agr.            Improving the national        18C6                  Under iplemetation                    The resarch s*rvice
Reserech                      or. research capacity                                                                    cater for all a"pets
(CrWitt 1C49-MAI)                                                                                                      of fertilizer reserch
and provided the data
needed to switch to
High Analysts
Fert) I izr



- 22 -
PART lII
TABLE 2
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Proiect Timetable
Item                      Date Planned   Date ReWised   Date Actual
Identification
Preparation                                                     2/82
Appraisal Mission                                              10/82
Credit Negotiations                                             3/83
Board Approval                                                 4126183
Credit Signature                                               5/1583
Credit Effectiveness                                           6124183
Credit Closing (IDA)           3131/88                         3/31/88
(IFAD)         3/31/88         3/31/89        3131/89 I/
Credit Completion (IDA)        9/30/87                         9/30/87
(IFAD)      9/30/87         9130189        9/30189 1/
1/   Disbursement of fertilizer component which comprised the entire IFAD
loan virtually completed by 9/30/87. However the Technical
Assistance Grant was not drawn down and has been used to continue to
finance Technical Assistance until 6 months after the Closing Date.



MALAWI
SMAW4OLDER POWYYCZER PROJECT
Credit Disbursements (Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursermets)
(US*$ million)
IDA Credit                           1982/U8    19U804        1984/65        1966/86        1988187        1987/88        198889
Estimated cumulative                    0.04        J.12         4.23        4.08          4.99 (4.60)    4.99 (4.86)    4.99 (4.86)3)/
Actual cumulative                       o.ee        8.10         4.14        4.50          4.78           4.78           4.78 V
Actual as *    of estimated            --          99           98           98            99.0           99.6           9.6
IFAO Loan
Estlmated cumulative                    0.08        6.76         8.23        9.12 (6.88)   9.25 (6.88)    9.26 (8.88)    9.26 (8.88) /
Actual cumulative                       0.6         5.77         8.68        6.66          8.77           8.77           8.68 J
Actual as X of estimated               --         10           104           98            99.3           99.3          10
IFAD Grant
Estiomted Cmulative                    e.64          0.42        0.72        0.90          1.O6           1.66           1.05 (1.07) /
Actual cumulative                      986           0.10        0.27        6.40          6.5?           0.78           0.89 J
Actual as X of estimated               --          24           88           51            C4             74             S3
Tot I
Estimated cumulative                   0.09         9.82        18.18        14.70 (14.4)  16.29 (14.00)  16.29 (14.86)  16.29 (14.70) 1/
Actual cumulative                      S."          0.97        12.99        18.72         14.12          14.83          14.50                          *
Actual n S of etimate                              90           99           96            98             98              9.0
3/     The appraisal report diebarmet projctlons were presented in USt terns, but both IDA ond IFAD fInaning wao in SDR.  BSosuse the US:SDR
rats were1 *igltly lowr during the mln dihburesment period than those used In the appraisal report, th* total *owunt of IDA and IFAD
financinog in US  te w_  os lightly lower than given tn the appraisol rportt, aS sho   beow:
IDA CREDIT                    IFAD LOAN                     IFAD GRANT
------ - ----------m- _lillon-----Ms                    - -           -
Appraisal Report                       4.8       4.99                 8.5      9.26                 1.0       1.06
Actual                                 4.00     4.80                  6.6      8.08                 1.0       1.07
Revised total ot 'estimated cumulatlve Is shown in parenthesis sod actual disbursements aS X of estimted' are based on these revised
te oet.
V      The IDA Credit woa for the purchas of ftrtilizrs only. The balance after 1966/8? lport of fertiliter was 9DR 16880 (approx. US824,868)
and waS too Small an amount to apply to the bulk Import of for. li zrs.  The ammot was cancelled as of September 80, 1988.
O/     The IFAD loan  eao also solely for fertilizor purchas  but, In 1989, IFAD agreed to the purcbo_  of computer equiptmt with the balane of
SDR34,682.
4/     The IFAD grant *w to finance the t ehnical assistance coponent of the project. Due to dolay in recruiting conaultents disbursem_nto wr
slowr than estimated and the project  hod to be *xtendd by 2 years. Latest  stiabtes lndlcoto ethat the grant will not be fully disbursed
by September 89, 1989.
t7l



ALAWI
SIIALLOLDiER  IW IZER PROJECT
OJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ProJect Imgplemntaton
Indicator                      Units                           1980/84     19S4/8S      196/6        1986/87        1987/88
1. Ferti Izer p"Je.                * tons       appraisal           22.1        28.4         25.2          27.7            28.9
iNtrient                        (am          atal                16.2         22.9        20.0          22.5            28.4
ctual as X of p. 82             94           St            88              9
2. Ni  financing requi red         m            apprasa             22           21          26            26             n/a
( Illion)   actual              26           11          1t             4              26
a. Frtitlizer sales rowenue         K           appraisal           19          82           46            67             n/J
(million)   actual              16           22          25            27              36
4. Closing balane  tn Fund         IIK           ppraisal           12          20           26            17             n/a
( illion)   actual               19          24          27            26              40
S. Fertilizer subsidy cost         MK           appraial             8.89         0.75        -             -               -
(million    actual               6.38         6.77        6.10           4.61           8.89
6(r)  Fertilised mize improved    NM            appraisl            98.C        168.6       1WA.?         126.7           n/a
(80)        actUl               61.9         6.4         64.6          86.6            66.3
(b)  Fertlizid maiz  local       He          appralsl            178         185          194           208             r/s
(66)        actl               339          sat2         S6"            no            8I
7. Fertilized Nort Dark Fire       Ha           appraal             17          a9           42            45             n/a
cured tobacco                   (0)          actua               26          81          8s             2C              23
Sam f: Apprisal Roport Annex 1, Table T-1, Annx 2 Table T-2, Aanex 8, T-4.  U Fertililzr Unit; 'SF' records, and audited account.
1r7di  0S  of all fortilIzer used by e.llbold<re io applied to mate. Low fertilizer sale. during 186-1987               to unfavoral  eze
fertillor price ratio and mize markting difficulties, which to *alo rflocted tn th dacilne, area of lmprove d1aze. Maitt pries were
raised an  marketing proble_a  olved before the 1967/68 saon.
2. Prores of the technical   sletIn/lnstitutieonl strengthing program to Illustrated tn Part III, Annox, Figure 1.
8. Ferti Izer sale. revenue woa lower than projected dspite higbor fertilIear cost du  to contining subeidy. Conversely, Governmnt
subvention for sub_ldy was highor than projected.
I-4



MALAWI
SHALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Proiect Costs and Financing
A. PROJECT COSTS
Aepralsal Estimat  1/                 Actual (1968/7) 2/                  Actual (1tIMS99 8/
Foreign                              Foreogn                              Foroign
Local       Exchange    Total        Loco I      ExcJar       Total       Local I      EKchnfo        Total
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--du~- -------- " on--                                             -          ---------___
"at Fundln for
lner_Tnl Fer-
tilizer A Subeidy     4.21          24.46      20.07        --             a. 87.o8              ---                   4      8.2 0 48 20
t eWnle l A#)neo   0 2C   l.ff  1 80     ---           @~~.6C     a.W-                         0.89         0899
Technical Assistance   5.25         1.e5       1.36                       &.          _                          g* s8 
Total Project Cot    4.46           25.61      29.57        --            88.10     36.1         --             44.09        44.09
Source: Approlal Reort pae 3 and Audited Account
l/ Appraisal cost estimtes include contingencie
The project wm  to be Implemented over 4 yers tem FV188/84 throh 190/87
Covers costs for 0 yero free Fr1998/$4 through FP1981/89
/ Assd that local eost totalling about U          o681 million over the projet period through March 81, 1909 were covered by fertilizer sales
totalling about US6 million over the same period.
!/ Doe not Include the EEC Buffer Stock project which, tn 16/69 contribte  about tIS09.0 million equivalent by way of fertiltior buffor
stocks, torag  construction and technical as*istaeo.
-   ,-ig
LI- 4



B. PROJECT FINANCING
Source                        Planned                        Actual                   Actual
(SAR)                       (1986187)                 (1988/89)
-___-_______1---------15---_US$ million--------
IDA
Fertilizer                            4.99                          4.78                          4.78
IFAD
Fertilizer                            9.25                          8.77                          8.83
Technical Assistance                  1.05                          0.55                          0.89
Subtotal                       10.30                           9.32                          9.72
ADMARC                               11.92                          7.17                          7.17              I
Government                            2.76                          7.92                          8.93
Other Donors                           ---                          8.58                          13.49            0
Total                              29.97                         37.77                          44.09
Sources Appraisal Report page 31 and Audited Accounts
Comment:    Higher project costs than estimated are due to continuation of subsidy payment and consequent
resource gap to expand fertilizer purchases to cater for growing demand. Extra costs were met by
higher than estimated Government financing and funding by other donors, notably USAID that was not
anticipated at project appraisal.
.* H
in  I-



- 27 -
PART III
TABLE 6
HALA
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
Indicator                Appraisal Estimate             Closing Dat  EFtimate
Area Fertillsed Mail  Ha                    89,6"9                   417,000
Ares Fertilized Tobacco Ho                   47,90                    23,000
Area FertilI.Ric.Fte He                      2,                            N/A
N_mbr of Bsmefirle                        409,001                  SNe..   1/
Returns per labor day                       1.                       3.6e
Improved MaIl
S. ECCNOMIC IMPACT
Economic Rate oft Rourn               Over so                      Over 1lee   /
Undertlyin Aestamstions
BowSfl to (a)                    Based on Incremental erop         Based on Ineremetal crop
production rewslting from        production resulting from
ferttiiztr application           fertilIer  applWcation
(b)                      Baed on projected annual         Based on *ctal annual
'rti liter purchoses             forti lt er purchase
Crops                            Maize, tobao, rice                Mai" t /
Crop price                       Maize - lmport parity             Import parity
FertilIzer ecot Ieport parity to farepte                           Import parity to fargatne
Family labor cost                Minimum laborero' sae             Minlimu  laborers' wage
rate (MU-.54/day)                rate (MA9."/day)
Shadow echange rate              Equal to official exchange        Equal to official exchango
rate                             rate
1/   PCR miesion estimate
ased on appraisealmehodology but coneldored overstated. However sensitivity *hov
Satisfactory rpurna            benfIte an  It to mafe to assume that mere thean  6 1  of
boe its were gNr           by the  project.
3U Since se  of felie  usw   on O          it   and dat on other crops was lacking onsidered
adequat as a d e      ntration of benefits.



- 28 -
PART 111
VaW
Page 1
MALAWI
HAMNWOLER P_M_MCZER PROJECT
Statuu of Loan Covenants
Section Covered                   SubCwct                  Dnt                                     St tur
a.os               Procurement as pecif ed In                             O.K
OCA Schedule s
4.91O               Execut projoet with duo ,                             Reonnble complince
di Ili~one                                             osnboc             oe
4016b(i)           Review pricing for fertili zr,           -             Since 1034 annual price
other inputs  nd farm product                         consultations hove occurred as
*acordTin to    I sheadul-                            part of the SAL agre "ur
satisfactory to IDA and IFAD                          between the Gov6rnment, iDA and
IM. The issoe  of price rview
was therefore passed on to
another project;
4.Olb(1t)          Take measures   to re ove                -             R Bira and Macala hav  beon closed
subidtes on f ertili rs                               during thb  proJect perlod and the
rout  d  through oimre  and                           subsidy continued. Subsequntly
nacal in a timely fashion;                            under SAL and In agreement with
*nd                                                   the USA  a new subs dy removal
Program WO agreed, but due to
drop in maize production the
ovr _nmnt has not yet
Implemented the proram;
4.glb(tl I)        Detero t   fassr  product pries         -             One price review Was carried out,
om the  bai o  * an thodoloy                          but sinco 1984 annual price
acceptble to IDA and WAD                             consultations have occurred as
part of the SAL agreement
between the Government, IDA and
4.02               The Borrowr *hall
) establish a joint                gil/es
manaement comittee as
specified; and
b) employ consultant
satisfactory to IDA ond
WFAD, In particular the
following:
(t) an agricultur; m    a               901/ga        Duly appointed but late, the
transport aenagement                             Agriculturist -Jan. 16, the
specist* and                                     transport *pec ilist4Oct  1084,
eonomist ; and                                  the pricing  conoaiet-July 1984
(i1)      management              Effetivente_        Appointed ahed of tmei-Juno 1688
accountant
c) promptly desigante  -a                             Counterpart  appointed reasonably
Malawian counterpart for                           promptly or wer  in plac  except
each of the Consultants  d                         for thr Manage  Accountants
the specialist refrred to                          counterpart who w  not appoinOed
In b(i) and (1i)                                   until May 1088
8(a)      Insurance clouse                         -             O.K.
e3(b)            Us  project funding solely for           -             O.K.
the project



-29 -
Page 2
CoepI lsnce
Section Covered                 Subject                 Dot,                                  Status
4.04(a)           Sorrower to furnish contract            -           O.K.
and procurement documents
Promptly
4.04(b)(1)        Maintain records to record and         -            Progrs s onitoring and stores
monitor prrores, beefits and                        records OK but impaet monitoring
to Identify goods purchoned by                      remained unsatisfactory, despite
the projoet                                         considerable IDA and particularly
IFA efforts to effect
lmprovemeont
4.94(b) (I 1)     FacilI tate  DA end IFAD staff                      O.K.
visits
4.04(b) (i I)     Regular reporttg                        -           Seco  somewhat erratie after
main disburements hbd bon
concluded possibly due to the
staff being extremely busy with
the EEC Buffer Stock project and
the formation of the Autonomous
Smallholder Farmra Fertiliser
Revolving Fund of Malawi
4.04(c)           IDA my publish contract                             Thero was neer any objectlon
desription                                          froM the Sorrowr
4.04(d)           Within 9 months of Closing                          In default despite repeted
bate prpare PCR                                     requests by the last two
supervslion  issions an
subsquntreminders
4.05              The Borrewer sh all:
a) establish the fertilizer      Effectiveness      O.K.
Revolvlng Fund In the
Resrve Bank of Malawi
b) Cause AOMARC to colloct and                     Due to sver  liquidity problems
deposit all fertilizr                            A1UIRC failed to pay revenues
sales revenues into the                          Into the Fund. The Governmnt
Fund                                             thee settled the ADMARC debt, and
subequently the status of this
covenant was 'OK'
c) Deposit or cause u DMRC to          -            O.K.
deposit adequate local or
foreign *euhange funds into
the Revolving Fund for the
purchas of fertilizer
d) Administer the Revolving                         O.K.
Fund satisfaetorily to IDA
and IFAD
6 .1              The orrower shall cause
ADMARC to:
a) Maintain appropritoe                             O.K.
accounts
b(i) Have the acount audited                        O.K.
satisfactorily



- 30 -
PA" III
ToWr
Page,S
Section Covered                 Sublect                                                       Sttte
b(ii)  Provide IDA and  FAD                         O.K.
with audit report and
finonclal etationts
within 0 months of the
end of the financial
year
b(i I) Furnish IDA and TFAD                         O.K.
with such other
financial data, as
*hall be requoted
e) To Carry on Its operations                       O.K  *xcept that tho 8orrower did
withcludnd thoebdgre.in ofnot effect full cost recovery of
Includin  the budeting oftransport charge increass se
adequate centingcieo for                         Section 4.01(b)(1i)
transport cost Inresres
%ad to reflet fully such
increase in adjusted
fertilizer prices Charge
to Manl holder
5 02              ADMARC to provide annual                            O.K.
fertilizer roquirement
estimates to IDA and WFAD
before July 81 of each year
7.01              Effectiveness conditions                            The PrOJect wMm declared
effective on 0/24/88
a) IFAD Loan effective and            11/IS/
appointment of IDA as
Cooperating Agent'
b) Employmnt of  anagee"nt            s/s/s
Accountant satisfactory to
IDA and WAD
c) Establishment of Fertilizer        s//a/s
Revolving Fund and
depositing Into it at least
11lawt Kwehoa 1.26 million



- 31 -
PART III
TABLE 8
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Use of Bank Resource
A.  Staff Xnxut
FY83- FYb4  FI85  F6  FY87  FY88  TOTAL
Appraisal              1.2   -       -                            1.2
N.$otiation            4.0   -       -      -      -              4.0
Supervision            0.6    _.9   6-4   4.3  _5_4   4.2   26.7
Total                  5.8   5.9   6.4   4.3   5.4   4.2   31.9
3. Mission Data
Spent    Mnth/ No. of  mandays  Specialisatloen   Peformance    Main
MIllson       ..._kL_    _ear 1rimn  In ftold         d          status trend  problems
Preparaton     IFAD      2/32   n.e.  n.e.       n.n.
Appraisl       IDA/FAD  10/32  7       n.a.      "n..            -    -   -
Supervision:
1              IDA/IFAD  9/8a   8 a     9        fA, E, ME       2    2   F, TA
2              IDA/IFAD  3/84   2      14        FA, AE          2    1   F
*              IDA       12/34  1      3         FA              2    2   F
4              ID/WFAD  6/65   2       19        fA, WE          2    2   F,P
6              IDA       S/SO    1     n.e.      FA              2    -   F
6              IDA       11/U   1      n.o.      FA              2    -   F
7              IDA       6/6?   1      6         FA              2    -   F
Evaluatlons    IFAD      67/S  2       4         MIE, MIK        -    -
8              IDA       6/88   2      n.a.      a, PS           2
9              IDA       1/S"   3     n.n.      E, PS, A        2    -   F, 
CoWelebtl      FAO/CP   2/8    II    as          E, A, IK        -    -   -
A-Agr9e_1st, AE-Agricultaral Ecoeist, E-EEomo.ist,
PA-Finenolal Analyst, FS-fertilizer Specialist, MIIEM Specialist,
MI-Mckatine Special ist.
1 eo or minor problem, 2faoedeato problem, Suajor problm.
lsplrvi ng, 2utetltonry,  Saoterloering.
P       PnFaFlnciT, I=Instituatln@l, Poollcy (Subsidy), TAsTeohnical Assistance.



s - -        U            -               -:
A.icot__list 3r                                     __ _        _ .                 ___.  ..___ _ __
Pricing Mticp Ecewtas;t                                                  V
Sht-ti CI%ltee                                -         -   -           -      - t---
tr.sopwtt t    -                                                                        a *  SA.LAi                        LiAs A
O~litW$ U~Staf1
c att-t     IL Clerk                          _
Ttauswet Cab~"
1_ItCri li lttl                                  IL                           _       ZKt   ^        1     a       tS 1  tttt^"
3 Coti racts pounced
o/ Addti.nsa  4aP  ft to kApratu: Estiautes, mo.oloed by food                                                                                          I
Source. AppeI;,I oresor, SF &ol Soewvisaoo Resort.
- -------------------- ------ -----                                                        ------------  -------



- t.s -
PART III
FICURr I
Page   1
COMMENTS
1.       The project became effective on 24 June 1983, ahead of the expectea
date of 3 August 1983. the Government having met the two conditions of
effectiveness. i.e.:
i) appointment of the Managing Accountant (6 June 1983);
ii) the deoositing of Mkl.26 million into the account established for
the Fund with th,e Reserve Bank of Malawi.
2.       Although  it  had  been   agreed  that  the   remaining   technical
assistants would be recruited by September 1983, this did not occur. with
the result that the MA had the added responsibility of assuming part of the
workload of the Agriculturalist (demand estimation) and of the Transport
Management Advisor. His own counterpart was not assigned until May 1986.
3.       As envisaged at appraisal. fertilizer procurement for  the  1983/84
season had occurred before the arrival of the Management Accountant (MA) in
June 1983. and therefore his work programme for the rest of the year was
mostly in connection with transport difficulties and trying to release
fertilizers held up in Beira.
4.       Notwithstanding the delay in recruiting  the  technical  assistants
and their counterparts. the MA was able to initiate the new tendering
procedures  and  the  establishment  of  separate  tendering  for   internal
transport. He also established a system of accounting and bookkeeping to
provide comprehensive details of SFRR activities. Regular statements of
reconciliation of purchases (by fertilizer type) and sales with deposits
into tI'e Fund bank accounts were produced. as well as quarterly annual
financial statements and balance sheets. The accounts of the Funds were
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and IFAD. The
non-assignment of a counterpart for nearly three years has not only meant
double workload for the MA, but has also negated the provision in the
Appraisal Plan that the MA should spend the first three years in an
operational capacity and the fourth, final year. in an advisory role during
hand-over. Due mainly to the late appointment of the Managing Accountant's
counterpart and, consequently, the insufficient overlapping period and on-
the-job training, the contract of the MA was extended to September 1988, and
later to September 1989.
5.       AOMARC has  provided  additional  staff  to  the  two  counterparts
included in the appraisal estimates, i.e. an Assistant Accountant, three
clerks (Accounts, Customs and Transport) and a Secretary, as well as
necessary office space and logistical support. All operational costs of the
Fund, including travels and allowances, were paid by ADMARC, as indicated
at appraisal.
6.       The Agriculturalist was recruited only at the beginning of 1985. 15
months behind schedule, and was involved in a wide range of tasks. mainly:
* review of fertilizer data;
- crop fertilizer recommendations (DAP and Urea only);
- preparation of designs for fertilizer trials;



- 34 -
PART III
ANNEX
Page 2
- revision of demand estimation procedures;
- demonstration of HAF;
- training of extension staff in demand, estimation and use of HAF;
- analysis of ASA fertilizer data and preparation of a rapid
fertilizer survey.
Additional terms of reference were given by MOA, involving in particular
coordination of fertilizer grand-aid from donors. The efficiency of the FU
was constrained oy such dispersion of efforts as well as by the lack of
staff and equipment. The counterpart was sent for training for one year; a
farm management specialist joined for a few months only. No direct phone
line was available and no vehicle except from MOA's pool. Data processing
was done manually.
7.       The  Transport  Managerial  Adviser  (THA) did not take up his post
until late 1984. by which time the link between the project and MITCO had
been firmly established and order was beginning to be restored on the
external transport routes. The TMA therefore played little or no part in the
restoration of stable and effective external transport. Moreover. no
improvement or were recommendations of the internal distribution (scheduling
or cost) were mai and no final report is in evidence. This was unfortunate
given that transport has been the main factor having a profound impact on
the supply of fertilizers to Malawi. A new transport specialist was
appointed in October 1988 within the framework of FAO assistance to ADMARC.
8.       The Pricing Policy Economist, recruited mid 1984, was  attached  to
the Planning Division of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and. due to staff
shortage, became the operational head of the Pricing Policy and Marketing
Section which comprised only one economist. With an input limited to 12
months. the Pricing Adviser was only able to participate in one pricing
review consultation (1985/86). He was closely involved with the World Bank
pricing methodology, using the econometric model. He indicated several areas
for reassessment of the model and listed improvements required in the data
base. Since his departure, the Planning Division has recruited a donor-
supported pricing economist; in addition, a further adviser was provided
since 1987 under the World Bank financed Agriculture, Extensiotf and Planning
Support Project.
9.       The  Fund was established as a Trust in April 1988. The MA has been
appointed as General Manager of the new Trust Fund. A Deputy General Manager
was appointed by the Government in mid-January 1989. Furthermore, within the
framework of the fertilizer bufferstock project which started in 1988, the
EEC has strengthened the management of the Trust with an Operations Manager.
a Financial Adviser and a Storage Manager. The new status of the Fund. as
well as the operation of the bufferstock scheme. will naturally modify its
function, a process which is only being initiated now. As a consequence.
continued assistance is necessary to allow the Fund to take up its new
responsibilities, and there is pressing need to place in senior managerial
positions, national staff with sound business management experience.



- 35 -
PART III
ANNEX
Figure 2
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Gross Margins for Various Crops
(<K/ha)
250
:50 i
I  faize LocaL, no fertitizer                  4  Groundnut
2  Maize LocaL, fertilized                     S  Rice (Faya)
3  Maise, hybrid                               6  Tboacco (163SF)
Comments: Gross margins of fertiLized *aite dectined from 1983/84
to 198687. In that year, maize was Less profitabLe than most
other crops, and was cultivated only for self-consumption.
Source: TabLe 26.



- 36 -
PART III
AN=X
Table 1
3MLLHOLDU   F RTLIZR PROJEC?
Current LEha        ao    ultion RateendIfaor
US$/SDR     MK/USS    .... (%)
Calendar YXa
1983                      1.07         1.06         12.4            2.86
1984                      1.02         1.17         12.4            2.54
1985                      1.02         1.72         14.9            2.21
1986                      1.17         1.86         14.7            1.93
1987                      1.29         2.27         28.5            1.So
1988                      1.35         2.51         30.5 1S         1.15
1989 (Feb.)               1.31         2.65          1S   1/        1.00
Fsa~l* g-2/1
1983/84                   1.06         1.09         12.4            2.51
1984/85                   1.02         1.31         13.0            2.21
1985/86                   1.06         1.76          14.9           1.93
1986/87                   1.20         1.96         18.2            1.63
1987/88                   1.31         2.33         29.0 1/         1.27
1988/89                   1.34         2.55         26.6 1/         1.00
1/  Estimates.
2.1 From Ist April to 31 March.
Sagn.:  World Bank and Mission Estimates.



- 37 -
PART ItI
ANNEX
Scebdulo ad   ProtectIskuris2nts 'I
19S2/83  1983184  1984/OS 198S/86  1986187 1987188  1988189   Total           Actual
(Estimate) (Estimate) Disbursement
aS % af Aoprais
Schedul*
.USS million).
IFAO credit
- App1atsal Estimate   0.00       S.78     2.45    0.89    0.13       0.00    0.00      9.25
- Actual                0.00      5.86     2.05    0.91    0.11       0.00    0.00      8.93          96.S
IFAP Grant
- Appraisal Estimate   0.04       0.37     0.30    0.19    0.15       0.00    0.00      1.05
- Actual                0.00      0.09     0.08    0.20    0.10       0.13    0.17      0.85          81.0
IDA Credit
- Appraisal Estimate   0.00       3.12     1.11    0.45    0.32       0.00    0.00      5.00
- Actual                0.00      3.10     1.03    0.44    0.19       0.00    0.00      4.76          9S.2
TOTAL
- Aporaisal Estimate   0.04       9.27     3.86    1.53    0.60       0.00    0.00    15.30
- Actual                0.00      9.05     3.16    1.S5    0.48       0.13    0.17    14.S4           9S.0
_____..._.___._.___.
Igun: Aopraisal Report. StRF, Suoervision Reports, and IFAO Disbursement Section.
1I As of oecembtr 1988.
COMENTS:
1) Oisbursemnts of IDA and IFAO funds were to be completed by the 30 September 197. By the end of
March 1987, the  nd of the financial year of the fund. disursements from the IFAD and IOA credits
amounted to about ff55 of the appraisal estimates. It Is worth to note that. es shown in Table 2.
both the annual and total disburseumnts were In lin with the projections included in the
Appraisal re ort. The Fund has recently approached IFAO In order to be authorized using the
balnace of the credit (SON 34652) to flinnce the purchase of cuuters and pogrms.
2) IFAD grant was to finance the Techntcal Assista"ce component ot the project. Due to delays
in r*cruting consultants the project had to be extended by two years. In sPite of that
extension. the IFAO grant has not been tetally disbursed (011 only as on end O*cemer 1908).



- 38-                                  PART III
ANEX
Table 3
MALAWI
SMALLHOLOFR FERTYLIZFR PROJECT
Financing Cantributions
Aoor. Qenort   ActuAl             Actual           Estimates
March 31. 9-    March 31. 19RA  MArch 31. 1989
(MK million) (X) (MK million) (%) (MK million) (X) (MK million) (X)
IFAO         11.57    34    11.23       19      11.23      17      11.23    12
!DA           5.60    17      S.90      10       5.90       9       5.90     6
U.S. AIO         -      -    14.28      25      14.28       22     14.28    15
E.E.C.           -      -                                          24.43 I/ 25
ADMARC        13.41    40    10.31       18     10.31       16     10.31    11
GOOM           3.10     9    13.71      24      14.42       22     16.22 al 17
GOM Donor
Fert.          -      -      2  6              L         ...7    fl.32A   AS.
Total:        33.68   100    58.05    100       65.11      100     95.61   100
S0urce:  Appraisal Report Page 31 and Audited Accounts.
,J/  Financing of the Fertilizer Buffer Stock Project which is also managed
by the Fund.
1/  Including MK 1,984 million 'Income and expenditure. account surplus
of the fiscal year 1988189'.
COMMENTS:
1) By the end of March 1987, the end of the financial year of the fund,
contributions to the Fund, amounted to MK 58 million i.e. 172X of the
Aporaisal report estimate. IFAD and IDA contributions were in line with
Appraisal estimates and that large increase is mainly due to an unexpected
contribution of USAID and to a much larger participation of the Government
than envisaged.
2) Due to ,ontinued Government's participation and since 1988 to EEC
involvement, financing contributions of the fund are estimated to amount
to MK 96 millions by end March 1989. That rapid increase has just been
adequate to cope with the fast growing demand or fertilizers and the
large increases of costs. As fertilizers cost and demand are expected to
further increase. it is very important that adequate financial resources
be made available to the fund in order to ensure, adequate and timely
availability of fertilizers to smallholders.
3) To assess the medium term prospects of the fund's financial conditions
and other related issues, an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
Mission has prepared in conjunction with SFRF's staff, quarterly cash
flow projections for the next five years based on two fertilizer
sales scenarios prepared by MOA. Their report which is due to be
issued by end April 1989, will present the projected requirements in
foreign exchange, subsidies and SFRF additional resources.



- 39 -
PART III
ANNEX
11AJZ4
SMALIHLNOCP FERTILIZER PROJECT
Scehdule of Analication of FM"d
1983/94  1984/85   1985186   1986/87  1987/88   1988t89          1989/90
(Estimated) (Projected)
. . ...... ... ...... .... (K million) ..............
BALACE SHEET 1LI
Fised Assets                        -                               -                 12.193       15.669
Stock                            2,669      3.310    5.603       4.654      8.299      7.018       72.773
0ebtors n.248                               5.743   21.580    11.163    10.491    12.826          20.080
Subsidy claim /                  6.361      8,103    6.SS9       i,068      9.894    14.776       22.621
Sank account                     Liii         J23  IllI B3        2_223    ALAZJ    49.789      4AL8i2
Less creditors                  (4,677)   (1.149)  (2.738)   (4.052)   (2.993)    (996)           (23.778)
Current Assets                  14.417    20.810   42.835    58.056    6S.112    83,413           140.528
Total Assets                    14,417    20.810   42.a35    S8.056    6S.112    95.606           156.197
Government of Malawi:
- Accumulated Fund            14,417    20.610   39,405    54,626    61.682    90,192          149.930 4/
- Special Fund V1                 -         -       3.430      3.430      3,430     3.430        3.430
- income and Expenditure
Account                        -                         -          -            1.984        2.837
14-4l1       W=     42-33S    S.Q056    OLM         2L=f6        IS6191
I As at the end of the financial year. i.e. 31 March.
2'  Table 6.
,I Contribution by 6OW towards devaluation loss.
jI Includes the EEC financed F8SP.
55murQM S.F.R.F. sudited accounts.



- 40 -
PARTS lII
AMEX
Page 2
1) Current assets have progressively increased from MK 14.4 million in 1983
when the fund was established, to MK 58.1 at the end of the 4th year of
the project (1986187), including a special amount of MK 3.4 million
input by the Government to compensate for the 1985 devaluation. The
balance was further increased to MK 65.1 million in 1987/88. In 1988/89
the fund was established as a trust and simultaneously the EEC financed
Buffer Stock Project started. Total assets have then increased very
rapidly to MK 95.6 million, including fixed assets amounting to MK 12.2
million by end March 1989, and are estimated to reach MK 156.2 million
at the end of fiscal year 1989/90.
2)  During the first three years of the project, culminating during the
1985/86 season, the deteriorating liquidity of ADMARC had an
adverse effect on the Fund, through non-payment of sales revenue. AOMARC
directly, and ADDs, who were not paid by ADMARC for produce sold by
them, owed substantial sums of money. Debts increased from
MK 3.2 million at the end of 1983/84 to MK 21.6 million two years
later. An amount of more than MK 6 million was also due from the
Government in regard to subsidy claim. About two thirds of the current
assets were, during the first three years of the project, represented
by debts. The Government came to the rescue of SFRF by providing
interim financial assistance of MK 13 million and agreeing to provide
ADMARC-s share of project costs. This, together with the first tranch of
USS 4 million under the USAID subsidy removal programme, enabled the
purchase of supplies for the 1986/87 season. Simultaneously, SFRF
succeeded in obtaining faster payments from ADMARC and ADDs. Since
1986/87, debts including subsidy claim represent less than one third
of the current assets.



LJJrid IaiJJal4                         L Ja               WL J
AlL  MIMi  M l  Mini  haL  MAcu     ML        Acua           Mina
Import Costs (CIF)                     11.26       21.64       16.44      24.68     26.96      30.41     32.89      26.87       45.02
Nnd1i'9                                1*41          LiII tAia0            Si.                           ZLAl _       L1         LIZ
Total Funds requ1red                   21.88        U4.96      32.64      30.0S      4S.07     34."      S4.49       11.5S       53.93
Proceeds SIF                           _..            -        IL        181 9.S9              .4*      211.1      27LA4        it."
Not F"ds required                      21.88       24.98       20.61      11.08     26.46      10.97     26.36       4.09        2S.14
IDA                                     3.SO        3.50        1.40       1.40      O.SO       0.81      0.20       0.i            -S
IFAS                                    6.50        6.50        2.t5       2.75 i     1.0       1.61      0.15       0.37           --F
U.S.A.I.S,               .O-                                      -          -                  6.79        -        7.49           -
ABISAC                                  1.26        2.92        0.66       1."9      5.90       S.90      4.26         -            -
6.O.N.                                   -           1.50       0.1s       0.is         -       2.16        -        9.28         0.71
6.0.. OSeor Fort.                       -                                              - 10 3Q. -1Z  32 ILii
Total 'C4trlbutions                    11.26        14.42       S.58       6.39       7.40     16.S9      4.61      18.65         1.06
Fertilizer soles                       16.79       1S.66       32.43      22.17     46.07      25.16     S7.12      27.03        31.SS
Loss handling                                       I.L" 2  31A              I       ILJS       LI3    1".0           la         LJI
Ott proceeds                            1. 1        12.52      16.03      36.78     26.96      20.64     3S.S2      22.35        26.64
Subsidy 6.0.1.                          1.50        6.36        0.75       6.17                 6.16       -         4.51         8.89
AURC                                    1.8                                                      -                      -           -
Interest                                LaZ         LII         IIJ        .47       JLi       LII        .14 LLa                LS2J
Closing balance                        12.03        18.97      19.59      24.02     28.13      21.46     36.9S      26.21        40.47
__...,....__. __
lsgKc:  Appralsal Report Anex 2 Table 1-2 - Fuod tn nominal terms and audittd accounts.
5 IIT: 11  ctual monts of  1@IL fonds Aequired  are at the exception of 1983184. well below the appraisal figures tn spite of the
fact that fertilizer costs were bigher than anticipated d4ring the first four y*ers. This results from lower than
anticipated procurements and handling costs.



42-                            PPMT III
ANNEX
SMALLHOLOER FERTIL1ZER PROJECT
Schedule of Interest and Subsidy Receiyed frgm 1983184 to 1988182
Subidy   Iaterest    Net Subsidy    Amount Paid    Cumulati
Bal1ance
......................... .(MK'000) .
1983/84        6,456       95.0         6,361             -              6,361
1984/85        7,244       47.2         6,772           4,950            8.183
198586        6.816      639.9         6,176           7.800            6.559
1986/87        5,856   1,347.0          4,509           6,000            5.068
1987/88       11,831   2,937.0          8,894           5,068            8,894
1988/89       14,776       p.m. I/     14,776           8,894           14,776
(estimated)
ajwr.: SFRF.
1I Since 1988/89, interest is retained to cover operating expenses.
COMMENTS:
1) Till 1987/88. the net subsidy to be paid by the Government to the Fund
was calculated by deducting from the annual subsidies (cost of .ertilizer
at the market level minus selling price) the interest paid on the Fund
current account. Since 1988/89 the balance of the general administration
income and expenditure account is shown in the annual balance sheet.
2) In spite of an increased effort of the Government whose amounts paid have
been raised from MK 5.0 million in 1984/85 to NK 8.9 million in 1988/89,
*rrears to be paid to the Fund are estimated to reach MK 15 million at
ie end of the present fiscal year.



- 43 -
PART ITI
ANNEX
IablL 7
Page 1
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PRCJECT
Fertilizer Procurement and Sales
1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89
(estimated)
. ..................... (tOOO) .
Carry-over Stocks 1/
Compound (20:20:0)          0.0    0.6     4.5      5.4    0.8    2.3
Other comp.(15:15:15)       4.5    3.6      3.1     2.8    1.5    0.0
CAN (26/28:0:0)             0.0    2.2     2.2      6.1    1.6    3.3
Am. sulphate (21:0:0:24)  0.0    5.4        3.1     4.2    5.3    4.6
UAP (18:46:0) *             0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.2    2.1
Urea (46:0:0) *             0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0    4.8    8.2
Comp (23:21:0:4) *          0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
Total tons ('000)           4.5   11.8    12.9    18.5   14.2   20.5
Donor Fertilizer 2/
Compound (20:20:0)          1.9    0.0     8.4      2.0    1.7    0.0
Other comp.(15:15:15)       0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
CAN (26/28:0:0)            12.0    0.0      1.4     0.0    0.0    0.0
Amm. sulphate (21:0:0:24)  8.6    3.1       4.7     7.7    3.8    6.2
OAP (18:46:0) *             0.0    0.0     0.0      1.0    2.4    0.0
Urea (46:0:0) *             0.0    0.0     0.0      4.1   10.5    4.1
Comp (23:21:0:4) *          0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
Total tons (O000)          22.5    3.1    14.5      14.8  18.4   10.3
SFRF Purehas
Compound (20:20:0)         20.0   30.0    18.0      15.0  20.0    0.0
Other comp.(15:15:15)       0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0
CAN (26/28:0:0)            21.5   37.0    38.0      27.3  30.0   26.0
Amm. sulphate (21:0:0:24)  0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0
OAP (18:46:0) *             0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0   5.0    5.0
Urea (46:0:0) *             0.0    0.0     0.0       6.1   9.0   16.0
Comp (23:21:0:4) *          0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0   0.0   22.0
Total tons ('000)          41.5   67.0    56.0      48.3  64.0   69.0 i/



_ -h 
PART II
ANWX
Page 2
Fertjljzrs-Prancurement and zlesag iont':l
1983/84 1984/85 1985/86 1986/87 1987/88 1988/89
(estimated)
..............I.......   O0 )  .................
Total Fertilizer 4/
Compound (20:20:0)        21.9   30.6    30.9     22.4    22.5    2.3
Other comp.(15:15:15)      4.5    3.6     3.1       2.8     1.5    0.0
CAN (26/28:0:0)           33.5   39.2    41.6      33.4    31.6   29.3
Amm. sulphate (21:0:0:24) 8.6    8.5      7.8      11.9     9.1   10.8
DAP (18:46:0) *            0.0    0.0     0.0       1.0     7.6    7.1
Urea (46:0:0) *            0.0    0.0     0.0      10.2    24.3   28.3
Comp (23:21:0:4) *         0.0    0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0   22.0
=.. ... ............ .. ..._. ..... ............ .. .*..
Total tons ('000)         68.5   81.9    83.4     81.7    96.6   99.8
Compound (20:20:0)        21.3   26.1    25.5      21.6    20.2    1.0
Other comp.(15:15:15)      0.9    0.5     0.3       1.3     1.5    0.0
CAN (26/28:0:0)           31.3   37.0    35.5      31.8    28.3   28.1
Amm. sulphate (21:0:0:24) 3.2    5.4.    3.6        6.6     4.5   10.0
DAP (18:46:0) *            0.0    0.0     0.0       0.8     5.5    7.0
Urea (46:0:0) *            0.0    0.0     0.0       5.4    16.1   20.9
Comp (23:21:0:4) *         0.0    0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0   21.5
.............  .........       .      .
Total tons t'OOO)         56.7   69.0    64.9      67.5    76.1   88.5
Nutrients Sunnlied
Nitrogen                  13.2   16.0    15.1      16.8    21.0   25.4
Phosphates                 4.4    5.3     5.1       4.9     6.8    7.9
Potash                     0.1    0.1     0.0       0.2     0.2    0.0
Sulphur                    0.8    1.3     0.9       1.6     1.1    3.3
Total Nutrients:          18.5   22.7    21.2      23.5    29.1   36.6
a=nn   wasa    =nna    onas a=          a
* High Analysis Fertilizers
1/ Balancing Figure (includes losses).
Z/ Includes GON Sulphate of amonia from Beira.
1i Includes 21,000 tons from the Buffer Stock (7,000 comp 23:23, 6,0001CAN.
8,000 Urea)
4/ Opening stocks + Donors + SFRF Purchases.
Sgurce:  MOA Fertilizer Unit and SFRF records.



PARlT 1X1
AN=
Page 1
SMALLwOLDER FERTILIZEg PROJECj
S,nalIholder Fgrtilizgr Procurement and 'ales - Appraisal and Actual
1993/84 12fi4/85 1985/86 1986/8Z 1987188 1288/Q2
(estimated)
................. .(tons'000) .............
FERTILIZER
Appraisal demand forecast  ,2.2    75.9    82.3         88.3    93.7    99.4
Revised demand forecast I/ 64.3    67.6    74.1         79.5    84.3    89.4
Total Fertilizer 2/          68.5    81.9    83.4       81.7    96.6    99.8
Total vs Appraisal (X)       95      108     101        93      103      100
Total vs Revised (X}        107      121     113       103      115      112
Actual Sales                 56.7    69.0    64.9       67.5    76.1    88.5
Sales vs Appraisal (%)       79       91      79        76       81      89
Sales vs Revised  (X)        88      102      88        85       90      99
Sales vs Total (%)           83       84      78        83       79      89
NUTRIENT 1/
Appraisal demand forecast  22.3    23.4    25.2         27.2    28.9    30.7
Revised demand forecast I/ 18.9    19.8    21.3         23.0    24.4    25.9
Total Fertilizer Z/          22.0    26.6    26.9       27.5    36.5    39.7
Total vs Appraisal (X)       99      114     107       101      126     129
Total vs Revised (X)        116      134     126       120      150     153
Actual Sales                 18.2    22.0    20.8       22.5    28.4    33.6
Sales vs Appraisal(%)        82       94      83        83       98      109
Sales vs Revised (%)         96      111      98        98      116     130
Sales vs Total (%)           83       83      77        82     . 78      85
5aurcg:  Appraisal Report Annex 3, T-5; MOA Fertilizer Unit and SFRF records.
I/ Revised projections using ADMARC final sales figures for the reference
period 1980/81 - 1982/83.
Z/ Opening stock plus donors plus SFRF purchases (Table 7).
JI Taking into account 4% useful sulphur only.



-46 -                                PART III
Tabl e A
Page 2
1) Appraisal demand forecasts were based on AO?4ARC preliminary sales figures:
62.700 tons in 1980/81, 65,500 tons in 1981/82 and 68,600 tons in 1982/83.
These figures were later corrected as follows: 61,800 tons in 1980/81.
SS.900 tons in 1981/82 and 57.600 tons in 1982/83. The average annual
actual sales during that period (58,400 tons). amounted to 89% only of the
prelimimary figures (65,600 tons) and therefore the appraisal demand
forecasts were overestimated. The revised demand forecast has been
obtained by reducing by 11% the base figure, and using the original annual
rate of growth.
2)  'Total fertilizer' is the sum of 'Opening stocks. "Donor fertilizer'
and 'SFRF Purchases' (Table 7). Quantities in stock are normally available
to farmers in due time. Part of the fertilizers purchased by SFRF or
given to Malawi may arrive late and therefore may not be *available'
during the current season. The delay in deliveries is probably one of
the reasons why there are so large differences between 'total
fertilizer' and 'actual sales".
3) 'Total fertilizer' has increased from 69,000 tons in 1983/84 to 82,000 tons
in 1986/87 and 100,000 tons in 1988/89. The appraisal demand forecasts and
a fortiori the revised ones. have been generally achieved. Actual sales
which have also largely increased from 57,000 tons in 1983/84 to 68,000
tons in 1986/87 and 89,000 tons in 1988/89 have been below expectation.
They have varied between 80 to 90% of appraisal targets and between
86 and 100% of revised ones, and represented only between 78 and 89X of
total fertilizer. From 1983/84 to 1987/88, low sales may be due not
only to late supplies as indicated above, but also most probably to
the deteriorating nutrient price - maize price ratios (Table 24) which
depressed the demand for fertilizers.
4) As the project has introduced High Analysis Fertilizers (HAf) it is worth
assessing achievements in nutrients terms. At the time the project was
appraised it was planned to import mainly S/A, CAN and 20:20:0. SFRF has
progressively introduced HAF in order to reduce the incidence of the
fast increase in transport costs. 'Total fertilizer^ original and
revised targets have been exceeded. Sales were in line with the revised
targets during the fcur years of the project and exceeded them in
1987/88. It is expected that during the present season, sales will
amount to 130X of the revised targets or 110% of the initip, ones.
5) At appraisal, it had not been envisaged that demand would be partially
met by donor fertilizers. As on average, from 1983/84 to 1987/88.
foreign aid in fertilizers amounted annually to approximately 15,000
tons, quantities procured by the Fund have averaged 55,000 tons only
i.e. about 701 of the Project target.
6) In spite of unexpected increases in prices (fertilizer and transport
costs), the project has succeeded to distribute the planned quantities
of fertilizers. During four years, sale increases have slowed down
due to the unincentive price of maize. Since 1987/88 the nutrient-maize
price has improved considerably and sales have increased rapidly. The
project thus appears to have achieved its quantitative objectives.



- 47 -
PART III
Tab I S 
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FFRTILIZER PROJECT
External Transoort Costs - Estimated and Actual
0
SAR EstiMate       Estimate       Actua1     Actual VS
(Beira)  (South Africa) (Average) (South AfrieA) Estimate
................... (MK*t) .(%)
1983/84               100         261          253           -
1984/85               110         289           219          167          76
1985/86               123         321           210          178          85
1986/87               136         356           230          181          79
1987/88               151         395           255         253           99
1988/89               169         439           283         296    .   105
1989/90               187         487           314         336          107
Source:  Appraisal Report Annex 2. T-2-T3 and SFRF.
COMENTS:
1) Following the transport problems in the first year of the project, SFRF
tendered separately for the external transportation of fertilizer for the
1984/85 season. The Malawi International Transport Company (MITCO) was
awarded the contract to coordinate external transport and has
subsequently won the award each year. Due to the volume of exports it has
at his disposal which can be matched against imports, actual costs
charged by MITCO were well below the &ppraisal estimates in 1984/85,
1985/86 and 1986/87. Since the large increase in transport costs (40X)
which occurred in 1987/88, actual freight costs are equal or slightly
over the appraisal estimates. The competitive rates of MITCO have
nevertheless lessened the transport costs rises and therefore the price
rises on fertilizer.
2) MITCO has experienced no difficulty obtaining foreign exchange to meet
the foreign cost of external transport.



- 48 -
,PART III
ANEX
Table ln
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Comparison of Port D-istinceS and Recent Freight CostU
aort  Route     Qistances to       Freight Cost
Lilongwg           (MK/ton)
(kin)
Dar es Salaam         Via Mbeya           2000                346
Durban                Via Harare          3700                336
Beira                  Via Harare 1/      1450                330
Nacala V               Rail                800                n.a../
SouLrc: SFRF and MITCO.
I/  Rail direct to Beira is unlikely before many years as a-major
reconstruction will be required, including a bridge over the
Zambesi river.
2,1 Rail direct to Nacala port is not available yet. Extensive sections
still need repair in very insecure territory.
]/  Based on discussions with MITCO, the Nacala route freight could
come, when opened, to approxfmately 90% of that of the Durban route.
COMMENTS:
1)  In spite of the fact that port distances vary from 800 km (Nacala) to
3,700 km (Ourban) it is likely that freight costs will be, in the future
based on the most expensive route. On the other hand, once Oar es Salaam
Beira and Nacala routes will be used regularly, it is possible that
discounts on freight costs will be proposed by the most expensive routes
to keep their part of the market.



SuAtIHOst. FEftTILmZtf  PROJECT
F*ktsltk.r tensumrtlon thy Uutriantl tn "ialaw
19191/0    196061    1981182    1982163    1963194    1984MOSS              1985s0  196181    1987618      1988189
(eStleated)
........................................ (tens of nutrlentS0OJ00 ...............................
NtItrogen
- Soellbolder                    10.3       13.1        11.6        12.4        11.2       16.0        IS.1        16.6         21 0        25 4
- Estate                          8.3        6.3         8.1         6.7        6.1         9.3         1.0         8.4          9.2       n.e.
Sub-total:                     18.8       21.4        16.6        19.1        19.9       25.3        24.1        25.2         30.2       n.
Phospbhte
- S aliolder                      1.6        2.7         2.1         4.6        4 4         5.3         5 1         4 9          6 8         1.9
- Estate                          4.8        4.6         4.6         4.6        3.9         4.3        4*4          4.6          4.3       n.e.
Seb-lttal:                      6.6        1.3         6.7         9.4        9.3         9.6         9.5         9.5         tl.l       O.*.          
Potash
- Sallbolder                      0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.1         0.1         0.6         0.2          0.2        0 0                               a
- Estate                          4.3        3.2         3.4         3.9        3.4         3.4         4.3         4.1          4.6       n.o.
Sb-total:                      4.3        3.2         3.4         3.9        3.5         3.S         4.3         4.9          4.6       ne..
Total It
- Saliholder                    12.1       15.6        13.9        17.0       t7.7        21.4        20.i        21.9         28.0       33 3
- Estate                         15.4       18.I        14.7        15.4       14.0        11.0        17.7        I1.1         16.1       n.e.
1Z63.i*LotZt:                    27.5        31.9       28.6        32.4        31.7       36.4        31.9        39.6         48.1       n.
Smellholew sector as  of
total                         44          50          49         S2          586         S          53           SS           61         n.a.
........ .............. _ __...._
h4um:   SIf  S" OPTICUIR.
N Sot Includisn  useful sulphur.                                                                                                                               I!
CQl U:  1) The estates coasupotion of fertilizer has Increased during the last 9 seasons at an annual rate of about 2S. As the soallholder sector
ha  tncr eseod  ts consu_ toen at a much higher rate, the estates. which ten ytars ago used to be the largest consuwer in   lawm, have a"
been largely overtaken by the Sealiholder sector 1441 in 1919180 and 61S in 19811/6)  The importance taken by the SealIholder s*ctor is
also shoan In Table 12.



SNALLHOLDER fERAItL1ER PRtOJEC
Fertilizer Consumotion liv Productl in Malawi
1919160    1980181    1981182    1982183    1983184    1984165    1985/86      3986/Z67    1987/8      1988(89
(estteateda
........................................ (tons              000.                                ...............
20:20:0                         9.2        13.S       18.6        22.9       21.3       26.1       25.5        21.6       20.2          1 0
SlA                           35.2         43.6       42.5        24.8        3.2        S.4        3.6         6.6        4.S         10.0
CAN                             4.2         4.1        2.8          9.9     31.3        37.0       35.S        31.6        26.3        29.1
Urea                           0.2          0.2        0.?         0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0         S.4        16.1        20.9
Other                          0.4          2.4        0.0         0.0        0.9        O.S        0.3         2.1         1.0        28.5
Sub-total:                    49.2         64.4       $6.6        S7.7       S6.7       69.0       64.9        67.S        76.1       08.5
6:16:11:9                      21.1        16.4       11.1        20.0       16.3       16.9       17.1         18.9       23.2        23.9
Other Cowles                    3.9         3.5        2.9         3.1        2.9        3.6        3.2         1.7          -           -
CAN                             8.6         5.I        1.5          1.1       1.1        S.S        S.6         5.1        4.4          6 3
AlS                             1.6         1.3        0.7         S.3        1.4        2.0        S.?         S.0        2.6          2 1
or*&                            3.4         6.6        6.5         1.1        6.3       13.2  *    11.1         12.0       10.6         9.2
TSP                             0.8         2.3        1.6         1.2        0.8        1.1      * 1.4         1.9         0.4         2 2
Potessium thirotdo              3.3         0.6        0.9         1.2        6.9        0.1        2.2         2.6         1.6         2.2
Outr                            1.4         0.7        1.1         0.S        0.6        0.9        0.9         8.1         2.1         2.8
Sub-totel:                     42.9        44.1       36.9        40.1       36.3       43.9       47.2        48.4        4S.1        48.7
Grow Total:                   92.1        109.1       9S.S        98.4       93.0      112.9      112.1       111.9       121.8       137.2
Selltoltdr Sector as I
of total                    53           59         S9          19         61         61         58          S8         62           6S
Sourc:  SF9F asd OPTICft|N.
1^



RmA
SPAU.SOLJER FERnLIZER FROJECT
Currit Fertilizer Prices and Sbsidc Levels
NK/t)
loit Cost                 63/m                   94195                  5618                    I61681                     .8118                                        NBS
,,...........           .. ,.......            ...........           ...........           ...A..S.t...                                         ; ..
CAl   20:20           cmIl 0229              cm    202             CMI   2020  Bea         cm     20:2 k Imes    W 'CAN   20:20  Urma    DP
fSIol                    33431                  I      22 m           221   325              2S     28    300       248    245    304    451                     404    583    410    591
tit lsewMi                 I       I            16t    161            It8    1i              181    lei    11       253    253    25                             296 22f        2%      2%
lste                       I      -               2      2              2      2              2       2      2        3*'   3        3       3                     2       3      1       3
tC issim                   3       4              3      4              4       5              4      5       5        5      1       6      9                     1       9      8       9
COII                      51 57 19              I1      2              29      25             20     24      24      41      31      3t     4                              -      -       -
........ ... .............. ...... ..... ........... ...  ....... _....... ... .......  ... ,... ._.............. ._.......          ---------------
Sub-1.tl l5wl            354    411            321     411            431    566        , 465    50    512          556    645    103    159                     109    891    7lU   6"6
Iaur2it tost  !}                                                                                                                                                                                U'
hot I Stwap               10      It             13     11 If                  It 11                 12      12       IS     IS      IS     IS                     s      19    Is      Is
lt tua.st                23     n               St     2              31     31             42      42     42       38      38     26      38                    42     42      42     42
I      I              I *                    -      -              -      -       I        2      2       S      6                      4      4      4       4
bb"o      .......    _                                 .......               .......     ............................~.........
Sub-lttal Nu&t            30     3               5so    SO             42      42            54      54     54       55      55     55      59                    65     15      65      65
Cost at lit              3M      449            419    461            413      0 61          5      563    M6        U1I    tO      662    916                   773    95S    945       13
kIiui    k&.e            2 32                   310    356            23      410            30   429    S20        49     5 40      40  6130                    50   630   600    690
LOSSISbsidy              st2    15             I0      1I                    IS 1           152    143    U4         21    160    122    I6                     223    325    245    2n
wisdd,I/.                 23 2                   21       !    22        1 23t                        2 1t  2    I    2023 In2M                                   29  341 292  281
1I  Ibt tdkin giro acca        t SfllF  OArtm         ard frttir tesses.
'I    cstoted m  the bais of  Mt cost of fetitie  (ot at Mrket).
Sam: SFRF ad -.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



ZALAWI
S9ALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Projected and Actuat Subsidy LeveLs
unit    19W/83  1M83        M/Kt85   1985/8    19M/87    97/8   198W89   1989910
(stimated)
PROJECTED AVERAGE SUBStOY
SMeLtbolder fertitiar  PFoject        1            25.0      20.0      10.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Fertitizer Subsidy Removal Programme-   X            -         -        -       22.6      17.0     12.0      6.0       0.0
Actual Subs#dies 2/
.CAN                                      X        n.a.      29       26-       20       25        20       29        n.a.
.20:20:0 or 23:21:0:4.                    X        n.a.      35       25        33       25        23       34       n.a.
.Uree                                     X        n.a.        -        -         -       8        18       29       n.a.
.*AP                                      X        n.a.        -        -         -        -       23       28        n.a.
.Average 3t                               X        n.a.      31       26        26       23        21       30       n.a.
CtANGES IN FERTILIZER COST  21                                                                                               !        '
cF-                  -                    2        n.a.        -       *7      +13      +10       .18      +27        n.a.            N
20:20:0 or 23:21:0:4,                     2        n.a.        -      44       430       -7       *24      .36        n.a.
Urea                                      S        n.a.        -         -        -         -     ,17      +28        n.a.
SAP                                       2        n.A.        -         -        -         -        -     +28        n.a.
Average  3% 2                                      n.a.        -       46      418        4 S/   +20 61   +29        n.a.
CHANGES IN SELLING PtICE   21
CAN                         -             X        n.a.        -      *11      t23        +3      +26      +12        n.a.
20:20:0 or 23:Z1:0:2M                     2        n.a.        -     +21       .1?       2       +29      +17        n.a.
Urea                                      X        n.a.        -         -        -         -     +21      *11        n.a.
SAP                                       X        n.s.        -        -         -        -         -     +10        n.a.
Average  3i                               X        n.s.        -     .15       +20       o3 51   26 61   *13          n.s.
Z~~                                                                                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -jI



- 53 -
PART III
ANNEX
Table 14
Paige 
NOTES:
1/   Refers to the overall subsidy on the basis of the full cost of alL fertilizers
-    imported into Malavi in any one year.
2/   Source:  Table 13,
31   Cteculated on the basis of the quantities of fertiLizer  sold in Malawi in any
one year (Table 7).
4/   CalcuLated on the basis of the quantities of fertitizer  purchased by SFRF
in any one year (TabLe 7).
COMMENTS
1.   It was agreed during negotiations that fertiltzre prices wouLd be kept under
constant review to ensure that the 1981-82 level of subsidies be completely phased
out by 1985/86 according to a schedule based on the routing and CIF prices provailing
at negotiation. It was also agreed that if different and more costly transportation
and routing alignments wouLd be required to assure timely and reliable supplies, the
Government, IDA and the Fund would amend the previous convenant. The BEIRA rail Line
closed in October 1982 and the NACALA line in January 1984 and price of fertilizers
correspondingty rose. It would thus appear the the Governent, as long as it entered
into a dialogue and agreement with IDA and IFAD, was entitled to change the programme
to phase out fertilizer subsidies.
2.   Under the Structural Adjustment Loan with the World Sank, subsidy removal was
again agreed and under a specific agreement with USAID, the Fertitizer SubsidyRemoval
Programme (FSRP), new targets were set. Under the terms of agreeent of the FSRP,
USAID would provide grant aid fertilizer in annual trUld- as the subsidy would be
removed. Furthermore, the fSRP also stipulated that consumption of High AnaLysis
Fertilizer (HAF) would progressivety be increased (from 102 in 1986/87 to 453 in
1988/89). In 1985/86 the Government i cmsed the 5 ling price bY 2L out due to,
a 18X increase in fertilizer cost, actual subsidies remained at their 1984/85 levet
(26). The target (22.X) was nevertheless considered as being met. In 1986/87,
in spite of a very soell increase in fertilizer cost (42), the level of subsidy did not
change significantly. As the price of maize was kept for the third consecutive year
at the 1983/84 lovel, the Government decided not to increase fertilizer price; the
FSRP was abandoned end USAID cancolled the third tranche of US$ 5.1 illtion.
3.   The Govenrment announced its own progra   to reduce subsidies from 212 in
1987/88 to 102 in 19m1/92. However, due to rapid increase in fertilizer costs,
this programe_ too was abandoned.
4.   In 1988/89, actual subsidies are expected to have increased substantiaLLy due
to the fact that fertitizer cost rises (212) were only partiatly reftlected in
sellting prices (132) in spite of a very large increase in maize price (442). As the
present trend on the fertilizaer world "rket is projected to continue in the near
future, the Government is deeply concerned about the subsidy issue. In the context
of the currently  tfst       rising fertilizer demand, the subsidy burden on the
budget is likely to become unsustainable. As the prsent Value/Cost ratios are
particularly attractive, it sees advisable to reduce progressively the subsidy
levels. Furthermore, as a significant proportion of current users could afford the
full cost of fertilizers, it woutd appear desirable to replace the present subsidy
systeom by a program* specificatlly deitgned to assist the lower income strata which
hoe virtually no access to fertiltiers. This would also allow to suppress the need
for a two-price system  nd avoid the wonnseast  "leakages".



MALAW
SWALEIOLDER fiTli 2218 PROJECT
Ferillizer Sa" fe,orecas
I 9 * 9 1            I a  t    9   I        I 1  9 I I11    9 2     19 "99 2 ' 9 I          I _ 9     1   9 4
Origi9na  11 Revised 2J   Orlgnal  Revised      Original   Revised    Original   Rtevised    Original   Revised
(tons).
Fertilizerta.lm
23:21:@e4                        1o.000       21.7S0        12.500    18.750       13.000    19.SOO       9.000      13.SOO       3.500     5.250
*.A.P.                           11.600        19,500       16.000    24.000       19,000    28.500      22.000      33.000      2S.000    37.000
Urea                            35.000        48.750        4S.S00    67.500       S1.00    76.500      58.750    8S.125       65.2S0    91.000
CAN                             28.S00        48.000        26.2S0    39.375       2I.S00    32,2S0      17.000      25.S00      13.000    19.500
S/A                              7,500         9.750         9.000    t3.S00        9.750    14.625       10,500     15.750     12,250    10,315
MOP                               2.400        2.475         4.200      6.300       5.00       8,ZS       5.600      6.400      S.800      0.700
SOP                               2,000        3,000         5.000      ?.100       6.500      9.750      6.7S0      10.125      7.000    10.500
uls^L:                        103.500      153.225       J,1S,4S0   176.925    4126.250   169.375    129.600    194.400       31,9800   196.325
Sourca   MSA.
,1/ Based on projected fertilizer requirements to achieve  per capita maize production of I9S kg.
1   1ased on Projected fertilizer requiremets to achevte per capita maize production of 232 kg.
I) The ost recent fertilizer sales projections have been prepared by the Pin4stry of Agriculture (NOC) In Novemfer 1988. Two projections hove been
prepared, based on desirable levels of maize production per capita to be achieved by the sma lholder sector:  (i) Orialafi, The lower fertilizer sales
sconario Is based on projected fertilizer requiremets to achieve total  oize production levels whtib would generate a per capita availability
of 195 kg; (111 3tIJj: The higher fertilizer sale scenario Is based on achieving per capita oaite production levels af 232 kg.
2)  The 0orlgtial  scenario is based on the assumptlon that the area under hybrid maie gos up from 62.000 ha in 198S/89 to 115.000 ha in 1989/90 end
to over 280,000 ha in 1993194.  Awere   yields wowid go up from a*n estimated 2.7 t/Ms In 198t/88 to 3.S ttia. The area under local maize is projected   ci
to dclitn  trom ebot 1.14 mtilloi  ha In 1986/89 to 920.000 In 1989/90 and to 614000 he In 1993J94. Averge yields are expected to Increase from an               Cr
estimated 1.1 tlJ  la In N7/88 to 1.35 tthe from 1969190 onwards.                                                                                                _   I
3)  The  revised  scenario Is based on signiticently higher area planted in hybrid eaize (212,000 ha In 1989190 and 381.S00 he in 1"93194) while                 __
areas planted to local maize are similar to those assmed under  original.                                                                                               1-4
4)  A 1ey assUvtion underlying the projections relates to areas to be planted in hybrid maize Increasing from nearly 3.S times the present area
(origtnal) to 4.7 times (revised). Clearly, the ability of the on-going research progreme to produce a variety of hybrid oaize acceptable to
5mllholders would have a considerable impact on future fertilizer sales.



- 55 -                             PART  III
ANNEX
SMALLHQOLR FERTIL17ER PROJECT
Crooned Heetarace in Malawi.- 1g82/83 - 1988R1R
19s2/83   1983/84   184/aS   122gLM   1986/8Z ,19l87/aL    12f88
(Estimated)
....................... (haOOO).
Maize       1,169       1,183      1,145       1,193   1,183       1,215    1,250
- local                 1,068      1,048       1,105   1,132    -1,137    1,144
- composite                26         22          20       14         19        24
- hybrid                   89         75          69       37         59        83
Rice           20          22         21          23       19         23        26
Groundnuts   146          145        136          176     210        176        85
Tobacco        28          45         47           38      40         24        20
Cotton         33          51         61           52      35         44        48
Cassava        59          81         80           73      63         62        64
Sorghum        23          21         33           32      31  *      30        35
Pulses         83          91         80         114      140        160       144
Millet         11          1S         17           17       18        19        14
Coffee          2           2          3            2       2        n.a.      n.a.
Sweet potato   -           21         23           22      26         30        16
Tea            18          21         21          21       21        n.a.      n.a.
Others          8           8          8            8      10        n.a.      n.a.
TOTAL:      1,600       1,706      1,675       1,772   1,797       1,822       n.ap
Snureg: Ministry of Agriculture.



- 56 -
PART IIX
ANNEX
Table 17
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Distribution of Farm Holdings and Cultivated Areas by Form Size
--s~-.-----.881 -_-----960/61   -
*tectare   ttoase*tolds   X    Cultivated     I     Hn@ebidS   X      CutiaLvted   X
/'000)               Area                ('000)              Area
('000 ha.)                             ('@00 ha.)
0-1          b23.4     S5         33S9.1     2S       634.1     S3        347.5    2S
1-2         331.4      30        41S.0      36       301.2    32         S33.4    38
2.          1i4.0       is        Sii.9      39       117.2    1S        509.4    3?
total       113S.6    100        1332.0    100       1193.1    100       1390.3   100
SiaUg: tiSSA. 196041 A"  SA. 193/4 .



- 57 -
PART ISS
ANNfEX
TABLE 18
MALA"l
SrALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Maize CuLtivation as a Percentage ot Cultivated Area by Farm Size
lDectare   ItHie Variety                1t32/63              1W3/04  1--             14/S
Gd        local Nao                       s 56                 6S                   41
Niulures/lstercrop              iS                   14                   12
Compsitto                        Z                    O.                   I
Ilybigd                          3                    2                    1
Sub-total                       76                   81.5                6
Z         LoWal faile                     56                   S6                   56
"nltures/lateecrop              13                   13                   14
ComposIto                        3.                   2                    1
ilrid                           7                    4                    S
Sub-Itota                       if    --is--56
user_     Local Hatll                     47                   49                   4S
Nistures/lntercrop              10                   10                   12
CompoSi t                        S                    2                    3
Itybrid                         14                    0                   12
Sb-ltotal                       16                   69                   12
Lad.      Local Rtaio                     53                   56                   49
Intatu.s/latergrop              13                   12                   13
composite                        3                    1                    2
llytield                                              5                    6
Total                                     1                     4                   1
~aur.a:  ASA.          _ 0/. 1930. 1904..



-58 -                                       tART
ANMX
Table 19
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Fertilizer Use by Farm Size and CroP
soldidg Six     Crop           Percentage fertiliger Area of Toul
(hectarts)                                Cu1tiu"Ied Area
1962/83          1983184     I948S
Loss than I     "ai
Local         1.?              8.8        19.0
Nistur      12.2             14.1
Composite    62.0             S6.1        74.6
llybrid     28.1             74.1        ".2
tobacco          29.1             4S.9        44.2
Othwr Crops       2.1              3.0         1.6
total                             12.4             10.3        12.2
Pereentage fortilIeed aulac
of total fertilized area          91.6             91.5        92.5
1-?            M1Iae
Local        23.2            13.4         20.0
ItIiuros     25.4             19.4        19.1
Composite    60.              42.1        41.6
hllbrid      93.1             08.8        86.0
tobacco          S.I             63.3        75.6
OUe r Crops       1.6              2.3         2.0
Totl             25.0             18.6        21.9
Percentage f.rtilitled mite
of total Iertiliaod are&          92.3             $?.5         0.0
Over 2           Naie
LoWal        28.?             30.8        30.0
NiLolres     4S.1             32.4        30.7
Composlt    S2.0              59.9        57.4
Hybrid       69.5             69.0        85.6
tobs"*          82.3              18.3 I?.?
Otber Cro         1.2              1.0          1.7
fOld)           37.0              30.1        33.7
Percentage fertillsod galse
of ttal fertilitd are             89.0             8.3         6l.1
Total           NiMa
Local        20.7             19.I        22.9
Nituros     26.9             21.6        20.2
Composite    56.0             52.3        56.8
llybeld       9.6             87.4        04.1
tobco             9.6             731.1       74.3
O!%r Crops        1.6              1.9         1.1
- otal-          2S.1             20.9        1 .4
Percentage fertillteed ,mus
of totol fortilieed dre.          9.6              87.4        U.S
SWUtC: ASA. 192183. 1983/64. t964/S.



- 59 -
PART ]III
AN=
Table 20
MALAWI
SMALLH0LDERFE FRTTLT7ER PROJECT
Smallholder Fertilizer and Maize Prige
Yer         20:20*0       LA         8u                 me       Maize
................ (Kwacha per 50 kg bag) .......... (tambala/kg) 1/
1980/81       8.50        6.50      10.50                           6.1
1981/82       8.50        9.00      10.50                          11.0
1982/83      12.60       10.50      13.00                          11.0
1983/84      14.50       12.00      14.00                          12.2
1984/85      17.50       13.50      15.50                          12.2
1985/86      20.50       17.50      19.00                          12.2
1986/87      21.00       18.00      19.50      26.00     24.00     12.2
1987/88      27.00       23.00      24.50      27.00     31.50     16.6
1988/89      30.00       27.00      27.50     30.00      34.50     24.0
I/  1 MK   100 tambala.
Source: MOA Fertilizer Unit.



- 60 -
PART III
ANNEX
Table 21
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Nutrient Price/Maize Price Ratios for SmaLLhotders
1982/83 to 1988/89
Year     20:20:0       CAN 1/       S/A  2/       UREA       DAP      23:21:0+4S 3/
Witrient
conent    (2) 40       26-28        21            46         64            48
1982/83   5.68          9.01         9.01
1983/84   5.94          8.83         9.37
1984/85   7.17          9.77        10.54
1985/86   8.40         11.98        13.66
1986/87   8.61         11.42        14.05          9.27       6.15
1987/88   8.13         10.54        13.20          7.0?       5.93
1988/89   6.25          8.18        10.71          5.43       4.49          5.64
1/ From 1986/87 CAN has contained 282 N.
2/ ExcLuding S.
3/ IncLuding S.
Source: MOA FertiLizer Unit.



MALAWI
SIALLHOLOER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Comparison of Nutrient Costs of Fertilizer
total Nutriont    1986/07 Cost Kvacha per        1981/68        Kwvche           0ina 1N8/b9.
F.ctiliter                                 S0 Kg beg     Kg nutrient     50 Kg bag     per nutriaat      jO Of bal 4) love fW*
20*20:0                        40             21.00          1.05         27.00            1.35             W0.00        I.SO
CAN                           2i              19.30           1.39         24.30           5.15             2M.N0        t.96
S/A 1)                         21             18.00          1.41         23.00           2.19             2t.00        2.5;
0*
Di?                            44             24.00          0.15         31.10           0.98             34.50        6.05
Urea                           :4             26.00          1.13         21.00            1.1            30.00        1.14
2e21a0 * 41)                44-46
2#2)s0 + *4S)
1t  No price differential for smaller bags.
21 Nutrient X of S/A taken as 21.
Source: POA Fertiltier Unit.
1I014



- 62 -
PART III
AMI
Tahle 2a
SMALLHnLOZR FERTTLIZER EROJECT
Gross Margins for Various CrOQs (Current Prices)
(Kwacha/ha)
CROP YEAR          81/82  82/83  83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87  APPR  87/88  88/89
.Local. no fert.  52.5   52.5   57.5   57.7   57.7   57.7   87.3   78.4  114.4
.Local. LAF       107.7   97.5  107.2  100.4   89.0   87.1  118.3  124.9  207.2
-Local. HAF          -       -      -       -      -   122.3      -   182.1  288.2
.IHybrid, LAF     211.9  193.1  214.8  196.5  174.0  166.8  275.7  253.2  414.5
.Hybrid. HAf         -              -       -      -   214.7      -   346.8  557.4
Groundnut
.Chalimbana        90.8  171.3  202.6  236.2  250.1  251.2        -   201.2  231.0
Beans              33.9   -4.5   30.2   60.2   66.2   68.0         -    67.0   71.1
Cot'ton           124.3  181.1   190.7 210.7  205.3  159.1             194.7  193.6
Rice (Faya)        88.4   94.5   136.5 156.1  157.5  204.3             247.5  261.0
Tobacco (NOOF)   144.8  216.9   276.1 295.8  277.7  290.0  215.5  278.4  389.2
Soure: Ministry of Agriculture.



SNAtLHOLAt6 fRLThLlt1p PROJECT
fII& Cultivation  Pad Prodction
-----At!it  CUTIVATIN------------------                -------------------- -AIZE POOUCTIO   --------------------
LOCAl.LL_& COiOSIESTUf3ul:'~  .~JEML....      sI       A              . iMJ8l.S                 _TOITL .IELk
&sum        AAA                                       Aporali        Actua   Ara1s         *ASctul   Anrais.    Actual   ADr tts,
...........(hecta.                           ...... (I) .....        ..tOOO tons)                 ..                ... (tlha)
1980816            926       736           44      64           4.8        6.9          132       192        123?       999        1.20       1.25
19811J2            ala                    ala                   ala                     ala                  1244                   atl
1962183            ale                    ala                   Nis                     alt                  1369                    aa
1983164           109a                      9                   8.1                     24S                  1398                  1.18
196416S           1670                     i5                   7.0                     231                  13SS                  1.16
19851s6           1t1s                     69                   6.1                     202                  129S                  1.68
1986187           1146                     37                   3.2                     103                  1202                  1.02
196111            1157       822           S       9            S.1       12.0          IS3      29         1420        1221       1.11       1.33
1966109 1pretim. 1160                      83                   t.l                     227                 lSS7                   1.24
estimte)
Amsual Growth
tates 1990181-
1911,100 (3)       3.2       1.6          4.3      6.4          1.0        8.2          2.4      6.5         2.0         2.9      -1.2        0.9
Source: Apprlsal leWort. PA
Cements:
- The distinction betwee cmo soites and local cultivars Is no longer relevant, because of extensive
re-use of composite seeds.
- Total production stagnated until 1987. inspite of significant area growth. and Increased sharply thereafter.                                          -
together with hybrtd cultivation, In relatloo wlth mate price Increases In 1967 and 1960.                                                                Cr
- These treads would soo  to reflect two basically independent production systems:                                                                    ls i*
I I self-subsistence system. using open Itnes, little or no fertilizer, and depending on area extension for growth;
lit I comerclal system, using hybrids end fertiliters. and depending on market security and proftitable prices.
- The database at appraisal was, it appears, quite poor.



N A L A M I
SNALLHOLOER FERTILItZER PROJECT
Seasonal Credit, Farmeps Ctubs Nembership and Fertilizer Sales
Year           Amownt      No. of Clubs         No. of            %veraof fertilier                Fertilizer
11Borrowers     Loan   tier    ba# an c Ot    sold cash
(ftC siltion)                                            i                               (  0)
1982/83           7.8          6,6S4              156,700             50                40             22.8
193154           10.S          ,191               180,300             58                40             22.5
1984/85          14.S          8,148              211,700             68                71             34.9
198586          19.1          8,259              208,000             92                52             33.7
1l9sJ8?          18.3          8,045              206,400             89                46             32.2
1987J88          26.9          9,129              243,500            110                60             30.5
1968/89          41.0          n.a.               no&.               n.a.               6?             28.9
Source:  SelIholder Agricultural Credit Project, SACA and SFFRF.
1-r 



- 65 -
PART II
Table 25
C0"MEENTS
1.     Club membership is required to obtain seasonal credit.
2.     The Large increase in credit suppLy in 1988/89 is due to the
implementation of the WS financed SmatLholder AgriculturaL Credit Project.
3.     Credit pLays a Large role in fertiLizer uptake.  In 1987/88, 20
miLLion MK were Lent for fertiLizers, which is expected to reach 33 miLlion
in 1988/89 (802 of the totaL seasonaL credit).
4.     Cash saLes of fertiLizers are stagnating or even declining.  This
is not necessariLy due to financiaL difficuLties of smaLLhoLders, since
buying on credit, for the reLativeLy weaLthy farmers who are cLub members,
may be the onLy way to secure access to fertiLizers. Many farmers wouLd,
it seems, prefer to pay cash, but priority in fertiLizer distribution
is given to Loan appLicants who represent a secure market. This situation
may be difficult to change unLess distribution is improved and suppLy
meets the demand.



- 66 -
PART III
Aonpadi xI
MALAWI                           Page
SMALLHntnER FERTIL17FR eROM CT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC AALYSIS
COMMENTS
1.       At appraisal, the economic analysis of the project was based on the
incremental costs and benefits expected to occur assuming fertilizer
availability was timely enough to meet smaliholder demand. Main assumptions
relate to:
i) Incremental nroduction: including yield sustainability due to an
assured fertilizer supply and the progressive adoption by farmers
of the fertilizer package.
ii) Ecnnomic prices: import parity prices for maize, tobacco and rice;
prices paid by estates to farmers for tea and coffee.
iii) Economic costs: including the cost of fertilizer computed at the
import parity price. adjusted to take into account transport and
incremental farm labour. computed at labour opportunity cost.
iv) Shadow exchange rates: assumed to be equal to the official exchange
rate.
The economic rate of return calculated on these assumptions was well over
5OS. and was not sensitive to reductions in benefits nor to increases in
costs.
2.       The above assumptions raise two basic questions:
i) Although the without project situation has not been defined
specifically. it is likely that the full benefit of fertilization
was credited to the project. However, the rationale for this
assumption is not evident. Even if, without the project, Malawi had
faced severe difficulties in mclntaining the supply of fertilizers,
it is doubtful that no fertilizer at all would have been imported.
ii) The full benefit resulting from the incremental production of
maize, tobacco, etc. is credited to the project, but again, the
rationale for this assumption is not obvious. Availability of
fertilizer is of prime importance. e, is also the availahility nf
seeds. credit. marketing outlets. --tension service and. last but
not least, incentive commodity prices. It stands to reason.
therefore, that project benefits have been largely overestimated.
3.       The basic assumptions underlying the economic analysis presented in
the Appraisal Report are therefore questionable. Furthermore, basic data
such as average maize yields with and without fertilizers cannot, in the
absence of long term fertility trials, be considered fully reliatle. A
detailed export economic analysis thus, does not seem relevant, and the



- 67 -
PART III
Aneoleq 1
Page      2
eyercice has been Simplified as much as possible, using the following
assumptions:
i) As maize represents about 80X of the smaliholder cropped areas, no
other crop has been taken into account in the calculation.
ii) The incremental net benefit resulting from the use of 1 kg of
nutrient has been estimated by comparing the economic benefits of
one hectare of maize with and without fertilizer (Tables 3 and 4).
The economic price of maize and the economic costs of fertilizers
are presented in Tables 5 and 6.
iii) The  project  incremental  net  benefit  has been estimated year by
year. on the basis of the actual purchases of nutrients (Table 2).
Actual  sales  have  not  been  taken  into account as they include
donors' fertilizers.
iv) The first benefits were secured ir. 1984 because the project
succeeded  in  delivering fertilizers on time. Indeed, as envisaged
at appraisal, the tendering for the 1983/84 season occurred before
the project became effective. Contracts were awarded by March 1983
and retroactive financing for the eligible portion under the
project applied successfully. Nevertheless, due to route delays.
late deliveries depressed sales by an estimated 10X, and for this
reason the quantity of nutrients reported in 1983 has been reduced
accordingly.
v) It is assumed that regular capital injections will allow SFRF to
continue importing annually 20.000 tons of nutrients. The projected
increases in fertilizer prices and in transport costs would.
otherwise. reduce the purchasing power of the Fund and increase
cash flow problems.
vi) The statutory minimum daily wage for agricultural labour is assumed
to be a good estimate of the opportunity cost of agricultural
labour.
vii) The shadow exchange rate is,assumed to be equal to the official
exchange rate.
4.       The  ecomomic  rate  of  return  of  the  project  (over  1001)  is
considerably higher than that calculated at appraisal(over 50X) due to the
longer than anticipated benefits despite the d6ubling of the investment
costs.
5.       According to the scarce data presented in the Appraisal Report, the
larger benefits would be mainly due to higher than expected maize yields at
full development. At appraisal, yield increases resulting from the use of
fertilizers had been estimated at 14 kg of mAize per kg of nutrients while
actual figures. derived from FU reports. anwmilt to *2 kg.
6.       The  switching values for an assumed opportunity cost of capital of
8S are as follows:
Incremental benefit - 91.S5
Investment cost      * 1075X



- 68 -                            PART II
Anedi J
Page      3
7.       The  analysis shows that the economic rate of return would still be
satisfactory should the economic benefit be divided by more than 10. It is
therefore  evident  that  the project is economically viable. Although it is
questionable to attribute the full benefit resulting from the incremental
production to the use of fertilizer, it is obvious that well over 10% of it
was derived as a result of the project.
8.       It had been envisaged that about  400,000  families  would  benefit
from  a  reliable suPply of fertilizer at the end of the project. Since data
collected during the last four agricultural surveys have not yet been
processed. only rough estimates can be made regarding fertilizer use. It is
therefore assumed that about 360,000 smallholders have been benefiting from
the project since 1987/88. The return per man/day from fertilized maize
was. at appraisal, projected to amount to about four times the estimated
opportunity cost of labour. The maize hectare budgets (Table 4.) show that
the return per man/day would range from MK 2.3 for local maize to MK 5.-5
for hybrid maize, i.e. from 3 to 6 times the present assumed opportunity
cost of labour.
9.       Finally, it should be pointed out that the project has  played  and
continues to play a significant role in the mobilization of foreign
assistance which was and is needed to improve fertilizer supply.



- 69 -
PART 13II
ANNE
Table 1
MALiWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Casnflnw for Economie Rate of Return
tea:-       InXestment Costs 1/        Incremental Net Benefits 21
.................. (MK million) .
1983               36.1
1984               14.2                         138.0
1985               42.7                         253.0
1986               25.1                         201.3
198-                9.2                         154.1
1988               10.4                         230.0
1989               10.0                         230.0
1990-2002          10.0                         230.0
1/ Includes IDA credit. IFAD loan and grant, USAID grant, ADMARC and
Government contributions expressed in 1988/89 constant prices using
domestic inflation rates.
21 Table 2.



- 70 -
PART III
ANEX
Anaendix I
Table 2
MALAWI
SMALLH0LDER FFRrITLIZER PRnJECT
Incremental Net Benefits Stream
Fiscal Year            Actual and Proiected           Incremental Net Renefits  /
Purchase of Nutrients 1/
(tons)                          (MK million)
1983
1984                         12.000                             138.0 l/
1985                         22,000                             253.0
1986                         17,500                             201.3
1987                         13,400                             154.1
1988                         20.000                             230.0
1989-2002                    20.000                             230.0
1/  Based on quantities actually purchased by SFRF and on the assumption
that annual capital injections will allow the Fund to continue importing
annually 20,000 tons of nutrients till 2002.
/  Based on an incremental net benefit of MK 11.5 per kg of nutrient
distributed (Table 3).
I/  Benefits achieved since the first year of the project as contracts
awarded before the project became effective were financed retroactively.
Tonnage reduced by about 0l due to late delivery.



- 71 -
PART 1II
AMEX
Appendix^ 1
Table 3
MALAWI
SMALLHOLOER FFRTILIZER 0ROJEC
Ilcremental Net BAnefit ner kg of Nutrient 13/
HXbrid mai2g             Local 5tiZ1
H8E  Conventional   Conventional    B2
frtilizer      fertili=zr  frtilizer
Economic Benefit (MK per ha) /  1,855         1.799           699        458
Incremental Benefit vs local
maize without fertilizer (MK/ha) 1,397        1,341           241   -      -
Nutrients applied (kg/ha) Z/          76.2       72.5          30.25       -
Incremental Benefits per kg of
nutrients (MK/kg)                     18.3       18.5           8.0        -
Hectarage (%)  /                      .....  35 .....          65
Average Incremental Benefit
per kg of nutrient                           6.44               5.20
........ 11.64 .
rounded to MK 11.5/kg of nutrient
1/  Based on the comparison between Economic Benefits of maize with and
without fertilizer.
I/ Table 4.
1/  MOA estimates.



UALAIM
SNALLHOLOER FERTILIZ(B PROJECt
Katie octare Seet I1 - Econgoic terms ff9881a9 .rtce1s
unit   Unit        ........ Local maize                     ...........  . hybrid Mait    .
price     ia *rtilitzr        Co.i. fartili;er      Conw  fertilizer              HAF
(Oastity) (Value) (Quantity) "Value)   (Ouantity) (Value)    (Quantity) (Value)
(UK)                  (                   (UK) (1la ()
1. au=
Productton ZI                   too    680        0.80      544.00      1.30     864.0       3.20    2.156.00        3.20     2.176.00
11. LalLa
I
Seeds:  local                    kg    0.8       25.00       17.00    25.00      17.00         -           -           -
hybrid                  &9    1.1S                                                 25.00        28.15      25.00        26.7 5
Fertilizer 11:
- 20:20:0                        it    0.663              -            25.00     21.56      80.00        69.04         -           -
- OAP                            *9    0.96-                    -         -        -           -           -       40.00         39.24
- CAN                            kg    0.709              -            75.00     S9.18    ISO.00        118.3S         -           -
- Urea                           he    0.862        -           -         -        -                       -      110.00         94.82
Actellic                         to    0.024        -           -         -        -       600.00        14.40    600.00         14.40
Trausport AI                     too  25.0          -           -      0.40      10.00       2.46        61.33      2.30         59.36
fastly labor I/                  ad    0.77       90.00       69.30  100.00      77.00    110.00         64.10    110.00         84.10
Total Ecoomic Costs:                         -          -        66.30       -      164.16        -        376.62         -         321.29
Ecomic _I enetits:                            -          -       457.70       -     699.24         -      1,t". 3          -       1,8S4.71
tI Techblicat date provtded by "OA.                                      1I Average distance: 20 km at PI 1.2S per ton/oi; maize in excess Of           i-2 k     2
I Economic price of maize presented In Table 6.                             I ton and fertilizer only.                                                            5
11 Economic price o1 fortitizer presented tn Table 5.                    11 Statutory ainimmu daily wage for aricultural tabour assumed to be            I    f l
a good estimate of the opportunity cost of agricultural labour.              f       Ft



- 73 -
Table 5
MALAWI
SM[LHMOL EpFERTTILIZFR PROJEC
Economic Cast gf FArtilizer (19Ra/RQ prices)
CMal  l;8N,  ,X,  23.21.04
23.23.04
.............. (MK/ton) .
- FOR   Foreign countries                 470       404       591        583
- International transport                 296       296       296        296
- Buying commission                         8         7         9          9
- Insurance                                 7          2        3           3
Sub-total landed cost
delivered to store                      781       709       899        891
Domestic Markgtinq Costs
- ADMARC fee-transportation                42        42        42          42
- AD14ARC fee-storage & selling            19         19       19          19
- Repacking                                 4         4         4          4
- SFRF overheads I/                         7         7         7           7
Sub-total domestic marketing
costs:                                   72        72        72         72
Losses 1!                '                ..2       ....Z
Total Costs:                              862       789       981        973
Source: SFRF and ADMARC.
,j/ MK 0.87 million per year and an average 120,000 tons of fertilizer
distributed.
21 1X losses.
* FOR - Free on Rail.



- 74 -
PART III
AMEX
Table 6
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Ecoonomic Price of Maize (19B/8   tiO
(MK/ton)
Transngrt Costs
- FOB Foreign Countries 1/                                     510
- International transport                                      257
- Ivisterance                                                    10
Imtijrt Parity Price at the Depot                              777
ADMARC Marketing Cost It                                        97
Farm-gate Imnport Parity Price                                 680
SAurce: MOA. AOMARC and MITCO.
j/ Free on truck Harare Depot.
2/ On the basis of 1.25X of the Import Parity Price.
i/  Based on ADMARC Crop Trading Account for the 9 months ended 31 Dec. 19M8



7r, ~   ~       ~       -S
PART TII
ANMX
Aoegngk#A 2
Page     1
MALAWJ
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Monitoring of Fertilizer Delivery Proaramme
1.       In order to monitor the progress of any project or activity certain
conditions must be satisfied:
- there must be a monitoring plan;
- information desired from the monitoring process must be assembled
in sufficient time and frequency to allow corrective action to be
taken if deficiencies are highlighted in the plan; and
- the monitoring agency must have the necessary authority to act upon
the information gained.
2.       In  the  process  of  procurement,  external  transport,   internal
distribution, storage and sale, four levels of monitoring are required:
- progress from procurement, through external transport to delivery
ADMARC transit warehouses in Malawi;
- redistribution performance from transit depots via a number of
routings and transport modes to parent markets;
- redistribution from parent markets to secondary and seasonal
markets; and
- sales performance.
3.       Reverting to the thr.e principal requirements of a good  monitoring
system and comparing them with the four stages of distribution and sale, it
is possible to construct a simple matrix of yes/no answers in each category
as they effect the SfRF as follows:



-76 -                                  PART tII
ANNEX
Anandix2
Page     2
Efm          Ee=            E=rm
Pkrourm n        Iransit        earent
nDnQts        Markets
Transit       Parent        Sgecndarv
Ognals        Markets        Markets    Sale
Does'SFRF have a Plan?          Yes            Yes            No         Yes
Quality and timeliness
of data receipt?                Yes            No             No         Yes
Does SRFR have authority
to act?                         Yes            No             No         No
4.       The above matrix applies only to the SFRF although a similar matrix
could just as easily be constructed for any other agency such as ADNARC. In
this matrix, if any vertical column contains an answer *No', then SFRF
cannot perform a proper monitoring role. The results of this matrix are in
line with what has been experienced in SFRF project implementation.. These
results are discussed in more detail below:
Ihe Plan
5.       The  procedures  for  demand  estimation  and  reconciliation  with
available resources, etc. have been adequately described in a number of
reports on this project and will not be repeated here. Suffice it to say
that. by concensus of all agencies involved, or with an interest in the
fertilizer sector, an annual allocation schedule is produced. This is
essentially 'The Plan'. The main deficiencies of the plan in terms of
subsequent monitoring are as follows:
- there is no last date for delivery a) into the country, b) to
parent markets or c) to secondary markets;
- there is no plan at all (available to SFRF) for delivery to
secondary markets;
- the total allocation is assumed to be the sales target.
6.       It is not suggested that the above details should be the concern of
the allocating committee at national level.
fuality and Tim2lines of Monitoirina nata
7.       From procurement through transit depots in Harare  to  delivery  at
ADIARC transit depots in Malawi, the quality and timeliness of data recoived
by SFRF from FINCOM, MITCO and ADMARC have been very good even to the point
of allowing SFRF to reschedule truck departures out of Nerare at a few hours
not4ce to combat congestion in Malawi depots some 600 Km and two countries
distant.



- 77-                              PART III
ANNEX
Anndi4  2
Page     3
8.       Timeliness  of  arrival of fertilizer in Malawi, on the other hand.
has been a constant problem often caused by unforeseen circuimstances in
neighbouring countries through which the fertilizer must transit. Monitoring
the effects of these problems has been good and where possible corrective
action has been taken as a result of up-to-date information received in a
timely manner.
9.       Redistribution from transit depots to parent markets  has  suffered
from a number of problems throughout the life of the project and the ability
of SFRF to monitor progress and initiate corrective actions has been
severely limited. At the root of the problem lies the inadequate payments
(Government   controlled)   to   transport   contractors   and    inadequate
differentials between long and short hauls and good and bad roads. Over a
prolonged period of this state of affairs, the national fleet has become run
down and no reserve has been built up for replacements. In addition, the
extremely tough route pricing schedules have encouraged any activities
amongst truck owners that can squeeze a little more out of the system such
as refusing short hauls, refusing split loads, demanding back loads or
routing only where non Government back loads are known to exist (and in some
cases even more devious activities).
10.      Data on the above deliveries are fed back to SfRF from  the  ADMARC
computer at most six to eight weeks after the event (particularly Northern
Region). The data are not presented in an easily digestible form but
requires considerable re-working by hand at SFRF. Because the 'Plan' is not
fed annually into the computer. this means that even ADMARC must re-work the
weekly data by hand in order to monitor actual deliveries against scheduled
deliveries.
11.      The ideal of a  fortnightly  (or  even  monthly)  schedule  showing
targeted requirements for parent markets against deliveries by given dates
has never been achieved in the life of the project and as a result the
question of what corrective action was taken has never arisen. This is
probably a fortunate state of affairs since, as will be seen in the
paragraphs below, SFRF had little or no authority to take corrective action
even if it wanted to.
12.      SFRF neither receives nor monitors the  plans  for  re-distribution
from Parent to Secondary markets. The plan exists at ADD level and is
formally monitored by ADMARC as well as informally by the ADD staff who are
often called upon to assist with transport. At this level of the operation,
local knowledge, personal communication and a close liaison between AOD and
ADNARC staff often serves to sort out problems very quickly but only if the
fertilizer has been delivered on time from the transit depots in the first
place. This point again, highlights the extreme importance of devising
proper systems to schedule, control and monitor the first stage of
distribution.
13.      SFRF  receives  sales  data  from the AOMARC computer in sufficient
time to assemble schedules for distribution to interested parties on a
monthly basis one month in arrears. Once again. the computer is net
programmed to contrast this data with the allocation plan, which. as it has
been pointed out, is also (by inference) the sales plan. Apart from this
latter shortcoming, the monitoring of sales seems to be adequate both in
terms of quality of data received and timeliness.



- 78 -
PART III
ANNEX
Appendix ?
Page     4
SFRF Authority to Act
14.      The  purpose  of  monitoring the progress of a plan is to highlight
deficiencies in a timely bmanner and take corrective action. The monitoring
agency need not necessarily be the responsible agency for the proper conduct
of the Plan. In the case of this project, the roles of monitoring and
responsibility have been somewhat blurred, particularly in the first phase
of redistribution to parent markets.
15.      Where monitoring has been successful in  procurement  and  external
transport, resulting in a satisfactory performance, the authorities of the
participating agencies have been contractually defined (Suppliers. FINCOM.
MITCO. ADMARC through SFRF). And where monitoring has been successful at the
lowest  level  of  distribution,  authorities  are  clearly  defined  in   a
bureaucratic sense but are overlooked, adjusted or re-inforced by local ad
hoc agreements as is customary in outlying areas. By contrast. where
monitoring has been singularly unsuccessful in this project, both in terms
of collection of information and in terms of ability to act on that
information (re-distribution from transit depots to parent markets) the
authorities have not been defined either contractually, bureaucratically or
personally. To-date, SFRF has not been able to establish a regular procedure
to monitor the plan let alone take corrective action. Had the latter ever
become necessary, it probably would have failed for lack of authority.
16.      The  recent  establishment  of  a  Trust  capable  of entering into
legally binding contracts is seen as a significant step forward in the whole
process of delivering fertilizer to the smallholders. A delivery contract
with ADMARC would simply be an extension of the long established contractual
agreements of SFRF with its suppliers, FINCOM and MITCO.



