FlLE COPY
Report No.  4309-MAI
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Appraisal Report
April 7, 1983
Appraisal on behalf of the
International Fund for Agricultural Development
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without authorization of both the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the World Bank.



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit      =    Malawi kwacha (MK)
SDR 1.00           =    MK 0.8249 (from April 24, 1982)
US$ 1.00           =    MK 1.12
MK 1.00            =    us$ 0.89
Weights and Measures
1 hectare         =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer        =    0.62
1 sq. kilometer   =    0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram        =    2.2 pounds
1 metric ton      =    1,000 kg = 2,204 pounds
Abbreviations
ADD     - Agricultural Development Division
ADMARC  - Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
ATC     - Agricultural Trading Company
CADO    - Chief Agricultural Development Officer
CARO    - Chief Agricultural Research Officer
DA      - Development Area
DAR     - Department of Agricultural Research
DSB     - Department of Statutory Bodies
EPA     - Extension Planning Area
FINCOM  - Finance Corporation of Malawi
GOM     - Government of Malawi
GRAMIL  - Grain and Milling Company
IDA     - International Development Association
IFAD    - International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISNAR   - International Service for National Agricultural Research
MOA     - Ministry of Agriculture
MOF     - Ministry of Finance
NRDP    - National Rural Development Program
NSCM    - National Seed Company of Malawi
RTC     - Residential Training Center
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



MALAWI            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.    BACKGROUND
A.    Introduction and Economic Setting      ................   1
B.    The Agricultural Sector ......    ....................    2
C.    Agricultural Services ......    ......................    4
D.    Agricultural Development Strategy . ...............       7
E.    Constraints and Potential .................... ....       8
II.   THE FERTILIZER SUB-SECTOR
A.    Introduction        .....................................  10
B.    Crop Research and Fertilizer Responses       ...........    10
C.    Current Fertilizer Use .........      ..................  12
D.    Forecast Future Fertilizer Demand        ................    13
E.    Fertilizer Importation ......     .....................  15
F.    Fertilizer Transportation and Handling .......... .      16
G.    Input Marketing and Distribution .      ................  18
H.    Storage      ..........................................  20
I.   Fertilizer Blending ......     ........................   21
J.   Fertilizer Pricing          ...............................    21
K.    Summary of Needs for Fertilizer Project ..........       22
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Area ..      ...................................  23
B.    Objectives and Main Features ...................  ..     23
C.    Detailed Features .......    .........................   24
D.    Cost Estimates         ........................... ...... .  28
E.   Financing .      ........................................  31
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Organization and Management ........... ...........    32
B.    Implementation Schedule ......     ....................  33
C.    Establishment and Management of the
Fertilizer Fund .......    .........................   33
D.   Procurement ..       ....................................  37
E.  Disbursements           ..                  ..........  38
F.    Accounts and Audit         ...............................    39
G.    Monitoring Evaluation and Reporting ..............    40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. A. Spurling, R. Nelson, A. Nyberg, S. Sengamalay, C. Warnaars and
E. Vasur (IDA) and H. Shams (IFAD). The mission visited Malawi in September/
October 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without authorization of both the International Fund
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the World Bank.



- ii -
V.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .....................................    41
VI.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits   ..43
B.    Beneficiaries ....................................    43
C.  Economic Justification               .        .           44
D. Risks.                                                     45
E.    Government Cash Flow .............................    45
VII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........................    46
ANNEXES, TABLES, CHARTS, MAPS
I.    Supporting Charts and Tables
Chart 1   - Ministry of Agriculture, Organization Chart       48
Chart 2    - Ministry of Finance           ..                 49
Chart 3    - Department of Statutory Bodies  .     .50
Chart 4    - ADMARC, Existing Organization Chart              51
Chart 5   - ADMARC, Proposed Organization Chart               52
Chart 6   - Project Implementation Schedule  . .53
Chart 7    - Organization and Flow Chart.                     54
Chart 8    - Fertilizer Procurement Sequence  . .55
Chart 9  - Fertilizer Sales    .            .56
Chart 10   - Fertilizer Demand Forecast    . ...............    57
Chart 11   - Fertilizer Response Curves ................    58
Table T-1  - Key Indicators ............................    59
Table T-2  - Schedule of Disbursements - IFAD Loan .....      60
Table T-3  - Technical Assistance Schedule of
Disbursements   ...........................   61
Table T-4  - Schedule of Disbursements - IDA Credit ....    62
II.   Cost Tables
Table T-1  - Fertilizer Revolving Fund - Physical
Movements   ...............................    63
Table T-2  - Fertilizer Revolving Fund - Financial
Movements   ...............................    64
Table T-3  - Fertilizer Handling Costs (Beira) .... .....    65
Table T-4  - Fertilizer Handling Costs (Durban) ........    66
Table T-5  - Technical Assistance and Training .... .....    67
III.  Agriculture
Table T-1  - Land Utilization, 1980/81 ....     .............    68
Table T-2  - Land Utilization Projections .     .............    69
Table T-3  - Fertilizer Imports by Distributor .... .....    70
Table T-4  - Estimated Fertilizer Use by Crops .... .....    71
Table T-5  - Actual and Projected Fertilizer Use .......      72
Table T-6  - Maize Production Consumption ....    ..........    73
Table T-7  - Hectare Budget Maize (BLADD/NADD/LWADD) ...      74
Table T-8  - Hectare Budget Maize (LADD) ....    ...........    75
Table T-9  - Hectare Budget Tobacco (KADD/LADD) ........      76



IV.  ADMARC
Chart C-1 - Distribution of Fertilizer Sales by Region     77
Table T-1  - ADMARC Crop Trading Results     ...............    78
Table T-2  - ADMARC Balance Sheets .....................    79
Table T-3  - ADMARC Cash Flow 1982/83    ..................    80
Table T-4  - Smallholder Fertilizer Prices .. ...........   81
V.   Economic Analysis
Table T-1  - Economic Farmgate Value Maize ....  .........    82
Table T-2  - Economic Farmgate Value NDDF Tobacco ....     83
Table T-3  - Economic Benefits from Crop Production ....   84
Table T-4  - Economic Cost of Fertilizer ...............    85
Table T-5  - Incremental Labor Cost ....    ................    86
VI.  Terms of Reference (for Technical Assistance) .... ......    87
Maps (IBRD)
No. 16842  - Transportation Network    ....................    88
No. 16843  - Regional Transport Facilities .............   89
No. 16847  - Fertilizer Flows ....................         90
No. 16848  - Smallholder Fertilizer Distribution .......   91
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1. Hectare budgets for different crops.
2. ADMARC Transport costs, fertilizer sales pattern and
storage facilities
3. Constraints of external transport and import routes.
4. Inception Report prepared by IFAD staff.






MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction and Economic Setting
1.01      Malawi is a land-locked country with a total area of 118,900 km2
of which 23,900 km2 is covered by Lake Malawi. The country is bordered on
the north and north-east by Tanzania, to the east, south and southwest by
Mozambique and to the west by Zambia. From Independence through 1978 the
Malawi economy was robust. Growth in all sectors including agriculture
exceeded the population growth rate and GDP grew at an average rate of 6
percent. Exports, primarily agricultural, expanded sufficiently to keep
the current account (trade) deficit at a sustainable level, the budget
deficit was kept under control and domestic prices experienced only modest
inflation.  Since 1978 GDP growth has virtually ceased and both the current
account and budgetary deficits have grown to unsustainable levels. The
economy remains heavily dependent on three agricultural commodity exports
(tobacco, sugar and tea) and its landlocked status makes it vulnerable to
external transport difficulties. The balance of payments problems have
worsened due to: (a) a 40 percent decline in the terms of trade between
1977 and 1980 and (b) rapidly increasing outflows for non-factor services,
primarily due to increased transport costs. Malawi's current account
deficit increased from an annual average of 9 percent prior to 1978 to
24 percent in 1979 before falling to 12 percent in 1981, and foreign
exchange reserves have declined from the equivalent of over five months of
imports to less than two months between 1977 and 1981. Debt service in
1981 was the equivalent of 30 percent of exports.
1.02      The country's fiscal position has also deteriorated.  Government
deficits rarely exceeded 9 percent of GDP before 1978/79. However,
subsequent deficits have averaged over 15 percent of GDP. Increased
borrowing has accompanied the deficits and inflationary pressures have
mounted. The Government is attempting to re-adjust its unbalanced trade
and expenditure structure. Government expenditures are now concentrated on
the productive sectors with limited investment in social infrastructure,
the currency was devalued by 15 percent in April 1982 and the Paris Club
agreed to a debt re-scheduling in September 1982.
1.03      Agriculture is the most important sector of the Malawi economy,
engaging about 85 percent of the working population, accounting for 45
percent of wage employment, 40 percent of GDP and 89 percent of export
earnings in 1981. Malawi's soils are relatively fertile and fairly
reliable rainfall permits a variety of food and cash crops to be grown, but
the population growth rate is high (2.9 percent) and population densities
are already amongst the highest in Africa. In many areas, little
uncultivated arable land remains available and the future welfare of the



- 2 -
nation will increasingly have to depend upon the ability of the farming
community to increase its productivity of both food and cash crops. For a
number of crops this will be heavily dependent upon the availability and
application of appropriate technical information combined with a reliable
supply of agricultural inputs, of which fertilizer is the most important.
1.04      The Government's agricultural strategy has been to maintain
self-sufficiency in food production, expand export crop production and
improve rural incomes. Given the limitation on high quality land available
for new cultivation and the need for quick returns on investments, the main
emphasis of current agricultural policy is on a sustained rise in
productivity. Increased food production over the last decade has been
achieved from area expansion into both new land and land previously planted
to export crops.  The provision of effective technical support, timely
access to agricultural inputs and appropriate crop prices for both food and
export crops is essential if the Government strategy of increasing
productivity is to get back on course.  One of the major constraints now
affecting development of the agricultural sector is the high cost and
unreliability of the major import/export transport corridors through
Mozambique, due to both operational and political problems. In addition to
the outflow of agricultural exports, the timely flow of fertilizer to the
farming community has been increasingly affected over the past three
cropping seasons by transit difficulties.  These problems have been
compounded by institutional and financial weaknesses within the
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC) and the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The Project appraised in this report would
support the Government's efforts in addressing all these problems.
1.05      The proposed Project was submitted to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) by the Malawi Government in July 1982 in
the form of a written request for financial and technical assistance.
Based on this request, IFAD prepared an inception report for GOM's
consideration, proposing the removal of key constraints in the fertilizer
sub-sector. The proposal, while including the urgently required financial
assistance for fertilizer importation, entails the adoption of a set of
policy and institutional reforms to help ensure a more regular and timely
supply of fertilizer to the smallholder sub-sector. The Project was
appraised on the basis of the invitation letter from Government together
with an Inception Report prepared by IFAD staff. A World Bank mission,
comprised of Messrs. Spurling, Nelson, Nyberg, Sengamalay, Vasur and
Warnaars (IDA) and Shams (IFAD), appraised the Project in Malawi during
September/October, 1982. Government subsequently invited IDA to assist in
financing the Project.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.06      Malawi's agricultural production derives from two sub-sectors,
smallholder agriculture and estate agriculture (which is principally under
private management). In 1981 the smallholder sub-sector accounted for
about 80 percent of all agricultural production, meeting the country's
demand for food staples (maize, rice, beans, cassava, sweet potatoes,
groundnuts, sorghum and millets), providing some export surplus (tobacco,
groundnuts, tea, coffee and guar beans) and certain raw materials for
domestic industry (cotton and fire-cured tobacco). However, the export



surplus from this sub-sector comprises only about 20 percent of all
agricultural exports and it is the estate sub-sector which has functioned
as the principal earner of foreign exchange with exports of tobacco, sugar,
tea, tung oil, coffee and macadamia nuts. In 1981, tobacco provided the
largest share of agricultural exports (48%), followed by sugar (26%), tea
(12%) and groundnuts (4%). Maize has been imported and exported during
years of deficit and surplus, but present policy is to aim for
self-sufficiency backed up by strategic reserves. Agricultural production
in 1982 was characterized by a very extensive shift, induced by prices
fixed by Government, by the smallholder sub-sector from export crop
production (particularly tobacco and groundnuts) to maize with resultant
heavy purchases of surplus maize by ADMARC; by the considerable increases
(also price-induced) in burley tobacco production; and by the very low
world market prices for sugar.
1.07      The estate sub-sector is generally efficient and has averaged a
growth rate of 10 percent in real terms since 1973. However, the
sub-sector is heavily concentrated on only three commodities: tobacco,
sugar and tea. Several factors will constrain future growth of these crops
and thus the growth rate of the estate sector is unlikely to be maintained
and may well decelerate unless greater diversification can be pursued. In
this regard, the production of macadamia nuts, coffee, irrigated wheat and
oilseeds offer considerable potential. In any event, Malawi will have to
look, increasingly, to the smallholder sub-sector to broaden the export
base still further while maintaining its traditional role of providing food
and employment for a rapidly growing population.
1.08      Smallholder output is estimated to have been expanding at about
3 percent per annum in real terms (equal to the rate of population growth)
in recent years. The average GDP (1982) from smallholder agriculture is
estimated to be about MK 400 per farm family. Better performance by the
smallholder sub-sector has been constrained by (a) poor incentives provided
by low Government-controlled producer prices to smallholders; (b) the
transfer of labor and cultivable land to the estate sub-sector; (c)
limitation by Government regulation of smallholder participation in the
production of high value agricultural export crops such as burley tobacco,
tea and guar beans; and (d) over the last three crop seasons by an
increasingly untimely and limited availability of fertilizers.
1.09      While not contributing to export earnings, the livestock industry
contributes significantly to domestic protein requirements and offers con-
siderable potential for future production increases. The cattle herd is
estimated to be growing at 4.4 percent and grazing areas are being steadily
reduced through the expansion of crop production. Cattle are typically
raised by traditional methods and are often considered as a source of
wealth rather than a farm enterprise. Overstocking is becoming appreciable
in some areas and will probably worsen unless the current offtake of
10 percent can be improved. Malawi still imports much of its dairy
products, although recent progress in local production has been
impressive. There is considerable potential for increased cycling of
animal manures for crop production. The technical assistance included
under the proposed fertilizer Project would collaborate with Government
research staff in planning suitable adaptive research programs on
optimizing use of imported fertilizer and helping improve use of locally
available organic fertilizer.



- 4 -
C. Agricultural Services
Agricultural Extension
1.10      Crop and animal health extension services are provided by Govern-
ment to the smallholder sub-sector, though recent performance of the sub-
sector tends to indicate that these services have provided only a marginal
stimulus to agricultural development, in part due to lack of incentives to
farmers. As a result, MOA has restructured its extension services into
180 Extension Planning Areas (EPAs) based on ecological principles and
administrative boundaries. For the most part, extension staff now work
with groups of farmers and a modified system of extension is being
introduced. The field extension worker is supported by supervisory and
specialist staff at the Agricultural Development Division (ADD) level. The
extension service has been greatly expanded over the last few years and
although still generally lacking in experience, they are well-motivated and
disciplined and the effectiveness of the service should steadily increase
with increased training, regular funding and with the improved methods.
The Government does not provide extension services to the estate
sub-sector, though tobacco and tea estates do receive advice from their
respective research authorities.
Farmer Training
1.11      Training facilities for farmers (both men and women) have been
steadily expanded under the NRDP with several levels of courses available
at farm institutes, residential training centers (RTC) and day centers.
There are 3 farm institutes and 22 residential centers; day training
centers are being steadily developed at EPA level. Only limited evidence
exists on the impact training programs have on farm operation, production
and productivity. Some RTC participants have adopted practices learned in
courses, but much wider adoption will need to be pursued. This will
require improved focussing of training programs combined with more
effective field follow-up, two aspects which are to receive increased
attention under the NRDP.
Agricultural Research
1.12      Agricultural research is carried out by the Department of
Agricultural Research (DAR) of MOA, the Faculty of Agriculture of the
University of Malawi, the Tea Research Foundation, and the Tobacco Research
Authority (paras. 2.04 through 2.09). The DAR is a comprehensive research
department with national responsibilities covering all crops and livestock
as well as seed multiplication, seed certification and phytosanitary
services. The DAR has conducted some very relevant and effective research,
although there has been a lack of translation of such research results into
extension messages and the linkages between extension and research need
strengthening. Recently, there has been too great an emphasis on basic
research at the expense of applied problem-solving research. The
organization and structure of DAR has recently been reviewed by the
International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) and an
internal MOA program of review is now underway with the overall objective
of improving the effectiveness of agricultural research.



- 5-
Agricultural Marketing and Input Supply
1.13      ADMARC is a statutory company established to purchase smallholder
crops (food and non-food crops), to sell food crops and to sell and deliver
crop production inputs (seeds, fertilizer, agricultural chemicals and farm
implements). ADMARC operates a national network of marketing sheds and
storage facilities for these purposes. ADMARC also sells overseas some of
the export crops which it buys. In addition, ADMARC invests in
agricultural and agro-industrial enterprises and pays/charges prices as
agreed and authorized by the Price Commission of the Malawi Government.
Until recently, the authorized prices permitted ADMARC to realize profits
on a number of its crops (mainly non-food), but recently higher transport
costs and improper crop handling combined with higher costs of borrowing
for large investments have resulted in substantial losses (Annex 4,
Table T-1). Nevertheless, it is one of the more effective crop marketing
parastatals in Eastern Africa and with its new management and extensive
market infrastructure reinforced by Government's recently announced action
plan to strengthen the Corporation, it has the potential to provide
excellent support to the smallholder sub-sector.
1.14      The growing role of fertilizer use in Malawi's smallholder
development efforts are reviewed in Chapter II. ADMARC's central role in
fertilizer procurement and distribution for the smallholder sector is
outlined in paragraphs 2.27 - 2.29. The proposed Fertilizer Project would
address the urgent need to infuse the incremental working capital and
foreign exchange, to reinforce the increasingly complex management of
procurement and distribution, and to help the government in its definition
of policies and research needed to optimize smallholder fertilizer use in
Malawi.
1.15      Fertilizers for the estate sub-sector are principally procured by
Optichem, a locally incorporated company, and other agro-chemicals are
marketed by various commercial firms. The National Seed Company of Malawi
(NSCM) produces a wide range of agricultural seeds for both the
smallholders and estates. The seed sold to smallholders is marketed
largely through ADMARC. Estate produce is marketed almost entirely through
the private sector. The Grain and Milling Company (GRAMIL) purchases most
of the estate maize and tobacco is marketed through the tobacco auctions in
Lilongwe and Limbe. Tea and coffee are exported through international
trading companies and sugar is handled by the two producers, Sucoma and
Dwangwa Sugar Corporation.
Credit Services
1.16      No central agricultural credit institution exists in Malawi.
Smallholders have access to seasonal and medium-term agricultural credit
through MOA's rural development projects, which have their own credit funds
and credit staff. Very small amounts of credit are also processed through
the settlement schemes under MOA (comprising 100-200 farmers at most) and
through the Loans Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry. A high
proportion of seasonal credit is for fertilizer. Credit volume through the
ADDs and fertilizer sales through ADMARC have increased over the last five
years as follows:



- 6 -
Table 1
Current Prices
Seasonal Credit
as % of total
Seasonal Credit I/       Fertilizer Sales   fertilizer sales
(MK million)            (MK million)
1977/78             2.417                    5.2                      46%
1978/79             2.883                    4.2                      68%
1979/80             4.006                    5.6                      71%
1980/81             6.446                    9.2                      70%
1981/82             5.617                    8.8                      64%
1/  Covers all seasonal credit, not only fertilizer.
1.17      Projections in a National Credit Study carried out in 1982
suggest that credit demand will reach MK 12 million, in 1980/81 prices, by
1990/91. Trend projections would suggest a level somewhat higher at about
2MK 16 million. A mean of MK 14 million would imply an increase of nearly
10 percent per annum from the present level, which is similar to adoption
rates and projected fertilizer supply increases at the end of the Project
period. In 1980/81, about 26 percent of farmers in the major NRDP projects
received seasonal credit and the present credit supply is estimated at
about 60 percent of effective demand. New projects providing credit have
recently started, and some reallocation of funds between projects is being
considered. As the nominal price of fertilizer increases, however, credit
demand will also increase. The MOA has implemented policy to permit the
reallocation of reserve surpluses, where they exist. However, it is
probable that additional farm credit resources will have to be made
available.
1.18      Most seasonal credit to smallholders has been through
self-accounting groups at 10 percent (annualized rates have been higher
because farmers pay loans back after 7-9 months); seasonal credit is also
available to non-self accounting groups at 15 percent. However, a recent
credit policy revision has reduced the annual interest rate to 10 and 15
percent respectively, commencing with the 1983/84 crop year. Repayment
rates have been high at approximately 98-99 percent. Repayment is made
either at the time of commodity sales to ADMARC or is refunded by the
secretary/treasurer of the self-accounting groups. In addition, the credit
staff provide strict supervision; seasonal credit is given only to groups
and no credit is given to a group where any member has defaulted.
Medium-term credit is available at 10 percent per year, repayable over
three to five years. Repayment is less satisfactory at 60-80 percent since
there is no systematic method of debt collection as there is for seasonal
credit. Annual inflation rates for the past four years have averaged about
11 percent and are projected to be about 12 percent for the near future.



^- 7 -
1.19      The estate farming sector obtains credit, which is primarily
seasonal financing, from the two commercial banks - National Bank and
Commercial Bank.
D. Agricultural Development Strategy
1.20      The Government is attempting to provide a growth climate for both
smaliholder and estate production in order to support its overall strategy
of maintenance of self-sufficiency in food staples with expansion of agri-
cultural exports and improvement in rural incomes. In the past, improve-
ment in smallholder productivity was attempted through restricted but
relatively expensive and management-intensive integrated development
projects based on four intensively settled and potentially highly
productive areas; this was balanced with the gradual improvement of
extension, land husbandry and farmer training throughout the rest of the
customary farming areas augmented by small, low cost rural development
projects and by special activities and programs (e.g., ox-training, dairy
development, tea development).
1.21      In the mid-1970s, the NRDP was formulated to provide a more
extensive level of services to the whole smallholder subsector within a
twenty year period. Resources were to be concentrated on the more
immediately productive aspects of agricultural investment and the NRDP was
designed to increase smallholder productivity through the provision of
agricultural inputs and farm services and to increase the efficiency and
scope of extension, input supply, marketing and credit services. Emphasis
is also placed on soil conservation, watershed management and on
afforestation. Many donors, including IFAD and IDA are assisting the
Malawi Government with the NRDP and by 1982 approximately 50 percent of the
planned Rural Development Projects had received some investment in
development activities. The NRDP was intensively reviewed by IDA and
Government in 1981 and it was recommended that future investments in NRDP
should focus on agricultural extension and research, credit for inputs,
land husbandry, water supplies, animal husbandry, marketing facilities,
farmer and staff training and evaluation. The Review also highlighted
the need for intensification of effort into the development of acceptable
subsistence crop technical packages which could be integrated into the
improved overall farming system. The Review concluded that Malawi's
performance on rural development projects had been quite satisfactory and a
good framework existed in which integrated agricultural programs could be
implemented.
1.22      The development of the livestock sub-sector has been pursued
within the confines of the area rural development projects through both
local aninal husbandry and disease control programs. The Government has
nIow decided to consider the future development of this sub-sector in a
national context and will shortly be carrying out a National Livestock
Policy and Program study with the assistance of IDA. Future strategy for
the industry will be based on its role within the whole agricultural sector
including its inter-relationship with crop production.
1.23      The estate sub-sector has been left largely in the hands of the
private sector with Government assistance limited to that of providing a
favorable investment climate. Considerable transfers of customary land in



- 8 -
areas suitable for the production of flue and burley tobacco have been
made, taxes have been moderate and most importantly, a deliberate low-wage
policy has contributed to the continuing competitiveness of Malawi's
exports. However, most of the growth of the estate sub-sector has arisen
from expansion into customary land rather than from productivity increases
and in the last few years a number of problems have caused a slowing down
in the growth rate of the sub-sector.
E. Constraints and Potential
1.24      Agricultural development in Malawi is constrained by limited
arable land, difficult and high cost transport through its import/export
routes, increasing shortages of fuelwood and insufficient skilled manpower
and management. On the other hand, a moderately fertile soil and a range
of favorable ecological zones enable the successful cultivation of a wide
range of food and cash crops. This potential is enhanced by a hard-working
rural population and by the Government's emphasis on an agro-based
development strategy.
1.25      Only 3.3 million ha of customary land is considered to be
suitable for arable agriculture, of which some 2.9 million ha (88%) are
estimated to be under cultivation at present. The present density of
population is 189 persons per km2, one of the highest in Africa. At
present population growth rates, Malawi's population is estimated to reach
9 million in the quinquennium 1995-2000 raising the density to 273 persons
per km2.   Over the past decade, increased food requirements for the
expanding population have been largely met through expansion of the area
under cultivation, involving cultivation of marginal areas and reduction of
fallow periods with consequent deterioration in soil fertility and
increasing erosion. The adoption of improved maize packages by
smallholders has been impressive in the past few years and some farmers
have achieved considerable yield increases. However, much technical
information generated by research remains untapped, offering the potential
for further increases in yields and diversity of cropping. The potential,
therefore, exists for considerable increases in productivity, particularly
as regards food production, with realization likely to be heavily dependent
upon the delivery of appropriate technical advice, timely and adequate
inputs and incentive producer prices. Some policies, which complement the
NRDP development strategy, address food self-sufficiency and price
rationalization of agricultural inputs and commodities (see paras. 2.35 -
2.37 and 3.12 - 3.15).
1.26      The operational unpredictability of the ports and railways of
Mozambique due to problems of age, poor maintenance and poor management
have been exacerbated in recent years by sabotage. The agriculture sector
has been hurt through the disruption of both export marketing and
importation of agricultural inputs, of which fertilizer is by far the most
important. Adequate and timely flows of fertilizer will be critical to the
achievement of the steady increases in productivity required; over the
last three seasons, flows have been increasingly unsatisfactory due, in
large part, to the external transport constraints.  There is potential for
development of alternative external routes and early action on this may be
critical for agricultural growth.



- 9 -
1.27      Expansion of fire-cured and flue-cured tobacco is constrained by
the shortage of fuelwood required in their production processes.
Consumption of firewood by the tobacco industry accounts for 40 percent of
Malawi's fuelwood consumption and much of it continues to be harvested from
the dwindling areas of traditional forests. The potential for increased
fuelwood production by estates is high and 25 percent savings in
consumption can also be effected through installation of modified grates
and chimneys. Afforestation in the customary land areas is being
encouraged through the Government's Woodlot Project, assisted by IDA,
(Credit 992-MAI) and adequate non-arable land does exist for establishment
of woodlots; protection of such land by trees would have advantages for the
long-term productivity of the arable lands.
1.28      The lack of skilled labor and experienced management does pose a
constraint to the development of both the smallholder and estate
subsectors. The acute shortage of trained and experienced manpower in both
the public and the private sectors means that improvement will of necessity
be a long-term process. External technical assistance will continue to
have to be relied upon to fill key posts and to provide in-service
training.
1.29      Notwithstanding the above, the overall prospects for a steady
improvement in productivity from the smallholder sub-sector would appear to
be high for the following reasons:
(i)   The NRDP (para. 1.21) is progressing and an improved
infrastructure of extension services, farmer and staff training,
input delivery and marketing services and credit services is
becoming available to increasing numbers of smallholder farmers
each year;
(ii)  The interest in adoption of improved maize packages by
smallholders has been generally strong and high yields have been
obtained where technical recommendations have been followed.
They have also shown interest in the cultivation of export crops
when price incentives existed;
(iii) There is much technical information available from research for
both food and cash crops which could be incorporated into better
extension messages; and
(iv)  A sufficient and timely supply of quality seed of improved
varieties of the major crops is available through the NSCM.
1.30      The steady realization of these positive elements into increased
productivity is particularly constrained at present by problems of timely
and adequate fertilizer delivery and by imbalances in producer pricing
between cash and food crops. The removal of the former constraint will be
the principal objective of this Project while the latter constraint will be
addressed through continued dialogue with IFAD and the World Bank/IDA on
pricing and on Structural Adjustment.



- 10 -
II. THE FERTILIZER SUB-SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.01      There are considerable variations in the estimations of
cultivable land still uncultivated (due to differences in the stringency of
definition of arable land); however, there is agreement that, under the
present systems of smallholder management, a high proportion of the
potential arable land in the customary sector is already in use. By
contrast, recent surveys indicate that of the 470,000 ha under estates,
only approximately 90,000 ha was cropped in 1981, a cropping intensity of
only 20 percent (Annex 3, Table T-1). Smallholder yields fluctuate widely
from year to year, mainly in response to rainfall and availability of
inputs; on the basis of averages and given the reasonably favorable soil
and climatic conditions in most of the country, yields remain well below
their technical potentials as indicated by research.
2.02      A review of 188 national fertilizer trials with local maize over
the past 18 crop seasons showed that 55-60 percent of the trials had
produced yield responses in the range of 11-21 kilos of grain per kilo of
nitrogen. A shorter run of data for the most favorable maize area of the
Lilongwe Plain showed yield responses of 26-31 kilos grain/kg N for
composite and hybrid varieties. The use of improved crop packages
has been good, and if the increased extension capacity of the NRDP can be
harnessed to improve husbandry practices and the ready availability of
credit and improved seed can be complemented by increased availability of
fertilizer, the output response should be significant.
2.03      Malawi procures all its fertilizer from abroad, most of which is
imported through the Mozambique ports of Beira and Nacala. The delivery of
fertilizer to the smallholder sub-sector over the past three seasons has
been inadequate and untimely due to problems of finance, external
transport, management and timing of the procurement procedures. Timely
delivery to meet the forecasted increases in demand will depend on the
re-establishment of an 18-month lead-time for procurement, itself dependent
upon the improvement of the sequence of estimation and procurement
procedures together with the establishment of adequate financial capacity.
External transport constraints are likely to present an on-going problem
and' the development of a domestic capacity for fertilizer blending and
manufacture will have to be considered.
B. Crop Research and Fertilizer Responses
2.04      Results of MOA fertilizer crop research programs have been
documented since 1953. Research on tea is being carried out by the
industry-supported Tea Research Foundation, tobacco research by MOA and
more recently by the industry-supported Tobacco Research Authority, and
research on sugarcane mainly depends on the extrapolation of South African
results. A considerable amount of information on fertilizer responsesnot
all of it analyzed, exists for many crops, over a number of seasons and



- 11 -
for many different ecological areas. While both cotton and groundnuts have
shown responses to applied fertilizer, these have not been economic and for
the smallholder, economic responses have been limited to maize, tobacco and
rice. For the estate sub-sector both tea and sugar are regularly
fertilized in addition to tobacco and maize.
2.05      The majority of fertilizer trials have been conducted on maize,
and have included local, composite and hybrid varieties in both on-station
and farmers' field trials. Results indicate that the Lilongwe and Kasungu
Plains in the Central Region and the South Rukuru valley and Chitipa plains
in the Northern Region are the most productive areas. Marginal areas for
maize are found along the Lakeshore, in the Lower Shire Valley and in
Karonga where rainfall is erratic and the temperatures are high. The most
widely used improved varieties include the dent hybrid MH12, which is the
most productive variety, and two semi-flint composite varieties, UCA (high
altitude areas) and CCA (low-altitude), which are more suitable for lower
potential areas.
2.06      For all types of maize the greatest yield responses were obtained
from applications of nitrogen, Responses to phosphorus were variable
and were obtained only in the presence of high nitrogen applications
(Annex 1, Chart C-11). Responses to sulphur have been mainly recorded on
land new'ly opened to cultivation. Potassium has become deficient in areas
that have been cropped to hybrid maize for more than two to three years.
In the better areas hybrid maize yield responses to nitrogen levelled off
at 168 kg N/ha producing up to 8,000 kg of grain per ha; composite maize
yields levelled at 112 kg N/ha producing up to 5,000 kg/ha; while local
maize varieties seldom gave significant yield responses to nitrogen in
excess of 60 kg N/ha producing 3.500 kg grain per ha.  Trials with
different nitrogen sources have shown that both the sulphuric acid source
(sulphate of ammonia, S.A.) and the nitric acid source (calcium ammonium
nitrate, C.A.N.) produced considerably higher yields than urea, although
the differences were not always significant. At present maize prices and
1983/84 fertilizer prices (still marginally subsidized), responses of at
least 21 kilos of grain per kilo of nitrogen would be necessary to obtain a
value to cost ratio of 2:1. Phosphate applications exceeding 20 kg P per
ha (or about 50 kg P205 per ha) have rarely given an economic response.
2.07      Yield responses to fertilizers on research plots were always
greater than on adjacent farmers' fields. Even without added fertilizer,
yield differences of over 50 percent have been common. Some of the
difference can be accounted for in the extrapolation of small plot yields
to hectare yields, but much of the difference is due to the better
standards of husbandry followed on the trials, thus demonstrating the need
for improved seed and fertilizer use to be complemented by improved
husbandry.  It is also apparent from the data reviewed that different
fertilizer recommendations must be developed for different maize growing
areas. The two blanket recommendations now generally used for hybrid (102
kg N and 50 kg P205 per ha) and for composite (72 kg N and 40 kg P205 per
ha) are an extremely inefficient use of a scarce and expensive resource.



- 12 -
2.08      Research on dark-fired tobacco has indicated that, under most
conditions, applications up to 300 kg/ha CAN and 500 kg/ha single
superphosphates gave significant yield responses. Potassium improved
quality but not yield. Thus, MOA recommend base dressing applications of
200 kg/ha compound fertilizer (6:18:15) and a top-dressing of 200 kg/ha
CAN. However, few smallholders follow these recommendations because of
low, still controlled producer prices, and use cheaper 20:20:0 fertilizer
with sulphate of ammonia. Thus no potassium is applied and leaf quality
has declined. Flue-cured tobacco requires applications of 600 kg/ha of a
compound fertilizer and 200 kg/ha of CAN, while an additional top-dressing
of 200 kg/ha CAN is required for the higher yielding burley tobacco.
Research on rice has been conducted with the variety Blue Bonnet under
irrigation and with Faya under rain-fed conditions. Yield responses have
mainly been related to nitrogen, using either sulphate of ammonia or urea.
Responses to phosphorus or potassium have been limited. Nitrogen
fertilizer trials with Faya have given inconsistent results but yields of
up to 6,000 kg/ha have been obtained under good growing conditions.
Farmers rarely apply more than 25 kg N/ha due to the uncertain yield
response. Under irrigation, yield response of Blue Bonnet levelled off at
applications of 90 kg N/ha producing up to 7,000 kg/ha.
2.09      The extensive fertilizer research results available for maize,
tobacco and rice are not yet reflected in extension recommendations.
Insufficient work has been carried out with low applications of nitrogen
and detailed response curves have not been constructed. Additional
research needs to be carried out with different nitroger sources with
particular emphasis on urea and its time of application in order to further
evaluate an apparent inferiority of urea as compared to CAN and sulphate of
ammonia. Detailed work is also required on the acidifying effect of
sulphate of ammonia on the soil and the effect of switching to CAN on the
sulphur requirements of crops.
C. Current Fertilizer Use
2.10      A precise definition of fertilizer use by the smallholder
sub-sector is difficult since, particularly in recent years, an increasing
quantity of subsidized fertilizer has been bought by the commercial sector
from ADMARC markets. Estimates of this 'leakage' vary, but may be as much
as 20 percent of the fertilizer ostensibly sold by ADMARC to smallholders.
Over the past ten years (Annex 1, Clhart C-9), estate consumption has shown
a steady annual growth averaging nearly 3 percent over the period.
Smallholder consumption has been more erratic, being initially distorted in
the 1974-1976 period by a fall in consumption caused by the abnormally high
international prices for nitrogen. Since 1976 growth in consumption has
been rapid, stimulated both by the increasing agricultural extension and
credit programs under the NRDP and by the maintenance of a subsidized and
steady fertilizer price. Most recently, consumption has been adversely
affected by late deliveries in the 1980/81 crop season and by late and
inadequate deliveries in 1981/82.  Both estate and smallholder sub-sectors
will be adversely affected in 1982/83 by a shortfall in supply due to an
escalation of the problems on the import routes through Mozambique.
Notwithstanding these problems, growth in fertilizer use by the smallholder
sub-sector averaged nearly 10 percent per annum over the 1972-1982 decade.
For 1982/83 the demand estimates were 86,400 mt for the smallholders and
44,300 mt for the estates.



- 13 -
2.11      Accurate information on smallholder hectarages for different
crops is not available, but estimates indicate that approximately 20
percent of the cropped land now receives some fertilizer each year as
compared to less than 10 percent in 1977/78. The potential for increased
fertilizer consumption and productivity is considerable, particularly since
the smallholder is generally aware of the benefits of fertilizer use, but
not of optimum rates nor different types. Consequently, the smallholders
use predominantly sulphate of ammonia and 20:20:0 while the estates use
more balanced and compound fertilizers (Annex 3, Table T-3).
2.12      Estimates of the national fertilizer consumption in 1980/81 by
crop, indicate that 34 percent is applied to tobacco and 46 percent to
maize, most of which is used on smallholder maize with possibly 15 percent
of local varieties receiving some fertilizer and approximately 85,000 ha of
improved maize receiving about 300 kg/ha (Annex 3, Table T-4). Estate-
grown tea uses about 10 percent of the national consumption and smallholder
tea a further one percent, while sugarcane consumes 7,000 mt of fertilizer
or about 7 percent. Rice is grown on an estimated 22,000 ha, but
fertilizer consumption is less than one percent of the national total. The
remaining one percent is used by minor crops and vegetable production.
D. Forecast Future Fertilizer Demand
2.13      Future fertilizer demand for the estate sub-sector is relatively
easy to calculate for the major crops now grown (Annex 1, Chart C-10).
Accelerated diversification is unlikely to distort the small steady
increases in fertilizer consumption expected over the next three or four
years. Estimating future smallholder demand (Annex 3, Table T-5) is much
more difficult, being dependent upon future price incentives, extension
activities, adoption rates, credit availability, seed supply and fertilizer
supply. Calculations are also made more uncertain by the lack of accurate
hectarage data for maize, the major crop receiving fertilizer. Estimates
for the short and medium-term (up to 1990) have been based on past
consumption trends, while longer term estimates have been based on a
composite of these trends with calculations on productivity increases
required for self-sufficiency (Annex 1, Chart C-10).
2.14      The rapid expansion in the estate sub-sector in the 1970s is
expected to be followed by consolidation due to a levelling-off in demand
for tobacco, tea and sugar. Incremental fertilizer consumption is expected
to fall to less than 2 percent per annum . Tobacco expansion is expected
to be restricted to 2 percent per annum. Estate maize production and
fertilizer demand is expected to expand at the rate of 3 percent per
annum. The area planted to tea will not be expanded over the next five
years, but continued replacement of old seedling tea by more heavily
fertilized clonal tea is expected to lead to annual increases of
consumption of fertilizer of 2 percent. Fertilizer requirements for
sugarcane are not expected to increase over the next five years.
2.15      The pattern of fertilizer consumption in the smallholder
sub-sector is not expected to change significantly over the short-term and
maize is expected to continue to receive 75 percent of the fertilizer
purchased by smallholders. The present adoption rates of improved
husbandry practices are predicted to increase gradually as a result of the



- 14 -
expanding NRDP, government policy changes and improvements in fertilizer
supply that the proposed Project would effect (Annex 3, Table T-2). The
number of farmers adopting the fertilizer package under the NRDP have been
increasing at the rate of about 5 percent per annum. However, with the
availability of reliable seed supplies, the increasing experience of NRDP
staff and the benefits of the proposed Project, the adoption rate for
improved maize packages is expected to gradually increase to 10 percent per
annum over the next five years. Thereafter, the adoption rate could be
expected to gradually fall away to 5 percent per annum as the lower
potential areas are brought into the NRDP and as the more conservative
farmers are reached. The removal of the subsidy on fertilizer over the
next three years is expected to have little effect on adoption rates since
the pricing methodologies now being followed will take input prices into
account in the computation of crop prices and the cost benefit ratios are
expected to remain similar to the present ones. International fertilizer
prices are expected to increase, in current prices, by about 50 percent
during the project period but it is conceptually possible that the landed
price in Malawi could increase by a greater proportion due to alternative
routing and increased transport cost. However, it is improbable that even
a dramatic price increase would affect medium term demand as historically
major price increases have resulted in only temporary usage declines. In
1975 the price paid by smallholders, for fertilizer was 250 percent of the
1974 price and while usage was substantially reduced in 1975, within two
years it had gained its former level of use with only marginal increases in
crop prices. A substantial increase in fertilizer prices would require
review of optimum application rates, but appropriate application of the
crop pricing methodology agreed under SAL should ensure continued
fertilizer use.
2.16      Smallholder production of dark-fired tobacco is expected to
increase as a result of the dialogue on crop pricing through both IDA's
Structural Adjustment Lending Program and through the Fertilizer Project.
Consequently, the hectarage planted to dark-fired tobacco and therefore
fertilizer demand is expected to increase by 5 percent per annum over the
next five years (Annex 3, Table T-2). Incremental fertilizer application
to rice is expected to follow a similar pattern of 5 percent growth per
annum due to a 2 percent per annum increase in the area cultivated combined
with a steadily increasing intensity of management. Estimates of the use
of fertilizer by crops are provided in Annex 3, Table T-5.
Long-range fertilizer demand forecast
2.17      Forecasts indicate that maize production increases will just
about keep pace with consumption demand up to 1990 (Annex 3, Table T-6).
Present data on average yields and area cropped to maize indicate an
average family annual consumption of about 900 kg maize grain per annum as
compared to the 1,080 kg used in recent NRDP appraisals for projects in
major maize production areas. The lower figure of 900 kg per family
probably represents the national average since not all areas rely upon
maize for basic subsistence. One method of calculating future fertilizer
demand is to assume that self-sufficiency would be maintained without
considerable extension of the present area cropped to maize. In that case
average maize yields will have to be increased from the present 1,200 kg/ha
to about 2,000 kg/ha by the year 2000. Assuming present response levels,



- 15 -
this increase will require an incremental 32,000 mt of elemental (N)
nitrogen in addition to the estimated 9,300 mt of nitrogen used by
smallholders on maize in 1980/81. Thus, the overall smallholder
consumption of nitrogen might be expected to rise to approximately 55,000
mt for all crops. However, using estimated adoption rates as an
alternative method to predict fertilizer demand (Table 2) 34,500 mt of N
for maize or 46,000 mt for the sub-sector as a whole would be required by
the year 2000.  The discrepancy in the total nitrogen consumption indicated
by the two methods of estimation is not surprising as both are only
indicative estimates. For the estate sub-sector, a continued trendline of
2 percent increment per annum would indicate a consumption level of 12,800
mt of N by the year 2000.
Table 2
Malawi - Long Range Nitrogen Demand Forecast ('000 mt N)1/
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1990   1994   1999
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1991   1995   2000
Smallholder nitrogen
for maize                9.3    9.8   10.3   10.8   11.3   12.1   19.1   26.0   34.5
Smallholder total
nitrogen                12.4   13.1   13.7   14.4   15.1   16.1   25.5   34.7   46.0
Estate sector at 2%
p.a. increment           8.8    9.0    9.2    9.3    9,5    9.7   10.7   11.6   12.8
MALAWI  Total N demand  21.2   22.1   22.9   23.7   24.6   25.8   36.2   46.3   58.8
1/   Based on the following adoption rates:  5% from 1980/81 through 1983/84;
7% from 1984/85 to 1985/86; 9% from 1985/86 to 1986/87; 10% from 1986/87
through 1989/90; 9% from 1989/90 through 1990/91; 8% from 1991/92 through
1992/93; 7% from 1993/94 through 1994/95; 6% from 1995/96 through 1996/97
and 5% from 1997/98 through 1998/99.
E. Fertilizer Importation
2.18      Malawi has no fertilizer manufacturing capacity and thus has to
import all the fertilizer it requires, A blending capacity does exist and
some of the fertilizer mixtures required, especially those used in tobacco
production, are blended by Optichem. Nitrogenous fertilizers thus
constitute the bulk of the imports. Aggregate import tonnages by calendar
year, for recent years, are shown in Table 3.



- 16 -
Table 3
Fertilizer Imports
(Thousand tons)
Year      1971  1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980    1981
Imports  72.1  59.0   43.4   40.5   80.5   72.5   78.3   103.4   81.2   80.8  127.3
Source: National Statistical Office
Fertilizer is normally only imported by ADMARC and by Optichem; however,
other organizations have occasionally imported directly. Fertilizers are
predominantly imported from West European sources (Federal Republic of
Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Netherlands and France).
Other, less frequently used sources are the Middle East (Turkey, Israel and
Kuwait), East Asia (Japan, Korea and Taiwan), nearby African countries
(Republic of South Africa and Zambia) plus occasional and small quantities
from the United States.
2.19      The two major importers do not pool their requirements for
collective tendering and procurement and due to the two distinctive types
of importing agencies (Government parastatal and private commercial
enterprise), collective purchasing might be difficult. In fact, under
present practice, Optichem does tender for all or part of ADMARC's annual
procurement although not often successfully. Most fertilizer imports have
been commercial, although in recent years Malawi has received some
concessional (grant and loan terms) fertilizer. These concessional imports
formed a minor portion of total imports except for 1982/83 when they
comprised about 20 percent of the planned imports. Concessional
fertilizers have typically been on grant terms; the local funds, generated
from domestic sales, are deposited in a counterpart fund and are used for
activities mutually agreed upon between the two governments.
F. Fertilizer Transport and Handling
External Transport and Import Routes: Problems and Prospects
2.20      The Mozambican ports of Beira and Nacala (Map IBRD 16843) are the
only ones directly linked to Malawi Railways.  This situation has led to
the position where virtually all of Malawi's overseas trade is routed
through Beira and Nacala. This dependence is, however, reciprocal since 50
percent of the total traffic handled through Beira is in transit to or from
Malawi. In Nacala the share is even higher at approximately 60 percent.
Although road connections do exist between Malawi and Beira, their
characteristics are such that their importance as export or import routes
is almost negligible. There is no functioning road between Nacala and
Malawi.
2.21      The conditions of the Beira and Nacala corridors have
deteriorated continuously over the past few years. This applies both to
the port and rail components with the situation much more severe for the
railway lines than for the ports. During 1982 there was a dramatic
worsening of the operations on the Beira line, due to two main reasons:



- 17 -
(i)   a long-term decline in performance due to lack of staff, spare
parts and maintenance; and
(ii)  increasing insurgency activity in Mozambique, often directed at
transport infrastructure, which, in turn, exacerbates the
operational and other difficulties caused by (i) above.
Although the Malawi Railways could certainly be improved, in the context of
the whole transport chain to Beira and Nacala, the train operations within
Malawi do not represent a problem and their improvement is not a critical
issue in this context.
2.22      A contributing factor to the fertilizer import problems has been
the bunching of fertilizer arrivals in Mozambique. During a 45-day period
(August to mid-October, 1982) 58,000 tons arrived at Beira, overloading the
handling and storage capacity of the port. A longer, phased delivery
period could improve delivery, and thus staggered deliveries would be
implemented within the procurement process under the Project.
2.23      In the short-term, any improvements in traffic levels are
dependent on the development of the security situation. Whereas the Nacala
line has not been affected directly by insurgency, the situation on the
Beira line is a direct function of the level of attacks carried out by
insurgent forces. A cessation of the insurgency would reduce the present
high level of uncertainty, but the level which Malawi traffic could reach
on a more permanent basis would still be uncertain in view of the
precarious maintenance situation.
2.24      Even if the Mozambican routes do improve, it still seems to be a
high risk arrangement for Malawi to rely on transit through one country for
its normal overseas trade. For fertilizer imports for the 1982/83 planting
season, Malawi has had to resort to very costly alternatives through South
Africa. The only alternative routes that effectively do exist at present
are by road to Lusaka and from there either continuing by road to South
African ports, or north to Dar-es-Salaam or transferring to rail in Lusaka
to the same destinations. The more direct southward connection which is
the Malawi-Harare road is affected by the same security problems as the
Beira railroad. It is presently not used. The transport costs for these
alternatives are high. The estimated freight for containerized fertilizer
by different routes to Blantyre/Lilongwe clearly demonstrates the
additional costs of non-traditional routes (Table 4), which for fertilizer
shipped via a blend of road and rail will effectively double the cost of
the commodity to the farmer. With an average c.i.f. cost of fertilizer
landed at Beira of MK 235 (1982/83 prices) per mt, the importance of the
overland transport cost differences between the alternatives and the
Mozambican routes is evident. Hence, there is an urgent need for Malawi to
examine the potential for development of alternative, reliable
import/export routes and to continuously assess the comparative costs and
advantages of these alternatives.



- 18 -
Table 4
Estimated freight costs for containerized fertilizer (MK/mt)
From                      To Blantyre   To Lilongwe
Beira by rail                                       25            35
Nacala by rail                                      25            35
Durban by road                                     381
Durban by road and rail 1/                         113           139
Dar-es-Salaam via Lusaka by road                     _           314
Dar-es-Salaam via Lusaka by road and rail            -           135
Harare via Lusaka by road and rail                                80
* Source:  UNDP/UNCTAD Transit Transport Project for the Southern Africa
Sub-Region, Malawi.
1/ via the presently closed road through Mozambique.
Internal Transport and Distribution of Fertilizer
2.25      In comparison with the problems connected with external transport
from Beira/Nacala to Malawi, transport and handling of fertilizer within
Malawi is a comparatively smooth, though complex operation. Fertilizer
arriving from Beira/Nacala is railed initially to Liwonde where ADMARC has
extensive storage facilities. From Liwonde, the fertilizer is distributed
by rail to six intermediary terminals on the Malawi Railways network, from
where it is finally distributed by road to about 150 ADMARC selling
points. Lake transport (operated by Malawi Railways) from Chipoka (Map
IBRD 16842) is also used as part of the distribution chain to the Northern
Region.  Loading and offloading of rail wagons is done by ADMARC.  Internal
transport and handling in Malawi can be estimated to account for, on
average, MK 42 per mt, which corresponds to about 15 percent of the cost of
the fertilizer delivered to the farmer in 1982/83.
2.26      ADMARC uses hired trucks operated by private transport groups,
composed principally of small businessmen, for transporting fertilizer to
its selling points. Payment to transporters is based on official rates
decided and gazetted by Government and applied to a schedule of distances
between markets disaggregated into different types of road. Internal
transport of fertilizer suffers from no major constraints, although there
would appear to be considerable scope for increased efficiency of its
management within ADMARC with concomitant savings and benefits to the
private transport industry.
G. Input Marketing and Distribution
Smallholder sub-sector
2.27      ADMARC (para. 1.13) is a vertically integrated marketing
distribution and sale of agricultural inputs (primarily fertilizer) to
smallholder farmers. Further, ADMARC serves as distribution/marketing
agent for the Government in the sale of concessionary or aid program



- 19 -
fertilizers handled on a government-to-government basis. Distribution
points are widely distributed around the country and there are 72 parent
markets and 1,047 seasonal markets from which fertilizer is sold to
farmers (Maps IBRD 16847 and 16848).
2.28      As fertilizer accounts for a major proportion of seasonal inputs,
the timely procurement and distribution of fertilizer has been one of
ADMARC's important functions. Throughout the last half of the decade of
the 1970s, ADMA-RC's selling price for fertilizer was constant while the
international price was increasing (Table 6). Thus, the fertilizer subsidy
per ton and the fertilizer tonnage handled increased concurrently. These
increasing subsidies were able to be absorbed by ADMARC because of
reasonably high profitability from its crop trading operations. However,
commencing in 1977/78 the crop trading accounts were severely weakened by
adverse trends in crop marketing, resulting in ADMARC's inability to
continue to bear the heavy fertilizer subsidies and to still remain
commercially viable (see Annex 4, Table T-1).
2.29      In addition to the sharp decline in ADMARC's profitability since
1979, there has also been a severe erosion of its liquidity. The liquid
reserves built up by ADMARC out of trading profits up to 1978 were invested
outside the organization in unprofitable development projects, in unsecured
loans and in commercial organizations which did not bring any reasonable
return. Most of the long-term loans and investments of ADMARC (standing at
a total of MK 65 million in June, 1982) have not produced any or acceptable
annual dividends or interest. The short-term loans totalling MK 24 million
shown on ADMARC's balance sheet do not bear any interest income and are
mostly irrecoverable. ADMARC was used as conduit for on-lending to Press
Holdings and their inability to repay the loans has left ADMARC with the
debt servicing liability without an offsetting asset inflow. This problem
is being addressed under SAL II. Furthermore, ADMARC has been charged with
the responsibility of establishing and maintaining a national strategic
grain reserve, Government has now been requested to share in this
financial burden. Although the working capital position shown by ADMARC's
balance sheets appears sound, its liquidity situation, particularly during
the peak crop buying/inputs procurement season, has been extremely
critical. Furthermore, due to the generally adverse financial position
faced by the country's only two commercial banks, ADMARC's previously
generous overdraft facilities have been drastically limited. Summarized
balance sheets from 1977 to 1982 showing the financial status of ADMARC are
contained in Annex 4, Table T-2, ADMARC's liquidity situation was so
adverse that it could not meet its full commitment towards procuring
smallholder fertilizer in 1981/82 which resulted in the Government of
Malawi providing MK 6 million for this purpose to augment ADMARC's funds.
ADMARC's cash flow projections for 1982/83 (Annex 4, Table T-3) reveal that
it would be impossible for ADMARC to provide even the reduced share of MK
12.46 million for fertilizer procurement and distribution without external
assistance or increased borrowings from commercial banks, which are, as
noted above, not available.
Estate Sub-Sector
2.30      Similar to the smallholder sector, there have been no prohibi-
tions on the importation of fertilizer for the estate sub-sector. Optichem
estimates the incremental growth in fertilizer requirements for the balance



- 20 -
of the estate sub-sector (tea and tobacco) and lets tenders for these
estimated requirements. Optichem, in which ADMARC has a 20 percent
shareholding, has a limited distribution capacity and sells fertilizer
directly to ghe sugar and tea estates and through Agricultural Trading
Company (ATC) to other estates. Fertilizer must be collected from their
depots in Blantyre or Lilongwe. Optichem imports elemental fertilizers and
blends the mixtures required; approximately one-half of their sales
(tonnage) are now of blended materials. Optichem provides the granular
mixtures ADMARC requires for the smallholder tobacco producers (3,000 mt in
1980). In 1981/82 ADMARC and Optichem marketed about 60 percent and 40
percent respectively of the fertilizer sold in the country. However, this
does not necessarily reflect the relative proportions of smallholder and
estate fertilizer use as an unknown quantity of ADMARC fertilizer finds its
way to the estate sub-sector.
H. Storage
2.31      As fertilizer imports arrive over a period of several months,
storage is required prior to distribution as smallholders typically
purchase inputs near the onset of the crop season (Annex 4, Chart C-1).
The storage capacity available to ADMARC is more than adequate to meet the
annual fertilizer storage requirements during the Project period. This
capacity is concentrated in the Southern and Central Regions - which
conforms to the usage pattern. The Northern Region has limited total
storage facilities, but it is reasonably well-distributed. ADMARC's main
depot and primary market storage by region is as follows:
Table 5
Region
Main Depots
Storage             Southern      Central      Northern      Total
('000)
Main Depots
Total ft3               5,787        6,433          290       12,510
Total mt 1/               161          179            8          348
Fertilizer mt              40           61            2          103
Fertilizer w/rail
access mt                32           42            -           74
Primary Markets
Total ft3               1,068        3,270          536        4,874
Total mt 1/                29           91           15          135
1/ Converted at 36 ft3 = 1 mt
2.32      In addition to the capacity of the main depots, the primary
market facilities have 135,000 mt of total storage capacity. The capacity
of primary market storage is also concentrated in the Southern and Central



- 21 -
Regions. ADMARC also have over 1,000 seasonal markets. However, these are
primarily for crop procurement rather than input distribution. Storage, in
the aggregate, is not a constraint in the handling and use of fertilizer,
although storage may be limiting in isolated instances. If fertilizer is
programmed to arrive and be distributed over several months the existing
facilities are adequate to handle the amount of fertilizer likely to be
used for the remainder of the decade.
I. Fertilizer Blending
2.33      Optichem has a blending plant with 40,000 mt annual capacity of
which about 24,000 mt is currently utilized. In the interest of cost
savings, high analysis materials should be imported and blended to the
required local specifications. Assuming estate demand for blended
fertilizers will increase by 10 percent over the project period, the unused
capacity of the plant would still be 13,500 mt. If this unused capacity
was used to blend nitro-phosphates (such as 20:20:0) from imported urea and
diammonium phosphate and locally produced conditioners, 13,500 mt of
blended fertilizer could be made from 9,500 mt of imported material -
a 30 percent savings on external transport.
2.34      There is inadequate unutilized capacity to blend all the required
fertilizers locally. With the escalation of external transport constraints
and as transport costs increase, the economics of developing more blending
capacity need to be evalaated. It may not be possible, in the short-term,
to shift from direct farmer application of low analysis to high analysis
nitrogenous fertilizers for agronomic and extension reasons. However,
Malawi should immediately consider the importation of only high analysis
fertilizers, which can then be blended with locally available inert
materials to reduce them to the locally desired analysis.
J. Fertilizer Pricing
2.35      Prior to the large petroleum price increase ADMARC fertilizer
prices were near their economic costs. Very small losses (subsidies) were
incurred prior to 1975/76 on farmers inputs which are primarily
fertilizers. Since that time, with the exception of 1976/77 when a small
profit was made, the total subsidy has not been less than K 2.0 million per
annum (US$1.78 million) or equivalent to 20 to 25 percent of the full cost.
2.36      Prices charged by ADMARC have increased by several-fold since
1969/70 and at a rate considerably greater than the international prices,
reflecting the high proportion of the landed-Malawi cost that comprises
transportation costs.  Smallholder fertilizer price increases have not been
gradual (see Annex 4, Table T-4). During the 1980s price increases were
accelerated in order to alleviate the high subsidies which had accrued, to
cover the increased raw material and transport costs and also because of
the devaluation of the Malawi Kwacha.
2.37      The prices charged to smallholders and estates, for ammonium
sulphate and calcium ammonium nitrate and the equivalent world price for
recent years (Northeast Europe) are shown in Table 6; also shown is the
total ADMARC subsidy. The prices paid by estates (which include a small
profit margin for Optichem) reflect values which are close to the economic
price. In the most recent year, the prices charged to smallholders and



- 22 -
estates have begun to converge. GOM has agreed to phase out fertilizer
subsidies (para. 3.13) which have had the undesirable characteristics of
not only having weakened ADMARC financially and its ability to provide
crumcial smallholder fertilizer supply on an adequate and timely basis, but
also having proved difficult to direct at the intended smallholder
beneficiaries. As noted in paragraph 2.10, a sizable part of the subsidy
has "leaked" to other farmers.
Table 6
Ammonium Sulphate        Calcium Ammonium Nitrate    Total Fertilizer
Year   Smallholders Estates European*    Smallholders  Estates   Subsidy Smallholder
K/bag - --                         ----     K/bag       -       million Kwacha
1974/75?       6.70      -         5.20             8.50       -               0.69
1975/761       5.50      -         3.90             7.75       -               2.50
1976/77        5.50      -         1.70             7.75       -               (0.62)
1977/78        5.50      -         2.70             7.75       -               2.26
1978/79        5.50      -         2.85             7.75       -               2.08
1979/80        5.50      -         2.95             7.75       -               4.19
1980/81        6.50    10.95       3.80            10.54      12.95            5.90
]981/82        9.00    12.85       3.95            10.54      14.34            4.95
1982/83       10,50    12,15       2.70            13.00      15.00            3.50**
West European ports, bulk (simple average of monthly prices - calendar year)
* Estimated and adjusted for currency rate movements.
** Estimate.
K.  Summary of  Needs for Fertilizer Project
2.38      The development strategy of Malawi is dependent upon improving
the productivity of customary arable land. The estate sub-sector, already
relatively productive, is only expected to marginally improve its level of
export earnings in real terms, so the bulk of the increased quantities of
food and cash crops will have to come from the smallholder sub-sector.
Increasing the productivity of maize is the key to overall increases in
productivity. Achieving such increases depends on incentive crop prices,
the availability and adoption of good technical advice matched with
delivery of the appropriate production inputs, of which fertilizer and
improved seed are the most important, and the efficient marketing of the
crops produced. Adequate seed supplies are now available but fertilizer
supplies for the sub-sector have been increasingly affected in terms of
adequacy and timely availability over the last three crop seasons by
financial problems in ADMARC, physical problems associated with importation
and with increasingly uncertain external transport routes, managerial
problems in both ADMARC and the Ministry of Agriculture and lack of
technical capacity in MOA to design reliable location specific technical
packages and prepare timely and accurate estimates of annual requirements.
2.39      A concentrated effort is needed to assist in the restoration of
financial and managerial capability in ADMARC with particular reference to
the importation and distribution of fertilizer and other agricultural
inputs to smallholders. A central part of this effort will be to phase out



- 23 -
the existing fertilizer subsidies and thereby help ease the financial
constraint facing ADMARC and the related pressures on supply availability
for the smallholder. Efforts are also needed in MOA to improve its
technical capability particularly in regard to the translation of research
findings into extension recommendations, transition to the use of higher
analysis fertilizers, general technical planning and crop pricing.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Area
3.01      The proposed Fertilizer Project would be national and would
improve the supply of fertilizers to the smallholder sub-sector in general
(see also paras. 1.06, 1.08 and 1.25). The coverage would thus involve the
eight ADDs and the estimated 1.15 million farm families (Annex 3,Table
T-1). These represent the target group. The 1980/81 National Sample
Survey of Agriculture indicated that their average farm size was of the
order of 2.5 ha, of which approximately half was planted to crops. The
average household size is 4.5 people. Based on various sample surveys,
cash incomes of typical smallholder families are in the US$50-100 range.
If imputed subsistence incomes are considered, farm incomes of the majority
are still below the minimum required to cover basic needs and off-farm
income must often be sought. Though the farming operations are below their
technical potential in 1980/81 an estimated 300,000 ha of customary land
did receive some fertilizer. Traditionally, there is no formal ownership
of land in smallholder farming in Malawi and, in general, the right to
cultivate land and retain its produce is granted by the village headman as
the representative of the Chief (Traditional Authority).
B.  Objectives and Main Features
3.02      The Project would cover a four-year period from the 1983/84 crop
season through 1986/87 and is designed to increase the productivity of the
smallholder sub-sector through improvements in policy decisions, the
restoration of sufficient and timely financing for fertilizer procurement
and technical support to the sub-sector. These objectives would be met
through the following components:
(i)    improving ADMARC's procedures for procuring and distributing
fertilizer;
(ii)   establishing a fertilizer revolving fund in the Reserve Bank
of Malawi;
(iii) strengthening the institutional capacity of MOA and ADMARC;
and
(iv)   setting in motion a process to bring about a reform of all
relevant policies through agreements on subsidies and
regular consultations on resource allocations, crop and
input pricing and measures to strengthen agricultural
research.



- 24 -
C. Detailed Features
Improvement of Procurement and Distribution Procedures
3.03      At present procurement of adequate and timely supplies of
fertilizer is constrained by inefficient and uncoordinated procurement
procedures and distribution, inadequate finance and a weak institutional
capacity. These deficiencies have been exacerbated by increasing
operational difficulties on Malawi's traditional import routes. The
proposed Project would address these constraints and would re-establish
effective procurement, distribution and use of fertilizers by
smallholders. Specifically, all purchases of fertilizer for smallholders
would be coordinated by ADMARC and the introduction of international
bidding procedures would improve the competitiveness of the annual
tenders. To assist the Chief Agricultural Development Officer's Department
of MOA to provide accurate estimates of fertilizer demand on a timely
basis, the Project would provide an Agriculturalist under technical
assistance. Considerable improvements would also be made at the
Agricultural Development Division level to obtain field data on fertilizer
usage/requirement. Coordination between ADMARC and MOA would be
strengthened, management decision-making expedited and procedures
streamlined. The provision of a management accountant to ADMARC, under
technical assistance, would facilitate the coordination and implementation
of the complete procurement and distribution cycle. A lead-time of 18
months would be established to ensure the delivery of fertilizer on time to
the farmers. The establishment of a separate and sufficient fund for the
financing of fertilizer would also expedite procurement by ensuring the
timely availability of the required finance.
Fertilizer Revolving Fund
3.04      Procurement of adequate fertilizer has been severely constrained
by ADMARC's increasing illiquidity. The availability of adequate foreign
exchange has not been a problem to date. The reservation of sufficient
funds is vital to the improvement of the system and to provide this a
revolving fund would be established by Government and ADMARC in the Reserve
Bank of Malawi with funds from Government, ADMARC, IFAD and IDA. While
ADMARC would be responsible for the physical implementation of the
procurement program, a joint management committee (consisting of
representatives from the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Economic Planning
Division office of the President, Department of Statutory Bodies (DSB), MOA
and ADMARC) would be responsible for control of the revolving fund.
3.05      The Fund would be used exclusively to finance the import of
adequate fertilizer for smallholders over the four year Project period.
Finance would be subscribed to cover the foreign exchange cost of importing
the total fertilizer requirement (less the carry-forward stocks) in the
first year and the incremental amounts of fertilizer thereafter over the
four-year period of the Project (US$24.47 million). All funds generated
internally by way of fertilizer sales to smallholders would be paid into
the Fund. The amount of individual contributions to the Revolving Fund
over the four-year Project period would be as follows (MK million):



- 25 -
Table 7
PY1       PY2       PY3      PY4       Total
IFAD             6.50      2.75      1.00     0.15      10.40
IDA             3.50       1.40      0.50     0.20       5.60
ADMARC 1/        7.23     10.53    11.77    12,06       41.59
GOM              Nil       0.75      Nil      Nil        0.75
TOTAL           17.23     15.28    13.27    12.56       58.34
1/  includes handling costs which would be re-imbursed from
the Fund.
Transport, handling and distribution costs would be financed, parallel to
the Project, by ADMARC and would be recovered by ADMARC in full from the
Fertilizer Fund. The flow of funds in the Fertilizer Fund is illustrated
in Annex 2, Table T-2.
3.06      Government would make available, through the Reserve Bank,
adequate foreign exchange to enable the Fund to purchase foreign exchange
each year with local currency for the importation of fertilizer. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that the necessary foreign exchange
would be made available (para. 7.01 (b)). A condition of effectiveness
would be the establishment of the Fertilizer Fund in the Reserve Bank and
the deposit of ADMARC's initial capital subscription into the Fund
(para. 7.02). After the period of the Project the Revolving Fund would
continue to be operated by Government and ADMARC and assurance was
received at negotiations (para. 7.01 (c)) that any proposed changes to the
entity of the Fund would be discussed with both IFAD and IDA prior to any
changes being made.
Strengthening Institutional Capacity
3.07      The MOA and ADMARC would be responsible for implementing the
Project. To ensure effective and efficient implementation the Project
would provide for technical assistance and training of staff in the
relevant departments in order to strengthen these two organisations. The
Project would provide eleven man years of technical assistance for contract
staff and four man-months of consultancy services. The technical
assistance needs for ADMARC were identified through a management study of
ADMARC financed under the first Technical Assistance Loan (Ln 2027-MAI).
The study recommended, inter alia: (a) improving MOA and ADMARC's pricing
policies through enhanced planning and analysis; (b) re-establishing
ADMARC's management and financial control; (c) reducing marketing costs by
cutting back on the number of markets and (d) improving monitoring,
evaluation and training. The report was accepted by Government in
December, 1982 and provided the basis for the institutional improvements.
3.08      An internationally recruited management accountant would be
appointed to the Fund Management Unit in ADMARC for a period of four years
with full operational responsibilities for the first three years and as an
advisor in the last year. The appointment of an experienced and
well-qualified management accountant would be a condition of loan/credit



26 -
effectiveness (para. 7.02).  In view of the complex and extensive road,
rail and water transportation network required to be maintained by ADMkRC
and in view of the importance of transport costs in relation to the total
fertilizer cost to the farmers, the Project would provide for an
internationally recruited transport management specialist for two years to
assist ADMARC in developing plans for the least cost routing, supply and
distribution of agricultural inputs to the smallholder sub-sector. The
transport management specialist would be appointed by September 1, 1983
(para. 7.01 (d)).
3.09      Provision would also be made for the appointment of an interna-
tionally recruited agricultural economist no later than September 1, 1983
for one year, to work with the Office of the President and the Planning
Division of MOA on price related issues (para. 7.01 (d)). The economist
would be responsible for carrying out price analyses on commodities
produced by smallholders and generating parameters to guide policy
formulation. Short-term consultancies would be provided to assist in the
analysis and interpretation of data collected on agricultural progress at
the farm level by rhe monitoring and evaluation units established by MOA in
the Agricultural Development Divisions and on fertilizer availability,
status of tenders and shipments by ADMARC. The short-term consultancies
would also assist in the evaluation of the impact of pricing policies and
in the development of management information systems to improve fertilizer
use.
3.10      Fertilizer forms the major component in the technical packages
being recommended to smallholders. It is important, therefore, to monitor
and evaluate data on fertilizer use and crop responses with a view
to developing specific recommendations for individual crops, locations and
categories of farmers, In order to assist MOA to successfully carry out
these responsibilities, the Project would provide for an internationally
recruited agriculturist who would be appointed not later than September
September 1, 1983, for a period of four years (para. 7,01 (d)). The
agriculturist would have full operational responsibilities for the first
three years and act as an advisor for the last year of his tenure.
3.11      Overall, the Project would provide eleven man-years of technical
assistance for contract staff and four man-months of consultancy services
in monitoring and evaluation. It would also include provision for two
years of external specialist traininig for local staff, as needed. The
emphasis on training will, however, be on in-service, on-the-job training
and technical assistance staff assigned to ADMARC will be expected to
assist with the teaching of courses at ADMARC's training facility in
Kanjedza. Technical assistance staff assigned to MOA will be required to
run appropriate courses for ADD staff at Staff Training Centers and at
Residential Training Centers as required for the effective execution of the
Project.
Policy Analysis
3.12      The Project would set in motion a process to bring about a reform
of all relevant policies Ehrough agreements on major issues and through
regular consultations. Malawian smallholders have shown themselves to be
price responsive. The Project would help ensure that the pricing of



- 27 -
fertilizer, other crop production inputs and farm products provide the
appropriate incentive for smallholders. This improvement in incentives for
smallholders coupled with a countrywide provision of services and inputs
under NRDP is expected to contribute to a significant rise in smallholder
output.
3.13      Fertilizer prices will be kept under constant review to ensure
that the present level of subsidies which in 1981/82 were equivalent to
about 50 percent of the cost of fertilizer (about MK 100/MT), would be
completely phased out by 1985/86 in line with the understanding already
reached between GOM and IMF which was based on the costs of fertilizer
routed via Mozambican ports. This would mean that by 1985/86 farmers would
be charged the full cost recovery price for fertilizer. Agreement on the
following schedule of subsidy elimination by Government was reached at
negotiations subject to the following conditions:  (a) the benchmark for
removal of the subsidy over a three year period was the routing and c.i.f.
prices prevailing; (b) this will continue to be the basis for carrying out
of this obligation; (c) if different and more costly transportation and
routing alignments are required to assure timely and reliable supplies, it
was agreed the Government, the Association and the Fund would amend the
covenants referred to above; (d) such a reassessment resulting from these
externalities will need to take into account the impact of changes in
fertilizer prices on food supplies and rural and urban incomes; and (e) if
subsidies are reintroduced due to the unforeseen conditions in (c) above,
the costs will be financed as direct line item in the Government's budget
and the Government would indicate how it intends to raise the revenues
required to cover the subsidy costs.
1982/83     50% of 1981/82 subsidy eliminated
1983/84     60% of 1981/82 subsidy eliminated
1984/85     80% of 1981/82 subsidy eliminated
1985/86     complete elimination
3.14      Prices of farm produce will also be reviewed with a view to
moving them toward farmgate parity prices. Presently, farm produce prices
are held below equilibrium price by government to smooth out world price
fluctuations, to offset cost of subsidized inputs, and to generate surplus
funds for ADMARC. Over the past two years, under the first structural
adjustment operation and preparations for a second, a methodology for
setting prices for smallholder crops has been developed which will provide
the incentive to expand both overall and export crop production. The
Government has made progress in increasing the prices established for the
1982/83 crop season, based on the jointly agreed methodology, to approach
export parity pricing. In July 1982, they increased prices for cotton and
rice by 15 percent, groundnuts and fire-cured tobacco bonuses by 50 percent
while maize was unchanged, thereby providing an incentive to farmers to
increase production cash crops to former levels. To ensure that Government
continues to provide adequate smallholder incentives, agreement was reached
under the recent NRDP IV Project that Government would continue to fix
prices at levels acceptable to the Association, these prices will also be
carefully monitored under this Project.



- 28 -
3.15      In addition, discussions would be held with Government on the
impact of non-price policies on fertilizer and smallholder production,
particularly as related to fertilizer price and usage, as well as on
Government finances. These would include importation of fertilizers,
agro-industry and agriculturally related nutrition policy. The Project
would facilitate a continuous dialogue with Government on pricing and
non-pricing issues. Regular consultation would be held to review progress
during supervision missions.
D. Cost Estimates
3.16      Total Project costs are estimated at MK33.68 million (US$29.97
million) of which foreign exchange costs would account for MK28.68 million
(US$25.51 million), or 86 percent of the total. The phasing of the
detailed costs for the revolving fund and for the technical assistance and
training are set out in Annex 2, Tables T-1 to T-5 and are summarized in
Table 8, on page 30.
3.17      Project costs have been estimated at mid-1983 prices.  A 3
percent levy is imposed by GOM on the c.i.f. value of imported fertilizer
and this has been included in the local handling costs; over the four-year
period of the Project it amounts to MK 2.23 m (US$1.98 m) or 7 percent of
the base cost. Income taxes are levied on the salary components of the
local staff but are negligible. Physical contingencies were subsumed in
estimated annual requirements of fertilizer. Price escalations have been
assumed at 5.0 percent per year on the c.i.f. cost of the incremental
fertilizer, 11.0 percent per year on local handling costs and 10 percent on
the cost of the technical assistance. The aggregate price contingencies
total 5 percent of the base cost. Total contingencies on the fertilizer
are expected to be as follows:
MK millions
(mid-1983 constant prices)
Price
Contingencies   PY1    PY2    PY3    PY4
c&f price         -    0.41   0.29   0.19
handling          -    0.40   0.11   0.02
Total                   0.81   0.40   0.21
3.18      The sale of fertilizer each year would generate funds which would
subsequently be contributed to the purchase of the following year's
procurement of fertilizer. Within the first four-years, funds so generated
are expected to total MK 81.46 million (US$72.47 million). Fertilizer
subsidies (amounting to about 4 percent of the total cost of fertilizer
purchased during the Project period) will be gradually removed over the
first two years of the Project. GOM and ADMARC will need to contribute
MK 4.20 million (US$3.74 million) for the subsidy.



- 29 -
3.19      The ability of the traditional import routes through Mozambique
to satisfactorily handle the fertilizer to be imported under this Project
is uncertain (para. 2.21), and therefore the need for ADMARC to develop
special contingency financing plans to cover unforeseen freight costs has
been identified (Annex 2, Table T-2).  Basic handling costs in the Fund
represent expected freight costs via Beira.  A freight contingency has been
based on the difference between freight from Beira and from Durban on the
assumption that as much as 40,000 tons might be shipped via non-Mozambican
corridors. The contingency plans would be budgeted by ADMARC, and the
amounts drawn would be passed on to the farmers in increased fertilizer
prices. A total of MK25.8 million might be required over the four years
for this contingency; any special contingencies required would be cost
recovered from farmers and would therefore be added to the revolving fund
(except under the explicit exceptional conditions noted in para. 3.13).
The agreement of Government to this arrangement was secured at negotiations
(para. 7.01 (f)). If these contingency costs are incurred, farm budgets
must be reassessed and fertilizer recommendations revised and producer
prices re-examined.



- 30 -
Table 8
MALAWI
SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATE 1,
Foreign                    Foreign              Base Foreign
Local  Exchange Total    Local  Exchange Total    Cost Exchange
--- MK m -------    ------- US$ m -------               %        %
Revolving Fund
net funding for
incremental fertilizer  nil        26.61   26.61    nil        23.675  23.675
add subsidy               4.20      nil      4.20    3.74       nil      3.74
total base cost           4.20    26.61   30.81    3.74    23.675  27.41           96        86
Physical contingencies  nil         nil      nil      nil       nil      nil
Price contingencies       0.53      0.89     1.42    0.47       0.79    1.26
sub total              4.73    27.50   32.23    4.21    24.465  28.67
Technical Assistance
Long-term technical
assistance             0.245    0.990   1.235   0.218    0.881   1.099
Consultancies             0.008    0.048   0.056   0.007    0.043   0.050
External training         nil       0.034   0.034   nil         0.030   0.030
sub total              0.253    1.072   1.325   0.225    0.954   1.179           4      81
Physical contingencies  nil         nil      nil      nil       nil      nil
Price contingencies       0.025    0.107   0.132   0.022    0.095   0.117
sub total              0.278    1.178   1.457   0.247    1.049   1.296
TOTAL BASE COST           4.453   27.682  32.135   3.965   24.629  28.594   100            86
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES       0.555    0.997   1.552   0.492    0.885   1.337           5
TOTAL PROJECT COST        5.008   28.679  33.687   4.457   25.514  29.971                  85
1/ Exchange rate MK 1.12 = US$1.0
N.B.   Totals may not add due to rounding.



- 31 -
E. Financing
3.20      IFAD's contribution to the total cost of the Project would be MK
11.57 million (US$10.28 million) or 34 percent. This would consist of a
loan of MK 10.39 million (US$9.25 million) for the procurement of
fertilizer and a grant of MK 1.18 million (US$1.05 million) for technical
assistance. IDA's contribution would consist of MK 5.60 million (US$5
million) or 17 percent towards the procurement of fertilizer. ADMARC would
contribute MK 13.41 million or 40 percent of the Project cost consisting of
MK 13.23 million fertilizer procurement costs (i.e., c.i.f. cost of
fertilizer plus subsidy) and MK 0.18 local costs of technical assistance.
In addition, ADMARC would incur MK 31.68 million fertilizer handling costs
which would be reimbursed out of the revolving fertilizer fund. GOM
contribution would be MK 3.1 million (c.i.f. fertilizer cost of MK 0.75
million, MK 2.25 million of subsidy and MK 0.1 m local costs of technical
assistance) or 9 percent of the Project cost. The financing table would be
as follows:
MK Million   US$ Million   Percent
IFAD          11.57          10.28          34
IDA            5.60           5.00          17
GOM            3.10           2.76           9
ADMARC        13.41          11.93          40
TOTAL        33.68          29.97         100
3.21      The proposed IFAD loan for the fertilizer procurement component
would be to GOM on highly concessional IFAD terms (i.e., 50 years with 10
years moratorium, at 1 percent interest). This would finance 42 percent of
the foreign exchange cost of the fertilizer procurement. The IDA Credit of
$5 million would be on standard IDA terms and would finance 21 percent of
the foreign exchange cost of fertilizer procurement. The technical
assistance Project financed by IFAD would be on a grant basis and would
cover 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the component. ADMARC's
contribution for 1983/84 has been contained within their existing budgeted
commitment for fertilizer for that year. The GOM contribution has been
limited to part of the subsidy element in 1983/84, the whole of the subsidy
in 1984/85, a small part towards the c.i.f. cost for 1984/85 and the local
costs associated with the agriculturalist and pricing economist. The
opening of the fund and the payment by GOM and ADMARC of their
contributions for 1983/84 into the fund would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 7.03).



- 32 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The Project would be implemented by MOA and by ADMARC with the
support of other associated institutions (para. 3.04). MOA (Annex 1,
Chart C-1) would be responsible, with the assistance of IFAD, for the
recruitment of suitably experienced staff for the implementation of the
technical program. The MOF (Annex 1, Chart C-2) would be responsible for
the establishment of the Fertilizer Revolving Fund, for the annual
budgeting and investment of GOM's annual contribution to the Fund and for
arranging the audit of the Fund's accounts. The Department of Statutory
Bodies (Annex 1, Chart C-3) would be represented on the Fund's Managing
Committee and would be responsible for maintaining their normal supervision
and control procedures with regard to ADMARC (para. 4.03). The Project
would be closely linked to the crop production Programs of the NRDP.
4.02      ADMARC would provide for their share of the investment in the
Fund and be responsible for handling the daily operations of the Fertilizer
Fund under the supervision of the Management Committee (para. 4.03) and
would appoint a management accountant, with the assistance of IFAD, to
manage the Fund. ADMARC would also be responsible for the procurement,
distribution and sale of the fertilizer according to schedules agreed with
MOA. Procurement of the fertilizer would be handled by FINCOM, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of ADMARC, acting on the directions of the Tender
Committee of ADMARC and following international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures acceptable to IDA (see paras. 4.15 - 4.20). Distribution of the
fertilizer to smallholders would be organized by the Transport Controller
of ADMARC (Annex 1, Charts C-4 and C-5) with the assistance of the
Transport Management Advisor. ADMARC would prepare a schedule of
distribution by type, quantity and destination following appropriate advice
from MOA and would be responsible for monitoring the distribution and sale
of fertilizer through their market network. ADMARC would be responsible
for regularly preparing a schedule of reasonable handling charges incurred
for which they would be re-imbursed out of the Fund.
4.03      The entire Project would be under the supervision of a Management
Committee consisting of representatives from MOF, MOA, DSB and ADMARC.
This committee would meet at least once every quarter to review the status
of the Fund, the progress of procurement, distribution and sale in addition
to the technical programs. The reviews would cover, among other things,
the management accountant's regular reports on the Fund's operation. This
would enable the committee to institute appropriate action, as required in
order to maintain the liquidity and integrity of the Fund. Policy issues
involving crop pricing, fertilizer subsidies, foreign exchange allocations
and distribution priorities would be discussed by this Committee and
recommendations made to Government. Joint IFAD/IDA supervision missions
would regularly review progress on the Project and such major policy issues
as affected its effectiveness, with the Committee (para. 3.15).



- 33 -
B. Implementation Schedule
4.04      Project investments and technical assistance would be provided
over a four-year period. Procurement for the first season's (September
1983/August 1984) fertilizer will have been initiated prior to the signing
of the proposed Loan and Credit due to the lead-time required in the
procurement process (Annex 1, Chart C-8). Initial calls to tender would be
made in January 1983 (an extremely tight schedule for assuring adequate
fertilizer availability for the 1983/84 season) and contracts probably
signed by March 1983. Payment to foreign suppliers for the portion of
1983/84 fertilizer to be financed from the proposed IFAD Loan and IDA
Credit will be made on the basis of retroactive financing as letters of
credit need to be established before Loan and Credit approval. GOM would
have to bear the risk of funding the entire procurement in the event that
the Loan and/or Credit does not become effective. Payment terms associated
with the purchase of fertilizer for Malawi enable payment to be deferred up
to six months after delivery (or up to eight months after the start of the
procurement cycle). This would be after the date of effectiveness of the
proposed IFAD Loan/IDA Credit. The implementation schedule for the Project
is shown in Annex 1, Chart C-6. Details for the various components are
shown in the cost tables (Annex 2, Tables T-1 to T-5). Key indicators are
summarized in Annex 1, Table T-1.
C. Establishment and Management of the Fertilizer Fund
4.05      Basic Principles.  The design and operation of the Fund from
which fertilizer for the smallholder sub-sector would be financed is based
on the following basic principles and assumptions:
(i)   ADMARC has been the sole institution involved in the funding,
procurement and distribution of fertilizer to smallholders. For
the medium-term, it is considered unlikely that any other
institutional alternative would be able to provide a comparably
effective distribution service. Thus, ADMARC would perform the
central role in the physical implementation of the proposed
fertilizer procurement and distribution program.
(ii)  ADMARC would also participate as a contributor to the Fund, to
the extent that its financial position would allow, in order that
there should be a gradual re-building of its financial
responsibility for fertilizer procurement for the smallholder
sub-sector.
(iii) In view of the importance of securing timely and adequate
quantities of such fertilizer each year to GOM's agricultural
strategy, an assurance was provided by GOM and ADMARC that the
Fund would be used exclusively for the purpose of procuring
fertilizer for smallholders and that its integrity would be
maintained (para. 7.01 (g)).
(iv)  Since procurement of fertilizer is only one of several activities
undertaken by ADMARC, there would be clear separation of the Fund
so that its financial position could be identified independently
at any given time.



- 34 -
(v)   The institutional framework designed for the Fund would take
fully into account the existing institutions, systems and
procedures already in force with modifications only if such
changes were absolutely vital for the successful operation of the
Fund.
4.06      Institutional framework.  A separate "Fertilizer Fund Unit" would
be created within ADMARC headquarters under the supervision of a management
accountant who would report to the General Manager of ADMARC. The
management accountant would provide appropriate reports for the joint
Management Committee (para. 4.03). The management accountant, who would be
supported by the necessary accounting and bookkeeping staff, would open and
maintain separate books of accounts to record all transactions relating to
the Fund. A separate interest-bearing bank account would be opened and
maintained at the Reserve Bank of Malawi, into which all monies due to the
Fund would be deposited and from which monies required for implementing the
Project would be withdrawn. Any two of the following would be signatories
for the purposes of operating the Fund bank account:  (a) General Manager,
ADMARC (or his representative); (b) Principal Secretary (or his
representative), Ministry of Agriculture; and (c) Accountant General (or
his alternate), Ministry of Finance. IFAD and IDA would monitor the Fund's
operation by means of regular supervision missions, and through periodic
Project reports (see para. 4.25).
4.07      Operation of the Fund.  The management and operation of the
fertilizer fund are detailed in paras. 4.08 - 4.14. Assurances were
received at negotiations on the following standard procedures which would
be vital to the successsful operation of the Fund and which would be fully
maintained and not altered without prior agreement from both IFAD and IDA
(para. 7.01 (h)):
(i)   GOM and ADMARC would make adequate and timely annual budgetary
provisions covering their contributions based on the annual
fertilizer procurement (para. 4.15) and deposit such
contributions into the Fund account with the Reserve Bank at the
appropriate time, that is, no later than the date of award of
tenders. I/
(ii)  GOM would make the required annual foreign exchange allocations
to cover the import of smallholder fertilizer out of the Fund.
(iii) GOM and ADMARC would make separate payments to the Fund covering
the shortfalls in sales revenue due to subsidy until the
fertilizer sbsidy has been completely removed. Such payments
would be made promptly at the close of the yearly fertilizer
selling season, that is, by March 31 each year.
(iv)  All fertilizer sales by ADMARC would be strictly on a cash basis
except deliveries to farmers registered under ADD credit programs
for which checks in settlement would be received from ADDs on
submission of ADMARC invoices. ADMARC would be responsible for
prompt collection and deposit of all monies due to the Fund.
1/ This does not include the costs of local handling, storage and
distribution which would be paid by ADMARC directly and would
subsequently be reimbursed to ADMARC out of the Fund from the proceeds
of fertilizer sales.



- 3  -
4.08      Opening balance.  The 1982/83 carry-over stocks of ADMARC
fertilizer would be considered as opening stock and, as such would
represent part of ADMARC's opening subscription to the Fund. The net sale
proceeds realized by ADMARC on the sale of these carry-over stocks of
ADMARC fertilizer would then be deposited into the Fund (Annex 2, Table
T-1). Future procurement of fertilizer stocks would be according to
procedures outlined in paras. 4.15 - 4.20.
4.09      Fertilizer sales on credit and collection of revenue,  Deliveries
of fertilizer from ADMARC depots to smallholder farmer groups in the ADDs
would continue to be supported by the existing documentation and ADMARC
would continue to follow the present procedures for invoicing ADDs for the
fertilizer sold, Procedures would be reviewed in detail by ADMARC, MOA
headquarters and ADD staff in order to reduce the delays in the flow and
processing of documents. ADMARC's invoices to the ADDs would clearly
indicate the amounts due on fertilizer sales and, following verification,
ADDs would draw checks in favor of the "Smallholder Fertilizer Revolving
Fund" for the amounts due. Separate checks in favor of "ADMARC" would be
prepared by ADDs for purchases of other agricultural inputs. All checks in
favor of the Fuiid would be passed to the management accountant of the Fund
for deposit into the Fund's bank account. For sales on credit, delays of
up to 60 days may be expected from sale of fertilizer to arrival of payment
in ADMARCe Credit sales would only occur as described in para. 4.07 (iv).
4.10      Fertilizer cash sales.  ADMARC would continue to use existing
documentation with regard to cash sales of fertilizer. Cash would be
deposited through ADMARC's bark account in the various districts and such
deposits would be subsequentiv transferred to the Fund bank account in the
Reserve Bank on receipt of the corresponding advices from ADMARC markets.
For cash sales up to 30 days might elapse before the monies are credited to
the Fund.  However, under the Project, the management accountant would
explore the possibility for direct credits to the Fund from the point of
sale and review, and modify if necessary, the prevailing sales procedure
and documentation.
4.11      Past debts.  The collection of all existing debts due to ADMARC
from sale of fertilizer prior to the 1983/84 crop season would be the
responsibility of ADMARC and no such debts would be recovered out of future
sales of fertilizer purchased from the Fund. From 1983/84, ADMARC would be
responsible for depositing into the Fund the revenue from all sales of
fertilizer financed by the Fund (para. 7.01 (i)).
4.12      Fertilizer subsidy.  The revenue realized from the sale of
fertilizers will not adequately replenish the Fund until the subsidy is
completely removed in 1985/86. The resulting shortfalls would be
reimbursed by GOM and ADMARC. These reimbursements would be based on the
statement from the Fund management accountant showing costs, selling prices
and the subsidy involved on actual fertilizer sales and stocks.
4.13      Reconciliation of sales and revenue.  The management accountant
would prepare a monthly reconciliation of fertilizer sales and amounts
deposited into the Fund account. ADMARC accounts and data processing staff



- 36 -
would provide copies of all supporting documents (ADMARC invoices,
receipts, deposit slips for cash sales, etc.) to enable amounts outstanding
to be determined and recovered without delay.
4.14      Reimbursement of handling costs to ADMARC.  ADMARC would be fully
reimbursed, out of the Fund, for all its actual and reasonable costs in
transporting and handling the fertilizer from port to its markets.  The
procedure for calculating these reasonable costs would be as follows:
(i)   ADMARC would raise invoices on the Fund at monthly intervals,
showing the quantity of fertilizer moved from port to depot
together with the costs incurred in handling. Handling costs
would include the following (Annex 2, Table T-3 for calculation
of 1982/83 costs);
(a) Buying commission of one percent on the c.i.f. price
(except in cases in which FINCOM arranges internal transport
in which case the commission would apply to that as well),
payable to FINCOM on the quantity of fertilizer purchased;
(b) Port clearing and handling charges, supported by invoices
from ADMARC's clearing agents;
(c)  Transport from port to ADMARC's depots supported by invoices
from Malawi Railways and road transporters;
(d) Levy (now 3 percent) payable to Malawi customs on c.i.f.
costs of the fertilizer imported;
(e) Transport, loading and unloading charges from ADMARC depots
to terminal sale point supported by Malawi Railways and
other transporters' invoices;
(f) Cost of storage based on an agreed proportion of ADMARC's
total costs in this category;
(g) Interest payments, if any, incurred by ADMARC on its
overdrafts from commercial banks used to finance the
handling costs (calculated on the basis of amounts drawn and
rates of interest payable);
(h) Any other reasonable cost incurred by ADMARC in handling the
Fund's fertilizer as agreed between the Management Committee
of the Fund and ADMARC.
(ii) The management accountant of the Fund would verify ADMARC's
invoices together with the relevant supporting documents and, if
in order, draw checks on the Fund in favor of ADMARC for the
amounts involved, thereby reimbursing ADMARC. All checks drawn
on the Fund in favor of ADMARC would be signed by the Ministry of
Agriculture (P.S. or his representative) and the Ministry of
Finance (Accountant General or his alternate); ADMARC would not
be a signatory to such checks.



- 37 -
(iii) Actual handling costs would be periodically reviewed with the
objective of the determination of an acceptable percentage as a
basis for re-imbursing ADMARC's handling costs.
D. Procurement
4.15      Total fertilizer procurement is expected to amount to about
US$97.4 million equivalent over the four-year Project period. The annual
requirement of fertilizer, in terms of quantity and types, would be
collected by MOA for ADMARC from data provided by the Agricultural
Development Divisions. The annual submission of estimates by MOA to ADMARC
would be completed and sent to IDA every July 31 for comment prior to
ADMARC tendering (para. 7.01 (j)). The management accountant would then
prepare the necessary schedule of procurement to be funded by GOM/ADMARC
contributions to the Fund or by IFAD or IDA (both IFAD and IDA funds to be
disbursed directly to suppliers) and would advise GOM, ADMARC, IFAD and IDA
accordingly. On advice from ADMARC, FINCOM (ADMARC's procurement agent and
subsidiary) would initiate international tender procurement procedures
satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.01 (k)). The award of fertilizer supply
contracts is made by the ADMARC Tender Committee, based on bids received
and evaluation and recommendations made by FINCOM.
4.16      ADMARC fertilizer purchases have traditionally been shipped on
c&f terms to either Beira or Nacala in Mozambique and insurance is arranged
by FINCOM. ADMARC has been employing the services of another of its
subsidiaries for the purpose of clearing and forwarding the fertilizer
shipments from these ports.  Fertilizer is then transported by Malawi
Railways from the ports to ADMARC warehouses for internal distribution.
4.17      While the existing arrangement with FINCOM and the use of limited
international tender procedures (short tender period and calls for tenders
only among the most likely selected supplier locations) for procurement
have worked reasonably satisfactorily, and ADMARC would continue to use
FINCOM's services in this regard, several modifications would have to be
made in their procedures to achieve international competitive bidding
procedures, based on Bank/IDA procurement guidelines. This would include
inter alia opening bidding to all Bank/IDA member countries and submission
of draft tender documents for IDA approval before bid invitations are
issued, followed by submission of bid evaluation and proposed award of
contract to IDA for approval before the award is actually made for the
supply of fertilizer.
4.18      One weakness in the previous ADMARC/FINCOM system was the delay
in ascertaining the annual fertilizer requirement in terms of quantities
and type. Considerable improvements would be made at the ADD level to
obtain field data on fertilizer usage/requirement and at ADMARC and MOA to
speed up decisions, so that annual requirements would be established on a
sound and timely basis. In this regard the different stages in the
procurement process as detailed in Annex 1, Charts C-7 and C-8 would be
strictly followed by the various institutions involved.
4.19      In order to ease ADMARC's and Government's liquidity situation,
and to facilitate receipt of the fertilizer in the country at the
appropriate times, the following features would be adopted:



- 38 -
(i)   Bid documents would specifically require prospective bidders to
quote price and payment terms, on a single price as well as on a
staggered delivery basis taking into account minimum quantities
required to make up viable shipments.
(ii)  As delays at and transport from the ports of Beira and Nacala
have aggravated the fertilizer procurement problems, use of
alternative import routes for part of the annual import of
fertilizer (proportions to be decided oni an annual basis) would
be seriously considered by the Government and ADMARC.
4.20      ADMARC has traditionally imported fertilizer on 180-day payment
terms from foreign sulppliers, arranged by FINCOM, and this facility is
expected to continue for future imports. However, as IFAD's and IDA's
contribution would be made on the basis of direct disbursements to
suppliers, deferred payment terms would be applicable only to ADMARC and
GOM, except in 1983/84 (PYI) wlhen due to delays in procurement and to the
fact that the IFAD and IDA financing is not yet approved, deferred payment
terms would be optional for the whole fertilizer Import.  Letters of credit
and overdraft facilities to ADK4RC were granted in the past by commercial
banks in Malawi. .However, with the opening of the fertilizer revolving
fund account with the Reserve Bank of Malawi, letters of credit would be
established and payments made to foreign suppliers for ADMARC's and GOM's
share of the fertilizer, through the Reserve Bank. The management
accountant of the Fund, together with FINC'OM, would make the necessary
arrangements with the Reserve Bank. While establishing letters of credit,
clear distinction would be -imade between shipments payable by IFAD or IDA
directly to suppliers and those payable by ADMARC and GOM.
4.21      Aside from the abo'7ementioned procurement of fertilizer under the
proposed IFAD loan and IDA Credit, the IFAD graDt would finance about
eleven man-years of technical assistance for contract staff (US$0.88
million) and 4 man-months of consultancy services in monitoring and
evaluation (US$0.04 million). Appointment of consultants would be on terms
acceptable to IFAD and IDA (para. 7Cl (I)).
E. Disbursements
4.22      Disbursements from the proposed IFAD Loan of US$9.25 million and
grant of US$1.05 million would be made as follows:
(a)   100 percent of foreign expenditures for the import of
part of the total fertilizer requirement (i.e., 32
percent) totalling US$9.25 million.
(b)   100 percent of foreign costs of the technical assistance
compcnent (i.e., employment of technical staff,
consultancy services and overseas training) totalling
IJS$1.05 million,
4.23      Disbursements -rom the proposed IDA Credit of US$5 million would
be made to cover 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for the import of
part of the total fertilizer requirement (i.e., 18 percent).



- 39 -
4.24         Schedules showing estimated quarterly disbursements are given
in Annex 1, Tables T-2, T-3 and T-4. Disbursements under the IFAD Loan or
IDA Credit would be on the basis of direct payments to suppliers or their
banks supported by irrevocable letters of credit and shipping documents.
Disbursements under the IFAD grant on the basis of contracts and agreements
approved by IFAD. All disbursements would be fully documented. Disburse-
ments are expected to be completed by September 30, 1987 and any
undisbursed balance of the Loan and grant would be cancelled unless
otherwise agreed upon between IFAD, IDA and GOM.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.25         The management accountant of the Fund would maintain an
independent and self-contained set of books of accounts and other records
relating to the Fund; institute appropriate systems and procedures, in
consultation with ADMARC and MOA, for the smooth flow of information and
documents between the various institutions and the Fund; and be responsible
for the preparation and submission to the contributors, of the following
financial statements and reports:
(i)   Monthly
(a)   Statement of fertilizer sales, revenue collected and
balances outstanding - actual results as compared with
budgeted estimates with explanations for variance;
(b)   Reconciliation of the Fund bank account with the Reserve
Bank.
(ii) Quarterly
(a)   Statement of receipts and payments with supporting
schedules showing the financial position of the Fund -
actual results compared with budgeted estimates with
reasons for variance;
(b)   A Fund performance report highlighting problems in
procurement, sales, collection of revenue and in payment
to suppliers and ADMARC. This report would also include
suggestions for improvements.
(iii) Annually
(a)   Schedules of contributions required from each of the
three participants based on annual fertilizer
requirement, taking into account the balance available
in the Fund;
(b)   Twelve-monthly cash flow of the Fund showing receipts and
payments based on contributions, fertilizer sales and
ADMARC's handling costs, etc.;
(c)   Balance sheet of the Fund showing its financial
position at year end - with supporting schedules.



- 40 -
The quarterly and annual reports would be promptly provided to IFAD and IDA
(para. 7.01 (m)).
4.26      ADMARC's accounts are audited regularly by one of the several
independent, international firms of auditors, represented in Malawi. In
addition, there are some local firms capable of providing an independent
and satisfactory audit service. The Auditor General's services would also
be acceptable. The Fund's accounts would be audited annually by an
independent auditor and audited financial statements together with the
auditor's report would be submitted to IFAD, IDA, Malawi Government, and
ADMARC. Appointment of the Fund's external auditor would be made by the
joint management committee from any of the reputable private firms of
auditors based in Malawi, or the Government's Auditor General. Assurances
were received at negotiations that ADMARC and Fund accounts would be
properly maintained and audited by independent auditors satisfactory to
IFAD and IDA and that the audit reports and accounts would be provided to
IFAD and IDA not later than six months after the end of the respective
ADMARC and Fund financial years (para. 7.01 (n)). It would be the
management accountant's responsibility to ensure that annual and if
necessary interim audits are carried out in a timely manner and that
audited accounts are submitted within the stipulated period.
G. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.27      The Ministry of Agriculture and the National Statistical Office
are well-organized to determine the status and monitor development in the
smallholder sub-sector. The Ministry of Agriculture has a central
Evaluation Unit within the Planning Division and this Unit provides the
technical support to the Evaluation Units in the ADDs. Within the ADDs, at
least one survey team is assigned to each project area. In addition, the
Agro-Economic Survey Unit, which conducts baseline surveys for potential
projects, is also under the administrative control of the Planning
Division.
4.28      The ADD Evaluation Units have been conducting three standard
surveys annually plus various ad hoc surveys requested by MOA management.
The annual surveys are: (i) household composition, (ii) garden survey -
describing farmers' plantings, and (iii) yield survey. The household
composition survey has now been made a biennial survey. The Garden and
Yield surveys collect, among other things, information on fertilizer use
and response, but are inadequate to identify detailed changes in uptake and
application rates; this will be improved during the Project. The
Agro-Economic Survey Unit is re-orientating its focus to address farm labor
utilization, The National Statistical Office, through the work of the
Sample Survey of Agriculture, complements the work of the ADD Evaluation
Unit teams by assembling data from non-project areas. In the future they
will assume the responsibility for collection of aggregate data.
4.29      The Evaluation Units prepare Quarterly Reports for ADD Management
to submit to MOA headquarters and to NRDP donors, which contain
considerable information on crop production, credit, administration and
management. The Planning Division, assisted by the Pricing Economist
provided under technical assistance, would help extract and consolidate



this information as a component of quarterly reports to be submitted to
IFAD and IDA. These would include results of ongoing analyses on the
impact of pricing and other related policies on smallholder fertilizer use
and the efficiency of fertilizer utilization (para. 3.15).
4.30      The monitoring of fertilizer tendering, ordering, shipments,
distribution, availability, etc., would continue to function as it
currently does. The professional staff of the ADDs would submit
fortnightly reports on the status/availability of fertilizer in the ADMARC
markets located in their areas. This information would be collated and
evaluated by the Project agriculturalist, who would propose any necessary
remedial action on redistribution to ADMARC. The agriculturalist would
also monitor fertilizer recommendations, demand estimates, etc.
4.31      ADMARC and FINCOM, together with their agents would monitor the
status of fertilizer tendering and shipping. The status of port
handling/rail handling would be continuously evaluated to facilitate
re-scheduling, ship diversion, and re-routing with minimal additional cost
and time. The status of these issues would be reported monthly to MOA and
would be incorporated into the quarterly reports submitted to IFAD and IDA.
4.32      As noted in paragraph 4.24 various accounting reports would be
periodically made available on operations cf the Fertilizer Fund per se.
The Reserve Bank would provide monthly statements on the Fertilizer
account, to the DSB, MOF and MOA, who would monitor the account. A
continuous liaison would be maintained with the management accountant of
the Fund to ensure that the movement of resources to/from the account was
consistent with the purchase and sale of fertilizer (para. 4.25).
4.33      In sum the MOA would submit quarterly reports to IFAD and IDA on
the Fertilizer Project which would detail the financial, operational and
policy aspects of its implementation status. The reports would identify
possible future problems and the actions proposed to circumvent or resolve
them. A completion report would be prepared no later than six months after
the closing of the IFAD Loan and the IDA Credit.
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
5.01      Summarized ADMARC balance sheets from 1977 to 1982 are given in
Table T-2 of Annex 4. ADMARC's general financial situation is also
discussed in paragraphs 2.28 - 2.29.   Provision of financial assistance
for procurement of smallholder fertilizer during the period of the Project
would relieve ADMARC of its immediate liquidity problem. The gradual
removal of the subsidy on fertilizer by GOM would make ADMARC's fertilizer
procurement and distribution operation commercially viable. The Project
would, therefore, enable ADMARC to regain its financial strength during the
four-year period so that ADMARC could once again take full financial
responsibility for the supply of smallholder fertilizer. The cost to GOM
and AD-ARC of subsidies of fertilizer imports to be financed under this
Project will be (MK 4.20 million) US$3.74 million over two years. (For GOM



- 42 -
this would be offset by the net inflow of levy on fertilizer imports of
MK 2.23 million or US$1.98 million.) This represents a per ton subsidy in
1983/84 of 40 percent of the level borne by ADMARC in 1981/82. In the
pre-project year of 1982/83 the subsidy per ton was 50 percent as large as
in 1981/82, and in 1984/85 they would be reduced to only 20% of the 1981/82
level.
5.02      ADMARC's investment in the Fertilizer Fund and the subsidy during
the four-year term of the Project would be substantially below what would
otherwise be the estimated outlay it would need on the import and
distribution of fertilizer, as handling costs would be refunded to ADMARC
after the proceeds of fertilizer sales have been credited to the Fund. The
following table shows ADMARC's contributions towards the fertilizer costs
during the four-year Project.
Buying                                      Reimburseable
Season      c&f    Subsidy 2/   Total       Handling Costs
MK million
1983/84    1.26        1.95        3.21 1/          5.97 1/
1984/85    2.87        -           2.87             7.66
1985/86    3.11        -           3.11             8.66
1986/87    3.20        -           3.20             8.86
1/  As per 1982/83 cash flow budget, ADMARC's outlay on fertilizer import
would be MK 6.57 million (with Project this would be reduced to MK 3.21
million), in addition to handling costs of MK 5.90 million (which would
be reimbursed under the Project).
2/  Fertilizer subsidy borne by ADMARC since 1979/80 has averaged MK 4.39
million. Subsidies would be completely removed by 1985/86 under this
Project. The 1984/85 subsidy would be completely borne by GOM.
5.03    Typical crop budgets based on recent farm-level survey data show
that the financial returns and benefits from cultivation, although highly
variable by ADD and by type of maize or crop grown, do justify fertilizer
use by most categories of farmers, assuming that fertilizer can be imported
at costs similar to those via the traditional routes (i.e., Beira and
Nacala). If the higher transit rates from other than those in Mozambique
(Annex 2, Table T-3) must be incurred for all or a large part of the
fertilizer the returns to fertilizer use are much more marginal at existing
producer prices. Closer examination and testing of fertilizer rates lower
than those now recommended, particularly for some areas, may increase the
cost-benefit ratios and such modifications would be examined under the
Project.



-t 6  -
VI. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Benefits
6.01      The Fertilizer Project would help meet the demand for fertilizer
by installing a procurement procedure that would ensure that an adequate
and timely supply is made available to smallholders. As such the Project
is crucial to the viability of the Government's NRDP. It would contribute
toward the achievement of food self-sufficiency and expanding agricultural
exports through greater maize production as well as increased tobacco and
rice productivity. Greater groundnut, cotton and other cash crop
production would also be feasible as increasing productivity of maize would
enable some release of land currently used for food production. The
Project would benefit smallholders, consumers and the national economy.
6.02      Based upon current use and uptake rates in NRDP areas, it is
estimated that about 330,000 ha of maize would be fertilized.
Approximately 47s000 ha of tobacco and 21,000 ha of rice would also be
fertilized annually by the end of the Project period.   Assuming the
average farm area fertilized to be one hectare, this suggests that about
400,000 families would benefit. Smallholder tea and coffee producers would
also benefit but rhe numbers of producers and areas under smallholder
production is relatively minor,
6.03      Crop budgets are contained in Annex 3, Tables T-7 to T-9.  It is
assumed that the total cropped area and individual crop areas would remain
the same under the Project except for smallholder tea which is assumed
would go out of production without fertilizer. Therefore, all benefits
would be generated by maintaining/improving yields. However, without
fertilizer, inadequate food would be produced and it would be necessary to
either shift tobacco areas into food crop production or to import food.
6.04      The returns per man day to crops under the Project range from MK
0.58 for tobacco (at present prices which have been suppressed) to MK 1.90
for maize. This compares to an estimated opportunity cost of labor of MK
0.50 per day.
B. Beneficiaries
6.05      About 400,000 ha on smallholder farms are expected to benefit
from the availability of fertilizer. These farms are widely distributed
over the country, although the major share of the benefits would be for
farmers located within NRDP project areas, as they have better access to
credit. The average financial benefits per farm family using fertilizer is
estimated at about MK45.  The Project is of particular importance to those
farmers with the smallest farms who depend, to the greatest extent, on
fertilizer to atLain subsistence.  The technical component of the Project
would closely examine existing technical recommendations for different
crops, in order to design appropriate packages for all groups of
smallholders, with special emphasis on those with the least resources.



- 44 -
Some of the additional labor requirement generated by increased fertilizer
use would exceed the capacity of some farm families and thus would provide
additional employment for those whose farm production cannot provide an
adequate livelihood.
C. Economic Justification
6.06      Economic analyses (Annex 5, Tables T-1 to T-5) were performed on
che incremental costs and benefits of having fertilizer available in a
timely fashion to meet the smallholder demand. An economic rate of return
of over 50% was calculated for the Project as a whole.
Quantifiable Benefits
6.07      Some increased crop production would result from expanded uptake
of fertilizer packages under the NRDP credit activities but most benefits
would be through the maintenance of yields made feasible through an assured
fertilizer supply. The assumptions on production are contained in Annex 5,
Table T-3 and the aggregate incremental production includes the yield
maintenance plus the incremental adoption by farmers of the fertilizer
package.
Economic Prices
6.08      An import parity price for maize was used in computing the
economic farmgate price (Annex 5, Table T-1). Malawi's policy of maize
self-sufficiency suggests a weighted average of import and export parities,
but it is fertilizer which permits this self-sufficiency as Malawi would be
required to import maize if fertilizers were unavailable as a production
input. (If weighted import-export parity prices were used, the magnitude of
the rate of return would be affected only marginally.) For tobacco and
rice, export parity prices were used to compute the economic farmgate
price, representing either increased or foregone foreign exchange
earnings. Tea and coffee are predominantly estate crops and only small
volumes are produced by the smallholder sub-sector, Processing, handling,
transportation and marketing costs cannot be identified for the smallholder
coffee and tea crops and, consequently, the prices paid to farmers by
estates was used as the economic price. All prices were adjusted to
mid-1983 prices.
Costs
6.09      The incremental costs included in the analyses are only the
economic cost of the fertilizer and the economic cost of the incremental
Farm labor associated with the use of fertilizer. The economic cost of
fertilizer was computed as the import parity price adjusted to the farmgate
level (Annex 5, Table T-4). The real price of fertilizer was assumed to
increase by 50 percent between 1983 and 1990 while real producer prices
increase by less than 25 percent. Incremental labor was assumed to be
necessary for applying fertilizer, harvesting the incremental production
and, in the case of maize, incremental weeding. The labor was assumed to
have an opportunity cost of MK 0.50. The economic price of foreign
exchange was assumed to be equal to the official exchange rate.



Sens it ivit Anialy-si-s
6.10      A 20 percent reduction in benefits coupled with a 20 percent
increase in costs would result in an economic rate of return still in
excess of 50 percent. Similarly, considering the savings in foreign
exchange when the use of fertilizer makes the importation of maize
unnecessary, the foreign exchange benefits are considerably greater than
the foreign exchange cost and the rate of return on the foreign exchange
invested during the Project period is over 50 percent.
6.11      The switching values indicate that benefits would have to drop by
50 percent or costs increase by 100 percent for the rate of return to drop
below 12 percent or for the net present value to drop below zero at a
12 percent discount rate. This would happen only if all crop yields or
prices declined by 50 percent or if the international price of fertilizer
increased by 85 percent over the predicted prices or the transport price
increased by 450 percent or on farm labor costs increased by 900 percent.
If benefits were lagged one year the economic rate of return would still be
in excess of 50 percent.
D. Risks
6.12      The primary risk is possible delay in fertilizer arrival, thereby
preventinig timely application and less than anticipated yields. However,
yields would have to be near non-fertilized yields for the net present
economic value to be negative.  Even if the fertilizer arrived too late to
be applied and was held over for application the subsequent year the rate
of return would still be above 50 percent. Furthermore, a major component
of the project is the development and installation of a procurement system
that assures a more timely arrival. Another risk would be that prices paid
to farmers for commodities are inadequately adjusted to provide a financial
incentive and that the anticipated production levels may therefore not be
attained. However, pricing issues are being addressed in World Bank/IDA
structural adjustment operations; in any case inadequate price levels would
also affect the base production levels (the without fertilizer production)
as well as the "with fertilizer" levels. A further risk relates to the
fact that most smallholder inputs are purchased with credit and unless the
credit is available the uptake of fertilizer may be less than expected.
There are currently reasonably sufficient resources for seasonal input
credit in the NRDP areas, though additional resources will need to be
allocated to meet the growing demand.
E. Government Cash Flow
6.13      The Project provides funds for the purchase of fertilizer and the
proceeds from fertilizer sales are placed in a revolving fund for further
purchases. Thus, the impact upon the Government budget is very slight as
Government only contributes toward the subsidy which is scheduled to be
phased out after the second year. The subsidy contribution by Government
during those two years has been computed to be MK 2.25 million (US$2.0
million). The major implication for Government is to make available the
foreign exchange for importing as the proceeds from fertilizer sales are in
local currency.



- 46 -
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)   Government would ensure the necessary priority of foreign
exchange allocation for annual procurement of fertilizer for the
smallholder sub-sector (para. 3.06);
(b)   The Government and ADMARC would retain the entity of the
Fertilizer Fund in the Reserve Bank for procurement of fertilizer
for the smallholder sub-sector (para. 3.06);
(c)   The Agriculturalist, Transport Management Specialist and
Economist would be appointed not later than September 1, 1983
(paras. 3.08 to 3.10);
(d)   The agreed schedule of subsidy elimination would be followed
subject to certain conditions (para. 3.13);
(e)   Government would maintain a dialogue with IDA and IFAD on
agricultural development policies, fertilizer cost and use
(para. 3.15);
(f)   The Government would cause ADMARC to budget adequate contingency
financing for transport cost increases and would reflect any such
increases fully in adjusted fertilizer prices charged to farmers
(para. 3.19);
(g)   The Fertilizer Revolving Fund to be established would be used
exclusively for the purpose of supplying fertilizer to
smallholders (para. 4.05 iii);
(h)   Operational procedures for the Fund would be followed as detailed
in para. 4.07, and any proposed changes in those procedures could
be made only after IFAD and IDA's agreement (para. 4.07);
(i)   ADMARC would deposit all revenue from sales of fertilizer
procured from the Fund into the Fund (para. 4.11);
(j)   Annual estimates of fertilizer requirements would be submitted by
MOA to IDA in July of each year at the same time as they were
submitted to ADMARC for procurement purposes (para. 4.15);
(k)   Procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA would be followed
(para. 4.15);
(1)   Appointment of consultants would be on terms acceptable to IFAD
and IDA (para. 4.21);
(m)   Reporting procedures as outlined in paragraphs 4.25 and 4.33
would be followed;



- 47 -
(n)   ADMARC and Project accounts would be audited by the independent
auditors whose experience and qualifications are acceptable to
IFAD and IDA, and the audited accounts together with the
auditor's report would be submitted to IFAD and IDA not later
than six months following the end of the fiscal year
(para. 4.26);
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness for the IFAD Loan and the IDA Credit
would be: (i) the appointment of the management accountant (para. 3.08);
(ii) the opening of the Fund in the Reserve Bank and the investment of
ADMARC's initial subscription into the Fund (para. 3.21); and (iii) the
cross-effectivenss of the IDA Credit and the IFAD Loan Agreement.
7.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions being met it is
recommended that the proposed Project would constitute a suitable basis for
joint co-financing by IFAD and IDA as follows:
(a)   IFAD Financing of SDR 9.5 million (US$ 10.28 million) including
a Loan of SDR 8.5 million on highly concessional terms and a
Grant of SDR 1.0 million to the Government of Malawi;
(b)   IDA Credit of SDR 4.6 million (US$5 million) on standard terms to
the Government of Malawi.



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture, Revised Organization Chart
StatD                CRADPouctor                                                        y      RodesIner-AcYhomtte 
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~O National Researche
StLtions Sr [and Husbandry                                                  aSDi
Soil Survey                         Jll CredI                                                Li     k S                       In      l C
Planrig                   Dept of                               Dept of                   MmtUnitsVetrmrary t
Division                Ag Research                             Agr, Dev                    d ADDs                   DepartmentMangeen
Ch Plan Off                  (CARO)                                (CADO)                                                 (CVO)       I
I   s      I                I ~~~~~~omns Sr ices.
HQ SpecialRsts                        HQ Speciaist                                          HQ Spe,Sahst
Natwonal Resparch                    - Extens.on                      ~Vete r,n,ry
S t,tons                            -l1and Husbandry                                      -Dairy
-RFesearch Coordinators               - Crops                                               -Animal Husbandry
Soil Survey                           - Credit                                                L         Rvestock
- Training
Marketang
- Farm Management
- Irrigation
Wou,en's Services
-Gonst-uctFon
D_ev Aea                                     Specialist Staff,                       Spec,dhst Staff,
Supervisors                     ~~~~~~~F,Pld Se,,u,es                Development Services
l                           ~~~~~~~~          ~~Extensioo          Marketung
I   .                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~Vetpr,nary- Inputs
Specialists              .                         -Research                              -Forestry
Credit                                                 Animal Husbanldry                      Fisheries
Extension                                             -Cdt- Roads                                                                                                                      P  P
Research                                                 Women's Programs                       Health                                                                                  -t X
L Animal Husbandry                                        Eval.at,on                            Water Supply                                                                              -
Veterinary                                             Land Husbandry                         Community DRv-loperret
etc                                                                                           Buildings
World Bank -24421



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Organization Chart - Ministry of Finance
Minister
Sec to the Treasury
Sr D PS
D PS          l                                                                                                                                   .
Reeu  AIout                       Adiitrto                               ComsinroCnrle  fOfc qimn
Development Accounts
and External Aid                          Accountant                             Government                              Commissioner
Under Secretary                            General                                 Printer                                for Taxes
World Bank-24424



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Organization Chart - Department of Statutory Bodies
|Central
Government
Offices
Department of                                  Liaison                                Ministry of
StatutoryuBodiesyAgriculture
Un
DCS
Under Secret                                      Organizations
_(Agric Sector)
F_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -ADMARC
I   _       l                                          l                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Smallholder Tea Authority
Economic                                Administrative                               Financial
Section                                   Sector                                     Section                           -Smallholder Coffee Authority
Kasungu Flue-Cured Tobacco                                           et IX
Principal Economist                    -Principal Admin Officer                   _  Principal Accountant                    Ahi
-Tobacco Research Authority
L Economist                               -Admin Officer                             - Financial Analyst
-Smallholder Sugar Authority
-Admin Officer                            - Management
Accountant                           Tobacco Control Commission
_Tree Nut Authority
World Bank-24422



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
ADMARC, Existing Organization Chart
I               ~~~~General Managerl 
As   en Manager                                                                                                                                         Ass Gen Manager
Marketing                                                                                                                                                    Sales                                                               e
| Company
Stores                                                    7      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secretary
VWorkshops                                                                                Manager
F   I  |    Perso tnnel |
1   Buildings  l                                                                 1nManager             l
Silos           lI                                                                                                                     ae r                                                                                     |
North                                                          
Quality      lj                                                                           Co         
_ Controller   lC                                                                               le                                            Central
j   Chied   |WSouth
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ol Bankuntant3



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
ADMARC - Proposed Organization Chart V/
GENERAL MANAGER
PLANNING                                                                                 SECRETARY
Manager
MAKTN                         FINAN CE AND                             STAFF                         EEOPET
MAHKETING                     ADMINISTRATION                         DEVELOPMENT                       DEVELOPMENTS
REGIONAL           (N)               Primary         Sales                   Financial
MANAGEMENT                             (AGM)          (AGM)                   Controller                              Manaqer                          Manager
MANAGEMENT           ( )_ _                                 
| REGIONAL                 (S) L _ CONTROLLERS                            ADMINISTRATION n_
/oMANAGEMENT                r                     Transport                         Manager
Tobacco
Quality              _         ACCOUNTS                    _          Pronl_                          Mngmn
Ch Accountant
Sales        l+8                                                                                       Acut 
i            l        l   l   ~~~~SUPPORT    |                                                     phdAatv 
Shippin                     Workshops                                                     II
OPERATIONS                                   Butidings 
|Groundnut Factory  |                                                                                                                                                   g )
|    Silos        |                            ]rt X>
| Controller    j                                                                                                                 n 1-
1/Source Malawl,,Smallholder CroP Markpting and the Role of the Aqricultural Development and
Marketing Corporationr, P S Calkin, Consultancy Report July, 1982                                                                                     World Bank-24420



MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
PYl                         PY2                         PY3                          PY4
Pre-investment                        _           _
.                      _          .                        1     2       3      4       1      2      3      4   _~ ~~ ~~~~1  2  3  4  1  2                     3      4
Revolving Fund                                              111111_
Ferttlizer Procurement and Rail           ammmauufhMmfunumhmf..l   __I__
Delivery to Malawi                                                                          ~111
Fertilizer Use by SmalHholder
Technical Assistance
Management Accounting                                                      m _
Agri,ulturist                                                     t        ____
Transport Management Advisor                                      ,m       _                                          _
Pricing Economist                                                        mull   _
Monitoring and Evaluation
Local Staff External Training                                              -      -              -      -      -      -_
Implementation
Planning, Tendering, Recruitment                                                                                                                                                               rX
Prolect Year Quarters    1 April-June
2 July-September
3 October-December                                                                                                                                  World Bank-24425
4 January -March



54  -                                                   Annex  1
Chart 7
MALAWI
FERTILIZER
Organization and Flow Chart
Tender Documents
Funds                                                           Advertisements
Funds                  SUPPLIERS                  Tenders
ReimburseI                                   
.  I             ~~~~~Handling   __.                                                       I
RESERVE  FERTILIZER         Monthly                                                              S E M F C
5   1   n:                          < J       ~     ~~~~ - I    Bid Evaluation  , 
REVOLVING      z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~INO
BANK                       DepOit N O R S    J  iL   <  _  _          Ferti1izer   __
!Information
.   I                              C
N                     I ,                   _ _   __<_
F u nds    mMOF    AUDI TOR                                   Eva
DONORS             U.                 FUN                                                       F DACiNCOM { 
Fertilizer
Requirements~  ' 
Dfor OF  Au t                 i
STATUTORY    OF                     FUNDIARDMARCM&
U it                         FFrtliertiliize1
Payment |Requirements
Control, Authority
- Commodity, Money
- - - - - Informaion, Documentation
World Bank-24391



MALAWI
FERTILIZER PROCUREMENT
Implementation Sequence
_  FMM          J JASON                         F       AM          IJ SoN  D                        t O  A _  J  F M     A  S JO    D
ACTIVITY AND RESPONSIBILITY
6006
ADD Planning
30                                              3
Quanttyt Decision  IAD/MOA1
30D3
Advertis,ng (FCI
Tender Period (FCT                                                      mm
Bid Evaluation (FCI                                                            3
Contract Award ATCC
Shipping Period (AR)                                                                                                                                                  W     B     -
-L   ,180                                             118D
Pail from Port lAD) 
rield Delivery (AD)I                                           oL                                       -     8          
Fertilizer Use IF)
Payment to Suppliers (AD)ol0                                                                                               5
Payment by ADD to ADMARC                                                                                                      7
Deposit to Revolving Fund (ADl                                            7EB
Numerals indicate the number of days required for the operation>
FC   ~   FINCOM                                                                                                                                                                            P 
TC    = Tender Committee                                                                                                                                                                   rt x
AR    - Award Recipient                                                                                                                                                                    c
AD  -ADMARC
F     -Farmers                                                                                                                  World Bank-24390



- 56  -
Annex1
Chart 9
TOTAL FERTILIZER SALES (ADMARC AND OPTICHEM) 1968/69 - 1981/82
80
70 _
(Estim
60
50
40                                                   /
Optichem Sales/     \     /
30                                                                    ADMARCC Sales
20
0
68/69   69/70   70/71    71/72   72/73    73/74   74/75    75/76   76/77   77/78   78/79    79/80   80/81    81/82
Years
World Bank-24462



- 57 -
rJhart 1 z
FERTILIZER DEMAND FORECAST IN MALAWI
140               ~~~~ACCORDING TO DIF-FERENT PROJECTIONS
140 
130
I                                                         //~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
120                                                                                         OR
Total Nit,-9e, Demand ExpresP,d
S A  amd  UNIDO Repo[ t X0  / o
90    Sihod    Dem/t o/AlErnzr 
I ~~toGo  men
Base  o*  ADc and  M  A    F   lt o/east
70,           /
maIhOld", D,,I,d "I A~j  erwf7lre                                 a
Based   Est,mates~ ~ ~ [3150    Esttmatason Estat
SO~~~~~~D L,     
__    D emFan d    Total  Alr Fart  auzem5a
40
80      8   /2     8 3    83 94    94/88         _                                         9
Vor     Bank    24460



- 58 -
Annex 1
Chart
FERTILIZER RESPONSE CURVES (N; P205) FOR "LOCAL", COMPOSITE AND HYBRID MAIZE
LOCAL MAIZE                                  COMPOSITE MAIZE                               HYBRID MAIZE
(Results from 45 Sites)                       (Results from 3 Years; 53 Sites)             (3 Years; 192 Sites)
8
7
6
84
3
2,
1      0   ~~No Phosphate                             0   = No Phosphate                            0=No Phosp`h`ate-
&  = 42 Kg P205 Per Ha                         A   = 45 Kg P205 Per Ha                       *    45 Kg P205 Per Ha
I  I  ~    ~    ~ I               I                      I        I        I l                    l 
0         21       42       63                 0       56       112      168      224        0       56       112      168      224
Applied N in Kg Per Ha                        Applied N in Kg Per Ha                       Applied N in Kg Per Ha
Note  The national average yield for maize in 1980/81 was 1200 kg per ha                                              World Bank-24461



- 59 -
Annex 1
Table T-1
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Key Indicators
1983/84     1984/85    1985/86    1986/87
Units        PYl         PY2         PY3         PY4
Smallholder Fertilizer Demand
Sulphate of ammonia                  mt 1,000           50           52         44          35
Calcium ammonium nitrate             mt 1,000            6           13         24          35
20:20:0                              mt 1,000           34           32         34          34
Others                               mt 1,000            2            3           4          5
Total                                mt 1,000           92          100         106        109
Fertilizer stock to
carry forward                      mt 1,000          20           15          15          10
Net financing required               MK m               22           21         26          26
Fertilizer sales gross               MK m               19           32          46         57
Closing balance in Fund              MK m               12          20          28          37
Cropping
Improved fertilized maize            ha 1,000           98.5        103.5      110.7       120M7
Local fertilized maize               ha 1,000          179.0        185.0       194.0      2080
N.D.D.F. tobacco                     ha 1,000           37.0         39.0       41.6        45,4
Subsidy cost                         MK m                3.39         0.75      nil         nil
Optichem fertilizer sales            mt 1,000           43           44         45          46
NSCM seed sales to ADMARC            mt 1,000            2.28         2.75        3.00       3^50



- 60 -
Annex I
Table T-2
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Fertilizer Procurement
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IFAD Loan
(US$ '000)
IFAD                Quarterly            Cumulative
FY & Quarter          Disbursement 2/       Disbursement
FY 1982/83   Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4 11
FY 1983/84   Q1             4,337                 4,337
Q2            1,446                5,783
Q3                -                5,783
Q4                -                 5,783
FY 1984/85   Q1             1,835                 7,618
Q2              612                8,230
Q3                -                8,230
Q4                -                8,230
FY 1985/86   Ql               668                 8,898
Q2              222                9,120
Q3                -                9,120
Q4                -                9,120
FY 1986/87   Q1               100                 9,220
Q2               33                9,253
Q3
Q4
1/ Quarter in which Loan is expected to become effective.
2/  Based on Project Implementation Chart C-8 (75% in Ql and 25% in Q2).



- 61 -
Annex I
Table T-3
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$?000)
IFAD                 Quarterly            Cumulative
FY & Quarter           Disbursement 1/       Disbursement
FY 1982/83   Ql
Q2
Q3
Q4               44                     44
FY 1983/84   Q1                 91                   135
Q2               91                    226
Q3               98                    324
Q4               95                   419
FY 1984/85   Ql                 74                   493
Q2               74                    567
Q3               84                    651
Q4               64                    715
FY 1985/86   Ql                 44                   759
Q2               44                    803
Q3               55                    858
Q4               45                    903
FY 1986/87   Ql                 45                   948
Q2               45                   993
Q3               56                 1,049
Q4
1/ Based on assumed dates of placing the technical assistance staff.



- 62 -
Annex 1
Table T-4
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Fertilizer Procurement
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Credit
(Us$'ooo)
IDA               Quarterly           Cumulative
FY & Quarter          Disbursement 1/      Disbursement
FY 1982/83   Ql
Q2
Q3                _
Q4 1/            44                   44
FY 1983/84   Ql            2,338                 2,338
Q2              779                3,117
Q3                _                3,117
Q4                -                3,117
FY 1984/85   Ql               840                3,957
Q2              273                4,230
Q3                -                4,230
Q4                -                4,230
FY 1985/86   Ql              332                 4,562
Q2              113                4,675
Q3                -                4,675
Q4                -                4,675
FY 1986/87   Ql               235                4,910
Q2               77                4,987
Q3                _
Q4
1/ Quarter in which credit is expected to become effective.



- 63 -                              Annex 2
Table T-1
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Fertilizer Revolving Fund - Physical Movements
(000 MT)
1983/84      1984/85      1985/86      1986/87
Notes        PYI          PY2          PY3          PY4       Total
(in 1983 constant Kwacha terms)
Fertilizer requirement              1/
Sulphate of ammonia                             50           52           44        35
Calcium ammonium nitrate                         6           13           24        35
20:20:0                                         34           32           34        34
Others                                           2            3             4        5
Total                                           92          100          106       109
B/F previous year                   2/
Sulphate of ammonia                             44            4             5        5
Calcium ammonium nitrate                         2            6             3        3
20:20:0                                          4           10             7        7
Others                                           0            0             0         0
Total                                           49           20            15       15
Procurement required
Sulphate of ammonia                              0           48           39        30
Calcium ammonium nitrate                        10            7           21        32
20:20:0                                         30           22           27        27
Others                                           2            3             4        5
Total                                           42           80           91        94
C/F stocks                          3/
Sulphate of ammonia                              4            5            5         2
Calcium ammonium nitrate                         6            3            3         3
20:20:0                                         10            7             7        5
Total                                           20           15            15       10
Notes:
1/   Fertilizer requirement is the sum of the estimated smallholder demand and the desired
carry-forward stock.
2/   Assumption in PY1 that all fertilizer still at port on December 10, 1982 would not
reach Malawi in time to be distributed and sold in 1982/83.
3/   Desired carry-forward stocks gradually reduced during the Project reflecting the
steady improvement in procurement scheduling.



- 64 -                           Annex 2
Table T-2
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Fertilizer Revolving Fund in Nominal Terms
(MK)
PY1         PY2         PY3         PY4
C&F Cost S/A                             151.45      183.25      204.46      228.69
CAN                                  246.59       298.37      332.90      372.35
20:20:0                              263.28      318.57       355.43      397.55
Other                                448.23      542.36       605.11      676.83
Total C&F (mil)                           11.26       18.44       26.98       32.89
Handling (Mozambique)                     99.50      110.45      122.59      136.08
(Alternative)                 260.50       289.16      320.96      356.27
Total Handling (mil)                      10.62       14.40       19.09       21.60
Total Funds Required (mil)                21.88       32.84       46.07       54.49
Proceeds B/F (mil)                         -          12.03       19.59       28.13
Net Funds Required (mil)                  21.88       20.81       26.49       26.36
Contributions
IDA (mil)                              3.50         1.40        0.50        0.20
IFAD (mil)                             6.50         2.75        1.00        0.15
ADMARC (Total)                         11.88       15.06       24.99       25.86
Handling (mil)                     (10.62)     (14.40)      (19.09)     (21.60)
Net (mil)                            1.26        0.66         5.90        4.26
GOM                                    -            0.75        -           -
Fertilizer Sold (mil)                     18.79       32.43       46.07       57.12
Less Handling (mil)                       10.62       14.40       19.09       21.60
Net Proceeds (mil)                         8.17       18.03       26.98       35.52
Plus Subsidy (GOM mil)                     1.50        0.75        -           -
(ADMARC mil)                 1.89
Interest (mil)                             0.47        0.81        1.15        1.43
Close Balance (mil)                       12.03       19.59       28.13       36.95
Fertilizer Selling Price
S/A                                  240.00      325.00      414.24       458.47
CAN                                  315.00      425.00       542.68      602.13
20:20:0                              325.00      450.00       565.21      627.33
Other                                400.00      550.00       814.90      906.61
Note:  Estimates are based on the following assumptions:
(1)    International fertilizer prices increase in current dollar terms at the
average rate projected in World Bank Report No. 814/82, Price Prospects
for Major Primary Commodities.
(2)    Handling costs increase at a rate of 11 percent per annum.
(3)    40,OOOT of fertilizer is routed via non-Mozambican routes.
(4)    Selling prices are designed to phase out the fertilizer by the end of PY2
and subsequently prices are set at cost recovery levels.
(5)    These data are illustrative as they demostrate how the Fund would
operate. Actual costs and prices would vary depending upon c&f
quotations under international competitive bidding.



- 65 -
Annex 2
Table T-3
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Fertilizer Handling Costs (MK/mt)
mid-1983 prices 1/ (via Mozambique)
MK
Buying Commission (FINCOM) 1% of c.i.f. cost               2.42
Port charges, clearing and handling 0.5%                   1.21
Railage (Beira to Liwonde)
payable to Mocambique railways                          19.21
payable to Malawi Railways                              11.74
Liwonde to Lilongwe rail                                  13.51
Lilongwe to bulk stores av. 75 km at 17.8 t/km            14.82
ADMARC bulk stores to selling point
av. 25 km at 25.2 t/km                                   6.99
Fertilizer surtax levy 3% on c.i.f. price                  7.25
Storage and selling costs at ADMARC depot                  6.72 2/
Finance charges of ADMARC (15% p.a.) 3/                    5.77
89.64
1/ Shipment to Beira and railage to Malawi
2/ Calculation of storage cost ADMARC 1982/83 total storage cost MK1.959m
Tonnage of crop handled         281,000 mt
Tonnage of fertilizer handled  43,000 mt
324,000 mt
proportional cost MK 260,000 or 6.05/mt
price contingency 0.67
MK 6.72/mt
3/ On average balance for 6 months.



- 66 -
Annex 2
Table T-4
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Fertilizer Handling Costs (MK/mt)
mid-1983 prices 1/ (via South Africa)
MK
Additional shipment cost 5% m Beira c&f              10.89
Buying commission 1% on c&f                           2.42
Port charges (ad valorem tax) 1I%                     3.43
Clearing and handling at port 0.5%                    1.21
Transport from Durban to Lilongwe                   191.20 2/
Lilongwe to ADMARC bulk stores                       14.82
ADMARC stores to selling points                       6.99
Fertilizer levy                                       7.25
Storage and selling costs                             6.72
ADMARC finance cost (15% p.a.)                        5.77      239.81
250.70
less Beira total cost                                89.64
additional cost of transshipment via S. Africa  161.06/mt
1/ Shipment to Durban, South Africa and on transit to Lilongwe by rail and
road.
2/ R200/mt = MK 191.20 (mt 0.9560 MK R 1.00)



Annex 2
Table T-5
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Program Cost Estimates - Technical Assistance and Training (MK '000)
Unit                                                                                          Foreign    Foreign
Cost           PY1               PY2             PY3             PY4      Total    Total      Exchange   Exchange
Local      FE    Local   FE    Local   FE    Local   FE           MK       US$          US$ _
Fund Management
Management Accountant             90          15 1/   90       15    90        15    90        15    90       420       374        320          86
Local staff 2/                    15          15       -       15      -       15      -       15      _       60        53        Nil         Nil
ADMARC Transport
Transport Advisor                 90           8      48       15    90         7    42         -      _     210        187        160          86
MOA
Agriculturalist                   90          20      90       20    90        20    90        20    90       440       391        320          82
Economist (Pricing)               90           8      48         7    42        -      -        -      -      105        93          80         86             <
Consultancies (M&E)                  12          2       12        2    12         2    12        2    12        56        50          43         85
Training - external (2 yrs)          17          -        -        -    34         -     -        -      -       34        30          30        100
Total base cost                                 68     288        74   358       59   234        52   192   1,325       1,178         953         81
Physical contingencies                           -        -        -      -        -     -        -      -        -         -           -          -
Price contingencies (10%)                        7       29        7    36         6    23        5    19       132       117          95         81
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                             75      317       81   394       65   257        57   211   1,457    1,295          1,049         81
1/ Local costs include housing, utilities and transport.
7/ Incremental local staff will only be in the Fund Management Unit.



Annex 3
Table T-1
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Estimated Land Utilization for 1980/81 (Analysis by ADD) 1/
Ngabu     Blantyre      Liwonde      Salima      Lilongwe    Kasungu       Mzuzu       Karonga
ADD         ADD          ADD         ADD          ADD          ADD         ADD         ADD           Total
No. of Farm Families            65,000      275,000      245,000      79,200      256,000      122,000      77,000      30,000      1,149,200
Mean Household Size                 4.4          4.6          4.1         4.3          4.4          4.9         4.8         4.8            4.5
(members)
% Growth                            2.0          3.0          2.8         2.9          3.0          2.9         2.8         2.5            2.9
Mean Farm Size
(cultivated) (ha)                   1.36         0.8          0.86        1.02         1.38         2.08        1.39        0.98           1.16
Cultivated
(area cropped) 2/              88,400      220,000     210,000      80,000      354,000      294,OQO    101,000       30,000      1,377,400
Total Land leased to                                                                                                                                            a
Estates (Est) (ha) 3/            9,240       61,500       70,000      42,260       40,000      200,000      47,000           -        470,000
Maize Total Area (ha)
(smallholders)                 30,000      125,400     140,300      48,000      209,000      180,000      58,000      11,100         801,800
Improved Maize (ha)                500        3,000        2,730       4,720       34,000       25,000      13,000       2,100         85,050
Mean Yield (kg/ha)                 855          900          900       1,300        1,300        1,400       1,400       1,400          1,200
Tobacco Total Area (ha)              -          900          800         160       19,000       20,000         500           -         41,360
Northern Division Dark-
Fired (NDDF) (ha)                   -          900          400           -       18,400       12,000           -           -         31,700
Mean Yield (kg/ha)                   -          400          320           -          500          450           -           -            450
Rice Total Area (ha)             1,100        2,420        7,000       4,240            -            -         500       7,000         22,260
Improved Rice Total                800        1,100        5,000       2,880            -            -         400       5,700         15,880
Mean Yield (kg/ha)               2,200          600        1,700       1,300            -            -       1,900       2,500          1,800
Groundnut Total Area (ha)          800        2,000        4,400       4,100        5,600       64,000       8,700         300        140,300
Improved Groundnuts Total
Area (ha)                         800        1,760        3,990       3,700       53,000       57,000       5,700         150        121,200
Mean Yield (kg/ha)                 400          200          400         450          250          450         280         440            400
Cotton Total Area (ha)          20,000        2,000        4,600      11,500          700            -           -         200         39,000
Mean Yield (kg/ha)                 500          620          600         700          450            -           -         500            500
1/  Source:  From the National Sample Survey of Agriculture for Customary Land 1980/81 and also from Agricultural Development Divisions/
ADDs Estimates.
2/  Small Farming Sector Study.
3/ Only an estimated 90,000 ha was cropped in 1980/81.



- 69 -
Annex 3
Table T-2
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Smallholder Sub-Sector Land Utilization Projections
(ha)
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87
MAIZE:1/    hybrid                 64,000    67,000    70,000    74,000    77,500    82,900    90,400
composite            21,000    22,000    23,500    24,500    26,000    27,800    30,300
fertilized local   160,000   165,000   174,000   179,000   185,000   194,000   208,000
unfertilized        557,000   564,040   566,901   573,589   579,611   580,733   574,482
Total:                            802,000   818,040   834,401   851,085   868,111   885,473   903,182
TOBACCO:2/  NDDF                   32,000    33,600    35,280    37,044    38,896    41,618    45,364
Others                 9,400      8,628      7,792      6,890      5,916     4,090       1,258
Total:                             41,400    42,228    43,072    43,934    44,812    45,708    46,622
RICE:3/      Improved              15,880    16,674    17,507    18,383    19,302    20,267    21,281
Local                 6,380      6,031      5,652      5,239      4,793      4,310      3,787
Total:                             22,260    22,705    23,159    23,622    24,095    24,577    25,068
TEA                                 2,200      2,400      2,400      2,400      2,400      2,400      2,400
COFFEE (SECA)                         150        220        280        350        400        450        500
1/ Improved hybrid and composite maize are expected to increase at a level of 5% per year until
1984/85, by 7% in 1985/86, and 9% in 1986/87; fertilized local maize by 3% until 1984/85, by 5%
in 1985/86 and 7% by 1986/87. The total maize area is expected to increase by 2% per year.
2/ Due to improved crop pricing, and its introduction to the N. Region, Northern Division
Dark-Fired tobacco area is expected to increase by about 5% per year until 1984/85, by 7% in
1985/86 and 9% in 1986/87, and the total area in tobacco by 2% per year.
3/ The area of improved Rice varieties is expected to increase at an annual rate of 5%, while the
total area for rice (rainfed) is expected to increase by 2%.



- 70 -                    Annex 3
Table T-3
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Fertilizer Imports and Market Share
of the Major Distributors (1982)
MT (XIOOO)
Distributors                          Products                 1981/82
ADMARC                        Ammonium Sulphate               46,424
20:20:0                        14,523
CAN                             3,041
Urea                               118
4:18:15                           575
24:12:6                         2,300
Others                             110
Total:                         67,091
OPTICHEM          (A)         2:18:15                            600
(B)        4:18:15                          3,000
(C)        6:18:15                         12,500
6:18:5                          4,000
(S)         6:18:6                            500
3:2:1         (12.5:19:51)                    2,800
0:20:30                           500
25:5:5                            400
S.S.                              220
D.S.                              300
Ammonium Sulphate                 650
CAN                             7,000
Urea                              600
Nitrate of Soda                   400
Tea Estates:
Ammonium Sulphate                  150
Urea                            6,000
D.S.                              700
M.A.P.                            600
Sugar Estates:
Ammonium Sulphate               4,000
Urea                            2,000
D.S.                              600
Others                            800
Total:                         44,320



- 71 -
Annex 3
Table T-4
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Estimated Fertilizer Use by Crop and Sub-Sector /
Cultivated Area        Fertilizer                        Actual             Fertilizer Use        Z of Total
1978/79     1980/81         Type        Recomoended      Estimated         1978/79     1980/81        1980/81
ha                                 kg/ha                                   at
Estate Sector Major Crops
Maize                                6,500        7,000    3-2-1                500              400            2,600        2,800)
CAN                250              180            1,170        1,260)             4
Tobacco
Flue-cured                        18,700 21   14,800    Tobacco mix         600-700          550-600         18,018       18,360)
Burley                            13,600       15,800    CAN + others       200-400            240            7,676        7,344)            24
Sub-Total Area:                     32,300       30,600
Tea (excluding                      16,000       16,273    Urea or            150 of N         150 of N         9,600        9,800)
amallholder use)                                           25:5:5 3/                                              900          900)            10
Sugar Cane                          15,000       15,000    SA &                 n/a              n/a            5,000        4,000)
Urea                                                2,000        3,500)             7
TOTALS:                             69,800       68,873                                                        46,964       47,964 4/
Smallholder Sector Major Crops
Maize
Local                            140,000      160,000       SA                250              100           14,000       16,000             15
Composite                         12,000       21,000    20:20:0              150              100            1,200       2,100)
SA                250              200            2,400        4,200)
)           27
Hybrid                            36,000       64,000    20:20:0              250              150            5,400        9,600)
SA                250              200            7,200       12,800)
Tobacco
NDDE                              32,000       32,000    20:20:0              250              200            3,200        3,200)
SA                150              100            6,400        6,400)
)           10
Others                             9,400        9,400    20:20:0              n/a               50              500          500)
SA                                  50              500          500)
Rice Improved                       16,000       16,000       SA                200              100            1,600        1,600              2
Tea                                  2,000        2,200    25:5:5 or          150 kg of N      150 kg of N      1,200        1,320              1
SA
TOTALS                             247,000      304,600                                                        43,600       58,220 4/
1/ Information obtained from GOM Fertilizer Factory Study (UNIDO); Agricultural Development Division inforuation, and the NSSA 1980/81 report.
2/ An all time high.
3   Or any other mixture provided that for every 5 kg N, 1 kg P205 and K20 is applied.
4/ Based on fertilizer applications not ADMARC or Optichem Sales.



- 72 -
MAIAWI                                                       ANNEX 3
Table T-5
Smallholder Fertilizer Project
Actual & Estimated Smallholder Fertilizer Use (Principal Fertilizers)
- mt -
80/81            81/82              82/83             83/84              84/85              85/86             86/87
S.A.   20:20:0   S.A.     20:20    S.A.      20:20    S.A.      20:20    S.A.     20:20    S.A.      20:20    S.A.       20:20
MAIZE 1/ hybrid    12,800   9,600   13,400   10,000   14,000   10,500   14,800   11,100   15,500   11,600   16,600   12,500   18,100    13,600
Composite         4,200   2,100    4,400    2,100    4,700    2,400    4,900    2,500    5,200    2,600    5,500    2,800    6,000         3,100
Fertilized local 16,000    --      16,500     --     17,000     --      17,500      --    18,400       --    19,700      --    21,400        --
TOTAL    33,000  11,700   34,300   12,100   35,700   12,900   37,200   13,600   39,100   14,200   42,800   15,300   45,500    16,700
TOBACCO 2/
NDDF              3,200   6,400    3,400    6,700    3,500    7,000    3,700    7,400    3,900    7,800    4,200    8,300    4,500         9,100
Others              500     500       500      500      400       400      400      400      300       300      250      250       200       200
TOTAL     3,700   6,900    3,900    7,200    3,900    7,400    4,100    7,800    4,200    8,100    4,450    8,580    4,700         9,300
RICg 3/
Improved          1,588     --      1,667      -      1,751      -       1,838      -      1,930       --     2,060      --     2,250        --
Local               319     -         302      --       283      -         262      --       240       --       210      --        190       --
TOTAL     1,907     -       1,969      -      2,034      -      2,100       -      2,170      --      2,270      --     2,440
TEA (SA+25 5.5)     1,100     __      1,200      -      1,300      -       1,400      -      1,500       __     1,600      --      1,700       --
COFFEE                100     --        100      -        150      --        250      --       400                550      --        700       --
KFCTA               1,250     --      1,250      -      1,250       --     1,250      --      1,250      --     1,250      --      1,250       --
TOTAL FERTILIZERS  41,087  18,600   42,719   19,300   44,334   20,300   46,300   21,400   48,620   22,300   52,920   23,880   56,290    26,000
Other Types + Misc      3,000             3,500             4,000              4,500             5,000              5,500              6,000
TOTAL SMALLHOLDERS     62,687            65,519            68,634             72,200            75,920             83,700              88,290
ADMARC SALES       41,500  12,700   46,400   14,600   53,400   25,700   52,100   18,000   57,300   19,600
SA+20:20:0           54,200            61,000            79,100             70,100            76,900
CAN, Others          10,200             6 100             7 300             13,700            15,200
TOTAL                  64,400 4/         67,100 5/         86,400 5/          83,800 6/         92 100 6/
DIFFERENCE              1,713             1,581            17,766             11,600             16,180
1/ Maize average fertilizer use hybrid 150 kg 20:20:0 and 200 kg SA; Composite 100 kg 20:20:0 and 200 kg SA; local 100 kg SA per hectare.
2/  Tobacco average fertilizer use NDF 200 kg 20:20 0 and 100 SA; others 50kg 20:20:0 and 50 kg SA.
3/ Rice average fertilizer use 100-125 kg SA per hectare.
4/  Based on actual sales.
5/  Based on ADD estimates.
6/ Based on GOM future projections.



ANNEX 3
Table T-6
MALAWI
Smallholder Fertilizer Project
Estimated Total Maize Crop Production and Family Consumption
1980-81       1981-82        1982-83        1983-84        1984-85        1985-86        1986-87         1987/88        1988/89        1989/90        1990/91
Maize    1/
hybrid   ha            ha      64,000         67,000         70,000         74,000         77,500         82,900         90,400          99,440        109,384        120,322        131,151
composite   - 2/       ha      21,000         22,000         23,500         24,500         26,000         27,800         30,300          33,330         36,663         40,329         43,958
improved local-        ha     160,000        165,000        174,000        179,000        185,000        194,000       208,000         224,640        242,611         262,020        280,361
local     3/           ha     557,000        564,040        566,901        573,589        579,611       580,773        574,482         563,835        551,012         535,792        522,163
Total.-           ha      802,000        818,040        834,401       851,089        868,111        885,473        903,182         921,245        939,670        958,463        977,633
4/
hybrid yield kg/ha -            3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000           3,000          3,000          3,000          3,000
composite            kg/ha      2,000          2,000          2,000          2,000          2,000          2,000          2,000           2,000          2,000          2,000          2,000
local fertilizer    kg/ha       1,300          1,300          1,300          1,300          1,300          1,300          1,300           1,300          1,300          1,300          1,300
local no fertilizer kg/ha       1,000          1,000          1,000          1,000          1,000          1,000          1,000           1,000          1,000          1,000          1,000
Production hybrid      MT     192,000        201,000        210,000        222,000        232,500        248,700       271,200          298,320        328,152        360,966        393,453
composite           MT       42,000         44,000         47,000        49,000         52,000         55,600         60,600          66,660         73,326         80,658         87,916           *
local fertilizer    MT      208,000        214,500        226,200       232,700        240,500        252,200        270,400         292,032        315,394        340,626        364,469
local no fertilizer MT      557,000    -_ 564.040         566901      _ 573 589        579,611        580.773        574.482         563,835        551,012        535,792        522,163
Total.            MT      999,000      1,023,540      1,050,101     1,077,289      1,104,611      1,137,273      1,176,682       1,220,847      1,267,884      1,318,042      1,368,001
Number of Farm Families       1,149,200      1,188,273      1,228,674      1,270,449      1,313,644      1,358,308      1,404,490       1,452,243      1,501,619      1,552,674      1,605,465
Consumptionl per farm         869.3 kg =    861.4           854.7          848.0          840.9          937.3         837.8           840.7           844.4          848.9          852.1
amy kg
Consumption per 90 kg bag       9.7 bags       9.6 bags       9.5 bags       9.  bags       9.3 bags       9.3 bags       9.3 bags        9.3 bags       9.4 bags       9.4 bags       9.5 bags
1/ Hybrid and composite maize area is expected to increase by 5% up to 1984/85, by 7% in 1985/86, by 9% in 1986/87 and
10% until 1989/90, before it drops to 9% in 1990/91.
2/  Improved Local maize area is expected to increase by 3% up to 1984/85; by 5% in 1985/86, by 7% in 1986/87 and 8%
until 1989/90, before it drops again to 7% in 1990/91.
3/  The total area in Mai7e is expected to increase by 2% per year until 1000,000 ha is reached in the early 1990's.
By that time hybrid maize is expected to be a major contributor to maize production.
4/ Average crop husbandry practices are expected to continue at the same level as in 1980/81 thus average yields will
remain for the next 10 years.
5/  Population growth is expected to reach 3.4% from 1980 to 1990.



- 74 -
Annex 3
Table T-7
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
BLADD/NADD/LWADD
Maize Hectare Budget 1/
Local Maize          Local 2/ Maize
Without                 With
Fertilizer             Fertilizer
Yield kg/ha                      820                    1,340
Revenue @ MK 0.11                 90.20                    147.4
Seed                                2.90                     2.90
Fertilizer 3/                      -                       26.3
Variable costs                      2.90                    29.2
Gross Margin                      87.3                    118.3
Mandays                          105                      120
Gross Margin per Manday             0.83                    0.99
Incremental Cost                   -                       26.3
Incremental Benefit                -                       57.2
C:B Ratio                          -                      1:2.2
Kg Maize per kg Fertilizer         -                         4.16
1/  Based on evaluation data.
2/ 19% of plots in Phalombe Evaluation Paper 2/82 received
fertilizer: 2% improved maize; 17% local, therefore this
model uses local maize.
3/  2.5 bags mean from survey assumed to be S/A @ MK 10.50.



- 75 -
Annex 3
Table T-8
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
LADD
Maize Hectare Budget 1/
Improved Maize 2/       Improved Maize
Without                  With
Fertilizer             Fertilizer
Yield kg/ha                        2,000                   3,550
Revenue @ MK .11/kg                  220.0                   390.5
Seed                                  20.8                    20.8
Fertilizer 3/                          -                      94.0
Variable Costs                        20.8                   114.8
Gross Margin                         199.2                   275.7
Mandays                              120                     145
Gross Margin per Manday                1.43                    1.90
Incremental Cost                       -                      94.0
Incremental Benefit                    -                     170.5
C:B Ratio                              -                     1:1.81
Kg Maize per kg Fertilizer             -                       3.88
1/  Based on Staff Appraisal reports on Dowa West and NRDP IV.
2/ Hybrid maize.
3/ 200 Kg of 20:20:0 per ha at MK 13 per 50 Kg bag and
200 Kg SA @ MK 10.50 per bag.



- 76 -
Annex 3
Table T-9
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
KADD/LADD I/
NDF Tobacco Hectare Budget
NDF Tobacco          NDF Tobacco
Without                With
Fertilizer           Fertilizer
Yield kg/ha                                 350                   550
Revenue                                     210 2/                374.00 2/
Seedbed inputs                               35.0                  35.0
Fertilier 3                                   -                   123.52
Variable Cost                                35.0                 158.52
Gross Margin                                175                   215.48
Mandays                                     350                   370
Gross Margin per Manday                       0.50                  0.58
Incremental cost (fertilizer                  -                   123.52
Incremental Benefit                           -                   164
C:B Ratio                                     -                   1:1.33
Kg tobacco per kg Fertilizer                  -                     0.4
1/ From Staff Appraisal reports. Dowa West and NRDP IV.
2/ Tobacco quality without fertilizer is lower than with fertilizer.
3/ 259 kg of C mix (6:18:15) and 150 kg of CAN.
Note:  Yield assumption is low and assumes only average husbandry, with
improved husbandry average yields have exceeded 670 kg/ha (Unit
Farms) recorded over a 10 year period indicating importance of a
good level of husbandry being an essential pre-condition to the
efficient use of fertilizer. At a yield of 670 kg/ha the C:B
ratio will improve to 1:1.98. But present low price incentives
do not encourage a good level of crop husbandry.



MALAWI
Smaliholdor Fertilizer Project
ADMARC Fertilizer Sales, Annual Distributlon by Region
Cbaaed on 3 scacons 1979/80 - 1981/82 & sulphato of ammonria)
SOUTHERN REGION                  CENTRAL REGION                        NORTHERN R.
F
0
Tm
A
L
A
L
S.             - a'  W.,  v   Sf         a   F  *rL  L O  i  V                        9   f
TX
I-.



Annex 4
Table T-1
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation - (ADMARC)
Crop Trading Results and Fertilizer Subsidy - 1975 to 1982
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982           1983
(estimated)
(Years ending March 31)
Sales:
Quantity (MT '000)                -          -          -        154.00    159.00    248.00    219.00    147.00            281.00
Value (net) (MK million) 1/    36.70        40.07      58.52      73.57      51.72      50.83      56.22      57.69         53.19
Purchases
Quantity (MT '000)                -          -          -        196.00    227.00    182.00    192.00    217.00            281.00
Value (MK million)                16.32     19.98      19.02      27.86      30.52      28.24      29.90      28.86          28.97
Buying and Direct Expenses:2/                                                                                                                                 0-
Total (MK million)                 8.39      9.64      12.79      15.67      17.02      22.52      25.99      22.57          23.80
Profit from Crop Trading:           11.99      10.45     22.68      30.04       4.18       0.07       0.33       8.86           0.42
Fertilizer Subsidy:                  0.69       2.50     (0.62)       2.26       2.08      4.19       5.90       3.97           3.50
Other Operating Expenses:3/          1.92       4.98       3.95       5.41       5.11      6.63       7.61       7.97           8.81
Other Revenue:4/                     2.34       3.35      4.49        6.62       6.94       6.06      6.99       7.89           7.94
Net Profit/(Loss):                  11.72       5.83     23.84      28.99        3.93     (4.69)    (6.19)       4.81          (3.95)
1/ After deducting selling expenses and allowing for stock changes.
2/ Includes transport, storage, grading, packing, etc., plus administrative expenses.
3/ Includes interest payable, net cost of development projects, bad debts, loss on exchange, etc.
4/ Includes interest and dividends receivable and miscellaneous income.



- 79 -
Annex 4
Table T-2
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation - (ADMARC)
Summarized Balance Sheets Showing Financial Status - 1977 to 1982
(year ending March 31)
(MK million)
1977       1978       1979       1980       1981        1982        1982
(March)      (June)
Fixed Assets
At net book value                    14.82      19.61      23.58      29.30       39.00       42.33       42.02
Investments and Loans
At cost (less provision)             50.75      54.10      53.69      59.04      64.76        65.33       65.22
Designated Investments
Registered stocks                     9.00       9.00       9.00       2.00        2.00        2.00        2.00
Short-term Loans                        -          -         11.83       14.37      18.69       23.44       23.78
Sub-Total (investments & loans)   59.75         63.10      74.52      75.41      85.45       90.77        91.00
Current Assets
Stocks - crop and livestock           8.76       7.82      14.30      12.33       8.95        17.49       18.08
- stores                       7.13       6.49      11.81      15.13       9.75        7.02        7.17
Debtors                              10.62      18.63      13.47      12.26      12.48       10.79        13.16
Short-term investments                1.18       3.95       1.65       -          -           -           -
Cash and bank balances               11.35      22.30       7.19       4.31       3.35        2.72         5.76
Sub-Total                            39.04      59.19      48.42      44.03      34.53       38.02       44.17
Current Liabilities
Creditors                             7.06      12.33      10.97      13.13      12.44       19.53       21.21
Government of Malawi                  -          8.52       6.74       5.00       3.70        -            -
Bank overdraft                        -          -          -          1.00       6.42        5.71         2.91
Sub-Total                             7.06      20.85      17.71      19.13      22.56       25.24       24.12
Working Capital                        31.98       38.34     30.71       24.91      11.97       12.78       20.05
Total assets                        106.55    121.05    128.81    129.62    136.42          145.88      153.07
Financed By                             -          -          -          -          -           -            -
Share Capital
Reserves
Crop reserve                          9.00       9.00       9.00       2.00       2.00        2.00        2.00
Other reserves                       12.53      26.24       8.84       4.30       3.36        2.72        5.75
Retained Profits                       54.43      58.27       79.72     85.43       80.07       85.58       86.23
Sub-Total                            75.96      93.51      97.56      91.73      85.43       90.30       93.98
Long-term Liabilities                  30.59       27.54     31.25       37.89      50.99       55.58       59.09
Total                               106.55    121.05    128.81    129.62    136.42          145.88      153.07



Annex 4
Table T-3
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation - (ADMARC)
Estimated Cash Flow 1982/83
(K'000s)
Estimated       Actual                                                                    1983                             Total
April-July   April-July   August   September   October   November   December   January   February                March   1982/83
K (1,981)    K (1,981)                                                                                                   K (1,981)
Opening Balance
RECEIPTS
Tobacco                                  13,000        21,240       4,711           849          -           -            -          -           -          -    26,800
Other crops                              11,400         8,871       4,200         5,200      5,900       7,100       6,600      4,900        4,000      3,013    49,784
Fertilizer, Seed and
Agricultural Implements                   770           830         350           650        850         950       1,515      2,500          850        450      8,945
Project Income                              375           149         130           180        130         130           80         80          80         50      1,009
Petroleum                                   450            69            -            -          -           -            -          -           -          -          69
Dividends                                   320           412         200           400        300           0         300           0           0          0      1,612
Interest Received                           750           333       1,430         1,530        130         130          130     1,030          130      1,145      5,988
Sundry Income                                60           203          20            20        200          20           20         20          10          7        520
Total Receipts                        27,125         32,107      11,041        8,829      7,510        8,330       8,645      8,530        5,070      4,665     94,727                  0
PAYMENTS
Purchase of Produce:Maize                 6,200         9,307       8,549         6,344      1,100           -            -          -           -          -    25,300
:Other Crops       12,620          9,431       2,380           800        167                       -                       -          -    12,778
Fertilizer (c&f)                              -             -           -         3,404      2,583         581            -          -           -          -      6,568
Bags, Jute, Twine Hessian                   410             -         238             -        225          50           50          -           -          -         591
Market & Depot Expenses                   2,363         1,918          720          626        459         424          409        409         379        379      5,723
Creditors (Other)                         5,844         3,032       1,471         1,505      1,551       1,527       1,488       1,486       1,467      1,468     14,995
Interest Payment                          1,493           963         805         1,896         58         230          267      1,043         533      1,653      7,448
Capital Commitments                         620           346         200           200        100         200         200         274         150        150      1,820
Capital Loan Repayments                     726           535            -          191        445           6            2      1,024         536          -      2,739
Freight                                   1,708         2,272         445           590        650         560          400        380         300        300       5,897
Transport of Crops                        1,457         1,038         690           640        590         513          463        313         163        144      4,554
Petroleum Products                          400         1,223            -            -          -           -            -          -           -           -      1,223
Milling & Grading Charges                   658           468         437           532        482         387          387        337         337        335      3,702
Rent, Rates & Water                         500             -          150          150        150         150          140        140         140        100       1,130
Interest on Overdraft                         -            35           63          153        167         133           90         56          56         56         809
34,999        30,568      16,148        17,031      8,727       4,761       3,906       5,462       4,061      4,585     95,249
(Overdraft)/Balance                     (9,855)          (442)    (5,549)      (13,751)  (14,968)   (11,399)        (6,660)   (3,592)       (2,583)   (2,503)    (2,503)



- 81 -
Annex 4
Table T-4
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Smallholder Fertilizer Prices
Calcium
Ammonium      Ammonium
Sulphate      Nitrate        20:20:0       C Mixture
(K per 50 kg/bag)
1969/70         1.65           -             1.65
1970/71         2.20           2.75          2.75
1971/72         2.75           3.30          3.45           3.87
1972/73         2.75           3.30          3.45           3.87
1973/74         2.75           3.30          3.45           3.87
1974/75         6.70           8.50          9.00           7.10
1975/76         5.50           7.75          8.50           9.50
1976/77         5.50           7.75          8.50          10.55
1977/78         5.50           7.75          8.50          10.55
1978/79         5.50           7.75          8.50          10.55
1979/80         5.50           7.75          8.50          10.55
1980/81         6.50          10.54          8.50          15.28
1981/82         9.00*         10.54          8.50          18.38
1982/83        10.50          13.00         12.60          18.38
* An intermediate price change to K8.50 occurred on November 1, 1981
Source: ADMARC



- 82 -
Annex 5
Table T-1
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Economic Farmgate Value: Maize
1983       1984       1985       1986       1987       1988       1989       1990
Export:
Price US No. 2 yellow $/MT                  118        128        138        138.8      139.6      140.4       141.2      142
K/MT                126.61    137.34    148.07    148.93        149.79    150.65    151.51       152.37
Add:  Freight, Gulf to UK                    23         23         23         23         23          23         23         23
price c.i.f. UK                      149.61    160.34    171.07    171.93    172.79    173.65    174.51            175.37
Add:  10% for white                          14.961    16.034    17.107    17.193    17.279    17.365           17.451     17.537
Price c.i.f. Malawi white to UK             164.58    176.38    188.18    189.13    190.07    191.01           191.96    192.90
Less: Ocean freight                          48         48         48         48         48         48          48         48
Port charges - Beira                   17        17          17         17         17         17         17         17
Railage - Beira to Limbe              27         27         27          27         27         27         27         27
Sub-Total                           92         92         92         92          92         92         92         92
Export parity price:  f.o.r. Limbe           72.575    84.378    96.181    97.126    98.070    99.014    99.958   100.90
lmport
Price f.o.b. Gulf ports K/MT                126.61    137.34    148.07    148.93    149.79    150.65    151.51    152.37
Add:  10% for white                          12.661    13.734    14.807       14.893    14.979    15.065    15.151         15.237
Price f.o.b. Gulf (white)                   139.28    151.08    162.88    163.83    164.77    165.71    166.66    167.60
Add:  Ocean freight                          48         48         48         48         48         48          48         48
Port charges - Beira                  17         17         17          17         17         17         17         17
Railage - Beira-Limbe                 27         27         27          27         27         27         27         27
Sub-Total                           92         92         92         92         92          92         92         92
Import parity price:  f.o.r. Limbe          231.28    243.08    254.88    255.83    256.77    257.71    258.66    259.60
Weighted parity price - Limbe               151.93    163.73    175.53    176.48    177.42    178.36    179.31    180.25
Less: Railage:  Limbe-Lilongwe               25.1       25.1       25.1       25.1       25.1       25.1       25.1        25.1
Road:  Lilongwe-farmgate               3.8        3.8         3.8        3.8        3.8        3.8        3.8        3.8
ADMARC costs                          23         23         23          23         23         23         23         23
Collection                             3.8        3.8         3.8        3.8        3.8        3.8        3.8        3.8
Sub-Total                           55.7       55.7       55.7       55.7       55.7       55.7       55.7        55.7
Farmgate Parity Price*                       96.225   108.03    119.83    120.78    121.72    122.66    123.61           124.55
* Weighted 50% Export and 50% Import.



Annex 5
Table T-2
MALAWI
SMALLIIOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Economic Farmgate Value: Dark-Fired Tobacco
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989     1990
Price:  Limbe auction (MK/mt)              2090      2118     2146      2154      2162      2170      2178      2186
Less:   Railage, Limbe/Lilongwe              25.1      25.1      25.1     25.1      25.1      25.1      25.1      25.1
Transport, Lilongwe/farmgate          3.5      3.5       3.5       3.5       3.5       3.5      3.5       3.5
ADMARC, buying, selling,
handling & other admin.           16.8      16.8      16.8      16.8      16.8      16.8     16.8      16.8
Auction charges                       3.5      3.5       3.5       3.5       3.5       3.5       3.5      3-5
Marketing/grading                     6.5      6.5       6.5       6.5       6.5       6.5       6.5      6.5
Other transport                       1.8      1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8       1.8
Sub-Total                           57.2      57.2      57.2      57.2      57.2     57.2      57.2      57.2
Export parity price farmgate value         2032.8   2060.8   2088.8   2096.8   2104.8   2112.8   2120.8   2128.8



- 84 -
Annex 5
Table T-3
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Economic Benefits from Incremental Crop Production
1990/91 -
1984/85     1985/86     1986/87      1987/88     1988/89      1989/90    2003/04
Maize Production (1,000 mt)
with fertilizer                         1,105        1,137       1,176        1,221       1,268       1,368        1,368
without fertilizer                        868          885         903          924         939         958          977
incremental production                    237          252         273         300          329         360          391
economic farmgate price (K/mt)            108.0        119.8       120.8        121.7       122.6       123.6        124.5
TOTAL VALUE (K1,000)                   25,596      30,190       32,978      36,510       40,335      44,496      48,679
Tobacco Production (1,000 kg)
with fertilizer                        24,646      25,172       25,642      25,642       25,642      25,642       25,642
without fertilizer                     15,684      16,018       16,318      16,318       16,318      16,318       16,318
incremental production                  8,962       9,154        9,324       9,324        9,324       9,324       9,324
economic farmgate price (K/mt)          2,061       2,089        2,097       2,105        2,113       2,121       2,129
TOTAL VALUE (K1,000)                   18,471      19,123       19,552      19,627       19,702      19,776       19,851
Rice Production (1,000 kg)
with fertilizer                        53,994      55,537       57,134      57,134       57,134      57,134      57,134
without fertilizer                     32,787      33,849       34,952      34,952       34,952      34,952      34,952
incremental production                 21,207      21,688      22,182       22,182      22,182       22,182      22,182
economic farmgate price (K/mt)            121.7        149.3       149.3       149.3        149.3       149.3        149.3
TOTAL VALUE (K1,000)                    2,581       3,231        3,311       3,311        3,311       3,311       3,311
Tea Production (100 kg)*                  2,880        2,880       2,880        2,880       2,880       2,880        2,800
economic farmgate price (t/kg)             42.5         42.5        42.5         42.5        42.5        42.5         42.5
TOTAL VALUE (KI,000)                    1,225       1,225        1,225       1,225        1,225       1,225        1,225
Coffee Production (Parchment 1,000 kg)
with fertilizer                           180          202         225          225         225         225          225
without fertilizer                         80           90         100          100         100         100          100
incremental production                    100          112         125         125          125         125          125
economic farmgate price (t/kg)             59.5         59.5        59.5        59.5         59.5        59.5         59.5
TOTAL VALUE (KI,000)                       60           67          74           74          74          74           74
GRAND TOTAL (KI,000)                   47,933      53,835       57,140      60,747       64,647      68,882      73,140
i It is assumed that without fertilizer no tea would be grown.



Annex 5
Table T-4
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Economic Cost of Fertilizer
1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90    1990/91
Cif Beira   $/MT          218.90      232.70     246.50      261.10      275.70      290.60       305.30      320.22
MK/MT         234.85      249.67      264.48      280.17      295.80      311.80      327.60      343.60    0
Port, Handling
and Transport charges    89.64        89.64       89.64       89.64       89.64       89.64        89.64       89.64
Farmgate parity          324.49      339.31      354.12      369.81      385.44      401.44      417.24       433.24
Note:  These cost projections were derived from World Bank Report No. 814/82, Price Prospects for Major
Primary Commodities, Vol. II. Urea and DAP were indexed (1983 base) and were used in a 50:50 ratio
to generate a new index which was then applied to an actual 1982 price for CAN, which is assumed to
be the basic fertilizer for Malawi.



- 86 -
Annex 5
Table T-5
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
Incremental Labor Cost from Incremental Crop Production
1987/88
1983/84     1984/85      1985/86      1986/87      2002/03
(1,000 days)
Maize
Without fertilizer (harvest Labor)          6,809       6,945        7,084        7,225        7,225
With fertilizer (harvest labor)             8,618       8,837        9,061        9,293        9,293
Incremental harvest labor                  1,809        1,892        1,977        2,068        2,068
Incremental fertilizing labor              1,942        2,019        2,091        2,171        2,171
Incremental weeding labor                  1,665        1,731        1,792        1,861        1,861
Total Incremental Labor                    5,416        5,642        5,860        6,100        6,100
Tobacco
Without fertilizer (harvest)
With fertilizer (harvest)
Incremental harvest labor                  1,318        1,344        1,373        1,398        1,398
Incremental fertilizing labor                351          358          366          373          373
Total Incremental Labor                     1,669       1,702        1,739        1,771        1,771
Rice
Total Incremental Labor                       708         723          737          752          752
Tea
Total Incremental Labor                       624         624          624          624          624
Coffee
Total Incremental Labor                         7           8            9           10           10
Grand Total Incremental Labor              8,424        8,699        8,969        9,257        9,257
Value of Labor* (K1,000)                    4,212       4,350        4,485        4,629        4,629
* Opportunity Cost of Labor 50t/day



- 87 -
Annex 6
TOR 1
Management Accountant (Fertilizer Fund)
Draft Terms of Reference
(a)       Background
The Fertilizer Project would involve the establishment of
appropriate mechanisms and refinement of policy and institutional measures
needed to secure continuity of fertilizer supply to the smallholder sector,
while ensuring adequate incentives to producers. A Revolving Fund (Fund)
would be established in the Reserve Bank with contributions from the Malawi
Government, IFAD and ADMARC. A Management Accountant would be provided for
the Fund under Technical Assistance.
(b)       Duties and Responsibilites
The primary duty of the Management Accountant would be to manage
the Fund. This will include:
(i)    Initiation of action and consultations with ADMARC, Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Agriculture and the Reserve Bank with regard
to the establishment of the necessary bank account and the
appointment of signatories;
(ii)   Setting up the necessary books of account of the Fund;
(iii)  Liaison with ADMARC/FINCOM with regard to the annual procurement
of fertilizer and participation in discussions as a member of the
ADMARC tender committee;
(iv)   Preparation of the necessary documents for the establishment of
letters of credit with the Reserve Bank in favor of the foreign
suppliers and for the timely payment thereof;
(v)    Preparation of schedules of contributions by ADMARC, GOM
(subsidy) and IFAD and advice to them in advance of their
commitments towards payment of suppliers;
(vi)   Obtaining appropriate information within ADMARC on distribution
and sale of fertilizer to smallholder farmers both through cash
and ADD credit transactions and ensuring that all such fertilizer
sale proceeds are deposited into the Fund;
(vii)  Preparation of regular statements of reconciliation of fertilizer
purchased and sold with deposits into the Fund bank account;
(viii) Responsibility for regular verification and payment of ADMARC's
invoices for handling, distribution and storage costs and for
ensuring that full documentation is provided to support these
claims;



- 88 -
(ix)   Acting as the coordinator between the Malawi Government and
ADMARC in all matters connected with the operation of the Fund,
particularly in regard to the maintenance of the liquidity and
integrity of the Fund;
(x)    Preparation of monthly, quarterly, and annual receipt and
payments accounts, balance sheets and other financial statements
and submission of such reports and statements of accounts to all
the contributors to the Fund;
(xi)   Initiation of action with regard to the appointment of external
auditors for the Fund (i.e., GOM-Auditor General or private
auditors acceptable to IFAD) and arrangement of timely annual
audit of the Fund and submission of audited accounts and reports
to the contributories;
(xii)  Providing appropriate on-the-job training to local staff;
(xiii) Undertaking other duties as assigned by the General Manager of
ADMARC.
(c)       Duration
The appointment will be for a period of three or four years,
commencing from the inception of the Project. The appointment will be
under Technical Assistance provided by IFAD.
(d)       Reporting
The Management Accountant (FF) will be primarily responsible to
the General Manager of ADMARC. He will also report to the Management
Committee of the Fund as required under his terms of reference.
(e)       Qualifications
The position requires a professionally qualified Accountant
(either CP, CPA or equivalent) with at least five years post qualifying
experience in a commercial organization in a senior capacity. Preference
would be given to candidates knowledgeable in the procurement and
distribution of agricultural inputs.



- 89 -
Annex 6
TOR 2
Transport Management Advisor
Draft Terms of Reference
(a)       Background
The Fertilizer Project would involve the establishment of
appropriate mechanisms and refinement of policy and institutional measures
needed to secure continuity of fertilizer to the smallholder sector, while
ensuring adequate incentives to producers. The volumes, complexities and
costs of crops and agricultural inputs transported by ADMARC are expected
to increase under the Project. Timely and minimum cost delivery of
fertilizer is essential to smallholders and the Project would provide
Technical Assistance to enable ADMARC to review and analyze their present
system.
(b)       Duties and Responsibilities
The primary duty of the Transport Advisor would be to assist
ADMARC in developing a more efficient, reliable and less costly transport
system. Specifically, the Transport Advisor would:
Domestic transport
(i)    Review the present sytem of transport with special emphasis on
planning, contractual arrangments with transporters, financial
control and monitoring of performance;
(ii)   Propose improvements to the present system based on the review;
(iii)  Implement improvements as directed by the General Manager of
ADMARC;
(iv)   Make recommendations to the General Manager for the organization,
staffing and training of ADMARC staff concerned with transport
management;
External transport
(v)    Monitor the developments in the export/import corridors of
relevance to ADMARC's operations and advice ADMARC managment on
developments likely to affect ADMARC's import and export
operations;
(vi)   Develop a system which would minimize disruption in case any of
the corridors now used became difficult; this might involve the
formulation of framework agreements with alternative corridors,
emergency clauses in export/import contracts, etc.;



- 90 -
(vii) Study the technological developments of cargo handling and
transport with respect to ADMARC's imports and exports and
institute such developments, as feasible, in the handling of
ADMARC cargo.
Training
(viii) Provide in-service training to ADMARC staff as required.
(c)       Duration
The appointment would be for a period of two years.
(d)       Reporting
The Advisor would report to the General Manager of ADMARC.
Within ADMARC he would work with the Primary Marketing Director and the
Transport, Stores and Silos Managers. Outside ADMARC, he would liaise with
the (proposed) GOM Transport Committee, Malawi Railways, the road transport
and freight forwarding industries and organizations knowledgeable about the
regional transport conditions, such as the UNDP/UNCTAD Transit Transport
Project for the Southern African Sub-Region.
(e)       Qualifications
The position requires a person with substantial knowledge and
practical experience of operations, planning and management of
transportation in a major company or organization. The experience should
cover both domestic and international transport. A likely background would
be of several years as transport (logistics) Manager of a major company.
Experience within Southern Africa would be an advantage.



- 91 -
Annex 6
TOR 3
Agriculturalist (Fertilizer Project)
Draft Terms of Reference
(a)       Background
The Fertilizer Project would involve the establishment of
appropriate mechanisms and refinement of policy and institutional measures
needed to secure continuity of fertilizer supply to the smallholder sector,
while ensuring adequate incentives to producers. Technical programs in the
Ministry of Agriculture would review national research data and extension
recommendations with regard to the use of fertilizer, procedures for the
annual estimation of fertilizer demand and monitoring and evaluation data
and programs with regard to the use and impact of fertilizer.
(b)       Duties and Responsibilites
The Agriculturalist would be a member of the CADO's staff and
would:
(i)    Review and summarize published fertilizer trial data by crop,
agro-ecological region and by ADD;
(ii)   Review existing crop fertilizer recommendations and revise, as
necessary, in order to ensure that economic fertilizer
recommendations were available for different crops,
agro-ecological areas and for different categories of
smallholders;
(iii) Provide recommendations to CARO for further fertilizer trials,
based on needs identified through tasks (i) and (ii);
(iv)   Establish procedures and schedules for estimation and evaluation
of annual fertilizer requirements within the ADDs and MOA
headquarters;
(v)    Provide technical advice and training, as required, to ADD staff
on estimation procedures;
(vi)   Establish close liaison with ADMARC in order to ensure both the
timely initiation of annual fertilizer procurement and the
establishment of optimum distribution patterns;
(vii) Establish monitoring procedures on fertilizer movement with
regard to fertilizer distribution, sale and stocks within the
ADDs;



- 92 -
(viii) Advise ADD staff on the use of high analysis fertilizers and
assist in the planning of appropriate adaptive trials program;
(ix)   Study the need for and cost of different size fertilizer packages
and the pattern of credit and cash sales in order to ensure
access of all smallholders to fertilizer;
(x)    Establish a close linkage with the Monitoring and Evaluation
units in the ADDs and at headquarters and identify the
information needs on a quarterly basis for field monitoring,
evaluation and planning purposes;
(xi)   Work with the Pricing Economist appointed under the Project on
the formulation of appropriate crop budgets, etc.;
(xii)  Provide in-service training for MOA staff;
(xiii) After the completion of the Project assist the MOA with the
preparation of the Completion Report.
(c)       Duration
The Agriculturalist would be required for a period of four years
starting not later than three months after project effectiveness.
(d)       Reporting and Liaison
The post should be established within the CADO's department of
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agriculturalist would report directly
to the CADO. There would be a close liaison with the Project's Management
Accountant in ADMARC, with the Project's Pricing Economist in the MOA and
with the ADD Program Manangers.
(e)       Qualifications
The Agriculturalist should have professional qualifications and
experience at a senior level. He should have been involved in evaluating
fertilizer research recommendations for use in field extension work. He
should be an agronomist with East African experience with a working
knowledge of economic analysis and farm management and planning.



- 93 -
Annex 6
TOR 4
Pricing Policy Economist
Draft Terms of Reference
(a)       Background
The Fertilizer Project would involve the establishment of
appropriate mechanisms and refinement of policy and institutional measures
needed to secure continuity of fertilizer supply to the smallholder sector,
while ensuring adequate incentives to producers. The Project would provide
Technical Assistance funds for an Agricultural Economist to work with the
office of the President and Cabinet and the Planning Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture Policy on issues, particularly Price Policy. He
would expand the pricing methodology to encompass a broader set of criteria
and refine the methodology. He would establish techniques and procedures
designed to provide an expanded factual base to assist decision and policy
makers in formulating price policy and recommend particular price
interventions for the smallholder sector.
(b)       Tasks and Responsibilities
Specifically the Economist would:
(i)    Assist the Pricing Committee and technicians in the MOA to
objectively examine the adequacy of present techniques and
procedures used in advising policy and decision makers on matters
concerning smallholder crop prices;
(ii)   Work closely with technical departments of the MOA, particularly
with the Planning Division and the Evaluation Unit, in examining
the data base available. He would work closely with the Project
Agriculturalist on this task. He would examine the data base
strata with respect to homogeneous agricultural production areas
and with respect to farm sizes and types within these areas.
Crop budgets and whole farm enterprise models representative of
farming types and areas would be examined and supply response
functions, based on the use of recommended packages, would be
reviewed.
(iii) Examine the existing agricultural development program,
established production targets and the relevance of pricing
policy to attain these targets. He would review such non-price
policies as food self-sufficiency, food security and export crop
promotion and their impact on aggregate production. He would
also examine the relevance of a crop diversification policy.
(iv)   Work closely with Malawian technicians, further developing the
analytical framework for policy evaluation. Techniques of farm
modelling, crop response and crop budgeting would be used to
demonstrate the impact of alternative policy decisions on crop
production. The likely impact of such decisions on cropped



- 94 -
areas, production and farm incomes would be examined (both for
crops and livestock). Matters of comparative advantage and
implicit producer taxes of subsidy issues in relation to
import/export parity prices would also be examined in this
analysis. The overall evaluation of the analysis would be
undertaken in relation to targets established for the
sub-sector. The existing guidelines for deriving crop prices
would be re-examined and amendments recommended as appropriate.
(v)    Based on these guidelines standard analytical formats would be
developed for conducting periodic analyses. These would be
regularly submitted to the Price Commission for consideration.
(vi)   The Economist would be expected to integrate his activities,
fully involving the Malawian staff in all his work, providing
in-service training in order to improve their capacity to advise
the Price Commission and provide appropriate data for its
consideration.
(vii)  Identify, analyze and report on the impact of input and commodity
pricing policies and non-price policy decisions on ADMARC and
Government. This would include the allocation of costs,
subsidies and cross-subsidies and revenues generated.
(viii) Submit a full report to Government on his findings and progress
at the termination of his assignment.
(c)       Duration
The Economist would be required for a period of one year
commencing not later than three months after project effectiveness.
(d)       Reporting and Liaison
The post would be within the Evaluazion and Planning Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture and the incumbent would report to the Chief
Planning Officer. He would liaise with the Chairman of the Pricing
Committee and members of the Committee as appropriate.
(e)       Qualifications
The Economist should be an experienced and well-qualified
production economist with a wide (at least 8 years) experience in East
Africa, particularly in price policy development and related fields. He
should be well versed in modern analytical techniques of economic
evaluation and farm management but also should have a broad understanding
of the sociological, sectoral and macro-economic implications of pricing
decisions in smallholder agriculture.



0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ D~~~~~~~~~~~~~ar s So/acm
{\,~~~~~:~ /.Sun -
"N                    NMkk-b.
Y  P:4                50ngwr\J          / = \                                      M A LM A W I
IlAi                    3                                  TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
Id,                                                                                                                                                              10-
KILOMETERS 0    20   40   00   So   100                                                   r                                SaPud rods
K[LOMEtERS 0      40        0                                                                            -  -   u   road   uncder constructo
MILFC 0        '        O4C      00              ' 7    >0                         1   p9          *                  o= us av roads, prnpased
>   \   8    (    *  )>mbs   2                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Princpal gravel ana earth roads
<   _  _r;  ;<       zz                            0C3.8ods being studiod
gX          daar..........  R roues
!   - ( A/GR AHJE8R    * A   ::}         D                  +~~~~~~~ Aerparts with soneduled services
)   * t  H       s    Ar lor~~~                             ~~~~~~~~ - S   Dsnr no orceadrinstule  e-r
\   S REGg GX   SS15y9;   \                    ~         ~~~~~~ -=- RFqiuraol ujdo nes
b-ggPkw3ndeni                                    . j <--.r'orrot,urd boudures
12     Z    A      M.  B    I   A                 ;ssteima&         rikangawa.,                                                                                   120  , 
NIA
N    J                          f< )~~~~~ t  '\Yat, Den
i             /       .S~~~~~ f ~ 'N         p=AlDSTnS w   \
.--,   \\  . FlS ,J  Koss:  g   O        Nk kofa   MJZA M                                U-   -
A ~ ~~t  ---M9                                     , 9 ^ 0MOZAh B I A              
,, A  S             9..  .                                       t
M 0 Z A MB I                   urQmhaVE
\  )2  -. s    ^  A    4 <   <  L ' M A"     -jS    \       I~~L h',,q
/I   Ie---i   -  S;,>[SI/
ch,p.,.  H 14 J I      n~ ~ ~~~~JTrioorsoeoroooco
MO -Z AM  B                                    >. ,'j              r            t                                                 -
'   (       J           ~          ~~~~~~~ Mo    ',d4T5<  A   h     AG O C                a S .r' oO ,;o aO,, 
ro                     Osi                      \V0         hFSJlo        a ,    \     /c A                cab
j Q        tAW     9                                  ,         *'           t:lk S  (9          Isn::  
>\lMl  )08    0                                                            5 Ju  a  iJ(J
I~~~~~~~~~ _                            -   _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _ _ _ - _                          z u                    3                              7d  u     - O;,,,  
~~~~~~~~~~M l       ,--.3 C,A.kE  rmL- .,d tG.  1'
W ,  E  _  )  -A'  < t \<" \'' \ ' g hyo f _roOtser .-', _r 3 c-prarcn vI 2E'l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Lli A-.CwA  Lt  Lh       Te  <I h .4IW T.\EJ .
Z4tA;4_   1    s>      '-                 \       zffl    d  't- {, *        N,
L_ -- I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.                                                                   's ;fSP{9W






__________   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IRED 6843
* PEOPLE'SRP4        REALZVIA                      444IT-.                                                                      Q         N<4%       M4h4
OF THECONGO  '      -      _-i.                                                                                                             N    4.
Po4n4. N             X ,           ;I   ~_ tNs~s~                                            _ _                                                  9ZAIRE>
ANGOLAEog'
$ RR_ | \ i Ymm-<i_ ' 5 t \ K Mb,go                             P4440,4.
- -                                                                   K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K _  >   t  4   ts  r <v,   TANZANIA
/MA \    MOZAMBIQUE
FRANCl$7Ko4-4
r4   BOTSWANA
1   ~   ~AZ'    OZAMBIQUEN  )                          '
*      AFRIA           4REGIONAL TRANSPORT FACILITIES    44
M    -R 44K
-NAMIBIA   j  4.444414444M --,
CAPE TOWN                               -    44'! AIl \44d
r- i     -         B        OTSWo~ANA~                     t                          'e. \         44  t4,)
.                  4u B l s        44               44'              44 '4                              44' -44'nn sb r                    4.URb>
X                                 -1A         +      W2LNw                           OL7FS AR.g
-2aj                     X ;       o  g       $                          FI                               2RGI:hA    RNP2    AIIIS                                    2-



l



IBRD 16847
*  ,RRVESSVV  ~~~~~~~~  34* ~JA~NLARY   1-983
dE                                                       ~~~~~~MALAWI
-~~  CI,r,po  *                ~SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER SUPPLY
-v                  ~AND POLICY PROGRAM
Koron~~~o  -i~~                          FertilizerFlw
BOUNDARIES  FGRSE      TUADEVELOPMENT DIVISIONS
ABRID.DURA
ADHEADGUARTERS
CBiibn~~~~~b4                   VRGOA  ANII LAKE TRANSPORT
Hors;                              RAIL TRANVSPRT
MkNOe                                        MAIN ROADS
f                      ,-+--R-T   ~~~~~~RAILWAYS
-                 -J'--    R~~~~~~~IVERS
INTRERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(JR IDAA M                                                     B I   Q UR
NI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ION
145
f., fh ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                H             N1RRIft 
-d-  Id 1~ -1-111Y W thK ogb
-  f Th~~~~~    B-k                                                                        ch                                                                          10 V'I,2)AMPVlR[
'- CI-h-, ._                             _      _     _     _
.,y xdg-t I, th. 1 ~ ~ ~ ~       ~     ~      ~     ~      O    i6 I,         14ll                              SNA
.1  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y~~~~~3






3________ 3I BRD 16848
32~~~  - TO OOREOS01 ~ ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~       ~VM                    JANUJARY 1983
'7 V _ 9.9,,,9,             /iNMALAWI
-A Cht'Lpa                                              SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER SUPPLY
V-v f   '                    AND POLICY PROGRAM
Smoliholder Fertilizer Distribution
~.                        ,                        ' _\ s j t \BOUNDARIES  OF AGRICULTURAL  DEVELOPMEN T  DIVISIONS
' , 1   7  <'  tX   ,;t       T  7              A       ADD HEAD(UARTERS
\   |   \   '> t i:  ~ ChIIornRi               V )     MAJOR ADMARC FERTILIZER SALES POINTS
0 JD                                  kond-g                             PERCENTAGE SF TOTAL FERTILIZER
READUIREMENTS (19R2/83)
NOwa                          -    MAIN ROAOS
(   2             .>t             /   X      :            D         l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F-  R AILVVAYS
(/.                 7               )              -jU    I   .-. ,.   RIVERS
)   t  R u p                               -*-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Z    A    Ml ~B    I   A                j Mz,mba4J             2             ;IKOMA     -h
12'                                                                           1        A                                                             12
. SSE_f                  ' ~~~~~CHJZiUMU
I_   *t G__;                          | ISLAND
I                    )-sr~ / <,,gpJ   \ - k    M  0  Z A  M  B  I    U  E
a)~~                  ~~~ --                                       MOZA  9/V,,,khBIQUE(    ,
0;                           (j   1 2 8 '- -z,    KR0- 4-asunu w
4   </-<J            7<=  / e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIOG2WE \p a.ko    ya\                                                              14'
zAbS  A                                                     i I  Q\B                                        d aAn h-      s
M                      0 25  40                                            ) 0
L~~~~~L  I  I  -'MILES~~~~~~ P.'N -d-1,-1__'l
--   --  20<a   40_ ES    58Chir                                           t 1 RD    40160   _dh
)ANGOLA                                                             I                                                                  tT1  ,,* ); pno  W,,rW a,, and thl
\NAMHBIA j          _ %             _       v                                             )nud
Igk   OrSWANA.                          o  ,                           '4F       \ u           ; 
2T 0   %< /    \2        0       ~~~~~~~~~~~20  60   \0 140  -6



