Document of
The World Bank                                IE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3469-MAI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$5.0 MILLIO%
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
MARCH 28, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit              Malawi Kwacha (K)
SDR 1.00               =   US$1.08995
US$ 1.00               =   K 1.10
K   1.00                   US$ 0.91
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 metre                =   39.37 inches
1 kilometer (1,000   =    0.62 miles
meters)
1 kilometer            =    0.39 sq. miles
ACRONYMS
CMS     -         Central Medical Stores
MCH     -         Maternal and Child Health
MOH     -         Ministry of Health
MOWS    -         Ministry of Works and Supplies
PHAM    -         Private Hospitals Association of Malawi
PHC     -         Primary Health Care
UNFPA   -         United Nations Fund for Population Activities
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
BORROWER:                Republic of Malawi
BENEFICIARY:             Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
AMOUNT:                  SDR 4.6 Million (US$ 5.0 million equivalent)
TERMS:                   Standard IDA
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:    The proposed project would be the first in the
fertilizer sub-sector and be co-financed with
IFADo It is designed to increase the productivity
of the smallholder by ensuring the reliable and
timely availability of fertilizer throughout
Malawi. Specifically, the project would help the
Government realize this objective by: (a)
improving the Agricultural Development and
Marketing Corporation's (ADMARC) procedures for
procuring and distributing fertilizer; (b)
establishing a fertilizer revolving fund; (c)
strengthening the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and ADMARC; and (d)
setting in motion a process to bring about
productive reform of relevant sector policies. MOA
would have overall responsibility for project
implementation. About 400,000 farm families would
benefit from the project. The project would also
enable MOA to monitor and evaluate data on
fertilizer use and crop responses in order to
develop specific recommendations for individual
crops, locations and categories of farmers. The
primary risk is the possible delay in fertilizer
arrival, but yields would have to be near
non-fertilized yields for the net present economic
value to be negative. Since a major component of
the project is the development of an effective and
timely procurement system, this risk is not
expected to adversely affect the viability of the
project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i~i -
ESTIMATED COST:                    Local       Foreign      Total
---------US$millions---------
Revolving Fund                      3.7         23.7          27.4
Technical Assistance                0.2          1.0           1.2
Base Costs               4.0         24.6          28.6
Price Contingencies                 0.5          0.9           1.4
Total Project Costs                4.5         25.5         30.0
(Taxes and duties are negligible)
FINANCING PLAN:                    Local      Foreign       Total
U--------TJS$millions    …
IDA                                 0.0         5.0           5.0
IFAD                                0.0         10.3         10.3
Government                          2.0          0.7          2.7
ADMARC                              2.5          9.5          12.0
4.5        25.5          30.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS (IDA ONLY)
-------------US$million      …
1984    1985    1986    1987
Annual                              3.2     1.1      0.4     0.3
Cumulative                          3.2     4.3      4.7     5.0
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN             Exceeding 50 percent
APPRAISAL REPORT:                   No. 4309-MAI, dated March 28, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for SDR 4.6 million (US$5.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance the Smallholder
Fertilizer Supply and Policy Project. The project will be co-financed with
the International Fund for Agricultural Development.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Malawi: Growth and Structural Change, A Basic
Report" (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. Annexes to the report were
distributed on June 26, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about six
million people in 1981) landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources, a climate
favorable to crop production, and a hard-working population. Unlike its
neighbors, Malawi has no known substantial mineral resources.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$200 and has been
identified by the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries,
its progress since independence, measured against its natural resources,
has been significant. GDP at constant prices grew at an average annual
rate of 6 percent between 1964 and 1979. During the same period, real
growth of estate agriculture and manufacturing exceeded 10 percent per
annum and export volume grew at 4.5 percent per annum. A steadily
increasing investment rate (rising from 9 percent of GDP at independence to
33 percent in 1979) has been supported by heavy inflows of official and
private external capital as well as by a significant increase in domestic
savings (from virtually nil in 1964 to 14 percent of GDP in 1979).
5.        Malawi's development success has been due largely to the realis-
tic and purposeful policies of the Government.  Public investment has been
intended primarily to support private initiative in the directly productive
sectors by providing infrastructure, public utilities and support ser-
vices. The Government has emphasized smallholder agriculture, as about
90 percent of the population lives in the rural areas and depends on agri-
culture for its livelihood. The Government has thus undertaken a number of
integrated rural development projects, and, more recently, has embarked on
the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), an ambitious 20-year program
for extending services to smallholders countrywide. The Government's
decision to emphasize directly productive sectors and infrastructure has
resulted in relatively slower development of social services.



- 2 -
6.        Under the Government's current five-year investment program,
22 percent of total public investment has been allocated for agriculture,
36 percent for transport, 10 percent for education, 11 percent for water
and health, and 22 percent for miscellaneous investments. These
allocations are appropriate and reflect the Government's continued emphasis
on smallholder development and transport, and the increased importance of
manpower development.
7.        The 1977 population census revealed that population grew at
2.9 percent per annum during the previous 10 years. Projecting the same
growth rate for the remainder of the century, Malawi's population would
almost double by the year 2000. This high rate has important implications
for the labor/land ratio, as Malawi's population density, about 140 persons
per sq km of agricultural land, already is among the highest in Africa and,
by the year 2000, will rise to 273 persons per sq km. Only 35 percent of
land area is suitable for cultivation and the available arable land is
almost fully utilized.
8.        Traditionally, the Malawian Government has been pronatalist.
Recently the Government adopted a birth spacing policy which recognizes the
health risks of repeated pregnancies and the right of choice of family
planning. To this end, it intends to permit family planning services to be
provided within the family health context by properly trained staff at
health facilities. We intend to assist Government in its new initiative by
including family planning services in the proposed health project and
through our sector work, by helping delineate the linkages between
population and development as a foundation for formulating, over the longer
term, a comprehensive population policy.
9.        Malawi's economic performance during the past 15 years was
impressive. However, its economy is heavily dependent on three primary
commodity exports (tea, sugar and tobacco) and is highly vulnerable to
international price fluctuations. Since 1974, there have been periodic
balance of payments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a)
rapid escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate
and capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, sugar
and tea; and (c) significantly higher costs of transport for exports and
imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in
Mozambique, and disruptions of overland transport.
10.       While the Government successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable.  For reasons outside Malawi's
control, the deficits in both the trade and non-factor services grew
rapidly. Between 1977-1980 Malawi's terms of trade feLl by 40 percent.
While export prices declined by 16 percent (due mainly to falling tea and
tobacco prices), import prices rose by 39 percent, partly because of the
steep increase in prices of petroleum products. The petroleum import bill
more than doubled, raising its share in total imports from 8.5 percent in
1977 to almost 11 percent in 1980. In more recent years (1980, 1981),
agriculture production suffered from the recurring drought and reducing
export volumes, necessitating large imports of maize, EL commodity in which



- 3 -
Malawi had been self-sufficient during most of the 1970s. Finally,
during 1979 Malawi lost its principal access to the sea following sabotage
acts on rail lines in Mozambique. Disruptions of the transport system
through Mozambique have continued. Malawi's only alternative has been to
use air freight and road haulage as principal means of transport for
exports and imports, both of which are much more costly than rail
transport. As a result of these developments which started in 1978,
Malawi's current account deficit deteriorated sharply. From an annual
average of about 8-9 percent of GDP in the mid 1970s, it rose to 18 percent
in 1978 and 24 percent in 1979 before falling to 12 percent in 1981.
Capital inflows did not cover current accounts deficits and foreign
exchange reserves fell from the equivalent of over five months of imports
to less than two months between 1977-1981.
11.       Malawi's fiscal position has also seriously deteriorated.  From
independence through 1977/78, government expenditures and revenues expanded
roughly in line with the increases in GDP, and deficits rarely exceeded
8-9 percent of GDP. In the past four years, expenditure growth has
outstripped the increase in revenues and the share of government deficits
in GDP averaged 15.6 percent in 1978/79-81/82. The underlying cause of
these deficits was the increase in government expenditure to around
35 percent of GDP compared to an average 26 percent for the previous six
years. Increases in domestic borrowing, mainly from the monetary system,
and in foreign borrowing, partly on commercial terms, were required to
finance the rising budget deficits. Inflationary pressures grew and prices
rose at an average rate of almost 14 percent per annum between 1979 and
1981.
12.       Because of the Government's limited ability to mobilize
resources, the appreciable expansion of Malawi's development program over
the past decade has been financed in large part by increased public capital
inflows. The net contribution from foreign official sources to the
financing of public investment increased from US$17 million in FY68, to
about US$105 million in FY82, of which about US$48 million were grants.
However, borrowing on commercial terms now accounts for about 50 percent of
total borrowing.
13.       By the end of 1981, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$687 million. Debt service in 1981 (including
repayments to the IMF) amounted to over US$100 million, equivalent to
almost 30 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services (or 26
percent excluding repayments to the IMF). This compares to a level of
about 10 percent in the mid 70s.  As commercial borrowing increased,
average terms of borrowing have hardened in recent years. The average
grant element of external loans is now 40 percent compared with 80 percent
during 1971-75.
14.       The Government and the IMF agreed to a new standby program for
SDR 22 million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aims at reducing both the balance of payments current



account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involve phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on Government external commercial borrowing. Implementation of
the standby is proceeding satisfactorily.
15.       These short term measures are complemented by a medium term
structural adjustment program on which the Government embarked in 1981.
The program's principal objectives are to diversify Mqalawi's export base,
encourage efficient import substitution, adjust income policies, improve
the public sector's financial performance and strengthen economic planning
and monitoring. The Bank's first structural adjustment loan for US$45
million was made in June 1981.  Nonetheless, despite substantial
international support for Malawi, the country's cred:Ltworthiness will
continue to deteriorate in the immediate future. On the basis of loans
committed by mid-1981 and of additional capital requirements for the period
1982-83, Malawi's debt service is projected to reach over 40 percent in
1982 (including repayments to the IMF). To reduce the hump in payments due
in 1982-84 and to keep debt servicing within reasonable bounds, Malawi has
recently rescheduled most of its commercial and official debt. Malawi's
creditworthiness is, however, expected to improve in the medium term if the
structural adjustment program is implemented successfully.  While external
borrowing is expected to remain high to make up for the shortages in
domestic funds to finance Malawi's development prograLm (in FY82, e.g.,
domestic contribution to capital expenditures was only 27. percent), export
growth is expected to average about 14 percent a year in nominal terms
during the next five years. This would reduce the debt service ratio to an
average of 25 percent over the period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NALAWI
16.       Over the past 17 years, Malawi has received 26 IDA credits
totalling around US$309 million and seven Bank loans totalling
US$75 million, of which two were on Third Window terms. Of the Bank Group
assistance, some US$105.5 million (27 percent) was for agriculture,
US$45 million (12 percent) for structural adjustment, US$107.5 million
(28 percent) for human resources development, US$65 million (17 percent)
for highways, US$38 million (11 percent) for power development, US$3
million (one percent) for a development finance company (INDEBANK), and the
balance of US$13 million (four percent) for water supply, technical
assistance and to finance feasibility studies for a wood industries
project. The first Bank loan to Malawi was made on Tlhird Window terms in
June 1976, and the first standard Bank loan in April 1977. The most recent
operation, a US$10.6 million equivalent credit for the fourth phase of the
National Rural Development Program (NRDP) was schedulesd to be presented to
the Board for approval on April 5, 1983.
17.       IFC's investments in Malawi consist of a loan of US$10.8 million
for a textile mill, another of US$9.9 million for the Dwangwa sugar mill, a
US$0.6 million equity investment in INDEBANK, and a US$2.0 million loan to
Malawi Hotels Limited for tourism. A US$262,000 equity investment and a



- 5 -
loan of US$1.7 million for the production of ethanol from molasses were
approved in July 1980; another loan of US$0.5 million for ethanol
production was approved in February 1982. Project implementation has been
generally satisfactory. However, due to depressed world sugar prices, the
Dwangwa Sugar Corporation is experiencing financial difficulties and has
approached IFC and other project lenders for rescheduling. A summary
statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects are provided in Annex II.
18.       During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be closely tailored to help Malawi restructure its economy,
especially to improve agricultural productivity and the efficiency and
effectiveness of public and private enterprises. Towards this end, a
second structural adjustment operation is planned for FY84.  It is expected
to continue to improve the incentives for smallholders, increase efficiency
in the productive sectors, better mobilize and manage resources and improve
institutions. Further investments in transport, human resource
development, health and housing are contemplated as well as a wood
processing project and a second line of credit to the INDEBANK. The Bank
Group's economic and sector work will build on the previous studies (basic
economic report, sector work on energy, health and NRDP, etc.) by focusing
on five high priority areas which will, over the medium term, help Malawi
improve its economic performance: (a) agricultural productivity; (b) public
sector management; (c) external transport; and (d) the cost effectiveness
of the social sectors.
19.       At the end of 1981, the Bank accounted for 7.6 percent and IDA
and the Bank combined for 29,6 percent of Malawi's outstanding and
disbursed medium- and long-term public debt. Service on the Bank Group
debt accounted for 5.0 percent of the total debt service. In 1985, the
IDA/Bank share is projected to be about 15 percent of the total debt
service. Major multilateral creditors, in addition to the Bank Group, were
the African Development Fund and the European Investment Bank. Other
lenders include syndicated groups of commercial banks and South African
suppliers. Bilateral lending has mainly been from Canada, the United
Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States.
Disbursements
20.       Disbursements of Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi
generally have kept close to schedule. As of December 31, 1982, disbursed
funds equalled 76 percent of the total amount of effective loans and
credits. Nine of the 11 Bank and IDA-financed projects yet to be completed
were within 6 months of achieving the disbursement levels scheduled at
appraisal. Of the two remaining projects, only one - the US$7.0 million
Blantyre Water Supply Project -- is likely to remain appreciably behind
schedule. As of December 31, 1982, disbursements totalled US$4.5 million
although they were scheduled at appraisal to be virtually complete.
However, all the contracts being financed by IDA now have been awarded and
the improvement in disbursements over the past several months should
continue.



-6-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
21.       Agriculture is the most important sector of the Malawi economy,
engaging about 85 percent of the working population, accounting for 45
percent of wage employment , 40 percent of GDP and 89 percent of export
earnings in 1981. Malawi's soils are relatively fertile and fairly
reliable rainfall permits a variety of food and cash crops to be grown, but
the population growth rate is high and population densities are already
amongst the highest in Africa. In many areas, little uncultivated arable
land remains available and the future welfare of the nation will
increasingly have t:o depend upon the ability of the farming community to
increase its productivity of both food and cash crops.  For a number of
crops this will be heavily dependent upon the availability and application
of appropriate technical information combined with a reliable supply of
agricultural inputs, of which fertilizer is the most important.
22.       Malawi's agricultural production derives from two sub-sectors,
smallholder agriculture and estate agriculture (which is principally under
private management). In 1981 the smallholder sub-sector accounted for
about 80 percent of all agricultural production, meeting the country's
demand for food staples (maize, rice, beans, cassava, sweet potatoes,
groundnuts, sorghum and millets), providing some export surplus (tobacco,
groundnuts, tea, coffee and guar beans) and certain raw materials for
domestic industry (cotton and fire-cured tobacco). However, the export
surplus from this sub-sector comprises only about 20 percent of all
agricultural exports and it is the estate sub-sector which has functioned
as the principal earner of foreign exchange with exports of tobacco, sugar,
tea, tung oil, coffee and macadamia nuts. In 1981, tobacco provided the
largest share of agricultural exports (48%), followed by sugar (26%), tea
(12%) and groundnuts (4%). Maize has been imported and exported during
years of deficit and surplus, but present policy is to aim for
self-sufficiency backed up by strategic reserves. Agricultural production
in 1982 was characterized by a very extensive shift, induced by prices
fixed by Government, by the smallholder sub-sector from export crop
production (particularly tobacco and groundnuts) to maize with resultant
heavy purchases of surplus maize by ADMARC; by the conasiderable increases
(also price-induced) in burley tobacco production; and by the very low
world market prices for sugar.
23.       The estate sub-sector is generally efficient and has averaged a
growth rate of 10 percent in real terms since 1973. However, the
sub-sector is heavily concentrated on only three commodities: tobacco,
sugar and tea. Several factors will constrain future growth of these crops
and thus the growth rate of the estate sector is unlikely to be maintained
and may well decelerate unless greater diversification can be pursued. In
this regard, the production of macadamia nuts, coffee, irrigated wheat and
oilseeds offer considerable potential. In any event, Malawi will have to
look, increasingly, to the smallholder sub-sector to broaden the export
base still further while maintaining its traditional role of providing food
and employment for a rapidly growing population.



- 7 -
24.       Smallholder output is estimated to have been expanding at about
three percent per annum in real terms (equal to the rate of population
growth) in recent years. Better performance by the smallholder sub-sector
has been constrained by (a) poor incentives provided by low
Government-controlled producer prices to smallholders; (b) the transfer of
labor and cultivable land to the estate sub-sector; and (c) over the last
three crop seasons by an increasingly untimely and limited availability of
fertilizers.
25.       While not contributing to export earnings, the livestock industry
contributes significantly to domestic protein requirements and offers
considerable potential for future production increases. The cattle herd is
estimated to be growing at 4.4 percent and grazing areas are being steadily
reduced through the expansion of crop production. Cattle are typically
raised by traditional methods and are often considered as a source of
wealth rather than as a farm enterprise. Overstocking is becoming
appreciable in some areas and will probably worsen unless the current
offtake of 10 percent can be improved. Malawi still imports much of its
dairy products, although recent progress in local production has been
impressive.
Agricultural Extension and Research
26.       Crop and animal health extension services are provided by
Government to the smallholder sub-sector, though recent performance of the
sub-sector tends to indicate that these services have provided only a
marginal stimulus to agricultural development, in part due to lack of
incentives to farmers. As a result, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has
restructured its extension into 180 Extension Planning Areas based on
ecological principles and administrative boundaries. For the most part,
extension staff now work with groups of farmers and a modified system of
extension is being introduced. The extension service has been greatly
expanded over the last few years and although still generally lacking in
experience, they are well-motivated and disciplined and the effectiveness
of the service should steadily increase with increased training, regular
funding and with the improved methods.
27.       Training facilities for farmers (both men and women) have been
steadily expanded under the NRDP with several levels of courses available
at farm institutes, residential training centers and day centers. There
are three farm institutes and 22 residential centers; day training centers
are being steadily developed at the Extension Planning Area level. Only
limited evidence exists on the impact training programs have on farm
operation, production and productivity. Some residential training center
participants have adopted practices learned in courses, but much wider
adoption will need to be pursued. This will require improved focussing of
training programs combined with more effective field follow-up, two aspects
which are to receive increased attention under the NRDP.
28.       Agricultural research is carried out by the Department of
Agricultural Research (DAR) of MOA, the Faculty of Agriculture of the
University of Malawi, the Tea Research Foundation, and the Tobacco Research



- 8 -
Authority. The DAR is a full-time research department with national
tesponsibilities covering all crops and livestock as well as seed
multiplication, seed certification and phytosanitary services.  The DAR has
conducted some very relevant and effective research, although there has
been a lack of translation of such research results into extension messages
and the linkages between extension and research need strengthening. The
organization and structure of DAR has recently been reviewed by the
International Service for National Agricultural Research and an internal
MOA program of review is now underway with the overall objective of
improving the effectiveness of agricultural research.
Agricultural Marketing and Input Supply
29.       The Agriciultural Development and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC)
is a statutory company established to purchase smallholder crops, to sell
food crops and to sell and deliver crop production inputs (seeds,
fertilizer, agricultural chemicals and farm implements).  ADMARC operates a
national network of marketing sheds and storage facilities for these
purposes. In addition, ADMARC invests in agriculturaL and agro-industrial
enterprises and pays/charges prices as agreed and authorized by the Price
Commission of the Malawi Government. The authorized prices have permitted
ADMARC to realize profits on a number of its crops (mainly non-food), but
recently higher transport costs and improper crop handling, combined with
higher costs of borrowing for large investments, have resulted in
substantial losses. Nevertheless, it is one of the more effective crop
marketing parastatals in Eastern Africa. With its new management and
extensive market infrastructure reinforced by Government's recently
announced action plan to strengthen the Corporation, it has the potential
to provide excellent support to the smallholder sub-sector.
30.       As fertilizer accounts for a major proportion of seasonal
inputs, the timely procurement and distribution of fertilizer has been one
of ADMARC's important functions.  Despite the fact that fertilizer was sold
to the smallholder farmers at heavily subsidized prices (due to government
regulations to promote smallholder agriculture), ADMARC was able to bear
the cost of such subsidies because of reasonably high profitability from
its crop trading operation, up to 1977/78. Since then, however, its
financial position has been severely weakened by adverse trends in crop
marketing and the Government imposed responsibility to subsidize the sale
and distribution of maize. Some of these costs have been offset in
previous years by large profits on tobacco sales. In addition to the sharp
decline in ADMARC's profitability since 1979, there has also been a erosion
of its liquidity. The liquid reserves built up by ADMARC out of trading
profits up to 1978 were invested outside the organization in unprofitable
development projects, in unsecured loans and in commercial organizations
which did not bring any reasonable return. Most of the long-term loans and
investments of ADMARC (standing at a total of MK 65 million -- US$58.5
million -- in June 1982) have not produced any or acceptable dividends or
interest. Short-term loans, totalling MK 24 million (US$21.6 million), do
not bear any interest income and are mostly irrecoverable. ADMARC was used
as a conduit for onlending to Press Holdings and their ability to repay the



- 9-
loans has left ADMARC with the debt servicing liability without an
offsetting asset inflow. Furthermore, ADMARC has teen charged with
financial and operational responsibility of establishing and maintaining a
national strategic grain reserve. These problems are being addressed by
Government which has already instituted significant changes in ADMARC's
management and administration. Proposals to financially restructure Press
Holdings and ADMARC will be discussed with Government during appraisal of
the second structural adjustment operation. Once its operations are
rationalized and unprofitable investments disposed of, ADMARC is expected
to return to a position of financial health.
31.       Although the working capital position shown by ADMARC's balance
sheets appears sound, its liquidity position, particularly during the peak
crop buying/inputs procurement season, has been extremely critical.
Furthermore, due to the generally adverse position faced by the country's
two commercial banks, ADMARC's previously generous ovcrdraft facilities
havae been drastically curtailed. ADMARC's liquidity situation was so
adverse that it could not meet its full commitment toward procuring
smallholder fertilizer in 1981/82 which resulted in the Government of
Malawi providing MK 6 million for this purpose to augment ADMARC's tunds.
ADMARC's cash flow projections for 1982/83 reveal that it would be
impossible for ADMARC to provide even the reduced share of MK 12.46 million
for fertilizer procurement and distribution without external assistance or
increased borrowings from commercial banks which, as noted above, are not
available.
32.       Government has provided foreign exchange, as requested, for the
importation of fertilizer for both the smallholder and the estate
sub-sectors and there have been no restrictions imposed. Optichem, the
company which blends and distributes fertilizer to the estate sector,
estimates the incremental growth in fertilizer requirements for the estate
sub-sector and lets tenders for these estimated requirements. Optichem, in
which ADMARC has a 20 percent shareholding, has a -imited distribution
capacity and sells fertilizer directly to the sugar and tea estates and
through the Agricultural Trading Company to tobacco and other estates.
Fertilizer must be collected from their depots in Blantyre or Li'ongwe.
Optichem imports elemental fertilizers and blends the mixtures required;
approximately one-half of their sales (tonnage) are now of blended
materials. Optichem provides the granular mixtures ADMARC requires for the
smallholder tobacco producers (3,000 mt in 1980). In 1981/32 ADMARC and
Optichem marketed about 60 percent and 40 percent respectively of the
fertilizer sold in the country.
33.       Optichem has a blending plant with 40,000 mt annual capacity, of
which about 24,000 mt is currently utilized. In the interest of cost
savings, high analysis materials should be imported and blended to the
required local specifications. However, there is insufficient total
capacity to blend all the required fertilizers locally. With the
escalation of external transport constraints and as transport costs
increase, the economics of developing more blending capacity need to be
evaluated. In this regard the Bank plans a sector cum project
identification mission in mid-1983 (para 45).



- 10 -
Credit Services
34.       No central agricultural credit institution exists in Malawi.
Smallholders have access to seasonal and medium-term agricultural credit
through MOA's ruraL development projects, which have their own credit funds
and credit staff. Very small amounts of credit are also processed through
the settlement schemes under MOA (comprising 100-200 farmers at most) and
through the Loans Board under the Ministry of Trade and Industry. A high
proportion of seasonal credit is for fertilizer. Credit volume through the
Agricultural Development Divisions (ADD) has increased over the last five
years from MK 2.4 m to Mk 5.6 m. In 1980/81, about 26 percent of farmers
in the major NRDP projects received seasonal credit and the present credit
supply is estimated at about 60 percent of effective demand.  New projects
providing credit have recently started, and some rea:Llocation of funds
between projects is being considered. Most seasonal credit to smallholders
has been through self-accounting groups at 10 percent per annum; seasonal
credit is also available to non-self accounting groups at 15 percent per
annum. Repayment rates have been high at approximately 98-99 percent.
Medium-term credit is available at 10 percent per year, repayable over a
five year period. Repayment is less satisfactory at 60-80 percent since
there is no systematic method of debt collection as there is for seasonal
credit.
Agricultural Development Strategy
35.       The Government is providing a growth climate for both smallholder
and estate production in order to support its overall strategy of
maintaining of self-sufficiency in food staples while expanding of
agricultural exports and improving in rural incomes. In the past,
improvement in smallholder productivity was attempted through restricted
but relatively expensive and management-intensive integrated development
projects based on four intensively settled and potentially highly
productive areas. This was balanced with the gradual improvement of
extension, land husbandry and farmer training throughout the rest of the
customary farming areas augmented by small, low cost rural development
projects and by special activities and programs (e.g., ox-training, dairy
development, tea development).
36.       In the mid-1970s, the NRDP was formulated to provide a more
extensive level of services to the whole smallholder sub-sector within a
twenty year period. Resources were to be concentrated on the more
immediately productive aspects of agricultural investment and the NRDP was
designed to increase smallholder productivity through the provision of
agricultural inputs and farm services and to increase the efficiency and
scope of extension, input supply, marketing and credit services. Emphasis
was also placed on soil conservation, watershed management and on
afforestation. Many donors, including the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) and IDA are assisting the Malawi Government
with the NRDP and by 1982 approximately 50 percent of the planned NRDP
Projects had received some investment in development activities. The NRDP



- 11 -
was intensively reviewed by IDA and Government in 1981 and it was
recommended that future investments to NRDP should focus on agricultural
extension and research, credit for inputs, land husbandry, water supplies,
animal husbandry, marketing facilities, farmer and staff training and
evaluation. The review also highlighted the need for intensification of
efforts to develop acceptable subsistence crop technical packages which
could be integrated into the improved farming system. The review concluded
that Malawi's performance on rural development projects had been quite
satisfactory and a good framework existed for implementing integrated
agricultural programs.
37.       The development of the livestock sub-sector has been pursued
within the confines of the area rural development projects through both
local animal husbandry and disease control programs. The Government has
now decided to consider the future development of this sub-sector in a
national context and will shortly be carrying out a National Livestock
Policy and Program study with the assistance of IDA.
38.       The estate sub-sector has been left largely in the hands of the
private sector with Government assistance limited to that of providing a
favorable investment climate. Considerable transfers of customary land in
areas suitable for the production of flue and burley tobacco have been
made, taxes have been moderate and most importantly, a deliberate low-wage
policy has contributed to the continuing competitiveness of Malawi's
exports. However, most of the growth of the estate sub-sector has arisen
from expansion into customary land rather than from productivity increases
and in the last few years a number of (e.g., management) problems have
caused a slowing down in the growth rate of the sector.
Constraints and Potential
39.       Agricultural development in Malawi is constrained by limited
arable land, vulnerable and high cost international transport through its
import/export routes, increasing shortages of fuelwood and insufficient
skilled manpower and management. On the other hand, a moderately fertile
soil and a range of favorable ecological zones enable the successful
cultivation of a wide range of food and cash crops. This potential is
enhanced by a hard-working rural population and by the Government's
emphasis on an agro-based development strategy. Over the past decade,
increased food requirements for the increasing population have been largely
met through expansion of the area under cultivation, involving cultivation
of marginal areas and reduction of fallow periods with consequent
*          deterioration in soil fertility and increasing erosion.  The adoption of
improved maize packages by smallholders has been impressive in the past few
years and some farmers have achieved considerable yield increases.
However, much technical information generated by research remains untapped,
offering the potential for further increases in yields and diversity of
cropping. The potential, therefore, exists for considerable increases in
productivity, particularly as regards food production, with realization
likely to be heavily dependent upon the delivery of appropriate technical
advice, timely and adequate inputs and incentive producer prices.



- 12 -
40.       The operational unpredictability of the porits and railways of
Mozambique due to problems of age, poor maintenance and poor management
have been exacerbated in recent years by sabotage.  The agriculture sector
has been hurt through the disruption of both export marketing and
importation of agricultural inputs, of which fertilizer is by far the most
important. Adequate and timely flows of fertilizer wiLlI be critical to the
achievement of the steady increases in productivity required; over the last
three seasons, flows have been increasingly unsatisfactory due, in large
part, to the external transport constraints. There is potential for
development of alternative external routes and early action on this may be
critical for agricultural growth.
41.       Expansion of fire-cured tobacco is constrained by the shortage of
fuelwood required in their production processes. The potential for
increased fuelwood production by estates is high and 25 to 50 percent
savings in consumption can also be effected through installation of
modified grates and chimneys. The Government is developing a pilot project
to determine the most cost-effective ways of achieving these savings.
42.       The lack of skilled labor and experienced management does pose a
constraint to the development of both the smallholder and estate
subsectors. The acute shortage of trained and experienced manpower in both
the public and the private sectors means that improvement will of necessity
be a long-term process. External technical assistance will continue to
have to be relied upon to fill key posts and to provide in-service
training.
43.       The steady realization of increased productivity is particularly
constrained at present by problems of timely and adequate fertilizer
delivery and by imbalances in producer pricing between cash and food
crops. The removal of the former constraint will be the principal
objective of this Project while the latter constraint is being addressed
through continued dialogue between Government and the Bank on appropriate
agricultural pricing in the context of the Government's overall structural
adjustment program.
Bank Group Assistance in the Agricultural Sector
44.       Assistance for the Smallholder Fertilizer project would be the
13th Loan/Credit in the agricultural sector to Malawi, eleven of which were
for area-based integrated rural development projects and one for a wood
energy project. The integrated rural development projects provided
essential infrastructure (roads, water, health facilities, markets, etc.),
land improvement and conservation measures, improved extension, training,
research and farm credit. The Bank Group has extended three credits for
the Lilongwe Land Development projects, three for the Shire Valley
Agricultural Development projects and two credits and a Third Window loan
for the Karonga Rural Development project. In addition, three credits for
NRDP have been extended, two (NRDP I and III) to complete the consolidation
phases of the Lilongwe (Credit 857-MAI) and Karonga (Credit 1286-MAI) Rural



13 -
Development Programs and to begin development in contiguous areas. NRDP IV
will extend rural development to the Lilongwe North-East and Dedza Hills
locations in the Central Region. NRDP II (Credit 992-MAI), the wood energy
project, is establishing a national network of nurseries for production of
seedlings for sale to smallholders, strengthening forestry management and
carrying out studies of alternative sources of energy. Project Completion
and Project Performance Audit Reports have commented favorably on Malawi's
area-based projects. Substantial production increases have been achieved
and initial management and staffing problems have been largely overcome.
Subsequent phases of NRDP projects have addressed weaknesses in planning,
coordination among extension, veterinary and research staff, development of
appropriate technical packages for specific areas, diversification into new
high-value crops, conservation and land use. With increased producer
prices and timely availability of essential inputs, smallholder output is
expected to almost double in the 1980s.
Bank Group Strategy
45.       The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first investment
in the fertilizer sub-sector. However, while it will ensure the reliable
and timely availability of imported fertilizer for smallholders and will
strengthen ADMARC's institutional capacity, further sector work is required
to evaluate the domestic processing options available to Malawi. Malawi is
presently considering installing a relatively small electrolysis based
fertilizer project to produce calcium ammonium nitrate. It has asked for
Bank assistance in evaluating this option vis-a-vis the option of
developing additional blending capacity. The increased costs of transport
and worsening balance of payments situation due to the high cost and
unreliability of the rail corridors through Mozambique make these options
increasingly attractive. A fertilizer sector cum project identification
mission is planned for mid-1983 to assess these possibilities in the light
of recent fertilizer demand forecasts. If a viable project is identified,
the Bank Group intends to support further developments in the sub-sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       The Government first approached the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) with a project proposal in July, 1982.
Based on an Inception Report prepared by IFAD for Government, the project
was appraised by IDA, on behalf of IFAD, in September/October 1982.
t          Subsequently, when it became apparent that there would be a likely
shortfall in IFAD's financial resources this fiscal year, the Government
requested IDA co-financing. Negotiations were held in Lilongwe, Malawi
from March 14 to 18, 1983. The Government delegation was led by Mr. J.R.
Phiri, Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance. IFAD participated as
observers to these negotiations. A Staff Appraisal Report is being
circulated separately. Annex III provides supplementary project data.



- 14 -
Project Objectives and Description
47.       The proposed project, the first in the fertilizer sub-sector in
Malawi, is designed to help increase smallholder productivity by ensuring
the reliable and timely availability of fertilizer throughout Malawi and by
strengthening the institutional support for the sector. Specifically the
project would, over a four-year period, help the Gov,ernment realize this
objective by:
(i)  improving ADMARC's procedures (paras. 29 to 33) for
procuring and distributing fertilizer;
(ii)  establishing a fertilizer revolving fund in the Reserve Bank
of Malawi;
(iii) strengthening the institutional capacity of MOA and ADMARC;
and
(iv)  setting in motion a process to bring about a reform of all
relevant policies through agreements on subsidies and
regular consultations on resource allocations, crop and
input pricing and measures to strengthen agricultural
research.
Project Area
48.       The project would cover the whole country and involve an
estimated 1.15 million farm families whose average farm size is about 2.5
ha. Based on various sample surveys, cash incomes of typical smallholder
families are in the US$ 50-100 range. If imputed subsistence incomes are
considered, farm incomes of the majority are still below the minimum
required to cover basic needs so that off-farm incomes must often be
sought. An estimated 300,000 ha. of farm land received some fertilizer in
1980/81 but there is considerable potential for expanded use of fertilizer
and improvement in crop husbandry practices. The project would be
implemented over a 4-year period from the 1983/84 crop season through
1986/87.
Detailed Features
Improvement of Procurement and Distribution Procedures
49.       At present procurement of adequate and timely supplies of
fertilizer is constrained by inefficient and uncoordinated procurement
procedures and distribution, inadequate finance and a weak institutional
capacity. (These deficiencies have been exacerbated lby increasing
operational difficulties on Malawi's traditional import routes.) The
proposed project would address these deficiencies and would re-establish
effective procurement, distribution and use of fertilizers by
smallholders. SpeciLfically, all purchases of fertilizer for smallholders



- 15 -
w^uld be coordinated by ADMARC and the introduction of international
bidding procedures would improve the competitiveness of the annual
tenders. To assist the MOA's Chief Agricultural Development Officer
in supplying accurate estimates of fertilizer demand on a timely basis, the
project would provide an agriculturalist to be financed by IFAD.
Considerable improvements would also be made at the ADD level tc obtain
field data on fertilizer usage/requirement. Coordination between ADMARC
and MOA would be strengthened, management decision-making expedited and
procedures streamlined. The provision of an IFAD-financed management
accountant to ADMARC would facilitate the coordination and implementation
of the complete procurement and distribution cycle (para. 53). A lead-time
of 18 months would be established to ensure the delivery of fertilizer on
time to the farmers and minimize congestion on the external transit
routes. The establishment of a separate and sufficient fund for the
financing of fertilizer would also expedite procurement by ensuring the
timely availability of the required finance.
Fertilizer Revolving Fund
50.       Procurement of adequate fertilizer has been severely constrained
by ADMARC's increasing illiquidity (para. 31). The availability of
adequate foreign exchange has not been a problem to date. The reservation
of sufficient funds is vital to the improvement of the system and to
provide this a Fertilizer Revolving Fund would be established by Government
and ADMARC in the Reserve Bank of Malawi with funds from Government,
ADMARC, IFAD and IDA. The Revolving Fund would be used exclusively to
finance the import of adequate fertilizer for smallWolders over the four
year project period. Local funds derived from fertilizer sales to
smallholders would be paid into the Fund. Costs related to transportation,
handling and distribution of fertilizers would, in the first place, be
borne by ADMARC who would then recover these costs in full from the Fund.
Government would make available, through the Reserve Bank, adequate foreign
exchange to enable the Fund to purchase foreign exchange each year with its
local currency for the importation of fertilizer. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that Government would deposit or cause ADMARC to
deposit sufficient funds in local or foreign exchange as may be required
each year for importation of fertilizer (Section 4.05(c) of the draft
Credit Development Agreement). The project would finance the foreign
exchange cost of importing the total fertilizer requirement (less the
carry-forward stocks) in the first year and the incremental amounts of
fertilizer thereafter. The Government would, as a condition of
effectiveness, establish the Fertilizer Revolving Fund in the Reserve Bank
w         and deposit an initial capital subscription (Section 7.01 (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The Fund would continue to be operated by
Government and ADMARC after the project period.



- 16 -
Strengthening Institutional Capacity
51.       To ensure effective and efficient implementation, the project
would provide for technical assistance and training of staff in the
relevant departments of the MOA or ADMARC in order to strengthen these two
organisations.   Eleven man years of technical assistance and four
man-months of consultancy services are included. Thet project also includes
two years of external specialist training for local staff. Emphasis will
be on in-service training. ADMARC's technical assistance needs were
identified through a management study financed under the first
Bank-financed Technical Assistance Loan (2027-MAI). The study recommended,
inter alia: (a) improving MOA and ADMARC's pricing policies through
enhanced planning and analysis; (b) re-establishing ADMARC's management and
financial control; (c) reducing marketing costs by cutting back on the
number of markets; and (d) improving monitoring, evaluation and training.
The report was accepted by Government in December, 1982 and provided the
basis for the institutional improvements.
52.       The project provides for the appointment of a 12 month
internationally recruited agricultural economist to work with the Planning
Division of MOA on price related issues. Agreement was reached that the
Government would, by September 1, 1983, employ an economist, satisfactory
to the Association and IFAD, and designated Malawian counterpart to work
with the economist (Section 4.02(b) and (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The economist would be responsible for helping carry out price
analyses on commodities produced by smallholders and generating parameters
to guide policy formulation. Short-term consultancies would also be
provided to assist in the analysis and interpretation of data collected on
agricultural progress at the farm level by the monitoring and evaluation
units established by MOA in the Agricultural Development Division and on
fertilizer availability, status of tenders and shipments by ADMARC. The
short-term consultancies would also assist in the evaluation of the impact
of pricing policies and in the development of management information
systems to improve fertilizer use.
53.       To assist in the operation of the Fertilizer Revolving Fund, a 48
month internationally recruited management accountant would be appointed to
the Fund Management Unit in ADMARC (Section 4.02(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The accountant would assume full
operational responsibility for the Fund in the first three years and
serve as an advisor in the last year. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that the appointment of an experienced, well-qualified management
accountant, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and
IFAD, would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). In view of the complex and extensive road,
rail and water transportation network maintained by ADMARC and the
importance of transport costs in relation to the total fertilizer cost to
the farmers, the project would provide for an internationally recruited



- 17 -
transport management specialist for two years to assist ADMARC in
developing plans for the least cost routing and supply and distribution of
agricultural inputs to the smallholder sub-sector. Agreement was reached
that the Government would, not later than September 1, 1983, employ the
transport specialist on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and IFAD
(Section 4.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       As fertilizer forms the major component in the technical packages
being recommended to smallholders, it is important to monitor and evaluate
data on fertilizer use and crop responses and to develop specific
recommendations for individual crops, locations and categories of farmers.
In order to assist MOA to successfully carry out these responsibilities,
the project would provide for a 48 month internationally recruited
agriculturist to be appointed not later than September 1, 1983 (Section
4.02(b) of the draft -evelopment Credit Agreement). The agriculturist
would have full operational responsibilities for the first three years and
act as an advisor for the last year of his tenure. Malawian counterparts
would be designated to work with each of the specialists.
Policy Analysis
55.       The project would set in motion a process to bring about a reform
of all relevant policies through agreements on major issues and through
regular consultations. Malawian smallholders have shown themselves to be
price responsive. The project would help ensure that the pricing of
fertilizer, and producer prices provide the appropriate incentive for
smallholders. This improvement in incentives for smallholders coupled with
a countrywide provision of services and inputs under NRDP is expected to
contribute to a significant rise in smallholder output.
56.       Fertilizer prices will be kept under constant review to ensure
that the present level of subsidies, which in 1981/82 were equivalent to
about 50 percent of the cost of fertilizer, would be completely phased out
by 1985/86 in line with the understanding already reached between the
Government and IMF. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the
Government would, in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the
Association and IFAD, take all necessary measures to remove existing levels
of subsidies based on the costs of fertilizer routed through Beira and
Nacala ports, and determine prices for farm products on the basis of a
methodology acceptable to IDA and IFAD (Section 4.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). It recently confirmed the schedule of
subsidy elimination: 50 percent of 1981/82 subsidy to be eliminated in
*          1982/83; 60 percent in 1983/84; 80 percent in 1984/85; and complete removal
in 1985/86. Following this schedule, the Government has already fulfilled
its 1982/83 committment.
57.       Prices of farm produce will also be reviewed with a view to
moving them toward farmgate parity prices. Presently, farm produce prices
are held below equilibrium price by government to smooth out world price
fluctuations, to offset cost of subsidized inputs, and to generate surplus
funds for ADMARC. Over the past two years, under the first structural
adjustment operation and preparations for a second, a methodology for



- 18 -
setting prices for smallholder crops has been developed which will provide
the incentive to expand both overall and export crop production. The
Government has made satisfactory progress in increasing the prices
established for the 1983 marketing season to approach export parity
pricing based on the jointly agreed methodology. In July 1982, they
increased prices for cotton and rice by 20 percent, groundnuts and
fire-cured tobacco by 50 percent while maize was unchanged, and later
anounced a second bonus of 15 percent for dark-fired tobacco. Recently the
Government further raised the guaranteed floor prices by increasing the
dark-fired tobacco and groundnuts prices by 50 percent, cotton by
20 percent and pulses by about 35 percent. These increases, which were
recommended by ADMAIRC's Board, represent a positive movement toward export
parity pricing and should further boost production and export by these cash
crops to their former levels.  To ensure that Government continues to
provide adequate smallholder incentives, agreement was reached under the
recent NRDP IV project that Government would continue to fix prices at
levels acceptable to the Association. These prices will also be carefully
monitored under this project.
58.       In addition, discussions would be held with Gcvernment on the
impact of non-price policies on fertilizer and smallholder production as
well as on the finances and restructuring of ADM4ARC. The project would
facilitate a continuious dialogue with Government on pricing and non-pricing
issues. Regular consultation would be held to review progress during joint
IDA/1FAD supervision missions, at least once every six months.  To the
extent possible, the principal policy-makers concerned (ADMARC, Ministries
of Finance and Agriculture and Economic Planning Division) would
participate.
Project Implementation
59.       The MOA and ADMARC would have overall responsibility for
implementing the project. However, the Ministry of Finance would
specifically be responsible for the establishment of the Fertilizer
Revolving Fund, for the annual budgetting and investment of the
Government's annual contribution to the Fund and for arranging the audit of
the Fund's accounts. The Department of Statutory Bodies would be
represented on the Fund's Management Committee and would be responsible for
maintaining their normal supervision and control procedures with regard to
ADMARC.  The Project would be closely linked to the crop production
programs of the NRDP.
60.       The project would be supervised by a Joint Management Committee
consisting of representatives from the Ministries of Finance and
Agriculture, the Department of Statutory Bodies, the Reserve Bank, the
Economic Planning Division of the Office of the President and Cabinet, and
ADMARC. Agreement was reached that the Committee would be established not
later than September 1, 1983 (Section 4.02(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). This high level policy-making Committee would review,
at least once every quarter, the status of the Fertilizer Revolving Fund,
the procurement, distribution and sales of fertilizers and the progress of
the technical assistance components of the project. The management
accountant would make regular reports at the reviews on the Fund's
operation. The Management Committee would also make recommendations to
government on policy matters pertaining to crop pricing,fertilizer
subsidies, foreign exchange allocations and fertilizer distribution
priorities.



- 19 -
61.       ADMARC would be responsible for the daily operations of the
Fertilizer Revolving Fund under the overall supervision of the Joint
Management Committee. The management accountant (para. 53) would manage
the Fund. ADMARC would also carry out the procurement, distribution and
sale of the fertilizer according to schedules agreed with MOA and monitor
the distribution and sale of fertilizer through its market network.
62.       The management and operation of the Fertilizer Revolving Fund
would be carried out using procedures agreed to during negotiations (para
4.05(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). It was agreed that
Government and ADMARC would make adequate and timely annual budgetary
provisions for their contributions, based on the annually estimated
fertilizer requirement. Such contributions would be deposited into the
Fund account with the Reserve Bank no later than the date of award of
tenders. Government and ADMARC contributions would also include shortfalls
in sales revenue due to subsidy until the subsidy has been completely
removed by 1985/86. ADMARC's 1982/83 carry-over stocks of fertilizer,
which are expected to be worth about US$ 4.8 million, would be considered
as opening stock and as such would be treated as part of ADMARC's opening
subscription to the Fund. The net sale proceeds realised by ADMARC on sale
of these carry-over stocks would be deposited into the Fund. All
fertilizer sales to smallholders by ADMARC would be strictly on a cash
basis except deliveries to farmers registered under the credit programs of
the ADDs (para. 34) for which payments would be made by the appropriate ADD
on receiving ADMARC's sales invoices. any outstanding debts due to ADMARC
from sale of fertilizer prior to the 1983/84 crop season would not be
recovered out of future sales of fertilizers purchased under the Fund.
Project Cost and Financing
63.       Total project costs inclusive of taxes and duties are estimated
at about US$30 million equivalent of which US$25.5 million, or 86 percent
of the total costs would be foreign exchange costs. The proposed IDA
credit of SDR 4.6 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) would finance 17
percent of project costs net of taxes, including 20 percent of foreign
exchange costs, exclusively for the procurement of fertilizer. The costs
have been estimated at mid-1983 prices. A 3 percent levy is imposed by GOM
on the c.i.f. value of imported fertiliser and this has been included in
the local handling costs. Over the four-year project period this amounts
to MK 2.23 m (US$ 1.98 m) or 7 percent of the base cost. Income taxes are
levied on the salary components for local staff but are negligible.
Physical contingencies have been subsumed in the estimated annual



- 20 -
requirement of fertiliser. Price contingencies have been assumed at 5.0
per cent per year on the c.i.f. cost of the incremental fertilizer, 11.0
percent on local handling costs and 10.0 percent on the cost of technical
assistance. The aggregate price contingencies total 5.0 percent of the
base cost. Details of the project costs are given in the Credit and
project Summary.
64.       The proposed joint financing of the project by IFAD and IDA
would amount to US$15.28 million or 51 percent of total project costs.
This would consist of US$14.23 million for the procurement of fertilizerand
US$1.05 million for technical assistance. In addition to IDA's
contribution of US$5 million for the procurement of fertilizer, the balance
of US$9.23 million would be borne by the IFAD Loan.  Aside from the IFAD
Loan, an IFAD grant would finance about 121 man-months of technical
assistance at an average cost pf US$7,270 per man-month, four man-months of
consultancy services at an average cost of US$12,000 per man-month and two
years of external training (US$30,000).  The balance of the total project
costs amounting to US$14.69 million would be financed by Government
(US$2.67 million) and ADMARC (US$12.02 million).
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Total fertilizer procurement is estimated atl about US$ 97.4
million equivalent over the four year project period. The annual
requirements of fertilizer would be procured through international
competitive bidding according to Bank Group guidelines which are also
acceptable to IFAD. Agreement was reached that the annual estimates of
fertilizer requirements would be submitted to IDA by Government not later
than July 31 of each year (Section 5.02 of draft Deve:Lopment Credit
Agreement).
66.       Disbursements under the Credit would be against standard
documentation on the basis of 100 percent of foreign expenditures for the
import of fertilizer.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
67.       Accounts and other records relating to the Fertilizer Revolving
Fund would be maintained separately and independently of ADMARC's other
accounts. Appropriate systems and procedures would be instituted to ensure
a smooth flow of information and documents between the Fund and the other
institutions involved in the project. The operations and financial status
of the Fertilizer Revolving Fund would be closely monitored through
appropriate financial statements and progress reports to be prepared by the
Fund's Management on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. The quarterly
and monthly financial progress reports would include statements showing the
financial position of the Fund, performance evaluation, annual procurement
budget estimates, twelve-monthly cash flow statements and balance sheet of



- 21 -
the Fund. Agreement was reached that the Fund's accounts would be audited
annually by an independent auditor and the audited financial statements and
the auditor's report would be submitted to ADMARC, the Government, IFAD and
IDA not later than six months after the end of ADMARC's financial year
(Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
68.       In addition, the technical and policy review aspects of the
project would also be monitored and evaluated by MOA. Information on crop
production, impact of pricing and other related policies on smallholders
fertilizer use and the efficiency of fertilizer utilization, issues related
to procurement and distribution of fertilizers, fertilizer recommendations,
and management and administrative issues, would all be incorporated in
quarterly reports which, together with the financial quarterly reports,
would form the project quarterly reports to be submitted by MOA to IFAD and
IDA. A completion report would be prepared by MOA no later than six months
after the closing of the Credit (Section 4.04(d) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
69.       The project would help meet the demand for fertilizer by
establishing a sound financial base and procurement procedure for ensuring
an adequate and timely supply of fertilizer to smallholders. As such, the
project would play a crucial role in helping the Government's NRDP achieve
its food self-sufficiency and agricultural export objectives. Provision of
financial assistance for procurement of fertilizer would relieve ADMARC of
its immediate liquidity problem while the phased removal of the fertilizer
subsidy would make ADMARC's fertilizer procurement and distribution
operation commercially viable. About 400,000 farm families are expected to
benefit from the availability of fertilizer. The major share of the
benefits for the time being however, would accrue to farmers located within
NRDP project areas as they have better access to credit. The technical
component of the project would assist in developing appropriate and
specific fertiliser recommendations for different crops. It is estimated
that about 330,000 ha of maize, 47,000 ha of tobacco and 21,000 ha of rice
would be fertilised annually by the end of the 4-year project period and
the benefits would be generated entirely by maintaining or improving
existing yield levels. Inadequate application of fertilizers to crops
could mean lowering of yields and total production which would necessitate
expansion of crop acreage and/or importation of food. The economic rate of
return (ERR) was calculated for the project as a whole and for the foreign
exchange component. Assumptions on yield were based on the aggregate
incremental production of yield maintenance through an assured fertilizer
supply and through incremental adoption by farmers of the fertilizer
package. An import parity price for maize was used in computing the
economic farmgate price while for tobacco and rice, export parity prices
were used. The incremental costs included in the analysis were based on



- 22 -
the economic cost of fertilizer and incremental farm labor associated with
the use of fertilizer.
70.       The estimated ERR for the project as a whole is well in excess of
50 percent. Sensitivity analysis shows that a 30 percent reduction in
benefits coupled with a 20 percent increase in costs would still result in
an ERR of over 50 percent.  Similarly, considering the savings in foreign
exchange when the use of fertilizer makes the importation of maize
unnecessary, the foreign exchange benefits are considerably greater than
the foreign exchange costs and the rate of return on the foreign exchange
invested during the project period is over 50 percent.
71.       The primary risk is possible delay in fertilizer arrival, thereby
preventing timely application and less than anticipated yields. However,
yields would have to be near non-fertilized yields for the net present
economic value to be negative.  Transport risks will be  minimized through
the use of alternal:ive import channels. Even if the fertilizer arrived too
late to be applied and was held over for application the subsequent year
the rate of return would still be above 50 percent. Furthermore, a major
component of the project is the development and installation of a
procurement system that assures a more timely arrival. Another risk would
be that prices paid to farmers for commodities are inadequately adjusted to
provide a financial incentive and that the anticipated production levels
may therefore not be attained. However, pricing issues are being addressed
under NRDP IV and the structural adjustment operations; in any case
inadequate price levels would also affect the base production levels (the
without fertiliser production) as well as the "with fertilizer" levels. A
further risk relates to the fact that most smallholder inputs are purchased
with credit and unless the credit is available the uptake of fertilizer may
be less than expected. There are currently reasonably sufficient resources
for seasonal input credit in the NRDP areas, though additional resources
will need to be allocated to meet the growing demand.,
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Malawi and the
Association, and thte Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness are: (a) the employment of a
management accountant; (b) the establishment of the Fertilizer Revolving
Fund and the deposit into the Fund of an initial installment; and (c) the
fulfillment of all conditions of effectiveness of IFAD's Fund Financial
Assistance including the appointment of IDA as the Cooperating Institution
to administer IFAD's funds (Section 7.01 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. CLAUSEN
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 7, 1983
p



-24--                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL lNDICATORS DATA SHE5T
YALAWI                           REFEREkNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE>ACES
AREA (THOUSAND SD.1                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
20OTAL           118; 5                                  HOST RECENT           LOW INCOKE             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     41.4                  1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOOTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     60.0        90.0     200.0                250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(LlLOGLAmS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          .        46.0       67.2                 66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    3419.0       4313.0   6050.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    4.4          6.4       9.6                 17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         11.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           42.9
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. K0.                          26.9        38.1      49.5                 27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. Di. AGRICULTURAL IAND        90.0       114.3     141.7                 86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            45.5        46.8      47.3                 44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                           52.1         50.8      48.9                 62.3                    51.1
65 YRS. /ND ABOVE                     2.4          2.4       3.8                  2.9                     2.v
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.4          2.8       2.9                  2.7                     2.8
URBAN                                4.5          6.6       7.0                  6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       53.0         51.6      56,1                 47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       27.2         23.2      22.4                 19.5                    15.7
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4          3.4       3.8                  3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)                            ..                ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            90.0        91.0       96.0                 88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     95.2         99.7      96.9/c               90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             65.5        71.6      68.2/-               53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          13.6        19.0      18.6/&               18.4                   17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       49.3         45.4      39.1                 26.7                   23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXFECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)      37.2        41.6       44.2                 45.6                   51.0
INFAhT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            206.8       193.6    171.9                  129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  .           ..      33.0/d               23.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..      70.0/i               54.9
RLRAL .U M                                                 29.0/11              18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 2. ..                  ..                 Z5.1
URBAN                                  ..         ..       15:O/d               63.1.
RURt                                   .           ..                           20.2
POPULATLON PER PHYSICIAN           35247.4    38429.8  41007.0                 32097.3                14165.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      12917.6/e   9051.7    3833.7/c               3264.6                 2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              866.0        649.3     743.8               1225.0                 1036.4
URBAN                               115.0/.    155.7       82.2/c              249.5                  430.J
RUItAL                            1312.0/e.   695.7    1484.4Je               1712.1                 3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        32.1      39.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                  *-        3'/f
RURAL                                 ..          o.r7       *
AVERAGE NULMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOL                                     .          ..
URBAN                                  ..         1. 7
RURAL                                   *          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRIGITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  .           .         . *                                   _
URBAN        '                                   16.0/f
RURL                ..                             ..



- 25 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAWI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAWI                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WElGHTED AVE0AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLMARY.     TOTAL                              35.0      62.0                   63.2                     S3.3
MALE                              45.0       73.0                   72.7                    96.1
FEMALE                            26.0      51.0                   50.3                     60.4
SECONDARY    TOTAL                  1.0          2.0        4.0                  10.2                     15.3
MALE                   1.0         3.0        5.0                   13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 0.3          1.0       2.0                    6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 23.6            2.9        4 . 9                 7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIKARY                            40.9         43.8      65.0                   47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                          13.7         16.2      21.0                   26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                     22.1/1    25.0                   34.0                     35.6
CONSU1STION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9          2.2        1.9/d                 3.0                     31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.8/e       23.5       42.6                  34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.7                                           1.7                     17.9
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                                           5.3                   2.9                     19.1
CINENA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3                      0.3/h                 1.1                      0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1570.3       1981.5    2527.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   38.7         38.1       36.7                  34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              92.0         89.0       86.0                  78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.0          4.0        5.0                   9.2                     17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.9         43.9      .41.8                  41.4                     37.0
MALE                                 57.5         55.3       53.6                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                               34.8         32.9       30.3                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.2                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       .         32.6/i
RIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                50. 67i.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                 10. 47i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                 21.57..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMsATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .                   123.0                 134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                 .           ..       99.0                  t2.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                              .       65.0                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      52.0                   60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 .           .        25.0                  39.3
RURAL                                             . .      85.0                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
j   The group average. for each indicator are populatlon-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countrics
among the indicators depends on availabillty of data and Is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
lc   1977;  /d 1976;  Ie 1962; /f 1967; /j 1972; lh 1975; /I 1966; /I 1968.
may. 1982



-26  -ANlNEX I
______                                                                            ~~~~~~~Page 3 of S
.1 l   WmnaCssIL~J9~
haerct tat   tetac   ttStt  Cre AefeeAeeAfCvIAlA   ye refAaftriat-   at  ,Lete  Uater   ie- tre.  it-c  tv                                         ~      - ee,I--
re&ALC  creaeabliieaccea  l At  fe t.t etedtffe   affte    ete..e-e*db   LfettttcaAL telciei.At.TeS                                                       .    AA
lhLteeAA(-A  A  eeAte  raef  .  reaeade  LiAnA  iaee.Ac eeec arteAeAeLeeAe,difeece  tefietectte
t- 1 fee'tc   tte    n   f                  Lr." aafc   feaytW.t.SctAMery O.                   ctAi   fAaai - e0ce   atc-cI;              tA    Mee  rlaa  the t te  eaae
a! i- tcleaeeaaaefifAana fr    'Aafa  eaaa    CA  Aaefeel" rte  ae  'tItL   Aecre   alt atr   tAyfL   tAn Layare  hy-te  e1L  =frtcf
eattlaeLArf  ?alLftea . AL  rf.treigraneet  et Ara     eftaAletAa  ltfttA    rLtcfAcetel  tateAh  aAfeI=                 a   ,re, cLeat
ellcltref ht ntAl!LeA19 AefaLt ta cn  ra  cht trintr-     ier. fr   tic,   faaAei-eaaetL  AtiWetefcdead a.     t_ _11cbhiyfdc
ret[aen   AAAA  fceeatcLe  L  naaAraAcCALAA$   tttt   f  At   ACAir I  aelttf  Tlet-Iaacee    aee ei-           AILL   Aptfffr   AeA
tie  Letttataeeaca  rAre an  AL  eaaAece AM                                        I'll"IfefIefeA-1                              V.-AI   1AiyeA,
amM   AALAA    h.                                                                                    aaefe        fteAaLlA            Aetatc,e    ad                 AAaCAAed
Ml~    ee   t   tvitf i          etetf.~   Alact  vaeaLt frtlatyfat
StYtIL  (illAVIL    At yy fata eefeAA   e  Atc-t-a aefLe   peLt.  ad-,                      Ice              -Itact and ea-aithd    ae   IaeeLf ate. tec  Wetd i-eact-A
e.AeAA           ..slreaaatrtMa   ae .....Atf e ffL               th- te I---'a.edn    caea-    tfcAl   ae  e   qA fiLAa  btI
ILA, WaLe fAO eafA.                                                  eafe.ef ealteatit, It-r -,eccf.ae>eciafvL pttAecc
y ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~dta   e   eeceei.admta                                     el   rAfee           Peaa  .
er- d A-ilLatlala-b    4 ialtal
tiae   Cqofcata.ALdicar9 TtV.aal        - L      - dly1  titl-. tIlt  ate L-L hi-tl-fe-
,Le      -_ _e A     t   ef   acaete - 'tere   reffeaeetele  -iaL1_ tt1   reefi
teaLctatAceeeceA                                                                         Aceaeecrittte9eA                          ....A-tt.. .eba    rraLateral
frcLttII a,   re)-Aarra   raLcfiptjaAaf   eaCAAAa  aLe                                     CAeCtfea   A  ta   a  L   aba   tetti  traatacaifc
caL    taAaa   y  A   a  -cbqAM  t       Der   V--t-.)t  .i h.....trchMe                 AsALg.carcacl    tAiClciL"                     e   t-aAate    rtttA 
Iaeiattr     0   -eertf  flar  "atI..   ae   cctt A   hi  eeL   etn                         cAcyA    a
Lee  feeAAAectaaeat CrcA  tttAcctfetc  raAay'  ate ceLaAAA                        iateatfrclrLeac  ,   eLtai-teL.taa eLete
Aca.  a  AtiLia   eiaaLCAtblAAaAAI.I  -ee.It   ar-cIitcLtALlLttaair Le irAIa,ieA1qtrte   c  ttcte
4etllCA  fttlfAaea-LA   ae  rae   LAa             -hLe  eatlf AaiA    etAftL    eer   a   atiAelreteac-ey
feeLflretAleAtaAt-reiaaircr41at tlaly  leeta  yefeaaae
Cea   rttc    eaecLAeaLAeA  trea  tLh. V eeh -caA   if eafte.a                               tac-kll
erf  arllc  teea  c  5ceeece   Ateea    fLLctratAAea  tc c
ffIAAAtaaeta   -.. ltAtc  itW ,yfLta    tc    ec   rtt  tte                             Pte-   aaa      aa    aA   ediaL       at   aetii   Mf.i
rlt Lefaeaaateca   t  ae  aabtae,-d  te  treAt  tface  A-                       ttCacatAtal  eA   a  SAAtaefrLet  i  erftate   trefAe i
aae    a-ta.Aref   tier   ACafa   etft    ea   ae   r   a                                           era  eralaa   ea-aee    aetl   acte    lacnaabA
a!F=          ape  eiWa(aaatr    teatteey   ach.e eaAAelctte   teIf                                                      aeeleacce   rrcietca   aefil    tel
fataL  tae   ILA  A   fA tleaf  ecCA  ale-   Letiaa     beta cc  Lebn                 AM ade    r-I-rCA   elAc   eae       eebts   beatcc
tAlat-.i                                                                      acartaciee~~~ll.T-1~b   ceaate    ec   ia    ec   CeeeedALeeatac
tea   eatal,IcylAte   La eaa*t  -it  perLAarattteec   pettteetrtieeAecce,  erf  eai,Altearf   taeal  ceeaatei  arraAt
Parat  fa. ltAaacarA   ce -97    deca -e tAaeatr7tetce   edaaya   .Laaecea   eedt   tt,ta
tala    t.Al.aL  At df.                                                               tL   LitrS,cat Wct ed IcAcelaaeeLa cccrAd era -cca
teaefa    A -b   LLA-r. a     I AlAA.                                                tAtaaebea(a   etaaIceiaca      ceitctn aaee   ae
Aet    cfclc    ec  trcA   -eaa   At   cle  A   AytA    fedrAPeA-ct-eic  fc   trthA-LteLAeaaLtca   acAeec
tltcatcaAaa; 3ic, lIlt. eat LilA  Aeta.                                atlff~~.tC  abAcLI.-  ..  ~I
Araetaa  aeie  tetti-  aca   ettereaLAe                        lM-ii                       AA    caaeeMerraaet  aacac  -caet.  traiif   e   aL
aa.lAa;11.Ct,cdiA    ac                                                               ieteta1t-a    L:.   ttaaetia   aaaia   titc    t
CraectaetaceeabA  LaA - watd  taca  t  agttAA  ettl    itL                                    teea    etaa    aaeat  a   t   aya- are   etteicA   a
titceeeireeAL,Acttrad   A ccItaclNto   vreeeeeAafetrI.t.a   aeta;ttcltrai   tataietr  c.eat   fr
telAt  rte   aaatrfer-tae  aAee  cdte   t  tt.   ea   re  A-.                  tt   aecLeaLatta  Lrtag
YAALAtlctrL:racate.#arac  iteaae.i- etal          r   "al aalae                 T   aeae4A            aacr    aaalc-teefetlrtetect
MtCe aeirL   cle  Aa   taLr   t  eltit   cer  ielt  cfr.                                       teeiy*  .aea.taaa    aALteA    aecdelcete    crLeae
fcelrvaccaa.iaeialcefattetiatatl$afeeeleteAttd                                  ttaaareteLacycct  te   eaAatAaail1tettteaaitlet.
taretatftra-acta1 a   li-ta-reteiat-calearAa-eatet   teAtc  a  tecteetttCaaielaa(at  tiaalat  acaetLil    Irta  ActAecAAtaCt



-27-                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
MAIAWI
ECONCMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATICNAL PRODUCr IN 1981                               AINJAL RATE OF GRDWrH
(%, constant prices)
U$ Mln.    %                       1973-1980         1981
CNT at Market Prices          1,257.5  100.0                        5.1            -1.3
Gross Domestic Investment      255.3   20.3                         8.1           -25.9
Gross National Saving           89.0    7.1                        -2.8           -10.8
QCrrent Account Balance       -166.3   -13.2                                         -
Ekports of Goods, NFS          341.7    27.2                        6.0            -2.5
Imports of Oo.ids, NFS         433.6    34.5                        0.5           -16.2
cU    , ELOYEXI   AND
PRDUJCrIVrY IN 1981
Value Added             Labor Force            V.A. Per Wbrker
U$ Mln.                 T Ihousand   %              US$    % of Ave.
egriculture                    477.1      39.5        2,798.7     93.3           170.5    42.2
Industry                       221.9      18.4          85.8       2.9         2,586.3    642.7
Services                       508.4      42.1         116.1      3.9          4,378.9  1,088.2
Total                      1,207.4     100.0       3,000.6    100.0           402.4    100.0
GiVER1INA   FINANCE                                                Central Government
K KMln.)               % of GDP
1980/81     1980/81   1977/78-1979/80
Ozarrent Receipts                                             199.2        16.8         17.0
Qrrent Expenditure                                            183.7        15.5         14.8
Qirrent Surplus                                                15.5         1.3          2.2
Capital Epernditures                                          174.9        14.7         12.0
baternal Assistance (net)                                      83.3         7.0          9.5
MtEY, CREDTr and PRICES                                    1977       1978       1979       1980      1981
(Million K outstanding end period)
Mbney and Quasi 1ney                                    122.7      133.2      144.7      177.9    218.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                            44.2       61.9        96.4      128.3    206.3
Bark Credit to Private Sector                           87.7       122.3      170.8      182.4    191.8
(Percentages or Im:dex Ninbers)
Mcxey ard Quasi 1ney a % of GDP                          17.0       16.9       16.6       17.9      18.4
Implicit GDP deflator (1978-100) Annual Percentage
changes in:                                    99.9       100.0      102.7      114.9     137.6
Implicit GDP deflator                                    12.8       0.1        2.7        11.9      19.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                             6.1        7.9        11.0       12.9      17.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                            12.2       15.6       19.6       18.3      16.1
N1E: All conversions to dollars in this Annec are at the average excharge rate prevailing during the
period covered.
May 1982



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
MALAWI
TRADE PAYMENIS AND CAPIIAL FLQWS
BAIAMI OF PAYMENTS                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPOeTS (AVERAGE 1979-1981)
1977    1978    1979    1980   1981                             US$ Mn.    %
(Millions Ua$ )
Tobacco                 123.0    45.5
Exports of Goods, NFS            241.8   220.1   256.7   341.3 341.8       Tea                      36.4     13.5
Imports of Goods, NFS            279.1  387.5  465.5  508.2  433.6         Grcumindnts              14.2      5.3
Resourrce Balance                -37.3 -167.4 -208.8 -166.9 -91.8          Sgar                     46.1     17.1
All Other Canrodities    50.6    18.7
Total                   270.3   100.0
Factor Payments (net)            -25.5   -4.7  -42.6  -52.1 -70.4
Net Current Transfers Private      5.5    5.9   -0.4   -6.4  -4.1          EXTENAL DEBT, DEMSER 31, 1981
Balance on Current Account       -57.3 -166.2 -251.8 -225.3 -166.3
Us Mn.)
Direct Private Foreign                                                     Public Debt, irnc. guaranteed    687.0
Investnent                       5.5    9.7    13.5    5.9       6.0a   Noaguaranteed Private Debt
Net 'CT Borrowigr                                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed  687.0
Disbursenents                   99.7  135.7  125.4  159.9  124.1
Ajrtizations                    15.3   18.7   19.3   32.9   36.2    NEr DEB  SERVICE RATIO0  for 1981
Subtotal                        84.4   117.0  106.1   127.0   87.9
Capital Grants                    19.9   38.9   46.6   50.0   49.9                                             %
Oler Capital (net)                -6.9  -29.4    44.3   35.8  -17.4
Otber Items n.i.e.                12.3   11.9   29.9    15.8   19.2    Public Debt, Incl. guaranteed         26. 1
Increase in Reserves (+)        +57.9  -18.1  -11.4   +9.2  -20.7          Nbn-guaranteed Private Debt
Total Oitstarning & Disbursed     26.1
Gross Reserves (end year)         84.4   72.2   63.2   72.8   55.8b
IBRD/IDA Lerndirg, Dec. 31, 1981
PetroleLm Imports                 23.7   30.1   46.8   55.0   47.2a   (Kn U$)
Petroleun Re-exports                -       -       -      -        -                               IBM       MA
(Inc. Ihird
RATE OF EX(QAN                                                                                     Window)
US$ - K                           .9029   .8437   .8169  .8121   .8953    Outstandirg & Disbursed  52.3   145.1
K 1 - U    .                     1.1075  1.1853  1.2241  1.2314  1.1169    Undisbursed              22.9   109.1
Outstanirng incluiirn
Uibisbursed            75.2   254.2
a  Estimate.
b Thcgh September 1981.
c Ratio of debt service payrnts to exports of goods and rn-factor services excluding repayments to IMF.
..Not available
Nbt applicable                                                               hy 1982



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1982)
Bank
incl.
Loan or                                                        Third              Un-
Credit No.  Year      Borrower   Purpose                       Window    IDA disbursed
Five loans and 16 credits have been fully disbursed              71.20  120.93    -
711-MAI    1978      Malawi      Water Supply                            7.00    2.48
.823-MAI    1978       "         Shire Valley
Consolidation                         10.70      .32
1610-MAI    1978      INDEBNANK  First DFC                       3.00              1.14
857-MAI    1979      Republic   National Rural Development
of Malawi   Program I                              22.00    8.64
910-MAI    1979        "         Education III                          14.50    5.64
992-MAI    1980        "         National Rural Development
Program II                            13.80    8.89
1099-MAI    1981        i         Highway IV                             33.00a  16.13
1123-MAI    1981        "         Education IV                           41.00b  31.15
2027-MAI    1981        "         Technical Assistance            1.00              .81
1183-MAI    1981                  National Rural Development
Program III                            7.30c   7.06
1272-MAI    1982        "         Lilongwe Water Supply Eng.
Project                            _  4.00d   4.00
TOTAL                                               75.20  274.23   86.26
of which has been repaid                              .77    3.39
(amount sold)
(of which repaid)
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA1                     74.43  270.84
TOTAL undisbursed                                    1.95   84.31   86.26
a Credit of SDR 25.9 million.
b Credit of SDR 32.2 million.
c Credit of SDR 6.5 million.
d Credit of SDR 3.6 million (not yet effective).



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. IFC INVESTMENT IN MALAWI
December 31, 1982
Investment
Number       Year     Obligor
326-MAI    1976/    David Whitehead        Textiles       -      10.8  10.8   7.4   1.7
618-MAI    1982      & Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI    1977      Dwangwa                Sugar         -       9.9   9.9   8.8   -
Sugar Corporation
Limited
434-MAI    1978      Investment and        Development  0.6    -        0.6   0.6   -
Development Bank    Finance
of Malawi             Company
502-MAI    1979      Malawi                Tourism        -       2.0   2.0   2.0   1.6
Hotels Limited
543-MAI    1981/    Ethanol Company        Manufactur-
614-MAI    1982      Limited of            ing Alcohol
Malawi                from
Molasses      0.2    2.2   2.4   2.4   -
TOTALS      0.8   24.9  25.7  21.2   3.3



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
December 31, 1982
,Credit No. 711-MAI           Blantyre Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of June 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
April 18, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Initial delays in project implementation occurred due to revision of
the project's scope, but implementation is now proceeding reasonably well.
Detailed engineering is complete and awards have been made on all the contracts
being financed by the Association.   However, due to the initial delay, the Bank
has agreed to a postponement of the closing date to September 30, 1983.   BWB has
also, with the help of the Bank, reassessed its financial position and agreed on a
revision of the covenanted rates of return because of slower-than-anticipated
growth in water demand, a reduced need for debt service, and higher rates of
revaluation of fixed assets than used at appraisal.
Credit No. 758-MAI           Third Highway Project; US$10.5 Million Credit of
January 18, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: June 29,
1978; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
The project consists of constructing the 52-mile Kasungu-Jenda road to
two-lane bituminous surfaced standard; strengthening three short sections of the
Zomba-Lilongwe road (parallel financed by the OPEC Special Fund); and providing
consultant services for the supervision of the road, construction, and for the
feasibility and engineering studies of the Jenda-Mzuzu road. Construction works
on the Kasungu-Jenda road, strengthening works on the Zomba-Lilongwe, and the
studies for the Jenda-Mzuzu road are complete. Final disbursement is underway and
the Credit w1ll be closed shortly.
Credit No. 823-MAI           Shire Valley Agricultural Consolidation Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: September 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is the consolidation phase of the Shire Valley Agricultural
Development Program and includes extension services to support increased cotton
and foodcrop production, seed multiplication and afforestation programs,
production credit, livestock and fisheries development, health and potable water
supply facilities, a smallholder irrigation development study and some rural
roads.  It has provided social and infrastructure services to about 70,000
families.  The Valley attained self-sufficiency in food crops for the first time
in its history in 1977/78.  Crop production targets, with the exception of guar
beans, have not yet been reached.  Ongoing project works have been recently
completed.  An adequate extension ratio has been reached. The Credit will be closed
shortly.



- 32 -
ANNEX TI
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1610-MAI             Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited;
US$3.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1978; Date of
Effectiveness: November 1, 1978; Closing Date:
July 1, 1983
The project provides foreign exchange for financing medium- to
large-scale projects in industry and agro-industry and agriculture and is helping
INDEBA1K consolidate its policies and strengthen its capabilities in project
promotion, appraisal, implementation and follow-up. The line of credit is now
fully committed; and as of April 20, 1982, disbursements amounted to US$1.23
million and are expected to be completed shortly.
Credit No. 857-MAI           National Rural Development Program,
Phase I; US$22.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 5, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is assisting the Government in implementing the first phase
of Malawi's National Rural Development Program.  Over a five-year period it aims
to increase output of maize, groundnuts, fire-cured tobacco and rice, and expand
milk and meat production. The project has also improved basic services (water
supplies, roads and health facilities). It is strengthening the Ministry of
Agriculture's Central Service and four existing Management Units and has
established eight new development project areas.  It is also completing  the
consolidation phase of the Lilongwe Land Development Program.  The project is
cofinanced by CIDA, DEG, EDF, and ODA. It is proceeding satisfactorily except for
recurrent financing problems which have been addressed by the First Structural
Adjustment Loan. The entire NRDP program was jointly reviewed by IDA and
Government in FY1982 and recommended changes are being introduced to improve its
cost-effectiveness.
Credit No. 910-MAI           Third Education Project; US$14.5 Million Credit of
EEC Credit No. 12-MAT        June 19, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  September 4,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in improving and expanding
primary and secondary education and management of education.  Its major components
include self-help constructing of primary schools, improving and expanding primary
and secondary teacher training schools, providing primary school textbooks;
expanding technical education; establishing an Institute of Education; assisting
school inspectorates; and providing for educational st'udies. An EEC Special
Action Credit of US$7.5 million was made available to the project.  Implementation
is proceeding well and on time, although some delays have been experienced in the
components for commercial education, primary school construction and educational
studies. The Institute of Education has begun to function. A large number of
textbooks have been delivered to schools. Vehicles have been delivered to school
inspectorates. A specialist has initiated the educational studies. The EEC
Credit has been fully disbursed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Credit No. 992-MAI           National Rural Development Program,
Phase II (Wood Energy); US$13.8 Million Credit of
April 25, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project is assisting the Government in its long-term energy
development program aimed at increasing forest resources.  It has established a
national network of about 80 nurseries to produce seedlings for sale to
smallholders, who are being encouraged to establish their own woodlots; fuelwood
and pole plantations to help meet increasing demands from the commercial and
industrial sectors, as well as from urban dwellers; and an Energy unit in the
Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources.  Seedling sales to farmers, which has
been going more slowly than expected, have now picked up. Overall, the project is
proceeding on schedule.
Credit No. 1099-MAI          Fourth Highway Project; US$33.0 Million Equivalent
(SDR 25.9 million) Credit of February 20, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: July 16, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is assisting the Government in developing the economic
potential of the northern region by constructing and improving the only remaining
sections of the principal north-south road. In addition, the project will promote
the maintenance of the main, secondary and district road networks and provide
consultant services and training. The construction of the major paved road
sections plus improvements of the existing road between Luwawa Turnoff and Mbowe
to a low gravel standard is progressing satisfactorily and implementation of other
components is well underway; the maintenance study and the DRIMP extension study
are about to be completed.
Credit No. 1123-MAI           Fourth Education Project; US$41.0 Million Equivalent
(SDR 32.2 million) Credit of March 26, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness:  October 2, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project is assisting the Government in improving and expanding secondary
education and the training of secondary school teachers. Five new secondary
schools are being constructed and equipped, and six existing secondary schools
expanded. Additional boarding and teaching facilities of Chancellor College are
being built and equipped.  In addition, the project is assisting the Government in
the preparation of a national education plan to provide the basis for future
development of the education system. The study is underway and expected to be
finished in September 1983.  Satisfactory progress is being made in constructing
the secondary schools and at Chancellor College.



-34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 2027-MAI            Technical Assistance Project; US$1.0 Million
Equivalent Loan of June 25, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: September 30, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
The project, which complements the Structural Adjustment Loan, is
helping finance consultant services for studies of the :Livestock, meat and dairy
industries. The Malawi Development Corporation's financiLal position and export
marketing capabilities is also being examined and strenglhened.  Other studies
are being carried out as needed to support the StructuraL Adjustment Program.
After initial delays, the MDC and livestock studies have been completed and the
results will be available for Bank review and comment in March.  In addition, the
Government has carried out a study of the Agricultural Development and Ilarketing
Corporation to address the major organizational, financial and managerial
constraints hindering its performance.  It has also employed a firm of consultants
to help develop a restructuring  package for the major private enterprise.  A plan
of action is being developed which is expected to be available for Bank review and
comment in April.
Credit No. 1183              National Rural Development Program (NRDP) Phase III
Project; US$7.3 Million Credit (SDR 6.5 million) of
October 13, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: May 28,1982;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project constitutes a third phase of the Karonga-Chitipa Rural
Development Project as part of the activities of the Nat:ional Rural Development
Program. As such it will benefit from the experience and lessons of previous
years. The project will, over a four-year period (1981/82-1984/85), strengthen
project management capabilities, continue to support the development of the
agricultural production potential of the Karonga and Chitipa districts and
strengthen agricultural extension, training, research and credit and marketing
facilities. It also contains provision for improving water supply and for
improved management and evaluation of project activities. The project has
experienced start-up implementation difficulties with regard to management, input
supplies (fertilizer) and staffing shortfalls.  To improve the situation,
Government has recently appointed a new management team and is addressing fully
the fertilizer requirement for the FY83/84 and subsequent crop seasons.
Credit No. 1272              Lilongwe Water Supply and Ergineering Credit;
US$4.0 million Credit (SDR 3.6 million) of
June 24, 1982; Date of Effectiveness: February 3,
1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The three-year project is financing master plan studies to determine
the optimum long-term program for water supply and sewerage/sanitation development
in Lilongwe and identify a water supply project that wou:Ld form the program's
first phase. The latter project is the subject of the feasibility study, detailed
engineering design and-the preparation of contract documents.  The project is
preceeding satisfactorily.  The Lilongwe Water Board has appointed an
engineer/manager and is in the process of recruiting a chief accountart.
Engineering consultants have been selected to carry out the master plan,
feasibility studies and engineering designs; contract negotiations are underway.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.        Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare               No preparation report
(b)  Initial discussion with IFAD        June 1982
(c)  Inception report by IFAD            July 1982
(d)  Appraisal mission departure         September 1982
(e)  Initial discussion with IDA         January 1983
(f)  Negotiations                        March 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness       July 1, 1983
II.       Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III.      Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Special conditions of effectiveness would be that: (i) the
management accountant for the Fertilizer Revolving Fund has
been appointed (para. 53), (ii) the Fertilizer Fund has been
established in the Reserve Bank and that both Government and
ADMARC had made their initial subscriptions into the Fund
(para. 50), (iii) the IFAD Loan Agreement had been declared
effective (para. 73);
(b) The Government would deposit or cause ADMARC to deposit
sufficient funds in local or foreign exchange as may be
required each year for importation of fertilizer (para. 50);
(c) The Government would appoint an economist, an
agriculturalist, and a transport specialist not later than
September 1st 1983 (paras. 52, 53 and 54);



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) The Government would, not later than September 1, 1983,
establish a Joint Management Committee (para. 60);
(e) The Government would furnish to the Association by July 31
of each year its annual estimates of fertilizer requirements
at the same time as they are submitted to ADMARC for
procurement purposes (para 65); and
(f) The Government would, in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the Association and IFAD, take all measures
to remove existing levels of subsidies (para. 56).



1BRD 16848
32            ~C 2               5 S                            34-                                                               3A UARSY 1983'
(N                                  ~~~~MALAWI
CAIRo Ch,,,p<.i .=s_t                                 SMALLHOLDER FERTILIZER SUPPLY
>  t   \N VAND POLICY PROGRAM
K rongo      \1                         SmalHholder Fertilizer Distribution
F10                                                         )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   .
| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3/ 'S   DAUDRI ESOF AD S CL LTORA. 0/SLOPM/ET OIIS91510
ADD HFLOCUARTERS
OChInn,boI                   ~~~~~MAJOR ADMARC FERT.ILZER SALES POINTS
PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL FERTLIZER
VIgMOnO                                REOJ~~~~~~~~~~~~1I REMENTS  122/13113
MAiN ROADS
E -----    'A LWIAYS
RIVERS
) r.yX / ) D ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNAT 3.AL BDUND4RIES
/                               t~~~~~~~~~~~~~R Rumhi<    Rno,-oe° 
A>f~~ ~~~~~~~~~ Q \                                              Uslsyn 
i-                                           'N .
Nkh.so B.S,
Z    A      M      B     I   A              '                                      ./LIKOMA
12'                                                1                                    1 /-  ISLAND                                                                 12-
I   r       M                        j ISLAND
M O Z A M B  Q U E
('j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Y J   <,,I
Z     A   B     I    Q U    Nkhoro
X   >   W       (l    V               \            ~~~~~~~~~~~L,ch.nOO
Ch,poso JEcoelo R=         _Ch                                        ,kn-
MOZAMN AIU
T                          M     O     Z    A    M       B    I_ZQAURE                                                                                                  .. . ..
A N G OAA           I   A o >                                                                                                                        I  -   , .  ,h
E ~  \t _ \>NgaoE   m    E
NAMIR Aj        " 
BO6TSWANA                                                                          X     1        L
/vesolLL   0  20  40       6E       80        10 
SOUTH AFRICIA 
-1KILOMETE60                                   OA 
20   40   60   8'0  160   6o   140  160                      I, A RIA



