Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Z-/V  -2-7q(IT-)
a A.'    3  -  z  V  -    L                         Report No. P-4784-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USW4OO MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
May 25, 1988
Industry, Trade and Finance Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
'This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
'their official duties. Its contents ma- not otherwise be disclosed wiithout W'orld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
Value of US$
1976 ''                             TL   16.05
1977                                TL   18.00
1978                                TL   24.28
1979                                TL   31.08
1980 January                        TL   70.00
1981 January                        TL   91.00
1982 January                        TL  139.60
1983 January                        TL  191.15
1984 Jinuary                        TL  309.20
1985 January                        TL  451.40
1986 January                        TL  586.40
1987 January                        TL  752.93
1987 November                       TL  950.00
1988 February                       TL 1160.00
a Annual averages through 1979.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GNP           Gross National Product
PSBR          Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
SEE           State Economic Enterprises
VAT           Value Added Tax
WPI           Wholesale Pri.ce Index
FX            Foreign ExcL._,ge
CD            Certificates of Deposit
LIBOR         London Interbank Offer Rate
FSAL          financial Sector Adjustment Loan
CMB           Capital Markets Board
ISE           Istanbul Stock Exchange
SAL           Structural Adjustment Lending
TSKB          Industrial Development Bank of Turkey
BOT           Build Operate and Transfer
IFC           International Finance Corporation
CIBS          Center for International Banking Studies
RUSF          Resource Utilization Support Fund
EX-IM         Export-Import Bank



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP'MENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY
FOR A SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (FSAL 11)
Table of Contents
Chapter
Page No.
I.  THE ECONOMY ..........................................  1
A.   Economic Developments of 1980s ................................... 1
B.   Stabilization Measures since the November 1987 Elections .........  4
C.   Prospects for the Medium-Term ....................................  7
D.   Interaction Between the Fiscal Deficit and the Financial Sector.. 10
F.   Relations with the IMF ........................................... 11
II.  DEVELOPMENTS IN THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ................................. 12
A..   Progress under FSAL-I ........................................... 12
B.   Structure of the Financial System ............................... 13
C.   Trends in Mobilization of Funds in the Financial System .... ..... 14
D.   Trends in Credit Allocation .................................... 15
The Role of the Central Bank in Credit Allocation ........... 15
Preferential Rates and Selective Credits ................... 16
High Non-Preferential Lending Rates ........................ 17
Medium- and Long-term Credit ............................... 18
III.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM .................................. 19
A.   Policy Measures to Improve Mobilization and Allocation of Funds.. 19
Interest Rate Policy ....................................... 20
Taxation of Financial Instruments and Reserve and
Liquidity Requirements .................................. 20
Selective Credit Policy .................................... 21
Foreign Exchange Deposits .................................. 21
This report is based on the findings of four Bank missions which visited
Turkey during 1987-88. Persons who participated in the missions and/or
contributed to the report are: S. Banerji (mission chief), Ms. P. Annez, E.
Segura, R. Rocha, A. de Juan, V. Polizatto, J. Reitmaier (IMF), N. Faltas
(IFC), C. McCurdy (consultant), R. Shumway (consultant) and the EMlCO Turkey
team.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Chapter                                                                                      Page No.
III. cont'd.
B.    Strengthening of the Banking System .............................. 22
Strengthening of Prudential Regulations  ..................... 23
Improving the Eniorcement of Bank Regulations and Supervision 24
Improving Transparency and Informdtion Disclosure  ....                 ....... 24
Improving the Competitive Environment: Entry into
the Industry  ............................................. 25
Exit:   Mechanism for Dealing with Insolvent Banks  ....                ....... 25
Restructuring of Government-owned Banks  ..................... 26
Actual Restructuring of Insolvent Banks  ..................... 27
C.    Measures  to Develop the Money and Capital Markets  ....                  ............ 27
Government Securities and Interbank Markets  ....                  ............. 28
Corporate Equities and Fixed Income Securities  ....                  .......... 29
IV.  THE PROPOSED LOAN  ..................................................... 30
A.    Origins and Objectives  ........................................... 30
B.    Loan Size and Components  ......................................... 31
C.    Cofinancing  ......................................................  32
D.    Procurement,  Disbursement and Administration  ..................... 32
E.    Monitoring and Trancte Release  ................................... 32
Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation  ................... 33
Conditions of First Tranche Release  ......................... 33
Conditions of Second Tranche  Release  ........................ 33
Release of $100 Million for 2estructuring Banks  ....                 ......... 34
F.    Benefits and Risk3  ............................................... 35
V.   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS  IN TURKEY  ....................................... 36
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................................................... 40
STATISTICAL APPENDIX:
ANNEX I:
Table 1:  Turkey - Key Economic  Indicators ............................ 41
Table 2:   Turkey - Balance of Payments,  1987-97  ....................... 42
Table 3:   Composition of the Banking System .............  43
Table 4:   Indicators of Financial Depth,  1979-87  ...................... 44
Table 5:   Turkey:   Credit by Type of Financial  Institution
End of Period Real Stocks  (1980-87)  ...................... 45
Table 6:   Proportion of Preferential  Credit  ........................... 46
Table 7:   Turkey:   Sectoral Distribution of Real Stocks of
Credit  (2 Share)  (1980-87)  ............................... 47
Table  /:   Turkey:   Credit to the Public and Private Sectors
End of Period Real Stocks  (1980-87) ...................... 48
ANNEX II:   Statement of Financial Sector Policies - 1988 .................... 49
ANNEX III: Proposed Conditionality  .......................................... 56
0 2 a s



Page No.
ANNEX IV: Decree on Provisioning to Be Made by Banks Under
Article 32 of the Banking Law ................................. 60
ANNEX V:   Technical Assistance Program for Strengthening Banking
Supervision and for Establishing a Mechanism to Deal with
Restructuring or Liquidation of Insolvent Banks ....      .......... 63
ANNFX VI: Legal and Operational Framework for a Remodelled
Deposit Insurance/Financial Renabilitation Fund ....      .......... 67
ANNEX VII: Proposed Te;mas of Reference for Financial Restructuring
of Public Sector Banks ....................................... 74
ANNEX VIII: Draft Terms of Reference for a Study of Taxation
of Financial Instruments and Intermediation ....       .............. 79
ANNEX IX:  limetable of Key Loan Processing Events ........................ 81
ANNEX X:   Status of Bank Group Operations in Turkey .......... ........... 82
MAP
IBRD 16453R
0 28 s



TURKEY
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJTJSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summarsy
Borrower:              The Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:         The Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade,
the Capital Market Board, the Board of Sworn Bank
Examiners, the Central Bank, and commercial banks.
Amount.                US$400 million equivalent
Terms:                 Seventeen years including five years grace with interest
at the standard variable rate.
Description:           The proposed loan would support the Government's
continuing financial sector adjustment program for the
period 1988-89. The principal objectives of the program
are: (i) to improve mobilization and allocation of funds
and foster financial deepening through appzopriate
interest rate policies, including maintenance of positive
rates on deposits and preferential credits; lowering of
non-preferential lending rates through appropriate
macroeconomic stabilization; further reductions in
selective credit programs; and adoption of policies for
foreign exchange deposits to reduce currer,cy substitution
and increase maturities; (ii) with regard to the banking
system, to enhance its ability to mobilize and allocate
funds efficiently by fostering a competitive environment
and financial discipline through new regulations on loan
classification, provisioning and concentration; better
enforcement of regulations; improving irformation
disclosure; a more effective mechanism to deal with
insolvent bangs; actions to improve the efficiency of
public banks; and initiation of the financial
restructuring and recapitalization of troubled or
insolvent banks in a sound and systematic manner; (iii)
with regard to the money and capital markets, to increase
competition in the Government securities markets and to
develop the secondary market for such securities; adopt
external auditing of securities issuers to reduce market
risks; promote foreign portfolio investments to deepen
the capital markets; and to initiate a review to develop
a rational framework for the taxation of financial
instruments and intermediation.
0265



- ii -
Benefits and Risks:   The principal benefit of the adjustment program would be
a more efficient, robust and deeper financial sector
which would mobilize and allocate funds more efficiently
thus generating a higher level of investments as well as
a higher rate of return. Through the measures proposed,
the banking system would be strengthened to provide
services more efficiently and to a wider spectrum of
clients thus spreading the benefits of access to
institutional finance. Improvements in the financial
position of the banks and the development of a more
efficient securities market should have a positive
impact on public finances and make the task of
macroeconomic adjustment easier. The main risks stem
from the uncertainties in the control of inflation. The
persistence of high inflation will undermine the
financial health of the corporate sector and delay the
recovery of the banks. Delays and deficiencies in
enforcing the new regulations and creating an effective
mechanism to deal witb he restructuring of insolvent
banks would also adverselv effect the rehabilitation of
the banking system. However, these risks are considered
manageable in the light of the steps already taken by
the Government and its strong comnritment to the reform
program.
Estimated
Disbursements:         The loan proceeds will be disbursed in two tranches of
$200 million equivalent, soon after effectiveness, and
$100 million after a performance review expected to be
carried out in about 12 months after effectiveness. An
additional $100 million is earmarked speciffcally for
restructuring banks and will be available after loan
effectiveness but tied to injection of equity into banks
which have I en restructured according to agreed
principles by the Government.
0 28 S



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY
FOR A SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (FSAL U)
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Government of Turkey for the equivalent of US$400 million to finance
the Second Financial Sector Adjustment Operation. The loan would have a term
of seventeen years including five years of grace, with interest at the
standard variable rate.
1. THE ECONOMY
1.01     A Country Economic Memorandum entitled "Turkey: Sustaining the
Adjustment Program" (6516-TU) was distributed to the Executive Directors in
June 1987, and a report entitled, "Fiscal Policy and Tax Reform in Turkey"
(6374-TU), was distributed in July 1987. A report entitled, "External Debt,
Fiscal Policy and Sustainable Growth" (7162-TU), dated March 15, 1988 has been
sent to the Government for discussion and its findings as well as those of an
economic mission in March 1988, are reflected in this report. Annex I, Table 1
provides key macroeconomic indicators and projections.
A. Economic Developments of the 1980s
1.02     Through much of the 1960s and into the early 1970s, Turkey enjoyed
rapid economic growth with low inflation. Like other developing countries,
however, an inadequate adjustment to the first oil shock and subsequent
recess;.on in the OECD countries rapidly deteriorated the country's balance of
payments position. Growing currenL account deficits, financed largely through
short-term borrowing, more than tripled Turkey's external debt between 1974
and 1977. Following virtual cessation of external financing and accumulation
of arrears, cumprehensive debt rescheduling arrangements were negotiated with
both private and official creditors between 1978 and 1980. Meanwhile, the
shortage of foreign exchange and imports led to disruptions in production,
declines in real GNP, rising unemployment, and a sharp acceleration of
inflation reaching above 100 percent by 1980.
1.03      In re-sponse to the economic crisis, major reforms were initiated in
1980 -- representing a sharp break with the past policy regime of market
intervention, import substitution, and reliance on state economic enterprises
(SEEs). The authorities implemented an extended stabilization program and
initiated a wide-ranging program of structural reforms, supported by the IMF
and World Bank adjustment lending. Stabilization was intended to restrain the
growth of domestic demand, attain a manageable external payments position, and
to restore international creditworthiness. The adjustment program was
designed to promote allocative and dynamic efficiency through greater reliance
on competitive market forces and the private sector, and to achieve an outward
orientation of the economy.
O285



-2-
1.04     The Turkish economy has displayed a creditable response to the
stabilization and adjustment measures put in place. In a nutshell, the
achievemenr.s cf Turkey have been based on a growth-oriented adjustment
strategy: the country has maintained high growth (over 5 percent per year)
without jeopardizing its creditworthiness. The key to the growth-oriented
strategy was the Turkish export response. Stabilization accompanied by
aggressive exchange rate policy, trade liberalization, and export promotion
measures quickly led to a large shift of productive capacity from domestic to
export markets. The economy raised its total factor productivity in the short
run, rapidly increasing its capacity utilization. Aided initially by buoyant
Middle East markets, exports grew at over 20 percent per year in real terms
and tripled their share in GNP between 1980 and 1987.
1.05     Sustained real depreciatio- of the Turkish lira had its cost in a
large reduction of national wealth; the associated capital loss on Turkey's
foreign debt accounted for over half of the increase in the debt-output ratio
by 1985.  But ,he corresponding export record reduced Turkey's debt-export
ratio substantially (by about 40 perc:nt between 1980 and 1985), and eased its
access to foreign capital markets. The country's improved international
creditworthiness has been reflected, for example, in the resumption of private
capital inflows in the form of trade credits (since 1982) and syndicated
medium-term financing (since 1983).  Remittances from Turkish workers abroad
also expanded rapidly in the early 1980s. Thus, Turkey continued to have
access to foreign financing after rescheduling its debt, and the additional
foreign saving was channeled into investment. ; gregate fixed investment
increased from 19.6 percent of GNP in 1980 to about 25 percent in 1987. The
higher rate of i1uvestment has, in turn, contributed to Turkey's high output
growth.
1.06     Fiscal tightening, complemented by the introduction of the value-
added tax, effected a substantial improvement in the primary (non-interest)
fiscal balance and lowered the public sector horrowing requirement (PSBR) from
9 percent of GNP in 1980 to about 5 percent in 1985.  The fiscal policy cut
public consumption (by more than 3% of GNP), and more importantly restructured
public investment away from manufacturing to infrastructlre -- complementing
instead of competing with the private sector. Private consumption fell
relative to GNP, aided by the policy to maintain positive real deposit rates
that stimulated increased private savings. Higher lending rates, triggered by
the higher deposit rates, were offset by investment incentives to aid a
recovery of private investment. Until 1985, the fiscal deficits were mostly
financed by rionetization and external borrowing. (Real domestic debt actually
declined between 1980 and 1984). Price trends closely reflecteu fiscal
performance, and the inflation rate declined from 107 percent in 1980 to
around 40 percent by the mii 1980s.
1.07     But the burden of adjustment and the fruits of restored growth appear
not to have been shared equitably among the population: real wages fell
sharply in the formal sector; the labor surplus rate (including open unem-
ployment, those unemployed not seeking work, and disguised unemployment in
agriculture) stayed at about 15 percent of the civilian labor force; little
absolute poverty is evident, but considerable differences in living standards
and social indicators remain among regions and between rural and urban
communities; and available data indicate a probable worsening of income
distribution since the i970s.
028 SR



-3-
1.08     Against this background, the Government began to switch to more
expansiona,y policies in 1985, and initiated a policy of fisca; decen-
tralization. Local governments and extra-budgetary funds (EBFs) were granted
access to greater sources of revenue and financing, and public investment grew
rapidly (about 23 percent in 1985 and 10 percent in 1986 in real terms). This
policy did sucLeed in addressing pressing social needs such as low-income
housing and upgrading municipal infrastructure, perhaps in a more effective
and popular manner. The policy stance was maintained thrcughout 1986 and
until the general election in November 1987, resulting in real GNP growth of 7
to 8 percent per annL.. in these two years.  It, however, eroded mos. of the
fiscal policy gain achieved in the first half of this decade: the PSBR rose
to 8.7 percent of GNP by 1987. At the same time, the scope for monetization
to finance the deficit narrowed substantially, due to a progressive reduction
in reserve requirements, substitution of foreign exchange deposits for Turkish
Lira deposits, and financial innovations in cash management techniques among a
significant segment of enterprises. The reduced demand fir money meant that
higher rates of inflation are needed to generate any givea revenue from
inflation tax. Thus, while monetization declined and r'course to domestic
debt financing increased as a share of deficit financing, the resurgence of
the fiscal deficit increased inflationary pressures. After having fallen to 25
percent in 1986, the inflation rate rose to 49 percent by end-1987.
1.09     Growing fiscal deficits have not adversely affected Turkey's current
account performance, which declined substantially to $957 million in deficit
(1.5 percent of GNP) in 1987. With the reduction of concessional flnancing
over the last few years, the real cost of foreign debt has, however, risen.
Turkey therefore respcnded quickly with reduced non-interest current account
deficits, reflecting an exceptionally rapid growth of Turkish exports to the
OECD markets, in addition to renewed growth of workers' remittanlces and
tourism revenues. The price for this trend, however, has been the need to
maintain high rates of interest ill real terms, in order to elicit the net
private saving. Arbitraging with lending rates, the cost of public domestic
debL has also risen, at the time when the reduced scope for monetization and
constraints on external financing necessitated greater recourse to domestic
debt issue. To restore macroeconomic balances, therefore, the re-elected
Government attaches the highest priority to reducing the fiscal deficit, and
with it inflation and interest rates.
1.10     Despite the reduction in the current account deficit, Turkey's
external debt has risen rapidly. At end-1987 external debt is estimated at
slightly over $40 billion. About two-thirds of the increase in debt measured
in dollars since end-1985 is due to the decline of the dollar, since more than
60 percent of Turkey's debt is denominated in non-dollar currencies. Turkey's
debt service payments have riqer since the expiration in 1984 of the grace
periods on payments due under the OECD reschedulings of 1978-80. Principal
payments due from the 1979 commercial bank rescheduling have also raised debt
servicing requirements, along with the net repayments to the IMF. Debt
service payments (including IMF repurchases and charges, and interest on
shor'.-term debt) rose to $5.6 billion in 1987 from $4.7 billion in 1986.
Nevertheless, the external debt service ratio feli. from 37 percent in 1986 to
34 percent in 1987, reflecting the rapid growth in the country's exports (at
37 percent).
0 26 S



-4-
B. Stabilization Measures since the November 1987 Elections
1.11     A substantial tightening of fiscal and monetary policies has been
implemented since the general elections of November 1987. A series of
stabilization measures have been (and are being) undertaken in the context of
an explicit set of targets for 1988, which in turn forn, the basis for the
Government's medium-term macroeconomic framework to the year 1991. As part of
the policy dialogue with the Bank on these issues, the Government presented to
the Bank a Statement of Macroeconomic Policy (dat   May 9, 1988; the Statement
is to be circulated to the Board separately) and thus formally reaffirmed its
commitment to improve the country's macroeconomic conditions. Principal
objectives setting the Government's medium-term framework include:
(a)  real GNP growth of 5 percent;
(b)  reduction in the annual inflation rate to 20 percent by 1991;
(c)  limiting the PSBR to at most 5 percent of GNP;
(d)  reduction of the current account deficit to 0.6 percent of GNP
by 1991; and
(e)  reduction in the ratio of debt service to current account
receipts from 37 percent in 1988 to 27 percent by 1991.
In this context, the key macroeconomic targets for 1988 include:
(a)  real GNP growth of 5 percent;
(b)  PSBR cf at most 6 percent of GNP;
(c)  M2 growth of 40 percent, but with a sharp reduction in the
growth of the currency component of M2, compared with 1987;
(d)  depreciation of the real exchange rate by about 5 percent in
1988; and
(e)  a current account deficit of $885 million (1.3 percent of GNP);
1.12     This program signifies the Government's acknowledgement that the
reduction of the fiscal deficit is of crucial importance in restoring
macroeconomic stability and the recognition that the fiscal adjustment effort
will need to be sustained beyond 1988. The establishment ot a medium-term
framework which envisages substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit and
lowering the growth rate of the economy attests to the Government's
determination to reduce inflation and non-preferential lending rates.
Adherence to the fiscal deficit targets in the program would constitute a
major shift in the Government's macro-policy stance from the previous two
years. It should be noted here that the Government's measure of the fiscal
deficit -- the nominal PSBR -- includes all. interest payments as an above the
line expenditure item. In an inflationary environment it overstates the
Governmen'-`s claim on real resources compared with the "operational" deficit
concept used in many high inflation countries, in vhich only the real
component of interest payments is included while the inflationary component
(which comprises thc bulk of actual payments) is not.
1.13     The stabilization measures taken to date includcc both actions to
raise fiscal revenues and to reduce expenditures. Immediately following the
elections, the Government raised prices on the full range of goods and
services produced by the SEEs to improve their financial condition and reduca
their need for budgetary transfers. Such price adjustments between December
024S



-5-
1987 and February 1988 averaged above 20 percent, and in some cases were as
high as 40-50 percent. Subsequently, public sector prices have continued to
be adjusted frequently to offset higher operating costs. Most notably, prices
of petroleum products were increased by 12-23 percent at the beginning of
April. In addition to public sector price adjustments, tax rates have been
raised to generate sigrnificant increases in revenue. In January 1988, higher
value-added tax (VAT) rates were put into effect. A number of VAT exemptions
were eliminated, including basic foodstuffs and key agricultural products.
The VAT for luxury consumer goods was raised from 12 to 15 percent, and for
agricultural pesticides, pharmaceutical products, health and other services
from 5 to 8 percent. Motor vehicle taxes for luxury cars were increased up to
3 times their previous levels and an additional tax was imposed on the
purchase of all motor vehicles. Tae gasoline consumption tax was raised from
9 to 21 percent, and new consumption taxes on alcohol and tobacco products
were introduced.
1.14     On the expenditure side, the Government has imposed a hiring freeze
for the public sector including SEEs, and real wages in the public sector are
also expected to decline. The growth of public investment is to be limited to
below the targeted rate of output growth. No new major investment project is
to be started, while there is to be a gcneral slowdown in the implementation
of ongoing projects. To restrain the growth of expenditures by the EBFs, the
Treasury has been empowered to transfer 30 percent of EBF revenues to the
consolidated budget. In addition, a system to monitor EBF accounts on a
monthly basis has been introduced, and if expeuditure exceeds revenue, the EBF
accounts would be subject to an audit by the Auditor General's office. As a
result of these measures, EBF expenditures and investments are targeted to
decline sharply.  Finally, the establisnment of a Debt Coordination Committee
at the ministerial level, which will have authority over all aspects of
foreign borrowing, is expected to reduce the access to such financing by both
the EBFs and local governments, thus reducing their ability to invest.
1.15     The measures taken to raise fiscal revenues since December 1987
following the overheating of the economy prior to the elections, increased
upward pressure on prices and led to speculation against the Lira. In
February, the Government swiftly -ook the following actions to contain the
weakening of the Lira:  (a) inte.ct rates on all Lira deposits were increased
significantly, with the 6 month deposit rate raised to 52 percent and the one
year rate to 65 percent; (b) reserve requirements were raised from 14 to 16
percent and liquidity requirements from 23 to 2' percent; and (c) a 5 percent
withholding tax was imposed on interest earned on foreign exchange deposits,
and the interest paid to commercial banks on reserve requirements on foreign
exchange deposits was reduced. The implementation of these measures increased
the demand for Turkish Lira deposits and encouraged a shift into deposits of
longer maturity. While non-preferential lending rates rose to over 115
percent following the increase in deposit rates, it is expected that the
lending rates will decline commensurately as the fiscal deficit and inflation
are reduced (see Chapter II).
1.16     The measures already taken to reduce the fiscal deficit are
substantial. They are estimated to amount to a cut in the primary (non-
interest) fiscal balance in 1988 by about 4.5 pt-rcent of GNP, assuming, as is
the Governmert's intention, that public sector price adjustments continue to
keep pace with inflation. The share of public sector interest payments is,
however, estimated to grow by nearly 3 percent of GNP in 1988. (Rising
0285



-6-
interest payments in 1988 reflect both higher interest payments on domestic
debt resulting from the increase in inflation, and higher interest payments on
foreign debt resulting from the accumulation of external debt and the
declining concessionary element of such debt.) Thus, based on the measures
already taken, the PSBR in 1988 is estimated to decline to about 7 percent of
GNP, with the primary fiscal balance swinging from a deficit of about 2
percent of GNP in 1987 to a surplus of about 2.5 percent in 1988.
1.17     That policies have been tightened substantially in 1988 is clearly
evident from the actions already taken thus far by the authorities. To be
sure, these actions are not to be regarded as the entirety of the stabili-
zation measures for 1988. As declared in the Statement of Macroeconomic
Policy, the Government "has firmly commnitted itself to introducing all
necessary measures in the course of the year to curb the public expenditure
and to increase the public revenue in order to keep the PSBR less than 6
percent of tjiP." The Government is also aware of the fact that maintenance of
the deficit reduction achieved thus far would require further actions as well,
particularly in view of the current environment where the differential impact
of inflation among various revenue and expenditure items may generate
unanticipated fiscal developments. The achievement of the intended targets
will therefore depend critically on close monitoring of macroeconomic
developments and the steady implementation of fiscal adjustment measures. The
Government has already intensified its monitoring effort. The Bank is also
devoting greater resources to its ongoing monthly and quarterly economic
reporting and updating on Turkey (enhanced by the presence of the new Resident
Mission in Ankara). The Government and the Bank have agreed to undertake
regular reviews of developments on a semi-annual basis, beginning this
susner.  In terms of the additional stabilization measures, the Government
intends to focus on delaying the implementation of selected public investment
projects further, including those in the transport sector, where a large
increase had been programmed for 1988.
Table 1: PUBLIC SECTOR BORROWING REQUIREMENT a
(in Percent of GNP)
Prov.         Government
Actuals       Program
1985     1986        1987          1988
Central Government                       2.8         3.6        4.4           2.8
State Economic Enterprises               3.2        4.2         4.7           1.6
Local Governments                      -0.2         0.2         0.4          0.3
Extra-Budgetary Funds                  -0.5        -2.1        -0.6           1.0
Revolving Funds                        -0.4        -0.4        -0.2          0.2
Total                                    4.9         5.5        8.7           6.0
A'    Negative sign indicates surplus.
0 2 & 5



-7-
C. Prospects for the Medium Term
1.18     In order to assess the macroeconomic framework of Turkey, the
intended fiscal policy targets must be judged against a path of fiscal
deficits that is consistent with the Government's macroeconomic objectives for
the medium term. Fiscal deficits can be financed from three sources:
external borrowing, issue of domestic interest-bearinig debt, and monetary
financing. Attaining the multiple objectives of reducing inflation,
stabilizing domestic debt and real interest rates, and improving external
creditworthiness impose constraints on each of the sources of deficit
finance. The objective of sustaining economic growth also imposes constraints
on the speed of deficit reduction. These constraints have been incorporated
into the Bank's projections, in order to evaluate the Government's medium-
term framework. On the basis of more conservative assumptions (relative to
the Government) regarding export growth and the extent of adjustment of the
PSBR in 1988, the Bank's projections indicate the existence of a viable
scenario in whicn the Go ernment can achieve its principal macroeconomic
objectives over the medium term.
1.19     The fundamental assumption of the Bank's (Base Case) medium-term
projections is that the process of fiscal adjustment is adhered to, so that
the ratios of both domestic and external public debt to GNP can be lowered
gradually, while lessening reliance on monetary financing to achieve a steady
reduction of inflation. Two medium-term objectives of the Government are
retained in the Base Case: real GNP growth is to average 5 percent per year,
and the rate of inflation is targeted at 20 percent by 1991. (Inflation is
expected to decline significantly by the summer of 1988 as a result of the
stabilization measures undertaken thus far. For 1988 as a whole, itn view of
the price increases of the first quarter discussed earlier, it is expected
that the year-end inflation rate would not be below 55 percent and an
year-average inflation rate of 65 percent is assumed. The reduction in
inflation in 1989 is expected to be substantial, however, predicated on the
progz ss assumed for the second helf of 1988.)
1.20     On the external front, export volume is assumed to grow by about 9
percent in 1988, aided by the Government's intention to depreciate the real
effective exchange rate by about 5 percent this year and to further
rationalize the system of export incentives. A constant real effective
excnange rate and real export growth of 6 to 7 percent per annum are assumed
after 1988. Coupled with the Bank's projections on traded goods prices this
results in a somewhat slower rate of nominal export growth (10 percent) than
projected by the Government (13 percent per year). Imporc elasticities are
assumed to range between 1 to 1.3. This represents a reduction from recent
years and is based on the assumption that the pace of import liberalization
will be slower over the projection period, reflecting the progress already
made in the 1980s.  The resulting currert account deficit is projected to
decline gradually in real terms (para 1.24), with the public sector assumed to
utilize the entire net inflow of foreign capital. The principal additional
assumptions used, and key macroeconomic indicators and projections are
presented in Annex I, Tables I and 2.
O zS s



-8-
1.21     The available financing consistent with the above output, inflation
and sustainable borrowing targets indicate that a steady reduction of the PSBR
to about 4 percent of GNP by 1991 would be consistent with the Government's
medium-term objectives as outlined in para. 1.11. Iv  If the outcome of the
PSBR/GNP ratio in 1988 is indeed 7 percent, (resulting as discussed previously
from a primary fiscal adjustment of about 4.5 percent of GNP and increased
interest payments of nearly 3 percent), the PSBR would have to be further
reduced by about 3 percent of GNP by 1991. However, the corresponding
increase in the primary fiscal surplus between 1988 and 1991, is not as
substantial, estimated at under one percent of GNP. This arises from the fact
that as inflation declines sharply in 1989 (to about 35 percent) and more
gradually thereafter (to 20 percent by 1991), interest payments on domestic
debt are proiected to decline as a share of GNP. Furthermore, as recourse to
external financing by the public sector also declines gradually, the share of
external interest payments to GNP is also expected to begin to decline. Under
this scenario, the bulk of the primary fiscal adjustment required through 1991
(estimated at 5.3 percent of GNP) would therefore have been achieved during
1988.
1.22     it should be noted that maintenance of a significant primary surplus
over an extended period would nonetheless require sustained fiscal vigilance.
In particular, if increased fiscal resources are needed for financial
restructuring, further fiscal adjustment would be required to maintain
consistency with other macroeconomic objectives. Moreover, if the decel-
eration of inflation is not as rapid or sustained as projected, this would
again call for additional fiscal adjustment. Finally, the assurptions
underlying the concep and composition of financeable fiscal deficits them-
selves may need to be modified over time. For example, a downward shift in
the demand for moniey arising, for instance, from an increase in currency
substitution wouid imply reduced monetary finanocing for a given level of
inflation.  Alterna 4vely, a sharper reduction in foreign savings than assumed
in para. 1.24 would necessitate a more rapid fiscal adjustment than envisaged
in the base case projections.
1.23     Attainment of the macro objectives described above requires a
significart reduction in each of the three sources of deficit financing by
1991 compzired to 1987. Reduced inflation targets imply reductions in the
recourse o monetary financing (adjusted for once-off shifts in seignorage
losses or gains arising from the effects of changes in inflation on the demand
for base money).  Fhe objective of reversing the recent trend of escalating
interest costs on Governmert securities is achieved through limiting domestic
borrowing so as to reduce the ratio of domestic public debt to GNP. Finally,
external horrowing by the public sector is also limited to the extent neces-
sary to reduce the shares of public external debt and interest payments to GNP
(althougt; at a somewhat less rapid pace than implied by the Government's own
external borrowing targets through 1991)
The methodology underlying this analysis is contained in "External
Dett, Fiscal Policy and Sustainable Gr eLth" (7162-TU).
.1



-9-
1.24     S'tstained export growth, together with a decl_ne in the reliance on
foreign savings leads to a 3teady improvement in external creditworthiness
ratios after 1988. Between 1987 and 1992, the Bank's projections anticipate a
decline in the debt service ratio from 34 percent to 32 percent (after rising
to 39 percent in 1988), the debt/GDP ratio from 60 to 49 percent, and the
current account deficit/GDP ratio from 1.5 to 1.2 percent. Further
improvement in these ratios is anticipated througr. 1997 (Annex I, Table 1).
It should be noted that these projections are based on significantly slower
export growth than has beer achieved in the past. If exports were to grow
faster than assumed (as prcjected by the Government), the improvement of these
ratios would be more rapid.
External Capital Requirements
1.25     The process of fiscal adjustment, reduction of inflation and decline
in the ratios of real external indebtedness would act to enhance Turkey's
creditworthiness over the medium term. Nonetheless, gross financing
requirements are expected to average about $5.5 billion during 1988-92,
largely reflecting an increase in amortization payments, which are projected
to average more than $4 billion over the same period. (By comparison
principal repayments in 1986 and 1987 amounted to $2.5 billion and
$3.2 billion, respectively.) In 1988, principal repayments including IMF
repurchases are estimated at $4.3 billion, of which about $2 billion is due to
OECD governments. Net capital requirements during 1988-92 are estimated to
average $1.4 billion, ariFing fron. an average current account deficit of about
$1 billion and steady increases in fzreign exchange reserves.
1.26     The Government's intention is to rely increasingly on private sources
to finance the higher debt servicing requirements. The regulations governing
foreign direct investment have been rationalized, and it is anticipated that
the Government's intention to proceed with privatization of SEEs will stimu-
late further foreign investment. Recent bond placements in the Federal
Republic of Germany and Japan have generated significant capital inflows, and
further recourse to bond issues is planned. Capital inflows from Turkish
citizens residing abroad (mainly Europe and the Middle East) continue to
provide a large proportion of Turkey's financing requirements. It is the
intention of the Government to rely to a greater extent on balance of payments
financing from ccmmercial banks and to a lesser extent on project financing,
in line w'th its objective of restraining new projects to reduce the fiscal
deficit. Reduced reliance on short-term borrowing is also anticipated,
consistent with the ability to generate greater inflows of medium-term private
capital. While the share of short-term to total debt is expected to rise
marginally in 1988 to 23 percent, this ratio is expected to stabilize
thereafter. The ratio of short-term debt to trade, possibly a more relevant
indicator, is however expected to decline steadily.
1.27      Improvement in domestic and external indicators over the medium term
would indicate favorable prospects for the Government being able to realize
its external financing strategy. Nonetheless, financing requirements in 1988
are at a peak in real terms, as evidenced by an estimated debt service ratio
of 39 percent. The proposed FSAL II loan, with its expected cofinancing with
the Japanese Government and Japanese commercial banks, could make available
about $1.1 billion, of which $700 million could be expected to be disbursed in
328$P



-10-
1988. The projected 1988 disbursements would amount to about 12 percent of
gross financing requirements in 1988, of which the proposed $200 million of
Bank disbursements would comprise about 3.5 percent. The $700 million of
capital inflow linked to this loan would permit Turkey to contain its recourse
to short-term borrowing.
D. Interaction Between the Fiscal Deficit and the Financial Sector
1.28     Large fiscal deficits have an adverse impact on the financial
system. Structural reform of the financial sector, therefore, must be
accompanied by appropriate macroeconomic policies. But a weak financial
system tends to constrain vigorous fiscal retrenchment as well. Macroeconomic
adjustm.ent, therefore, also requires improvements in the health of the
financial sector. When large fiscal deficits and a fragile financial system
exist side by side, both problems need to be addressed simultaneously.
1.29.    In Turkey, as in other developing countries, major structural reforms
of the real sector have imposed a significant strain on the economy's
financial system, since the shifts in relative prices and profitabilities in
the real sector have resulted in substantial changes in profitabilities of the
financial sector's asset portfolio. This strain has been made more difficult
to bear due to a sustained period of large fiscal deficits. As discussed
earlier, large fiscal deficits together with declining net external financing
have increased the domestic financing requirements of the public sector, thus
generating upward pressure on inflation as well as on real interest rates.
The public sector's increased borrowing requirements have led to financial
crowding out of private investment and deteriorated the loan portfolio of
commercial banks.  Higher inflation has also accelerated the process of
currency substitution, which by reducing the demand for base money and hence
the revenues from the inflation tax, generate larger public borrowings for a
given rate of inflation. A reduction in the borrowing requirement of the
public sector would therefore contribute to reversing these trends and permit
the Gcvernxment to reduce the taxation of financial intermediation, which would
narrow the large spread currently prevailing between deposit and lending
rates. Reducing the fiscal deficit is thus indispensable for improving the
health of the financial sector.
1.30     The distress within the financial system is also a factor perpet-
uating fiscal deficits. Weak financial institutions dppear to 'Le indIrectly
supported by being allowed to purchase government securitiet yie'ding high
interest, thus increasing the burden on public finances. a.estruzturiiig of
insolvent financial ins.itutions would also increas? the need f3r puLblic
funding. The high proportion of non-performing assets tends to burden the
system, as banks attempt to charge higher rates from healthy cuscomers to
compensate for their losses elsewhere. Such high interest rates. in turn, can
increase the borrowing costs to the Government. Thus improvenxJnts in the
financial sector's health would have a favorable impact on public finances by
reducing the need for direct and indirect support from the budget. Finally, a
severe fiscal retrenchment could result in recession, which, in turn, would
exacerbate the financial distress of the banking system. Thus, the fragility
of the banking system itself may inhibit a more vigorous fiscal retrenchment
than m.y be considered appropriate in an unconstrained environment.
0 2 8 5



-11-
E. Relations with the IMF
1.31     Turkey received extensive financing from the IMF during the first
half of the 1980s to support its stabilization effort. A three-year stand-by
arrangement with the Fund was approved in 1980 and was fully utilized. Two
subsequent one-year stand-bys were approved in 1983 and 1984. Since 1984,
repayments to the Fund have increased, reaching $443 million in 1987. Debt
outstanding to the IMF at end-1987 was $770 million, and is due to be repaid
by 1990. At the Government's request, between annual Article IV
Consultations, the IMF has been carrying out periodic staff visits to Turkey
to provide advice and discuss economic issues.
1.32     Collaboration between the IMF and Bank staff remains close and
productive. In addition to regular sharing of information and informal
technical briefings, the collaboration includes mission participation. IMF
staff participated in the appraisal mission of the proposed FSAL II loan, in
the mission to prepare the "External Debt, Fiscal Policy and Sustainable
Growth" Bank report (para 1.01), as well as in the Bank's recent CEM mission.
Bank staff routinely participate in the IMF's Article IV Consultation missions
and staff visits, including the one completed in early May 1988.
0 2 8 SR
0285



-12-
II. DEVELOPMENTS IN THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
2.01     Although Turkey initiated major economic reforms in 1980, the need for
financial sector reforms (which are crucial to economic development because of
their pivotal role in efficiently mobilizing and allocating resources) was not
fully recognized until the "Bankers' Crisis" in 1982 brought out the urgent
necessity of overhauling the financial system. The Bank supported the
Government by launching a major financial sector study: "Turkey- Policies for
the Financial Sector" (4459-TU), dated September 21, 1983. This study and
subsequent discussions helped the .Jovernment to initiate a number of important
financial sector reforms under SAL-IV and SAL-V--focusing on the structure and
level of deposit interest rates, rationalization of preferential lending
rates, reduction in the financial transactions tax and withholding tax on
interest earnings, establishment of an auctioning system for Treasury bills,
and establishment of the Capital Market Board (CMB). Furthermore, in April
1985, a new Banking Act was promulgated, which established loan concentration
and lending limits, gave more prominence to the supervisory role of the
banking system by the Government, and introduced deposit insurance by creating
a Deposit Insurance Fund in the Central Bank. However, both the Government
and the Bank recognized that these were initial steps and, while extremely
important, would need further deepening over the next several years.
2.02     Recognizing that the process of  .nancial sector reform in Turkey
would require a sustained effort over th, medium term, the Bank approved the
first Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL-I) in May 1986 in support of a
medium-term program of policy and institutional reform measures set out in the
Government's letter of Financial Sector Policies."'  The FSAL-I supported
reforms in three main areas: (i) Financial Policies: maintenance of positive
deposit raLes and positive lending rates on selective credits; reduction of
selective credits to reduce subsidies and improve credit allocation; reduction
of reserve and liquidity requirements to lower the high cost of
non-preferential borrowing; (ii) Financial Institutions and Regulation:
introduction of standardized accounting, external audit and training of staff
of commercial banks; strengthening of Central Bank's off-site surveillance and
supervision capacity; strengthening of the Board of Sworn Bank Auditors (BSBA)
and procedures; strengthening of the interbank market; and (iii) Money and
Capital Markets: development of short term instruments (Treasury bills and
commercial paper); development of medium term instruments (Treasury bonds and
corporate bonds); improvement of the Capital Market Board's (CMB) procedures;
and introduction of external audit for corporations listing their shares in
the stock exchange or selling commercial paper.
A. Progress under FSAL-I
2.03     Satisfactory progress has been made under FSAL-I.- /  In the area of
financial policy, except for selective credits, lending rates for all other
credits are now totally liberalized. The volume of selective credits was
See Turkey FSAL-I, SAR 6095-TC, May 1986 for a description of the
financial sector and the reforms covered uncer the loan.
2/       See Turkey - Release of the Second Tranche of tt2 Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan Sec M87-278, dated March 19, 1987.
0 2a s



-13-
reduced from 42 percent of the total in 1983 to 23 percent in 1987 (paragraph
2.11 below). Administered deposit interest rates and most preferential
lending rates (with the exception of some loans to agriculture) have been
maintained at positive levels. Because of the sharp increase in inflation in
late 1987, a period of negative deposit interest rates occurred at that time,
which resulted in some erosion of financial depth. In response, deposit rates
were increased substantially in early 1988. As agreed under FSAL-I, reserve
and liquidity requirements were also drastically reduced during 1986 and 1987,
though there was a minor and temporary increase in late 1987, again due to
fiscal exigencies. Considerable progress has been made in strengthening the
institutional framework for bank supervision, developing a standardized
accounting system for banks, training of bank officers and auditors, etc., and
in the development of money and capital markets. The primary and secondary
markets for both Treasury bills and cormercial papers have expanded
significantly, as have listings and trading activities in the Istanbul Stock
Exchange. Auditing of banks and a limited number of corporations will be
initiated with their 1987 accounts. However, the establishment of the Council
of Sworn Financial Advisors, a required action under the FSAL I, has been
delayed by legal obstacles. A major issue that could not be adequately
addressed under the FSAL-I concerns the high level of non-preferential lending
rates which are freely set by banks. These rates have increased to very high
levels (40-50 percent in real terms) resulting in substantial crowding out of
private borrowings. There are clear signs that the fi .ncial situation of the
banking system has been deteriorating because of high interest rates. Many
banks are carrying a very high burden of non-performing loans in their
portfolios. The prevailing lack of progress in reducing real lending interest
rates and improving banks' portfolios is due to inefficiencies in the banking
system as well as to expansionary macroeconomic policies, both of which are
now being addressed by th- Government. As noted in Part I above, the
Government intends to give high priority to improving macroeconomic policies
over the next two years.  The proposed operation will support a deepening of
the financial sector reforms initiated under the FSAL I. Recent developments
in the financial sector are discussed in greater detail below.
B. Structure of the Financial System
2.04     As in most developing countries, the banking system in Turkey is the
centerpiece of the financial system. Its share in the total financial assets
of the country is 93 percent. At the end of 1987, there were 56 banks, of
which 12 were specialized public banks, 26 were private domestic banks and 18
were private foreign banks. The shares of public and private banks in total
assets are about equal and have not ch.anged significantly since 1980, as shown
in Annex I, Table 3.  The share of fore.gn banks has also remained small,
despite the entry of 14 new foreign banks bet%een 1980 and 1986, partly due to
foreign banks concentrating their operations on foreign trade financing. The
banking system has also remained highly concentrated. The share of the four
largest banks in :otal banks' assets in 1986 was 52 percent--the same as in
1980. The share c' the four largest private banks in total private banks'
assets has also remained high and constant, around 70 percent.  The banking
system in Turkey has a large number of branches: in total, there are, about
6,400 branches throughout the country, of which 55 percent belong to private
banks and 45 percent to public banks. In addition to the banking system,
other financial institutions in Turkey include insurance companies, mutual
funds, the social security system, private pension funds, and the securities
market. As noted earlier, howe-er, these non-banking institutions represent
only 7 percent of the assets of the financial sector in the country.
0 28 S



-14-
C. Trends in The Mobilization of Funds in the Financial System
2.05     Given the preponderant size of the banking system in Turkey, the
degree of financial deepening in the country can be measured by the ratio of
currency and bank deposits (money supply M2 or M2X which includes foreign
exchange depcsits) to GNP. At the end of 1986, M2/GNP and M2X/GNP reached
23.5 percent and 28.4 percent, respectively--which represented a considerable
improvement in resource mobilization compared with 1979-80 when the ratios
stood at about 15.0 percent (Annex I, Table 4). The increase in financial
depth between 1980 and 1986 can be attributed to the macroeconomic and
financial reforms initiated since 1980 (paras 2.01-2.03). However, during
1987, Turkish Lira (TL) resource mobilization faltered somewhat, due to the
d '.ayed adjustment of interest rates on deposits in the face of increasing
inflation. The ratio of M2 to GNP declined by one percentage point, despite
the liberalization in July 1987 of interest rates on one-year time deposits
and on large denomination CDs. However, as currency substitution took place,
the ratio of M2X to GNP increased, offsetting the loss in TL deposits. In
February 1988, the Government increased interest rates on TL deposits of all
maturities, including sight deposits, while reestablishing control over the
interest rate on one-year deposits. The rate on large denomination CDs can be
flexibly set within the ceiling fixed for TL deposits of corresponding
maturities. Interest rates on sight, one-, three-, six-months and one-year
time deposits are currently 36 percent, 40 percent, 45 percent, 52 percent,
and 65 percent, respectively, compared with an inflation rate of around 50-55
percent per year in 1987. These adjustments of interest rates should thus
contribute to improved resource mobilization by the banking system during 1988.
2.06     Ihe Government has been successful in mobilizing foreign exchange
(FX) deposits via Turkey's commercial banks, which have grown rapidly since
their introduction in December 1983. As of December 1987, the stock of FX
deposits amounted to about US$5.2 billion, or about 30 percent of M2.
One-third of the foreign exchange stock is held in sight deposits and
two-thirds in time deposits, with the overall average maturity being about
five months. Turkish residenlt individuals hold the majority of the stock. The
interest rates offered on these accounts vary significantly across banks, but
they range from LIBOR to LIBOR plus 6 percent. in order to reduce currency
substitution from TL to FX deposits, a 5 percent withholding tax on FX
deposits was introduced in 1987. This tax is half of the 10 percent tax
applicable to interest earnings on TL deposits. In addition, in January 1986,
the Central Bank imposed a reserve requirement ratio of 15 percent on the
stock of FX deposits and, in mid-1987, it increased it to 20 percent.
Furthermore, the Central Bank has recently reduced the interest rates paid to
comrwercial banks Ot. FX deposits (previously equal to LIBOR rates) by 2
percentage points in order to induce banks to lower their own rates and thus
help further reduce currency substitution. These measures to equalize the
treatment of TL and FX deposits are effective, since they allow the Central
Bank to recover a portion of the loss in seignorage and inflation tax arising
from lower TL base money creation.
2.07     Although mobilization of funds by non-banking institutions is still a
minor element in the financial sector, it has shown progress in recent years.
Net issues of corporate bonds have been increasing at a fast rate and new
financial instruments--such as commercial paper, ban: bills and profit and
loss sharing certificates--have recently been introduced successfully. The
0 28 5



-15-
current stocks of these instruments are small (0.5 percent of GNP in 1987);
however, they are expected to become a mole significant source of private
sector financing. Measures to further develop these instruments are included
in the ongoing and proposed FSALs. In addition, seven mutual funds started
operating in the second half of 1987, which should also contribute to
financial deepening. Finally, the stocks of Government revenue sharing
certificates (first issued in 1984) have increased rapidly and amounted to
approximately 1.3 percent of GNP in June 1987. The share of the stocks of
private fixed-income securities and government securities (revenue sharing
certificates and bonds and bills) held outside the banking system is estimated
to be around 3.5 percent of GNP. Therefore, the ratio of broadly defined
money supply (M2X plus securities held outside banks) to GNP is currently
around 32.5 percent.
2.08     In spite of the progress already achieved, the Turkish financial
system is still shallow in comparison to other countries at a similar stage of
development. The ratio of broad money supply to GNP of 32.5 percent
(including foreign exchange deposits and securities held outside the banks)
still compares unfavorably with an average ratio of M2 to GNP of 36 percent
for similar developing countries. This suggests that there is ample scope in
Turkey for further progress in mobilization of funds. In addition, further
increases in financial depth based on the growth of foreign exchange deposits
may not be desirable, since the excessive growth of these deposits is likely
to complicate the management of monetary and exchange rate policies and also
introduce instability into the financial system (para 3.08). Continued
progress in resource mobilization will require the maintenance of the
attractiveness of TL-denominated assets not only through an adequate interest
rate policy but also through improved macroeconomic management and lower
inflation, which the Government is committed to achieve as described in the
Statement of Macroeconomic Policy (para. 1.15).
D. Trends in Credit Alocation
The Role uf the Central Bank in Credit Allocation
2.09     In order to improve credit allocation, since 1980 the Government has
been liberalizing the credit allocation system. At present, there are no
global or sectoral credit allocations for banks. The commercial banks may, at
their own discretion, raise and use deposits within the legal, financial
parameters established by the Government. Furthermore, the direct credits and
rediscounts made available by the Central Bank for special purposes have been
reduced substantially (para 2.11). As a result of these measures, the role of
the Central Bank has declined considerably, relative to the commercial banks.
These measures complement other measures to liberalize the financial system,
including the removal of interest rate ceilings on normal non-preferential
loans. As shown in Annex I, Table 5, from 1980 to 1986, the share of
commercial banks in total credit increased from 41 percent to 75 percent,
while the share of the Central Bank declined from 49 percent to 15 percent.
However, in lQQ7, there was a slight reversal, with the Central Bank's share
rising to 18 percent reflecting increased support to the agriculture sector.
The smaller role of the Central Bank and the increased capacity of the
commercial banks to lend from their own funds represents a shift to a
less-subsidized and more market-oriented financial system, which has increased
the flow rf credit to activities with high returns and contributed to a
decrease in the overall ratio of selective credit to total credit. Instead of
02S 5



-16-
credit ceilings ar.d allocations for purposes of monetary control, the
mechanisms used by the Central Bank are reserve and liquidity requirements and
the newly developed open market operations.
2.10     The share of development banks in total credits has declined from 10
percent to 7 percent, a reflection of the difficulties encountered in
mobilizing medium- and long-term TL funds in a period of high and volatile
inflation, as well as difficulties encountered in obtaining medium-term
foreign exchange resources. Lending by developme.nt banks, which is mainly
directed to the industrial sector, was also adversely affected by the lower
level of investment in manufacturing during this period (especially by the
public, but also by the private sector). However, the Industrial Development
Bank of Turkey (TSKB) has been successful in raising TL resources through sale
of bonds and bills during 1986-87, which should help boost its lending and
share.
Preferential Rates and Selective Credits
2.11     Under FSAL I, the GovernmenF committed itself to raise selective
credit interest rates to positive levels by end the of 1986, and to reduce the
proportion of Central Bank selective credits, which flow to the economy on
preferential terms."'  Except for some lc. s for agriculture, selective
credits are now granted at positive interest rates, but below the very high
rates in the liberalized sectors. It is estimated that the proportion of
selective credit extended on preferential terms tn the productive sectors
declined from about 42 percent of total crediL. in 1983 to about 23 percent in
September 1987 (Annex I, Table 6). Moreover, the qhare of rediscounted credit
by the Central Bank to total credit declined from 16.6 percent in 1983 to 7.4
percent in 1987. Selective credits under preferential terms are now provided
only to agricuiture (fertilizer and livestock), industrial artisans, exports
and housing--sectors in which the Government believes that current market
failures and conditions (including high real interest rates on non-preferential
credits (para 2.12) would prevent funds from reaching these priority or
underprivileged groups. Although the share of selective credits under
preferential terms to agriculture increased somewhat in early 1988 due Lo the
large jump in inflation in the end of 1987, the share of selective credits
under preferential terms to the productive sectors should continue to decline
during 19SS for two reasons. First, interest rates were significantly
increased for both short- and medium-term selective credits in February 1988
resulting in a substantial proportion becoming positive. Second, with
inflation expected to decline as a result of the Government's macroeconomic
adjustment program, all selective credits should become non-preferential in
the course of the year if the current levels of interest rates are maintained.
Short term credits are considered as preferential when extended at an
interest rate lower than the inflation rate as measured by the change
in the WPI during the 12 months preceding the calculation.
Medh'u-term credits are considered preferential if the interest rate
as lower than an index computed by averaging the previous 12 months
change 4n the WPI with the forecasted change in the WPI for the next
12 months. These definitions were adopted under the Bank's first
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to Turkey (See Annex 5, Report No.
6095-TU, dated May 15, 1986 for details).
0 2 8 5



-17-
2.12     In spite of the support to agriculture under selective credits, since
1980 total credits for agriculture have remained at atout 15 percent of total
credits. Total credits to industry, on the other hand, have declined from 45
percent of the total in 1980 to 30 percent in 1987.  This decline reflects the
reduction in Central Bank rediscounts to industry and the lower investments by
public state enterprises.  Credits for foreign trade, supported by preferential
but positive rates, increased from 6 percent in 1980 to 13 percent in 1987.
Credits for housing increased from from 2 percent to 14 percent during the same
period in response to a major injection of funds through the Mass Housing Fund
program (Annex I, Table 7).
High Non-Preferential Lending Rates
2.13     A major problem facing the allocative efficiency of the financial
systeir is that liberalized, non-preferential lending rates have remained
exccedingly high in real terms.  In early 1988, effective prime rates on short
term commercial loans were around 98 percent per year, up from about 66
percent per year in the first semester of 1987. The recent increase in
lending rates has resulted from two factors. First, the banks' average annual
cost of deposits has increased substantially (from 35 percent in 1987 to
51 percent in February 1988) after the adjustment of interest rates on
deposits for increased infl.i on. Second, the increase in reserve
requirements (from 15 percent in early 1987 to 16 percent in December 1987),
the increase in liquidity requirements (from 23 percent to 27 percent) and the
increase in the transaction tax (from 3 percent to 5 percent) have increased
even further the spread between deposit rates and the effective cost of
funds--the major determinant of lending rates. The difference between the
banks' average deposit rates (51 percent) and effective cost of funds (94
percent) is now 43 percent and is accounted as follows:  reserve and liquidity
requirements (25 percent net), Resource Utilization Support Fund (RUSF) and
transaction taxes (9 percent), and operating costs (9 percent). Adding 4
percent for average profits yields a p:ime rate of about 98 percent. Real
lending rates at such high levels (40-50 percent per year) are a strong
deterrent to further increases in private manufacturing investment, which has
not recovered significantly beyond thn levels reached in the late 1970s. In
addition, the present high real rates of interest tend to aggravate the
problem of non-performing loans in the portfolij of public banks. As noted
above, the largest component of the spread between lending and deposit rates
are reserve and liquidity requirements and transaction taxes, both of which
are the result of the Government's high fiscal deficit. The reduction in
fiscal deficit is, therefore, a precondition to the reduction in the level of
real lending rates, and of the restablishment of the health of the banking
system.
2.14     The Government's large fiscal deficits are also reflected in large
borrowings by public agencies. Annex 1, Table 8 shows the increasing
importance of government bonds and direct credit to public administrations.
Their share in total credit and bonds peaked at 30 percent in 1985, and
declined to about 26 percent in 1987, a level which is still high. The growth
in the stock of government bonds has been particularly high between 1983 and
1987. In addition, the share of public state enterprises in total credit and
bonds, (which had declined steadily to about 10 percent of total by 1984)
increased by almost 6 percent in 1987. Both these factors have led to crowding
out of the private sector, which is reflected in the reduction of the share of
credit to the private sector since 1985 and the prevailing high real lending
a zas



-18-
rates. In 1987, total credit supply in real terms increased, although only
slightly, but real credit supply to the private sector declined. In order to
reverse this trend, thie public sector borrowing requirment needs to be reduced.
This is one of the key objectives of the Government's macroeconomic adjustment
program as discussed in Chapter I.
Medium and Long-term Credit
2.15     Anocher key issue in the area of credit allocation is the availability
of medium- and long-term credit for investment in the key productive sectors
of industry and agriculture. For industry, the main sources of medium- and
long-term credits have been selective credits granted through Central Bank
rediscounts and external funds onlent by the specialized development banks.
Medium-term loans financed purely out of the commercial banks' own funds are
very scarce. Between 1980 and 1987, medium- and long-term credit to industry
as a share of total industrial lending grew from 34 percent to about 45
percent. However, this increase was due mainly to a reduction in the total
amount of credits to industry, rather than a major increase in term lending.
The stock of irmedium- and long-term loans to industry has remained stagnant at
a level below the peak reached in 1983. Basically, this dearth of longer-term
funds stems from the difficulties encountered by the specialized banks in
mobilizing long-term resources in an environment of high and volatile
inflation, and from the Government's pclicy of reducing medium-term selective
credits to industry. Similarly, only 20 percent of total credit to
agriculture in 1986/87 is estimated to be medium- and long-term lending. But
in agriculture, the key constraint to term lending (more than availability of
funds) is the institutional capacity to undertake sound lending at longer
maturities. A sustained reduction in inflation to a more reasonable level
will be needed to enable banks to provide medium- and long-term credits to the
productive sectors. The Government's fiscal adjustment program aims at
cutting inflation to a more reasonable level which would enable this objective
to be achieved over the next few years.
0285



-19--
Ill. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
3.01     The Government's agenda for financial sector reform over the next two
years is described in the "Statement of Financial Sector Policies-1988" issued
to the Bank (Annex II), wherein the Government has reaffirmed its intention to
continue its medium-term program of liberalization of the financial sector by
sustaining and deepening reforms in key areas of fiscal, monetary and finanrial
policies, banking institutions, and money and capital markets. In particular,
the Covernment recognizes that sound macroeconomic policies are essential if
financial sector reforms are to be effective. Hence, the Government has
adopted a program of fiscal and monetary stabilizatioi to reduce the public
sector deficit which, ii. turn. should lead to a reduction of inflation as well
as real interest rates.
3.02     The proposed agenda for deepening and expanding financial sector
reforms covers actions in three key areas which are as follows:
The first concerns policy actions to improve the efficiency of
mobilization and allocation of funds, in particular, aiming at maintaining both
deposit and lending rates at realistic levels, reducing the volume of
selective credits (including interest subsidies), reducing taxation of
financial intermediation to lower distortions in lending rates and measures to
improve the attractiveness of lira deposits vis-a-vis foreign exchange
deposits to reduce currency substitution;
The second concerns measures to strengthen financial discipline and
the health of the banking system, the more important of which include new
regulations on classification of loans (including current account loans' by
risk class and provisioning according to international norms, improving
enforcement of regulations through enhanced supervision, external audizs
according to international norms, initiating actions towards establi;ning an
institutional mechanism to deal with banking insolvency and initiating actions
to restructure banks according to sound financial principles includ4ng the
implementation of actual restructuring of some government owned banks in 1988;
The third concerns measures to develop tLie money and capital markets
further and includes such measures as increasing competition in the auctions
of Government securities, promoting the development of the secondary market by
eliniinating legal restrictions and fostering the establishment of special funds
to promote foreign portfolio investment in equities.
These actions are discussed below in greeter detail. The proposed
loan conditions, their timing, and their relationship to conditionalities under
previous adjustment loans are summarized in a matrix in Annex III.
A. Policy Measures to Improve Mobilization and Allocation of Funds
3.03     The Government is aware that the most important measure to improve
funds mobilization and allocation in the country is to reduce its large fiscal
deficit and the consequent inflation. Together with these fiscal measures, as
discussed in Part I, the Government proposes to take further measures in the
following areas: (i) interest rate policy; (ii) taxation of financial
instruments and reserve ax,-' liquidity requirements; (iii) selective credit
policy; and (iv) foreign excLkange deposits. These measures are described
below:
0z2 5



-20-
(i)      Interest Rate Policy
3.04     With regard to deposit rates, the Government has committed itself to
maintaining these rates at positive levels in order to provide adequate
incentives for mobilization of savings. The Bank agrees with the Government
that full liberalization of deposits at the present time is not desirable,
since it may lead to even higher destabilizing of real lending rates, given
the current large size of Lhe fiscal deficit and net domestic demand and the
high level of non-performing assets in the banking system. The Government,
however, has expressed its intent to lift the ceilings on deposit rates when
macroeconomic conditions become mure stable.
3.05     With regard to lending rates, the Government has committed to
maintaining their full liberalization, except for selective: credits that will
continue to enjoy preferential rates. In February 1988, the Government
substantially increased selective rates on loans to the productive sectors
(para. 2.11). For medium-term credits, the Central Bank's rediscount rates
were raised to between 40 percent to 54 percent per annum; the effective cost
to the borrower is on average 5 percent higher. These rates are positivo in
real terms according to the reference rate established under FSAL-I. '
Although some medium-term agricultural loans for livestock and fertiiizer were
recently increased by 7 percent per annum, they are still being lent by the
Agricultural Bank at 29 percent (effective cost is 30 percent, which is
negative). The Government has committed itself to bringing them to positive
levels by the second tranche release of the proposed loan. Short-term
selective credit rates which are currently preferential (including some
selective credits to agriculture, exports, and artisans) would also be covered
by this commitment.
(ii)     Taxation of Financial Instruments and Reserve and L_iqidity
Requirements
3.06     The Government is concerned with the high level of non-preferential
lending rates, which are distortionary. In fact, commercial bank lending at
such high real rates (40 to 50 percent per annum) are most likely for
distressed borrowings by firms that are tied up in the system, since few sound
projects can enjoy such high real returns. Therefore, in order to improve the
allocation of banking resources, real lending rates must be reduced to more
reasonable levels. The Government recognizes that its reliance on reserve and
liquidity requirements and heavy taxes on financial intermediation to raise
public revenue has significantly contributed to these high rates, as they put
a wedge between lending and deposit rates. Furthermore, the Government is
concerned that the high level of reserve and liquidity requirements have tied
"p resources and further crowded out the private sector. As the Government
adopts measures to reduce the fiscal deficit, pressures to maintain the
distortionary taxes and high reserve and liquidity requirements will be
reduced.  Thus, as a better fisc;! balance is attained, the Government has
agreed to gradually eliminate the RUSF tax and transactions taxes and
graduallv reduce reserve and liquidity requirements.  Given the interrelation
between taxation in general and taxation of financial in.trumants, to
See TurKey FSAL-I Staff Appraisal Report (Annex 5), Report No.
6095--TU, May 15, 1986.
C 28a5



-21-
facilitate the Government's decision, a study on taxation of financial
instruments will be undertaken under the loan. The study will also benefit
from IMF advice. Regarding reserve requiremets, there is agreement that an
immediate elimination of these requirements would not be desirable as it would
raise two problems. The first is the immediate monetary expansion generated
by a higher base money multiplier. The second is the loss of infl.ttion tax
revenues since lower reserve requirements typically reduce the real volume of
zero-interest resources available to the Government. In order to finance the
same budget deficit, the Government would need to incu. more debt, or to issue
more base money. Therefore, the full benefits fron iower reserve requirements
can be reaped only if there is a simultaneous reduction in the fiscal
deficit. It is for this reason that these measures should be introduced
gradually. Satisfactory progress in reducing the spread between deposit and
lending ates through some reduction in reserve requirements, RUSF charges,
and transaction taxes would be a condition of second tranche release.
(iii)    Selective Credit Policy
3.07     In the area of selective credits,  the Government reconfirmed its
commitment under FSAL-I to gradually reduce the volume uf selecLive credits at
preferential rates. As noted earlier, the volume of selective credits has
been continuously reduced from the high levels of 1980. As non-prefererntial
lending rates are redu!ed to more normal levels following the measures
described in the paragraphs above, the need to provide selective credits at
positive preferential rates will be reduced. To phase out selective credits,
therefore, the major action is to reduce non-preferential rates to more
satisfactory levels, consideiing the measures outlined in paragraph 3.06.
(iv)     Foreign Exchange Deposits
3.08     Foreign exchange deposits bring both benefits and risks.  The increase
in official foreign exchange reserves is the main benefit. The major cost is
related to the substitution of FX deposits for TL deposits which causes several
negative effects. First, if not subject to reserve requirements, it reduces
the real demand for base money and thus real revenues from money creation (the
inflation tax) for a given level of inflation. Second, it makes monetary
policy more difficult to impLement, due to increased instability in the demand
for money. Third, it weakens exchange rate policy--for a given rate of
inflation, a larger nominal devaluation is required to generate the same reai
devaluation (the wealth effect associated with a real devaluation is weakened
when the value of assets held by economic agents is linked to the exchange
rate). Finally, FX deposits increase currency exposure and the likelihood of
large capital losses, since the Central Bank cannot perform its traditional
role of lender of last resort effecti"ely in this case.
3.09     The central issue in the area of foreign exchange deposits is how to
retain most of its benefits, while minimizing its negative effects. In order
to reduce currency substitution, the Government intends to adopt more uniform
tax treatment between TL and FX deposits. It has recently imposed a 5 percent
withholding tax on FX deposits, which should substantially be'  in this
regard.  Additional measures to be considered include signif cantly raising
the minimum size of FX sight deposits, an actioin that would raise the demand
for TL sight deposits and would thus contribute to more stability in the
demand for money. However, FX time deposits would not be subjert to large
minimum size requirements. The adoption of differential reserve requirements
a zas



-22-
on FX deposits, whereby higher reserve requirement ratios would be applied to
shorter term deposits, could result in a beneficial increase in the average
maturity. If coupled with tile imposition of high penalty rates for early
withdrawals, this measure would reduce the risk of sudden withdrawals and
illiquidity of the banks. The Government has indicated it plans to take some
of the above measures after it has evaluated the effect of the recently
imposed withholding tax on FX deposits. Satisfactory progress in this regard
would be a condition of second tranche release.
B. Strengthening of the Banking System
3.10     In Turkey, the banking system plays a dominant role in the financial
sector.  Its financial health, therefore, is critical for the success of the
country's mobilization and allocation of resources. As noted in Chapter II,
even though major progress has taken place during the last few years, the
banking system has not performed well in either of these two functions.
Resource mobilization has been below its potential, as illustrated by the fact
that the ratio of currency aiid bank deposits (M2X) to GNP is only 28 percent,
which is significantly below the level tor comparable countries. Resource
allocation has not been very effective either, as shown by the large size of
non-performing assets, the amount of distress borrowings, the high
administrative costs of the banks, and the large amount of funds tied up in
reserve and liquidity requiremtaents. There is no firm data o' the level of
non-performing assets in the Turkish banking systei, but based on current
regulations on loan classification and provisioning, the level of
non-performing assets is 6 percent of total assets or $740 million. A more
realistic number, based on the proposed regulation on loan classification and
provisioning (Para. 3.14), would be several times larger.
3.11     Considering the above situation, the Government has set the
strengthening of the banking system as a major goal 4n the financial sector.
The aim of the Government program is to create an environment that would
induce the banks to undertake long-lasting and sustained efforts to improve
efficiency, resource mobilization and allocation. In other industries, this
objective can be achieved by competitive fo.ces which will force the less
efficient firms out of business, thereby improving resource allocation. In
the banking sector, improvements of the competitive environment are also
important, princically by facilitating entry and exit (liquidations).
However, the sociel costs of bank liquidations could be too great, since it
might impose losses not only on the owners, but also on depositors. Such a
situation could disrupt the country's payments mechanism and shallow the
financial system for many years, at a high cost to the economy. For this
reason, strong prudential regulations are necessary to reduce failures and, if
any were to occur, to ensure that owners of banks rather than depositors are
penalized--to maintain financial discipline while protecting public confidence
in the banking system. In Turkey, the Government's program to strengthen the
regulatory framework aims at increasing transparency in the system, increasing
financial discipline in bank operations, and changing the behavior of bank
managers and owners to seek greater gains in efficiency and more prudent
lending practices. The sections below address the measures to achieve the
Government's objectives in the sector, which are as follows: (i) strengthening
of prudential regulations; (ii) improving the enforcement of regulations and
supervision; (iii) improving transparency and information disclosure; (iv)
improving the competitive environment with better entry procedures; (v) exit
(liquidation) mechanism for dealing with insolvent banks; (vi) restructuring
of Government-owned banks; and (vii) actual restructuring of insolvent banks.
0285



-23-
(i)      Strengthening of Prudential Regulations
3.12     Banking regulation is a key financial policy instrument to maintain
public confidence and ensure deepening of the financial system. It should
prevent solvency problems, and promote financial discipline, prudent lending
practices and competition in the banking sector. The major areas to be
addressed by the Government reform program are: (a) lending practices; (b)
loan classification, provisioning and interest accrual; and (c) loan
concentration and capital adequacy. Regulations pertaining to bank
liquidations are discussed in paragraphs 3.19-3.21.
3.13     (a) Lending Practices:  A major reason for the financial problems in
banks becoming so deep-rooted--without the bankers taking corrective
measures--is the lack of financial discipline in lending. Between 80 percent
to 90 percent of all bank-lending is through current account advances which do
not carry a fixed maturity date. Current account advances are used for e th
short-term and medium-term loans which are routinely rolled over. Interest is
payable quarterly, but the common practice under current regulations is to
capitalize the quarterly interest payments when they become due, without a
cash transaction. The capitalization of interest may continue until the
borro-or reaches his limit at the bank. Because of the relatively high levels
of inflation, and annual effective lendin7 rates which approach 100 percent,
the bank will typically raise the borrowe;'s authorized limit without a
detailed evaluation. Many of these borrowers may not be creditworthy, but the
bank reports as profits interest income that it has not collected and may well
never collect. Bankers are thus not forced to deal with or classify as
non-performing their problem borrowers. Under the proposed operation, as a
condition of loan etfecLi-vness, the Government will pass legislation that
will introduce fixed maturity dates on all loans and require banks to consider
the creditworthiness of the borrower, in loan classification.
3.14     (b) Loan Classification, Provisioning and Interest Accrual.:  Current
regulations do not require the classification of assets and provisioning based
on an assessment of credit quality.   Together with weak enforcement, these
regulations have permitted portfolio problems to escalate beyond reasonable
limits. To enhance financial discipline, the Government intends to adopt an
appropriate regulatory framework for c]assification and provisioning of problem
assets (Annex IV gives the draft that has been prepared by the Government and
agreed with the Bank). The new regulations define non-performing status for
both term loans and current account loans on the basis of both objective
criteria (such as non-payment of interest and principal within 30 days of due
date, exceeding account limit continucusly for 30 days or more, etc.) and
subjective criteria based on the creditworthiness of the borrower. The
regulations require provisioning of non-performing loans according to a
schedule which imposes 15 percent provision after 90 days, gradually increasing
to 100 percent provisions at the end of 24 months. These new regulations
represent a major tightening since the previous regulations allowed up to ten
years for fully provisioning some types of loans. The revised regulations also
disallow the inclusion of accrued interest into income unless collected in
cashand will not permit accrual of interest on loans that are overdue for more
than 90 days. Capitalization of interest is also disallowed. Furthermore, no
increases in the credit limit will be permitted before the maturity date. The
new regulations, if properly enforced, will have a major impact on financiel
discipline and the behavior of management. Based on such classifications,
banks would be required to make additional provisions as necessary to maintain
0 28 s



-24-
adequate reserves for loan losses or other valuation reserves. External
auditors and bank supervisors will have a sound legal framework to require
banks to adjust their books and write-off problem assets. If banks fail to
comply with the regulations, the authorities could enforce appropriate remedial
action (recapitalization, rehabi itation or liquidation). The regulations can
be introduced as a decree without changing the Banking Law. The promulgation
of these regulations is a condition of first tranche release.
3.15     (c) Loan Concentration:  In addition, other modifications to the
regulatory framework are planned 'o reduce loan concentration in related and
participating comnpanies. Current lending limits to a related group of
borrowers or to companies operating in preferred sectors are too high, and
allow loan concentration, even by banks that have a weakened financial
situation. The Government has confirmed its plans to reduce loan concentration
by adopting a mandatory maximum weighted risk-asset/capital ratio which will
introduce different weights for different risk-asset categories, including
penalty weights for large concentrations. Introduction of a new regulation in
this regard would be a condition of second tranche release.
(ii)     Improvin  the Enforcement of Bank Regulations and Supervision
3.16     In Turkey, formal responsibility for supervision of banks lies with
the Board. of Sworn Bank Examiners and the Banking Directorate within the
Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. With Bank assistance,
substantial progress has been made in the last five years in strengthening bank
supervision; however. enforcement of regulations is still weak.  To enhance
the degree of enforcemer!t, a critical requirement is to increase the level of
staffing and training of the supervisory agencies.  Therefore, the Government
has agreed that the Board or Sworn Bank Auditors should increase the number of
active examiners who can actually be fully devoted to on-site bank examinations
from the current level of 25 persons to not less than 50 persons by year-end
1988, and to not less than 100 persons by year-end 1990. Satisfactory progress
in this regard would be a condition of the second tranche release.  Recognizing
the importance of training and developing qualified bank examiners and bank
supervisorv personnel, existing training programs will be augmented by outside
seminars conducted both local]y and abroad.  These programs will be managed by
the Trtasurv and the costs will be met from the proposed loan.  Annex V
contains details of the proposed technical assistance program.
(iii)    1mproving Transparency and Information Disclosure
3.17     G'iven the concerns about the financial conditions of many banks in
Turkey today (para. 3.10), the initial objective of the Government is to
identity the degree of insolvency in the banking system. The Central Bank has
recently issued a communique requiring all banks to have their financial
statements audited bv external independent auditors, and with such audits
focussing on1 the assessment of portfolio quality.  The external audits of
banks, will use, as a framework, the new regulation on asset classification and
provis'oning.  Agreement has Ueen reached with the Government that all banks
will be required to have their financial statements as of March 31, 1988
audited l-v external auditors.  Such audits w..l be completed for all banks by
Sept. 30, 1988. These audits would help ensure that bank management has
cLassitied assets based on proper overdue status as well as on their borrowers'
financial health.  This will permit Government authorities to take appropriate
actionis to re-establish the health of the banking system. The external
n2 , ;



-25-
auditors will supplement the reviews normally carried out by the supervisory
staff of the Board of Sworn Examiners, which is currently undermanned, to deal
with the full extent of the required work.
(iv)     Improving the Competitive Environment: Entry into the Industry
3.18     To further improve the competitive environment in the banking
industry, the Banking Law of 1985 liberalized barriers to entry into the
sector. Local and foreign individuals and groups are allowed to open new
banking institutions, subject to approval requirements that are quite liberal.
A number of new local and foreign banks have already been established.
Recently, in order to avoid an excessive proliferation of small banks, the
Government increased the minimum capital requirements for new and existing
banks to TL 5 billion for the head office and lesser amounts of up to TL 500
million for each branch office (depending on its location in a population
center). It is also scrutinizing applications to establish new banks more
rigorously with emphasis on the qualifications of 3rganizers and their short-
and medium-term operating plans. These measures are satisfactory.
(v)      Exit:  Mechanism for Dealing with Insolvent Banks
3.19     In order to facilitate the flow of resources in the banking system,
encourage competition and induce financial discipline in a regulated industry
such as banking, the Government realizes that a mechanism to deal effectively
with troubled institutions is essential. The Banking Law of 1985 established
a procedure for dealing with insolvent banks and placed the responsibility for
such actions with the Undersecretary of the Treasury and Foreign Trade. Under
the existing framework, the Government has the power to force existing
shareholders to recapitalize an insolvent bank, change management and board
composition, liquidate the bank if it is not recapitalized, or merge it with
other public institutions. During recent years, the Government has used this
power with some success in the restructuring of two privately-owned
institutions. The first one was TSKB, the largest development bank owned by
local banks, which was recapitalized by its existing shareholders and supported
by the Government with long-term loans.  The second bank was Tobank, whose
equity had been fully eroded by bad loans. The existing shareholders could not
recapi.alize it and it was taken over by the Government for a nominal amount.
The Government is now in the process of reprivatizing it. However, the current
procedures to deal with insolvent banks are seriously deficient. For private
banks, the Government does not have the power to separate the non-performing
assets from the insolvent bank and cArrespondingly reduce the equity of
existing shareholders, and subscribe new capital as needed, which are
fundamental measures to restore the health of the institution and return it
expeditiously to the private sector. The Banking Law of 1985 also established
a Deposit Insurance Fund--under the Central Bank but with separate legal
status--funded by the banking industry.  However, this institution is too
severely handicapped by legal constraints and lack of adequate autonomy,
policies and professional staffing to play an effective role in bank
liquidation or rehabilitation.
3.20     *when external audits reveal the need for Government action, a more
effective institutional mechanism should be in place to deal with the
liquidation or restructuring of insolvent institutions. The Government intends
to undertake a study to determine the most effective design of such a new
institutional mechanism and prepare any amendments to the Banking Law that
might be required to establish the mechanism. Satisfactory prcgress towards



-26-
the establishment of an adequate mechanism to deal with insolvent banks would
be a condition of second tranche release under the proposed operation.
Satisfactory progress would involve completing the above-mentioned study,
preparing any required legislation and, if needed, submitting it to Parliament.
Annex VI provides detailed guidelines on the principles, operating procedures,
financing and staffing needs of the new institutional mechanism, which will be
taken into account by the Government while undertaking the study.
3.21     While the new institution is being developed, the Government has
agreed with the Bank to adopt the following principles in any financial
restructuring of banks that may take place. It will: (i) remove the
non-performing assets and recapitalize with cash or securities to restore the
bank back to profitable operations; (ii) for private banks, eliminate previous
owners' claim on capital by writing-down bad assets before injecting new funds;
(iii) introduce substantial changes in management and policies; and (iv) return
banks to normal operations and, in the case of private banks, restore to
private ownership.
3.22     Although the exact legal form, role and responsibilities of the new
institutional mechanism to deal with insolvent banks still needs to be defined,
it is expected that it would operate along the following lines. The decision
to either liquidate or rehabilitate a bank is expected to be made by the new
institution, case-by-case, on a cost minimizing basis. The principle involved
would not be merely the liquidation or rehabilitation of an individual bank
but maintaining the integrity of the banking system. Externalities, such as
potential domino effects, would be borne in mind.  Losses to a large number of
depositors could undermine faith in the integrity of the system, making banks
more vulnerable to runs and reducing resource mobilization. The new
institution would consider liquidation as a first alternative in dealing with
a case of insolvency. If liquidation is decided on cost minimization grounds,
and because it is unlikely to effect the stability of the system, the bank's
charter to operate would be cancelled and insured depositors would be paid by
the new institution. rf rebabilitation is decided, a financial restructuring
package, as well as change in ownership and management, would be put in place
by the new institution. This is likely to be the most typical case. In case
an acquirer cannot be readily found, the new institution would have to assume
ownership and would appoint new management to implement the rehabilitation
operation. The new institution's objective would not be to assume permanent
ownership of an insolvent bank, but given that it might be difficult to find a
new acquirer quickly, it would have to acquire ownership on a temporary basis
with a view to eventually selling it to the private sectcr.
(vi)     Restructuring cf Government-owned Banks
3.23     The efficiency of state-owned banks needs considerable improvement in
order to enable these banks to compete in Turkey's deregulated financial
markets.  In order to achieve this goal, the Government has agreed that
state-owned banks would prepare action programs to restructure their
operations. The initial focus of these action programs would be on the
financial restructuring of the bank using the results of the independent
external audits. This step would be supplemented by assessments of the need
to strengthen organization, management, policies, systems and procedures.
Based on these action programs, the Government would prepare a strategic plan
to implement the individual action programs in order to revitalize the
state-owned banking system.
0 28 5



-27-
3.24     The strategic plan would analyze the modalities for the implementation
of each of the action programs, taking into account the future role of each
bank within the financial sector, its present strength and weaknesses and the
financial costs and benefits of restructuring. It would identify priorities
for recapitalization, liquidation and mergers of state-owned banks. Emphasis
would be given to !educing the number of branches, improving profitability and
bringing the operating practices and policies of government banks in line with
that of the best private banks. Generic terms of reference for the preparation
of individual action programs (Annex VII) for each bank has been given to the
Government during appraisal. It will be discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations. It is expected that for some large government banks the
individual action programs would be sufficient to provide a basis for their
financial and operational restructuring. For some small and financially weak
banks, the strategic plan should provide a framework for deciding on optimal
ways to liquidate or restructure these institutions through mergers. It is
expected that the preparation of all t'e individual action programs should be
substantially completexi by July 1989 and satisfactory progress in this regard
would be a condition of the second tran-he release.
(vii)    Actual Restructuring of Insolvent Banks
3.25     As noted in paragraph 3.17 above, due to poor regulations, lapses in
financial discipline and unsound macroeconomic policies of the past, currently
there is a large backlog of non-performing assets in private and public banks.
Some of the better banks will be able to cope with their backlog of
non-performing assets with minimum Government intervention or assistance. Some
of them may face liquidation, and some of them will need to be restructured.
At this time, there is inadequate information to establish which banks will
fall into which of these categories; the external audits to be completed over
the next few months would provide a better appreciation of the situation. But
as noted earlier, the need for bank restructuring most likely will be gradual
and over time. Nevertheless, the Government has already taken measures to be
prepared for this process. Since i'i 1988 there may be a need to consider
liquidation or restructuring of troubled and insolvent banks, whichever is
more cost effective, the Government has made an allocation of TL 335 billion
(about US$300 million) in the 1988 budget for this purpose. These funds are
expected to be used mainly to clean up and restructure public banks. The
Government intends to allocate additional resources in the budget in future
years to support the restructuring of banks as needed. Insolvent banks would
be liquidated or restructured using the criteria outlined in paragraph 3.21
above. The proposed operation would support the restructuring of troubled or
insolvent banks by earmarking the TL equivalent of $100 million of the loan
proceeds for this purpose. Disbursement from the loan would be in foreign
currency for imports, but would be linked to actual TL payment of capital by
the Government into restructured banks and would be made only after the Bank
is satisfied that the resLructuring process is consistent with the above
general principles. The restructuring component could thus be disbursed
separately from the second tranche (para. 4.12).
C. Measures to Develop the Money and Capital Markets
3.26     In order to improve resource moLilization outside the banking system,
the Government has taken steps to develop the country's money and capital
markets. It is recognized, however, that major developments of these markets
can only be expected once the country has been able to control inflation and
0 28 5



-28-
other current unstable economic conditions. The macro-economic measures to be
taken by the Government--as discussed in Part I--will be necessary
preconditions for the growth of the money and capital markets. Within this
framework, emphasis has been put on (i) the Government securities market and
interbank markets, and (ii) corporate equities and fixed-income securities.
These are discussed below.
(i)      Government Securities and Interbank Markets
3.27     There has been considerable progress in the development of the
Government fixed income securities markets. First, in May 1985, the Treasury
moved to an auction system for selling its securities and, at the end of 1986,
set up a regular auction schedule, which has enhanced the Treasury's ability
to sell its debt. Treasury issues now account for 95 percent of total
issuance. Second, in early 1987 the Central Bank introduced open-market
operations. Further development of these operations will enable the Central
Bank to control more effectively the money supply as well as integrate the
money and securities markets. Third, the interbank market is widely
considered a success after about two years of operation. Daily volume is
estimated to be around TL 150-200 billion compared with TL 4 billion in early
1985. The development of this market has reduced the banks' holdings of
excess reserves. All in all, the system is showing greater competition and
maturity.  The associated profit opportunities are attracting additional
risk-taking capital to the n rket. Nevertheless, there is potential for
further initiatives to improve the auctioning system and develop the secondary
market.
3.28     The major problem with regard to Government securities is their
restricted distrlbution. Since most of these securities are held by banks,
there is little arbitrage activity between securities and deposits. To the
extent that the Treasury can broaden its distribution base, drawing savers
from financial as well as non-financial assets, it can reduce its overall
funding costs- At the same time, it can increase the depth of the financial
system. Despite the initial success of the interbank market, there are still
impediments to further improvements in the liquidity of the banking system.
For instance, the transfer of funds between Central Bank's branches is still
slow and inadequate, although the Central Bank has recently automated the
transfer of funds between the Ankara and Istanbul branches. Also, the
complete immobilization of required reserves reduces flexibility in the use of
reserves. Finally, there are anomalies in the tax treatment of financial
instruments which need to be addressed. For example, a bank's income from
Treasury Bills is not taxed whereas the interest paid on deposits to fund
these bills is a tax-deductible expense. This encourages banks to hold bills
ir contrast to making !cans.  Lira deposits are subject to a withholding tax of
10 percent, but foreign exchange deposits are subject only to a 5 percent
withholding tax.
3.29     There are two major areas which the Government has agreed to study in
order to improve the marketing of its securities. First, market participants
report a considerable volume of repuichase agreements.  These are done on an
informal basis because they are not permitted by law. Rather than allow this
gray market to continue, with all the attendant risks involved due to a lack of
controls, it might be appropriate to consider permitting such activity subject
to strict safeguards. Second, small investors could be allowed to bid in the
Treasury auctioTns in smaller amounts on a noncompetitive basis and receive
0 28 5



-29-
securities at the average rate set by the competitive tenders. This would
broaden the market for Treasury issues, distributing securities more widely.
By promoting more demand for bills in the auctions, this could help reduce
funding costs, especially if the issues attract savers out of non-financial
assets. The Government has agreed to study the merits and feasibility of
introducing these measures and discuss its findings with the Bank. Completion
of this review would be a part of the conditions of the second tranche release.
In addition, courses in securities trading could be offered to banks' employees
in order to develop their trading skills. These courses would be run by the
Center for International Banking Studies (CIBS), the bankin" school set up
under FSAL I by the Turkish Banks' Association in 1986, under the sponsorship
of the Capital Markets Board (CMB). The Government has also indicated its
intention to study the tax system in order to achieve consistent tax treatment
of financial instruments and formulate a rational framework for their taxation
(para. 3.06). The terms of reference (Annex VIII) for this study has been
discussed and agreed with the Government. Technical assistance would be
provided by the IMF to carry out this study.
(ii)      Corporate Equities and Fixed Income Securities
3.30      Turkey's embryonic corporate equity and fixed-income security markst
accounted for less than 3 percent of the financial system in 1986. As of
December 31, 1986, there were 375 companies listed on the Istaabtul Stock
Exchange with a total market capitalization of TL 641.6 billion (US$855
million). The size of the market is extremely small in comparison to stock
markets in other developing countries such as Korea, Malaysia, and Thailand
The growth of the market has been inhibited by several factors: high
inflation, low dividends (in real terms) and the lack of adequate disclosure
requirements and audited financial statements. High interest rates on other
instruments, especially treasury bonds and deposits, make it less attractive
for investors to invest in equities.
3.31      During 1987, however, 141 companies issued TL 181 billion of shares,
an increase of 80 percent over 1986. Most of the increase was in the form of
right issues by existing profitable and dividend-paying companies. The market
for private debt securities also expanded significantly during 1987. The
number of companies issuing bonds rose from 76 to 211 and the amount of funds
raised increased from TL 55 billion during the first nine months of 1986, to TL
317 billion in 1987. The bonds carried a coupon rate ot 54 percent (or 62.6
percent per annum effective interest rate, assuming semi-annual compounding).
The surge in the corporate bond issues was due to the sharp increase in the
commercial banks' lending rates brought about by the partial deregulation of
the deposit rates in 1987, as well as a new decree permitting corporations to
issue conmnercial paper up to six times their equity. The longer-term prospects
for the growth of the market are good, provided inflation is controlled at
reasonable levels and the tax incentives provided to private firms to broaden
ownership become effective.  Privatization of SEEs should also contribute to
the supply of equities and contribute to the deepening of the market. The
start-up of seven mutual funds in Turkey heralds a new investment alternative
for individual savers.
3.32      Under FSAL-I, the Government agreed that all companies listed on the
Istanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) and companies issuing securities to the public
were to be audited by external auditors. Implementation has been slow due to
the shortage of auditors, as well as delay on the part of the CMB in issuing
0 2S



-30-
regulations. CMB i.ssued a communique in December 1987 requiring companies in
the first market of ISE and all companies with a registered capital of TL 5
billion or more to have their 1987 and subsequent accoutxts audited. However,
the communique did not explicitly provide for external audit of firms issuing
debt securities to the public. Given the importance of this group, the CMB
has agreed to subject all firms issuing debt securities of over TL I billion
to external audit. The CMB has also agreed that all firms listed on the ISE
should be subjected to external audit by 1990. To ensure meaningful audits,
the CMB will to issue clear guidelines spelling out the scope of the audit and
the financial information which it would require. Implementation of the above
measures would be undertaken before loan effectiveness. There are also some
distortions in the taxation of corporate securities, particularly relating to
stamp d ies on sale of bonds and paper. These issues will be analyzed in the
study o; taxation of financial instruments (para 3.06). The Government has
agreed to take the necessary steps to introduce a new law to Parliamant for
establishing the Board of Sworn Financial Advisors, a condition of FSAL-I.
This action should be taken before release of the second tranche.
3.33     The Government has recently taken steps to establish special
institutional funds for the promotion of foreign portfolio investment in
Turkey. A draft law is in the final stages of preparation. The funds would be
licensed on a case-by-case basis in order to regulate foreign portfclio
investments through these funds. The Government is currently discussing the
matter with several international banks and IFC with the objective of
eventually giving mandates for establishing one or more such funds. The funds'
structure most likely would be closed-ended, but could become open-ended with
the approval of the Turkish authorities. The initial amount of portfolio
investments is envisaged to reach between $6Ci million to $125 million. The
funds would be incorporated in botth Turkey and the US and the bulk of the
public otferings would be targe ed to reach long-term institutional investors
in the US, Japan and Europe. The shares held by the funds would have no voting
power in order to avoid any issues concerning control. All the securities held
by the Funds would have to belong to companies externally audited, according
to generally-accepted accounting principles, which underlines the importance
of the new CMB directive on audits mentioned above. The bulk of the resources
of the funds would be invested in securities listed in the Istanbul Stock
Exchange. It could take up to two years for a fund to be fully invested in
Turkey in an orderly manner, consistent with the financial stability and
growth prospects of the Turkish capital markets. A large part of the initial
stock of securities of the funds could come from listed equities of state
enterprises owned by the Public Participation Fund and possibly from the
Government's privatization program.
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Origins and Objectives
4.01     The proposed loan is a follow up of the first Financial Secto.
Adjustment Loan approved by the Bank Board in May 1986, which was designed to
initiate and support a medium-term program of liberalization and strengchening
of the financial sector. The proposed loan was appraised in March 1988 and
negotiations were held in Washington in May 1988.  Annex TX gives the
timetable of key loan processing events. The Government's priorities for
further financial sector reforms are spelled out in its 1988 Statement of
Financial Sector Policies. Its policies in the macro-economic field are
0 28 5



-31-
contained in the 1938 Statement of Macro-economic policies. The main
objectives of the pr<gram, to be supported by this loan, are as follows:
(i) To improve mobilization and allocation of funds and foster
financial deepening through appropriate interest rate policies,
including maintenance of positive rates on deposits and
preferential credits; lowering of non-preferential lending rates
through appropriate macroeconomic stabilization; further
reductions in selective credit programs; and adoption of
policies for foreign exchange deposits to reduce currency
substitution and increase maturities.
(ii)   With regard to the banking system, to enhance its ability to
mobilize and allocate funds efficiently by fostering a
competitive environment and financial discipline through new
regulations on loan classification, provisioning and
concentration; better enforcement of regulations, improving
information disclosure; a more effective mechanism to deal with
insolvent banks; actions to improve the efficiency of public
banks, and; initiation of the financial restructuring and
recapitalization of troubled or insolvejit banks in a sound and
systematic manner.
(iii)   With regard to the money and capital markets, to increase
competition in the Government securities markets and to develop
the secondary market for such securities; adopt external
auditing of securities issuers to reduce market risks; promote
foreign portfolio investments to deepen the capital markets; and
to initiate a review to develop a rational framework for the
taxation of financial instruments and intermediation.
B. Loan Size and Components
4.02     The loan size of $400 million has been arrived at by taking into
account Turkey's financing needs in 1988-89. Gross capital requirements in
1988 are estimated at about $5.8 billioi and net borrowings at $1.4 billion.
Similar amounts are projected for 1989. The total financing provided under
the umbrella of the FSAL operation is likely to amount to $1.1 billion over
the 1988-89 period, inciuding the proposed loan from Japan EXIM ($400 million)
and the commercial portion being sought through a syndication of up to $300
million by a group of commercial banks and life insurance institutions in
Japan. It is estimated that total disbursements, including cofinancing, would
be $700 million in 1988 and $400 million ln 1989. Under this operation, the
Bank's financing of Turkey's gross capital requirements would be about 3.5
percent in both 1988 and 1989; the share o: the entire loan proceeds, including
the planned cofinancing, would be 12 percent in 1988 and 7 percent in 1989.
The loan amount also reflects the extent of policy commitment that has been
obtained on both the macroeconomic aspects and the financial sector program.
4.03     The proposed loan would be made to the Republic of Turkey.  Of the
loan, $399.5 million would finance the c.i.f. cost of eligible private and
public sector imports, which exclude those financed from other sources and
some items normally exclvAed under Bank policy-based lending such as nuclear
reactors, military goods, and some luxury goods (tobacco, jewelry, gold, etc.).
Of the total TL counterpart funds geuerated by the sale of foreign exchange for
0aa5R



-32-
these imports, $100 million equivalent would be earmarked for financing the
restructuring needs of troubled or insolvent banks (para. 4.12). The balance
of $0.5 million from the loan will finance technical assistance for training of
bank examiners and supervisors, staff of the proposed institutional mechanism
to deal with insolvent banks and bankers and dealers engaged in securities
trading (Annex V). The proposed loan would finance about 1.0 percent of
Turkey's total merchandise imports over the disbursement period (July 1988 -
June 1990).
C. Cofinancig
4.04     A representative of the Japan EX-IM Bank participated in the appraisal
mission to explore cofinancing opportunities for this operation. Based on this
mission, as well as discussions between Bank officials and Japanese Government
representatives, it is likely that the Japan Ex-Im Bank will provide
cofinancing equal to the Bank's loan. In addition, the Government is seeking
tc raise about $300 million through a commercial syndication by a group of
Japanese financial institutions.
D. Procurement, Disbursement and Administration
4.05     The Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade and the Central
Bank will have primary responsibility for administering tne proposed loan.
Procurement of goods estimated to cost $10 million or more would be through
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement. All contracts of lesse: value would be procured through normal
commercial practices and standard Government practices, which ensure reasonable
prices and are satisfactory to the Ranik. Computer nardware and software would
be procured either by obtaiaing at Least three price quotations from suppliers
eligible under the Bank's Guidelines or through direct negotiations with the
original suppliers if compatability with existing eauipment is to be ensured.
Firms in Turkey have adequate choice of international suppliers to ensure
reasonable availability and price. Consultancy services for the various
technical assistance components would be obtained in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Recruitment of Consultants. In order to ensure a smooth flow of
necessary imports, retroactive financing would be permitted of up to $50
million of expenditures made after April 1, 1988.
4.06     Except for the technical assistance component--which should be fully
disbursed by June 30, i990--the entire loan should be disbursed by mid-1989,
the expected date foi the second tranche release. In order to ensure that
Durkey would have ready access to foreign exchange, a Special Account would be
established in the Central Bank of Turkey to which the Bank would make an
initial deposit of $75 million. Payment requests would be made against
standard documentation and statements of expenditure. The Special Account
would be replenished against withdrawal applications at monthly intervals or
as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the Account falls below $25
million.
E. Monitoring and Tranche Release
4.07     It is recommended that the loan be disbursed in two tranches: the
first tranche of $200 million and the second of $100 million. The remaining
$100 million would be released any time after loan effectiveness provided the
028 SR



-33-
conditions mentioned below in para. 4.12 are satisfied. Conditions for the
release of the first and second tranche are summarized below. Monitoring of
targets set forth in the Government's Statement of Macroeconomic Policy will
be undertaken in the context of the Bank's ongoing dialogue and reporting
requirements (para. 1.17). Monitoring of actions wlcich are part of the
conditions for the release of the second tranche wou 'a be undertaken by Bank
supervision missions and the Government would be informed promptly of progress
and concerns in this regard.
Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
4.08     Starting after the elections, the Government has taken a number of
fiscal actions to reduce the budget deficit. These upfront actions are
expected to reduce the PSBR from 8.7 percent of GNP to 7 percent on a
conservative basis (Paras. 1.11-1.16). The Government has also issued a
Statement of Macropolicy to the Bank which lays down a medium term framework
for stabilization and has committed itself to further fiscal measures to bring
the PSBR down to 6 percent by the end of 1988 (Para. 1.17)and to at most 5
percent of GNP by 1991. With regard to the financial sector, several key
actions have been taken as follows: (a) deposit interest rates have been
significantly increased to maintain them at positive levels; (b) interest
rates on selective credits have been increased to bring them closer to
positive levels; (c) a 5 percent withholding tax has beeti imposed on FX
deposits to improve the attrativeness of TL deposits (in conjunction with the
increase in TL deposit interest rates) and thus reduce currency substitution;
and (d) the minimum capital requirements for operating banks have been
increased which should help inter alia to rationalize the number of branches.
The above actions clearly indicate the Government's resolve to stabilize the
eonomy and proceed with the implementation of financial sector reforms on an
urgent basis.
Conditions of First Tranche aelease
4.09     The first tranche ($200 million) would be available upon loan
effectiveness. The loan will become effective when the following actions have
been taken:
1) Issue of a new regulation on loan classification. and
provisioning (Para. 3.14); and
2) issue of terms of reference and directive to State-owvned
banks to orepare action programs to restructure and improve
financia. and operating performance (para 3.23).
Dated Covenant
4.10     Special portfolio audits of all commercial banks as per the new
regulations to be completed by September 30, 1988 (Para. 3.17).
Conditions of Second Tranche Release
4.11     The release of the second tranche ($100 million), projected to be
disbursed about 12 months after loan effectiveness would be contingent upon:
0 28 5R



-34-
1) satisfactory progress towards achieving the macroeconomic
targets announced by the Government;
2) satisfactory progress in reducing the spread between lending
and deposit rates through some reduction of reserve
requirements, and transaction taxes and RUSF charges (para.
3.06);
3) achievement of positive real interest rates on preferential
credits to the productive sector (para. 3.05);
4) satisfactory progress in adopting measures to further reduce
currency substitution and increase the maturity of foreign
exchange deposits (para.3.09);
5) introduction of a risk asset-capital ratio to strengthen
capital adequacy and reduce loan concentration (para. 3.15);
6) increasing the number of active sworn bank auditors to 50 by
end of 1988 and the development of appropriate training program
(para. 3.16);
7) satisfactory progress (i.e., comp.eting a study, preparing
any required legislation and, if needed, submitting it to
Parliament) towards the establishnent of an adequate
institutional mechanism to restructu:e financially insolvent
banks (para. 3.20);
8) substantial completion of action programs for restructuring
and improving performance of state-owned banks (para. 3.24);
9) completion of a study to develop a framework for taxation of
financial instruments (para. 3.29); and
10) completion of a study to assess how the marketing of
Government securities can be improved as well as to encourage
the growth of a secondary market involving repurchase agreements
in such securities (para. 3.29).
Release of $100 Million for Restructurin, Banks
4.12      The felease of the remaining $100 million would be available for
financing imports after loan effectivenesE and after the Government has
provided to the Bank evidence that it has made an actual infusion of TL
capital funds for restructuring troubled or insolvrent financial institutions
for an amouat of $100 million equivalent, in line with restructuring plans
prepared in conformity with agreed principles (para. 3.21) and satisfactory to
the Bank. The foreign exchange equivaient of the TL funds used to restructure
the bank would be disbursed after review of thie above-mentioned intormation as
well as invoices showing imports of goods of an equiva]ent value.
0 a * 5



-35-
F. Benefits and Risks
4.13     The principal benefit deriving from the proposed loan would be the
improved .fficiency of the financial sector in mobilizing and allocating
resources which should lead to a higher rate of growth of the productive
sectors of the economy. The indirect benefits of the loan would, therefore,
extend beyond the financial sector itself and should be substantial as measured
by the higher economic returns accruing to private and public investments.
The macroeconomic adjustment measures, through lowering inflation and
non-preferential lending rates, will have a positive impact on the health of
the corporate and banking sectors and stimulate greater resource flows for
private investment. The proposed reforms of the banking system should improve
the efficiency, profitability, and financial resiliency of the banks, leading
to more efficient provision of financial services and a greater flow of
resources to a more broad-based group of private firms and individuals, thus
benefitting the economy more widely. Improvements in banking efficiency in
both private and public sector banks should lead to a lowering of financial
spreads which are currently very high in relation to other countries. The
proposed mechanism to deal with insolvent banks should help the Governmnent in
making cost-effective decisions on bank restructuring, making these costs
explicit and preventing bailouts of failed institutions. The loan will also
provide resources to assist ir the financial restructuring and recapitalization
of troubled and insolvent banks in a systematic manner which would allow a
permanent solution to their problems. This should also result it, the
improvement of the overall financial health of the banking system. Filially,
the proposed improvements in the securities and capital markets should lead to
enhanced financial discipline and disclosure and foster greater participation
by both domestic and foreign investors. The above improvement in the
financial system should have a positive impact on public finances and make the
goals of fiscal adjustment easier to achieve.
4.14     The project faces three major risks.  The first is that the Government
may be unable to achiev3 one of its critical macroeconomic objectives which is
to reduce inflation to a more acceptable level. If inflation is not reduced,
the lowering of non-preferential interest rates as well as subsidies in
selective credits would be difficult.  The persistence of inflation at a high
level would also make it difficult for banks to provide medium- and long-term
credit for investment from its own resources as well as inhibit the development
of the equities market, thus constraining new investment.  However, the
macroeconomic actions already inititated by the Government early in 1988
represent a major effort to dampen inflation in the coming months.  The second
risk is that the bankers may be reluctant, because of long-established
attitudes, to accept sweeping reforms on a wide front, and hence,
implementation of the new regulations may be difficult. However, the measures
included in the operation to improve the enforcement of the regulations through
enhanced supervision, examination, and audits will lessen these risks. Third,
the proposed program for strengthening public sector banks relies to a large
extent on goodwill and substantial efforts by their management to turn around
the banks. This risk is diminished by the fact that the Government has recently
appointed new highly qualified and motivated managers for the key Government
banks, which represent the bulk of the public sector banks. Thus, the proposed
operation includes appropriate safeguards against all anticipated risks.
0 28 5



-36-
V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
5.01     Through December 31, 1987 the Bank and IDA had lent $8,811.2
millionL' to Turkey, through 114 projects. Agriculture accounted for 19
percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs for 23 percent, power for 20
percent, structural adjustment and program loans for 19 percent, B-loans for 1
percent and urban development, water supply, transportacion, education, tourism
and health for the remaining 18 percent. Disbursements through December 31,
1987 amounted to about $5.5 billion. As of December 31, 1987, IFC commitments
to Turkey totalled about $290 million, of which about $106 million were still
held by IFC.
5.02     As of December 1987, debt outstanding and disbursed owed to the Bank
stood at $6.3 billion, of which more than $1.8 billion was accounted for by the
depreciation of the U.S. dollar since early 1985. rhe Bank's share of Turkey's
public and publicly guaranteed medium and long-term debt rose from 7 percent in
1980 to 20.5 percent in 1987. This share is expected to grow more slowly
through the end of the decade, after which it is projected to begin to decline.
Debt service payments to the Bank in 1986 amounted to about 16 percent of
public long-term debt service. This share is also projected to rise gradually
through 1990.
5.03     The Bank's assistance strategy for Turkey has supported its medium-
term objectives of restLucturing the economy by placing greater reliance on
market forces and adopting a more outward-oriented development strategy.  The
Bank's main vehicle d.iring the period 1980 - 1984 was the structural adjustment
lending program (SAL) during which five SALs totalling about $1.6 billion were
made. Since 1985, the strategy has continued to aim at safeguarding a sound
macroeconomic environment through the sector adjustment loan (SECAL) program.
This lending instrument permits the Bank and the Government to pursue specific
policy goals within key sectors in a supportive macroeconomic environment.  To
date, the Bank has assisted the agricultural, energy, and financial sectors
through SECALs. To support the SECAL program, the Bank has undertaken a
program of economic and sector work and a lending program comprising
conventional investment loans which frequently contain specific conditions
related to policy reforms.
5.04     The industrial sector has played a pivotal role in Turkey's economic
recovery, growing at an average annual rate of 8.0 percent between 1980-87.
The Bank has had a large impact on this sector because of its substantial
lending program comprising sixteen iine of credit operations, sixteen industry
loans, and one SECAL (Financial Sector Adjustment Loan) totalling about US $2.0
billion to date. The industry loans included loans to textile, fertilizer
rehabilitation, steel, and ammonia-urea manufacturing enterprises. For
Turkey's future strategy to maintain adjustment with growth, it will need to be
able to count on the continued expansion of the industrial sector, especially
exports.
5.05     For the future, the industrial sector will have to strengthen its
long-run competitiveness, not only in the Middle East but also in the OECD
1/       Net of cancellations and including commitments signed but not yet
effective as of June 30, 1987.
02aI



-37-
countries. The Government's major objectives for this sector--which the Bank
is supporting--are to enhance the efficiency and competitiveness of its
industrial enterprises, and to increase the contribution from the private
sector. A key obstacle is a financial sector which, due to its relatively
outmoded regulations and institutional practices, is not able to respond
quickly to mobilize and allocate efficiently large amounts of resources to the
industrial sector. Under Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) I and the
proposed FSAL II, appropriate policy and institutional measures are being taken
to strengthen the banking system and to develop the capital markets. Other
possible Bank operations may include assistance for small and medium-scale
industrial enterprises, industrial technology, and industrial export
development. The Bank is also discussing with Government ways in which the
private sector can play a more active role and State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs) can be made more efficient.
5.06     The Bank has played a significant role in the financing of .he energy
sector with twenty-two operations totalling about $1.7 billion. These include
assistance for hydro- and thermal-power stations, power transmission and
distribution, lignite mining development, petroleum exploration, and oil
recovery engineering. An Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) was also made
recently. Since 1984, the Bank has supported this sector on the basis of an
agreed medium-term strategic framework which, inter alia, emphasized the
completion of on-going, priority projects, upgrading of present facilities,
in:reasing efficiency of energy use, and identifying project possibilities on
the basis of efficient import substitution.
5.07     The Government's present strategy for the energy sector is to close
the gap between energy demand and domestic supply through careful demand
management and development of alternative indigenous supply sources. The
strategy recognizes the sector's important link with successful
industrialization. To implement this strategy, the Government is placing
special emphasis on securing private-sector financing through the
Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) model which is under active discussion with large
international consortia. For the future, the Bank and the Government are
discussing follow-up prospects from the ESAL which may require investment loan
support. On the basis of a Bank refineries subsector study discussed with the
Government in 1987 and preparation of a refinery masterplan by Government, a
refinery modification project may be developed. A further hydropower project
is also under discussion for possible Bank financing.
5.08     In order to help tap agriculture sector's significant potential, the
Bank has supported twenty-seven operations to date totalling about $1.6
billion. This includes assistance to grain storage, rural development,
drainage and irrigation works, credit, extension and research, livestock
development, institutional development, and an Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan (ASAL). The Government's structural adjustment program, supported by the
Bank's ASAL, introduced reforms which have had a positive impact on making the
sector more responsive to market forces. However, the Bank and the Government
are continuing efforts to seek increases in productivity and strengthening
supporting agricultural services. Some of the issues currently facing the
agricultural sector are: lagging productivity performance, deterioration of
the export performance, delays in major irrigation works, cost recovery,
insufficient support for farmer services, an agricultural bank that has had
difficulty in reaching small farmers, and dif'iculty in achieving a consistent
set of policies amidst conflicting priorities. For the future, productivity-
0 28 5



-38-
oriented operations are envisaged to support the Government's strategy and
address the foregoing issues. These operations may include agricultural
credit, agro-industrial development, extension services, and irrigation works.
5.09     Bank assistance to the transportation sector has been provided through
seven operations totalling about $700 million: Three ports, two highways, and
two railways. The Bank has supported the Covernment's sectoral strategy which
is consistent with its macro policies. The strategy has aimed to maintain an
adequate level of investment in the sector to avoid infrastructural
bottlenecks, increase foreign exchange earnings through transit and
international traffic, and minimize transport costs. The railways subsector
requires further attention so that it can perform its economic role and carry
its share of Turkey's traffic (especially bulk commodities) whlich has been
diverted to road haulage in recent years. Another issue is the sector's
burden on public finances caused, in part, by railways' financial losses, but
aggravated by the Government's need to secure financing for the large
motorways program. To address some of the inter-modal issues and to
strengthen further the capacity of the Ministry of Transport to plan and
implement future investment programs, a possible Transportation Sector
Adjustment Loan is being identified with the Government. Further
possibilities in railways and ports are also under discussion.
5.10     Following the introduction of Turkey's structural adjustment program
in 1980, Governji'ent focused on price stability, creditworthiness, and
shorter-term efficiency and output growth issues and less on longer-term
equity issues. Government has begun to place increased attention on the social
sectors to which the Bank has provided substantial Assistance through five
loans to education (about $280 million) and seven loans to urban and water
supply/sewerage operations ($660 million) for a total to the social sectors of
nearly $1.0 billion.
5.11     In education, there is a need to reorient further human resource
development towards the needs of an export-oriented industrial economy. An
important task is to improve secondary and higher level education in order to
raise the quality and quantity of the human resource base required to build up
Turkey's technological capability. Substantial policy reforms are also ineeded
for qualitative improvements thrcughout the svstem, including the upgrading of
pre-service teacher education programs and in-service teacher and administrator
training activities. Regional equity in access to education and quality must
also be extended. A General Education Project is under preparation which would
address some of these issues. In health, the principal challenges are to
reduce inequalities in health status and improve access to basic services,
especially between the western and eastern regions. The Bank's first health
project in Turkey is under preparation and would address issues of coverage of
health services and more efficient use of health system investments. In urban
and water supply, serious efforts have been started to tackle the massive
backlog in the provision cf urban and water supply/sewerage services within
clear investment and cost parameters. The Bank has assisted in the
establishment of semi-autcnomous water supply and sewerage agencies in the
major cities (Istanbul, Izmir). Discussions are underway with the Government
on the possibility of setting up such a project with the Ankara Municipality.
5.12     The Bank's overall lending strategy to Turkey will focus in the
short-term on providing some quick-disbursing resources thrcugh the SECAL
vehicle to assist Turkey in servicing her sharply increasing debt service
0 28 5



-39-
obligations. Projects with strong export prospects will also be aggressively
pursued. Over the longer-term, the Bank's lending strategy is to assist
Turkey's improvement in its economic productivity. To attain such productivity
improvements, greater investment in human capital, reduction in the dualistic
rarket orientation as a result of the significant role of the State Economic
Enterprises (SEEs) in the economy. and more active managen:ent of technology
development will be required. The strategy also aims to assist Turkey in its
efforts in the social sectors to redress past imbalances in investment levels
and social inequities. This will be complemented by a well-defined economic
and sector work program. The foregoing lending strategy is therefore designed
to help Turkey with meeting a part of its external financing requirements
while it is implementing its medium-term macroeconomic adjustment program.
5.13     There is, of course, a certain degree of risk associated with the
implementation of such a medium-term economic program both at the level of
Government decision-makers who must deal with the political parameters and at
the level of Turkey's major international .reditors who will need to sustain
Turkey's financing needs during this critical period. The risk is alleviated
through the fact that Turkey's policymakers today are essentially the same
individuals with a strong commitment to sustaining economic reform as those
who managed the successful economic turn-around of the first half of the
1980's. Some additional risks are involved in the increased focus on social
sector lending. They arise not oaly from the relatively thin data base that
plague the sector, but also from the complex institutional and political
issues that hamper project development. The result is often extended project
processing time and difficulty in attaining the right policy and institutional
mix that can address fully the critical social needs. To minimize such risks,
the new Resident Mission will be used to speed up project development; the
Bank's economic and sector work program will be strengthened; and lessons
derived from past interventions in these social sectors in Turkey and the Bank
will be built into the project designs.
5.14     IFC has invested in textiles, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum, cement,
iron and steel products, food processing and tourism.  It has also invested in
the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB) and provided guarantees for
overseas contracting firms. In addition, IFC has provided technical assistance
to the Governmeat with respect to the development of the capital market and a
regulatory framework for leasing. IFC sees increasing opportunities for it to
help create new institutions and instruments in the financial sector, in
cooperation with the Bank, and also expects to be active in two new areas of
activity that the Government is keen on promoting: (a) privatization of state
enterprises and (b) creation of privately financed and owned projects in
certain key sectors such as energy and transportation, through the
build-operate-and transfers (BOT) initiative of the Government. Finally, IFC
will continue to be active in the tourism sector, which is becoming an
increasingly important source of foreign exchange earnings, as well as
continuing its traditional financing of projects in the industrial sector.
0 z8 5



-40-
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of AgLeewen1L of th. Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
0 28 5



kAtual                                     -                                                             P Proju  -t I s
I9O       1901i     12         2983      1914       1985      1986      1961       1998      1909       19O       1991       M29       1991 S     194       2995 f     996       1991
bDP kromtl.  aIte                                      0.9        4.4        -0        I.  1      .         5.1       8.0 Ii.              5.0       5.0        5.0       5i        5.0        5.0       5.0        5.0       5.0         9o
bOP/Epita  firo tlh Rate                              -3.0        l.9       2.5         .2       3.72       2.6       5 a       5.1        2.9       2.9        2.9       3.1        3.1       J.1        3.2       3.2        3.3       3.3
fomiu.ptio2ar.ilto .     Groath rjte                   5.2        3.3       1.)         .9       2 5        1.1       6.4       5 0        2 0       2.1        2.6       2.6        2.5       2. 4      2.4        2.4       2.6        2.9
lotal 000 IoSI, 8.ill                                 19.5      19.1       20.2      20.1       22.5      26.1       32.1      40.4      41 I       43.2      44.5       45.1      413 41       .       5se.0     51.3       52.1       53.9
of .61(:  1111                                      1.1        1.3       1.5        1.6       1.4       2.3        1.1       0.9       0.4        0.2       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.9        0.0        0.0
MI0/2SS 21                                           339.9    231.2    200.6    211.1          194.6     199.0      262.3   724.5    222.2         210.0    20) 9       299.6     29.6    lU3.b        175.9    Ib7.9    152.4         21J.9
MEWfl                                                 14.3       34.l      33.2       40.5      45.3      49.4       5b J      60.0       61.5      5t.)      55.6       52.3      49.2       46.2      43.4      40.5       31.1       35.0
Det Swvitt (LISS, Sill                                 1.0        2.1       2.9        2.9       3.0       4.4        4.1       5.6        1.3       1.4        1.5       1.6        1.9       9.2       8.6        O.9       9.2        9.3
kbt SwvirvllUS 11                                     33.6       21.3      2C.5       30.3      261        33.4      31.4      34.4       39.0      35.9       34.9      13.0       32.0      30.5      30.3       29.0      26.1       21.
2nl rnt/X6S  I                                       19.0       21.0      15.5      2b.0      21.1       23.4      21.        24.5      26 0       15.6      25.9       14.0      14.6       14.4      14.1       23.4      12.4       11.2
In2trest/68P                                           2.0        2.5       3.0        1.0       3.2       1.3        3.1       3.5        4.4       4.4       4.3        3.9       J.7        3.6       3.5        3.2       3.l        2.9
6,ois  Inv.stunt!6DP 21                               21.9       22.0      20.6       19.6      t9.9      21.1       24.8      24.1      2' 3       24.5       24.)      24.9      25.1       25.3      25.5       .5.1      25 7       25.1
0Doe%ti( S&,implGF  2'                                 14 1      126.      Il.S       25.1      25.1       11.9    2it          22.1      22.S      22.9       23.1      23.3       23.6      23.9      24.2       24.5      24.9       25.0
MtIional SA.i"jBW62P '                                 .9       20.6       28.8      15.9      17.1       19.2      22 I      27.1       22.9      23 I       23.3      23.9       23.7      2i.5       23.5      23.5       t4.0      24.1
Par9inal Se.ings Rjat                                            8*.9      30.4       20.6      .1,4      53.4       12.3       15.0      48.1      50.5       20.2      21.6        I4       30.3       30.0      29.9       32.2      2i.t
Fixed lniivtumn&l168p 'I                              '0.0       19.4      19.2       28.5      8.4      20.2       23.6                 23.5      23.1       23.9      24.1      24.3       24.5      24.1       24.9      24.9       24.9
l2(11                                                -21.3       5.2        4.5       5.1        3.1       4.2        2.)  7               6 8       4.8        4.0       4.9       5.0        5.0       5.0        5.v       5.2        5.1
|IPOrl  rD.h IVOWNSI)                                   3.0      82.4       3.9       11.5      23 1       10.1       6.2      29.3        B.0       6.2        6.7       6.3       6.5        6.5       6.5        6.5       6.4        o.4
&uput/1B09 11                                          5.1        8.2      11.1       1l.b      14.9       15.6      23.I       25.4      21.9      2.3        116       17.3       17.1      26.9       6b.1      26.5       21.1      11.6
Iqmt kersth Ivul.i.l                                  1.9      21.1        1.4      26.2       20.1       8.4       11.0     12.0         L.1       6.5       5 9        5.5       5.3        5.J       5.J        5.J       5.0        5.0
oparts bDP 3/                                        I2.2        14.9      26.2       17.4      20 .      21.31      1.4       20.2       22.3      22.1      21.1       21.4      21.1       2U.8      20.5       20.1      20.5       21.1
low2t 14tOLEty                                         7 1        4.0       0.1       4.4        4.9        2.6       1.4       1.8        I.S       I.S        1.2       1.2       2.1        1.1   1    .1   1     .1   1    .0        1.0
Currenl k9ounl IUSI  0111)                              34.       1.9       0.9        1.9       1.4        1.0       2.5       O.9        0.9       2.0        1.0       1.1       -1.2       1.2       -1.2      -1.2       -0.9       0.3
Currtal  rciounol/ilF'                                -,9         1.3 ;       .        i. 1      2.0        1.9       2.6        1.5       1.4        24         .J      -1.2       -1.2      21.1        2.0       20        -0.?       o.5
khs,rw.  sllacnelb,                                     P.1       5.;       1 .        4.3       4.2        5.2       3.2      -2.5        2.b        1.5      -1.4      -1.1        1.2       1.1        1.0       *.9        0.6       0.5
2prrns of Irade Index                                lO.o       91.4       87.3      95.1       96 .      97.3      109.0     21.9       H:6.7     122.5      111.4    226.?      2.9        225.2     224.5      223.4     112.6    222.6
11 16S r,2cs to eport  o- goods nd Servis  plus workts  riaiiltanrs.
,I Arrfot prle dAta lor h.O2oriI(Al Ai oot*tA2 plnt iPda for proUjtiion period.
;I   rthandite e.porI. and %sports.
SOUrEP SfO, (rtnral ('mal of Urley, torld Bank rot0lees.
-il~
> 
t



luit -- Salunor of Payeet., 1"7-97
fu5s, lIlliaal
Ect.      -    ---------------------------Pro)         r teoni-------------------------------------------
1931     1          393l 9  1 39 im    199       3992       93       3994      lm 15       9       I97
CUIFE1 OCUUI1
Xpwvts of leed  ail I-Factor Services                13545    15914    171"        13474     19935    21543    23231    25179    27232    31114    35550
Of atich: ler chearde    opute  IFNI3               10315    12174    11442    14040    15171   13424    17134    19241    230                2`164    21241
ImWort. of lah  a aid  s4 tr Srwvae                  1520    11013    11779    I549    21300    2249             24424    24320    2033        32011    34344
Di diab: brchaads  le4 rt% IFNI                      319    3553        I5        31724    IU54    20233    21334    23553    25444    23133    32422
*Eiierce hIItE                                       -1725    -33,       -1030    -3075    -3345    -6355    -1139         -1134     -3n54      -09       -794
Ret Fattor Service Ie                               -1171    -2453    -2440    -2741    -2710    -2931    -3071    -3311            -32U4    -3312    -1442
lactr SeWVLe   ReEiPts                             473       Ul3       41        723       78        807       am        895       942        9       3043
fatler SeWvice PAYmetl                            2444      3114      3329      3449      3548      3145      392       4071      4224      445       4505
Of  blach  lterest                             235        3022      3233      3311     3443       341       3815     3945      4117      4253      4391
let Carreat ltalits                                  2535      260       270       2175      2351      294J      3032      3124      3220      3321      3424
Iransler le teitt                                2535       2727      2794     244       2943      3034      M31        3222     3320      342.      35S0
04 eicb:  inkers Reattaices                    2025      2133      2132      213       2233      2214      2322      2348      2414      2444       2513
lranaier Paveets                                    50        37        eo                  91        93        95                 t 300     102       104
Curreat kcaut SaIasce                                 -951      -912    -1014    -1041       -1048    -3350    -313    -195    -1220            -94       -U10
CMIM I tCC01S11
DirfEt fw.alp  Ievestets t lltt)                       120       157       145       313       134       I9        201       219       232       249       2U
tag lore Capital toot) 1i                             1344       495       9m       1031      too0      I303       9n9      I03       1059      1321      333
e fich: keir                                         539       400       450       400       400       400       05        435       us        4"        532
Short lore Claptal                                     557       710       400       I5        300       30        300       30        300       230       211
Athr Caoital 21                                       -71#      -540      -250      -200      -150      -150         a         0         0          I         I
Chan g      es erves I-iaocr.ae,)                      -4U      -100      -30       -w8       -249      -303      -311      -342      -313      -421      -741
11 lntldes INF reparchasas.
2/ lKlde.  Wrtfelie IjeSvItSt, credit Waited, ad errors ad missims.
Surce: Cgatral Sa  ef fe rite,  nd Bak estliats.
Pl' 3>
mx
{D X
K) "



- 43 -                                                 Annex  I
Table 3
COMPOSITION OF rlE  BANKING SYSTEM4
I q80                   _                t ta
SHARE                                    SHARE
NumtR           NUER         IN          4UMBER         NUMBER        IN
OF              OF       TOTAL           OF             or         TOTAL
INSTITrUTIONS    BRANCHES   ASSETS    rm7srtrUTrONS   BRANCHES   ASSETS
(in S)                                  (i  %.)
1. Public Sans                    1l               2.469      S1.S           12           2.732       SO.I
2. Private Oo.tstic &&nks         26               3,380      45.7           26           3.499        46.2
Of w1icp .
2.1  .velop,mnt Sanks          2                   6       3.1            2              6         2.1
2.2 CoRMrc1al Ianms           24              3,374       42.6           24         3,493         44.1
3. Private Foreign $&mks           4                 105       2.8           18            117          3.7
4. Total                           43              S,954     100.0           56          6.348        100.0
Source:   anks' Associaton oft Turkg>y



- 44 -
Annex I
TabLe 4
INDICATORS OF FINANCIAL DEPTH, 1979-1987
(in TL biLLion and as Percent of GNP)
.......... ..................  ....................... .................................................. ................................................ ..
1979      1980       1981       1982       1983       1984      1985      1986      1987
1. Currency                111.7     189.3      260.1      370.0      448.8      669.0     953.3   1,361.4   2,136.7
(5.1)     (4.3)      (4.0)      (4.2)      (3.9)     (3.6)      (3.4)      (3.5)      (3.7)
2. Demand                  204.7     356.9      480.0      609.4      933.4      989.0   1,374.8   1,977.4   3,156.7
Deposits                 (9.3)     (8.0)      (7.3)      (7.0)      (8.1)      (5.4)      (5.0)     (5.0)      (5.5)
3. MN                      317.6     549.2      752.6      984.7   1,392.1   1,687.3   2,346.7   3,361.5   5,316.6
(14.4)    (12.4)    (11.5)    (11.3)    (12.0)         (9.2)     (8.5)      (8.6)      (9.3)
4. lime                     56.7      110.7     385.5      946 5   1,266.4   2,295.5   4,085.9   5,858.2   7,450.0
Deposits                 (2.6)      (2.5)     (5.9)    (10.8)    (11.0)    (12.5)    (14 7)    (14.9)    (13.1)
5. M2                      374.3     659.9   1,138.1   1,931.2   2,658.5   3,982.8   6,432.6   9,219.7  12,76A. 
(17.0)    (14.9)    (17.4)    (22.1)    (23.0)    (21.7)    (23.2)    (23.5)    (22.5)
6. FX deposits               -          -          -         -          0.2      211.4      784.8   1,903.2   3,607.3
(0.0)      (1.1)      (2.8)      (4.9)      (6.4)
7. M2X                     374.3     659.9   1,138.1   1,931.2   2,658.7   4,194.2   7,217.4  11,122.9  16,373.9
(17.0)    (14.9)    (17.4)    (22.1)    (23.0)    (22.8)    (26.0)    (28.4)    (28.8)
8. InfLation - CPI          78.5      89.6       28 3       26.2       37.1       49.7      44.2       30.7       55.0
(Dec. - Dec.)
9. Inflation - CPI          57.6      110.9      36.8       23.1       31.4       48.4      45.0       34.6       38.8
(Average)
10. Average Interest
Rates On:
Demand Deposits           2.4       3.2        3.8        3.8       17.3       4.6        4.6        8.2        9.4
Time Deposits:
6-month                   9.2      11.1       36.8       41.0       33.2      49.3       51.4       44.8       37.2
1-year                  20.0       21.2       36.9       37.5      34.3       40.5       45.1       47.1       43.0
11. NominaL GNP          2,199.5   4,435.2   6,553.6   8,735.0  11,551.9  18,374.8  27,789.4  39,176.9  56,800.0 a/
..... ....... .... ...... ... .. ... ... .  I ..... ........    .. ... ............................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
a/   Estimated.
Source: Central Bank, and State Institute of Statistics.



- 45 -                                         Annex  I
Table 5
*;rkev: credit by r,pe of F' ancial rIntitution
En,d of ~Per'p  g.al 5tk   (19*0-87)
-n  5980 Th f3i wion)
Central Bark                Oepooit woney Banks    Inv. Day, Anks                  'otal
Year    oirect  Re4ds-       Total    Net          Net Cr.      Not       %et cr.    Credit    Credit
Credit  counts                credit    &  oonds       credit   & bonds                  &  omndS
1980     367.0   288.2       65S.2       S49.6       604.1      128.6     130.3        1,333.4   1'.89.6
1981     394.6   343.0       '737.6      '50.0       832.2      152.8 a    54.6        1 0.40.4   1,724.4
1982     332.1   246.5       578.6       939.3   1.053.9        177,2    179.3         1.695.1    1.811 .9
1983    267.2   292.6        SS9.8       834 1       921.7      !60.0     161.5        '.SS3.9   1.642.9
1984     167.1    93.1       260.2       843.4    1.038.9       147.4    148.6         l.2SO.9    1,447.6
1985     197,3    82.3       279.6     1,122.6    1,429.4       128.3    129.6         1,530.S   1.838.6
1986     Z18.4    97.3       31S.7     1.649.2   2,033.7        166.4     168.6        2,131.2   2.518.0
1987,   254,4   142.0        396.4     1.648.7   2,040.8         SO.IS   154.4         2,195.6   2.S91.7
Source:  Central Bank of the Ropulic of Turkey.
Note: Net credit equals total credit ft1nus Central Bank rediscounts.
As of Septemeer 30, 1987



- 46 -                                   Annex I
Table 6
Proportion of Preferential Credit
(TL billion)
12/83    12/84    12/85    12/86    09/87
Total Credit Outstanding             3426.5   4321.8   7114.8   12354.9  16086.9
of which:
Credit to Productive Sectors         2768.6   3512.3   6200.'   10500.0  13472.3
Preferential Credit                  1810.8   1642.3   2125.4    3928.0   5709.5
of which:
Preferential credit to Productive  1152.9    922.8   1211.0    2074.0   3095.9
Sectors
Preferential Credit/Total Credit       52.82    38.8%    29.8S        31.8%    35.5%
Preferential Credit/Total Credit       41.6X    26.3S    19.5X        19.7%    23.0S
to Productive Credit
Preferential Credit to Productive    33.6%    21.3S    17.01          16.8%    19.21
Sectors/Total Credit
Source: For 1983-84 data, SAR-FSAL-I, Report No. 6095-TU, May 15, 1986;
for 1985-87 data, Central Bank of Turkey.



- 47  -                                      Annex  I
Table 7
!urkeAv  Seetora1 Otrtrthutun of Ra*l Stoeki a? Cridtt ei iharm) t193O-3,
(fxcludlng Central lank direct credits)
182        t6            40. 2L0ut3rA                      178              .             2.s4 Hous.   0 0the. TOTAL
1980      15 ,S          44.9n            6.2S I91$%                       1.9S         20.1S        100.07
1981,    17 OS           43.3S            -n9             13.3S           2.JS           15.2 n      3-%
1982      15.6%          40.6%           20.3%            17.8%           3.3%            2.4%       l00-0S
1983    91.0%            32.3%           20.8S            21.8%           *.6S            2.5%       l00.0S
1984      14.4%          36.7            1 8.9n           20.3S           GA 8S           z9sX       100.0
1985      15.4S          37.37           15.71            19.31           9.6S            2.7S       100.0%
1986      16.11          31.4%           16.1%            22.71          IZ.OS            1.5SS       00.0A
1987      14.9%          29.5S           13.37            26.2%           14.S7           1.6%       100.0%



-48 -                                           Annex  I
Table 8
Tu~rkey, Credit to the Public aMg Private Sectorij
ENO Of PERIOO REAL STOCKS ( 1930-a7l
(Im 1980 rL Olilion)
PubliC AdMInistrations                         Public               Private              Total
Bonds                 (:)   Enterprises  (S)         Sector       (M)     Credit      (S)
0Drect   Hold By                Share                 Share        &        Share   & londs    Share
Year   Credit  F1n. InSt. rotal                                       Households
1980    199.5       59.5      2S9       18.7        437.6     31.5        692.0    49.8       1,384.6    100.0
1981    222.6       88.7    ;11..    18.1           437.1     25.3        976.0    56.6       1,724.4   100.0
1982   l79.8       122.1      201.9     16.7        410.5    22.7    1,99.5    60.7         1.811.9   100.0
1983    170.8       96.2      267.0     16.3        222.2     19.6      1.053.6    64.!       1,642.9   100.0
1984    l'2.I      202.7    374 8    25.9            43.3      9.9        929.S    64.2      1.447,6   100.0
O85   230.3        316.1    546.4    29.7           '86.8     10.2     1.105.4    60.!       1.838.6   100.0
1986   224.9       396.8    621.7       24.7        3S3.4    14.0    1.542.9        61.3     2,518.0    100.0
1987   244.7       435.4    680.1       26.2        405.0    I5.6      1,506.6    58.1       2,591.7    100.0



-   49    -                                   A  nix   I I
P-Zn g-T I E7
T. C.
BASBAKANLIK
HAZINE VE DIS TICARET MOSTESARLIVI
Sayl   DEI-IV-4-138   3949                                       -  .    '.3  1
Konu
May 9, 1988
Mr. B. B. CONABLE
President
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washingten, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Conable,
The  .uckish  GvveramenLt  ai. now completed the eighrh year of
its program for restructuring the economy. The adjustment program has
helped Turkey expand exports and improve its exte:nal balance. Under
the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan, the Government is pursuing to
encourage liberalization of the economy, promote improved productivity
in areas of comparative advantage and further progress in export
earnings. We also emphasize policy and institutional reforms at the
sectoral level.
Within  this  framewor4,  the  attached  Statement  of  Financial
Sector Policies shovs the Government's decisiveness in assigning a
high priority to reforms in the financial  sector and sets forth the
main elements in the Government's program relating to sector policies.
It encompasses policy and institutional measures underway or to be
undertaken from 1988 to 1990 and indicates the Government's committment
in continuing the financial sector adjuptment program.
I am writing to you at this time to request a Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan in the amount of $ 400 million to assist in the
financing of the Government's program for structural change in the
sector.
Sincerely Yours,
Minister o   tate



- 50 -                             Annex II
Page 2 of 7
_T'rkev
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICIES - 1988
1.       Since 1980, the Government has been pursuing a program of economic
reforms aimed at achieving a viable BOP combined with relatively rapid growth,
while pursuing an outward orientation and allowing a greater role to market
forces in determining economic variables. Financial sector reforms have been
included as an integral part of the reform program because of the critical
role played by the financial system in efficiently mobilizing and allocating
resources in the economy. The Government's overall objective is to establish
an efficient and flexible system of resource mobilization and allocation which
would respond rapidly to market forces and offer a wide menu of financial
instruments to savers and borrowers. However, it recognizes that these
reforms can only be implemented over the medium term horizon. In conjunction
with the first Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, the Government initiated
reforms in key areas of financial policy, regulation of financial
institutions, ca,uital markets and financial instruments. These reforms which
have yielded significant benefits by deepening the financial system but need
to be consolidated and broadened to cover other important issues in the
financial sector. The Government is aware that financial sector goals and
targets cannot be successfully reached without a sound macroeconomic framework
and will, therefore, attempt to ensure that its economic policies and targets
are consistent with the financial sector objectives and targets.
2.       TuLkey's GDr anur export g--th perform-nce a_ wel!aE
changes over the past several years actests to the efficacy of the Government's
economic policies. However, in 1987, inflation has again increased sharply
with negative repercussions on the financial sector. It is clear that
financial sector reforms can be successfully implemented only in the presence
of a sound macroeconomic policy framework. The Government, therefore, intends
to further strengthen monetary and fiscal policies to reduce the public sector
deficit, control inflation and maintain export growth. It is expected that
this program of fiscal and monetary restraint should achieve a sharp reduction
of inflation while maintaining a reasonable economic growth rate and thus lead
to a gradual reduction in real interest rates which would improve the financial
health of both the industrial and banking sectors.
The Banking System
3.       The Government recognizes that improving the efficiency of the
banking system is crucial to achieving a high rate of economic growth because
of its crucial role in mobilizing savings and allocating them to the most
economically efficient activities. It is giving priority attention to
addressing these issues. A number of concrete measures have been taker. since
1980 to strengthen the banking system, some cf which were taken in conjunction
with FSAL-I. In 1983, a new Banking Act was promulgated which was amended in
1985 to further improve its effectiveness. Under the Act, lending limits were
strengthened, the Government's supervisory rcie in the banking system was
given more prominence, and deposit insurance was introduced. In conjunction
with FSAL-I, steps were initiated in the following banking areas: a uniform
accounting system was introduced, a new regulation on non-performing loans and



- 51 -                                 Annex II
Page 3 of 7
provisioning was issued, the Central Bank's off-site supervision function was
strengthened, the examination methodology of the Board of Sworn Bank Auditors
was revised, external audit of banks was introduced, training of bank
supervisory staff was conducted both in Turkey and abroad, and a bankers'
training institute was established. Nevertheless, notwithstanding the
substantial progress and reforms made since 1980, problems continue to prevail
in the commercial banking sector.
4.       The major problem in the banking system at present is non-peiorming
loans in the portfoiios of commercial banks which has increased intermediation
costs and led to misallocation of resources by diverting loan funds to
inefficient activities. The practice of commercial banks making loans on an
overdraft or current account basis combined with the high real interest rates
charged on these loans have partly contributed to the gravity of the problem.
The Government ir-ends to strengthen the banking system through, firstly,
measures to ascertain the true extent of non-performing loans in the banking
system and, secondly, measures aimed at strengthening their financial position
either through recapitalization and/or restructuring, or other measures,
whichever are more cost effective and would further the objective of developing
an efficient financial sector.
5.       To this end, the Government intends to issue a new regulation on loan
classification, suspension of interest accrual, and provisioning to enable
banks' management to determine the extent of non-performing loans and make
adequate provisions. This regulation would complement the audit of the 1987
accounts to be carried out by independent auditors.
~~~~Ce:~e t  Lcr                       t ,  .l,      tl'     L ..e 
UE.        w vU,            _V6 vc 4. C    s L4 *Aca    *u *U   s-ctL La-  LLLe e     *L.. GUU 1 La
of banks in cun'iunction with the new regulation reveal cases of insolvency
among banks, there is a need to improve the existing process to deal with
banking insolvency by strengthening the existing Deposit Insurance Fund (the
Fund), or establishing a similar mechanism not only to protect small depositors
but also to deal with these cases through either liquidation or
restructuring. Government intends to adopt the following principles in
restructuring financially troubled or insolvent institutions: 1) carve out
the bad assets and recapitalize with cash and/or marketable securities to
restore the bank to profitable operations; 2) for private banks to eliminate
previous shareholders' claims on capital before injecting new funds; 3)
introduce substantial changes in management and policies to restore profitable
operations; and 4) return private banks to the private sector and restore
banks to normal operations. The legal framework for the mechansim would allow
it to deal with insolvent banks on a systematic and automatic basis, reduce
external interference in the operations, take over ownership, clean up the bad
loan portfolio, and enable restructured private banks to be sold to new
private owners within a short time without damage to the new owner's financial
position. The Government plans to study the issues in order to prepare a
draft law for parliamentary consideration as well as prepare the ground for
the mechanism's operation.



- 52 -                              Annex I
Page 4 of 7
7.       In addition to the regulation on loan classification and provisioning,
the Government recognizes the need for banks to limit their overall exposures
to groups of related borrowers and to firms with which the bank has an
ownership relation at prudent levels. Over the longer term, the Government
plans to encourage banks to reduce their exposure to riskier borrowers by
adopting a weighted risk asset to capital ratio which would require banks to
have proportionately larger amounts of capital to bac?: riskier assets. The
Government intends to prepare a feasibility study and an action plan to
implement such a scheme and would welcome technical assistance in this regard.
As an interim measure, however, the Government plans to reduce the exposure
limits specified in Article 38 of the Banking Act for those banks whose
financial situation has deteriorated as measured by quantitative rating
criteria.
8.       The Government recognizes the need to improve the efficiency of state
owned banks to enable them to compete with other institutions in Turkey's
deregulated financial markets.  The Government intends to instruct each state
owned bank to prepare an action program for restructuring their financial
situation including a program for cleaning up of their portfolios based on the
results of audits and strengthening their organization, policies and operating
procedures.  Based on these action programs, the Government intends to prepare
a strategic plan to revitalize the state owned banks in an optimal and cost
effective manner.  The Government may seek technical and financial assistance
in order to assist the banks to prepare and implement the individual action
programs and to formulate the strategic plan.
9.       The Government has already implemented a number of measures to
t-trpn-thpn hAnk Pxnminatinn and suoervision. However, it recognizes the need
for further efforts in this area, given the difficult task at hand, and plans
to increase the number of active sworn bank auditors to fifty by 1988 and to
one hundred by 1990. This will require a substantial training effort and the
Government would like to obtain technical assistance in developing the training
programs.
10.      The Government has already taken steps to strengthen the capital
requirements of existing banks by prescribing higher minimum capital levels
for the head office and branches which should inter alia help to rationalize
branches. It plans to increase the minimum capital requirements for entry of
new banks by a substantial amount and to require new promoters to present
satisfactory medium term development programs before granting charters.
Interest Rate Policy, Preferential Credits and Foreign Exchange Deposits
11.      The Government's objective is to allow market forces to determine the
level and term structure of interest rates. Thus, lending rates have been
fully liberalized except for preferential credits which are still subject to
ceilings. Deposit interest rates for Certificates of Deposit in amounts over



- 53 -                             Annex I
Page 5 of 7
TL 10 million and for deposits of maturity of one year or more were fully
liberalized in July 1, 1987 but have again been brought under control.
However, there are significant constraints preventing full liberalization of
deposit rates at present which include the volume of non-performing loans in
commercial banks, inadequate supervision and the continued high rate of
inflation.  However, the Government is committed to maintain administered
deposit rates at positive real levels and will adjust them as necessary to
achieve this objective. The Government intends to pursue its objective of
liberalization of deposit rates in conjunction with its inflation control
program.
12.      In the area of lending, non-preferential interest rates have remained
very high in real terms and have not declined in spite of the reductions in
reserve requirements implemented during 1986/87. The Government recognizes
that the high level of public sector borrowings and the interest rates paid on
treasury securities have generated an upward pressure on lending rates; in
addition to the above factors, the effective cost of funds to the banks have
been high due to reserve and liquidity requirements which have been kept high
to help finance the public sector deficit. Moreover, the high adminisLrative
costs of banks, including the costs from holding of non-performing loans and
taxes on financial intermediation (the financial transactions tax, stamp
taxes, and the Resource Utilization Support Fund tax), have also increased the
final cost of funds to borrowers. As indicated in para. 2, the Government
plans to cut back its public sector borrowing requirements to reduce inflation
and the upward pressure on interest rates and plans to gradually reduce
reserve requirements and the above mentioned taxes and charges on financial
intermediation, once the public sector deficit is reduced sufficiently. In
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L ~, L -:: L! ;w;ULvwL   s;;Wa  r.sc;,stx.
in this context, the Government plans to examine the possibility of
substituting the taxes on financial intermediation with other neutral forms of
taxes to prevent the distortion in lending intcrest rates.
13.      A major objective in the financial sector is to achieve positive real
levels of interest on preferential credits as well as to eliminate such credits
in order to phase out subsidies. Substantial progress nad been achieved during
1985-86 in reducing the proportion of credit flowing to the productive sectors
of the economy on preferential terms, but the proportion has increased in 1987.
Also, interest rates on some preferential credits have become negative due to
the steep increase in inflation in 1987.  The Government has increased interest
rates on preferential credits in February 1988 and plans to review and adjust
these rates as needed during 1988 in the light of inflationary trends. Also,
in this context, it intends to continue to monitor the need for the Foreign
Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme and make appropriate adjustments in the
onlending rate to ensure that undue subsidies are not provided to borrowers.
14.      A foreign exchange deposit scheme was introduced to encourage the flow
of foreign savings from non-resident nationals and to reduce capital flight.
However, the Government recognizes that the introduction of such a scheme can
make the implementation of monetary policy more difficult, and make the



- 54 -                             Annex I
Page 6 of 7
financial system more vulnerable to shocks due to the in^reased instability -
the demand for money arising from currency substitution. It could also weaken
exchange rate policy. The Government has recently imposed a 52 withholding tax
on foreign exchange deposits to reduce the disparity in the taxation of lira
and foreign exchange deposits. This measure and the recent increase in TL
deposit rates should lower the relative attractiveness of FX deposits and
should help to reduce currency substitution. It will continue to review the
situation and take further measures to increase the maturity structure of
foreign exchange deposits, reduce currency substitution and thus help to
achieve more stability in the demand for base money.
Securities and Equities Markets
15.      There has been considerable progress in the development of the market
for Government securities. At the end of 1986, the Treasury set up a regular
auction schedule which has markedly improved its ability to sell its debt.
However, the Government recognizes that there is a need for greater competition
in the auctions by attracting more savers from financial and non-financial
assets as well as for measures to encourage the development of the secondary
market in such securities. It thus plans to introduce certain measures to
enhance competition, and encourage the development of the secondary market by
evaluating the feasibility and utility of such measures as: i) allowing small
investors to participate in Treasury auctions on the basis of non-comDetitive
bidding; ii) allowing repurchase agreements in Government securities : tween
market participants subject to strict safeguards; and (iii) promoting the
development of securities trading by developing and implementing training
progra=;  u I L:;F I;; uy I= - =z     -I  ...........................
would welcome technical assistance in formulating and implementing the training
program.
16.      In order to develop the securities industry in an efficient manner
and to allow new financial instruments and financial intermediation to be
introduced successfully, the taxation of financial instruments should be
applied on a consistent basis. The Government plans to study the system of
taxes and subsidies impacting on financial transactions in order to formulate
a rational framework -nd would welcome technical assistance in completing this
study.
17.      The Government views the development of the capital market as
essential to fostering the long term financial health of the corporate sector.
It would permit corporations to reduce their debt burden and strengthen their
financial structure, reduce risks in promoting new investments, and permit
greater private participation in economic growth. It would also enable the
Government to promote private ownership of state enterprises which the
Government feels would benefit the economy. The Government is also committed
to widening ownership of shares in publicly listed firms. To this end, it has
exempted dividend income from income taxation and has stimulated corporations
to issue new shares by exempting the premium on new issues frum taxation.



- 55 -                             Annex I
Page 7 of 7
Also, corporations with a broad distribution of owners are being taxed at a
lower rate to provide incentives to firms to broaden ownership of publicly
listed corporations. However, to safeguard investors, the Government has
developed appropriate regulations within which the capital market functions and
has issued a decree requiring all corporations which are listed in the first
market of the Stock Exchange or with a registered capital of TL 5 billion to
have their financial statement audited starting with their 1987 accounts. The
medium term objective is to increase the coverage to all publicly listed
corporations.
18.      The introduction of commercial paper in 1986 has been extremely
successful and enabled firms to sell their debt directly to savers at a much
lower cost compared to bank finance. To ensure transparency, however, all
firms issuing more than TLl billion in debt securities will be subject to
external audits before approval to issue securities is granted. The Government
plans to review the taxation of private securities in order to remove any
distortionary effects. This would be undertaken in the context oF the study
mentioned above in para. 16. The Government also intends to pass comprehensive
new legislation to establish the Board of Sworn Financial Advisors at an early
date in order to ensure the sound development of the accounting peofession in
Turkey.
19.      The attached matrix outlines the specific actions prorosed to be taken
in order to strengthen the financial sector.



luRrL"   r,AL   Li
PI QRQ,C0 toQl`41L 'C  l t L
P Po  Ad "Cd.e.lI'  tLo Lrrtraol, Pt:  V' Le AIIOQ.atllr Ang Mogtt!,.ttion                                                                                                       Loan LrAbIt.10t11
PrbicQln Area                                 2bJILI ''C                                           Pi,or Afthi.'ctint;i under ;AL'Iak  I             By LOAN tFtLL!LYLLSt;                             by ALO4D  !ihStL  FLLLAfl
* Intv,11 s ratc P01 1CJ
rte'jal'rat  on of depot * tie  not Inrp.-e, err l.APy of  -ei--i'e  nbt   I                0epoOlt 'ales on   '9e CO,s and depo-'ts    Aj)ust-ent of preferential  tnterest                    AChieve positive real interest rates
teas'ble now bia.-,e of ha.- -q           zat-on ad alocation thrOU9t libe'o                 of sain t I, of are 1ear a.  -one  el.             rates, currently negative,  to bring them   on selective credits to Proactiv
seclors ptvhlemvs   ',,ne  'nleres        Izlt-n of devpoit  -ate,  Ier                        n          lt r   o UAil,.t have been            closer to positie leels   ( In Fetb               sectors
rilC' on 'elel t     r edt  "eqi te condlr on. are ,pp-op- rite  and  ocre C-                 fixed aga,in de It lanks   f i annaI!             1911. the Goner,tlfent adjusted interest
ledting lt e--e u.1h-i' .on    rate,. on -elect Ie credit  to s  05  lv    profle,e    Attot-lt  n5d drepotl  'etes oa s     aicultua   loans, ftrio
Of     ar   riC'le,,et                                                                      have been t      tae at positive                  221 to 291 and Central1 Sank rediscount.
level.   ll.tiest  ,tIes  ont ,electli           rate on  ledlut, tern credits to positive
creCdts Sane been  i,b.! fnttali,                 leels  jhtich satisftes this conditlon,
rortleased ta ot b.g rast 1to pO5t 1tole
T:iotlirn gf I marit'lV  Itnit'vfllth   &
Rc.er; t and LIov'd1L  CUcaoerceta
Petl lend-iq .Ie-  tIn  't,   hoit qo                   i1.'r.n.rton P.                                        a! it etest  rate  a-c            ! sie statent  ot Hatolly to the                  kchieveient of iaccecoioiwiic targets
*Psl    '4h -hirq  'tIe  'n liie-r   j   ,                            .                I     f0  l -reely set by bank'  to enooe Otf tc,tI      Sank contatning slatlsfactory progrm of            stated *n the Goxerva.ent  Annua
by   a1 hrqrr      *i' -t  .i               - i    I--      -   -r' Iaxe   Ind        t'      cedIt  l.o ,.,e  teate                             ttsral aod  Onvetary adjustittnt (Condition   Progra  for  t98S
,artih reqie- hi- eve and                     r-                                                a     -le            't   251  ll  it  to        stlfec bY Statwennt Provided to the
'rqt dtdl        t n         d hl hh                                                           IP1  In 6b hot  ha ,   been  1ied agai-n         flav.  to may 19811                                 (ot8lete  a Study to develop a
"19t , I.r -  on -n _-l   1,  'ln,  h-a . bl161rational    framew                                                                                                                                                     rk  toe  taxati(on    of  'J
blqT  re, lla,,,r  Pill "p--1 l  .                                                                                                                                                             financial rnstrIftnts and
and bt-   whir'  put .pwi''   rlit     e                                                                                                                                                             nrteredrit ion                           I
nir lendind - tIc.   cr c.crl  .1.les
vir r nani -a  rr s.i on .  0.  or
I ''mireI.
Satistactoty progress in reducing
the spread between lending And
deposit rates through reduction of
reset ye regrairmerts. traisactions
taves and RUSF charges.
'det 'c  irc-li t . -  pr--e  oh,   (aad -alty red-ic   se is -dcii lie                       Selertive credit  'a proportion vt
ides  r,                ..nh   1-'eo  .rio  Irt.  croot  ii rt'deal_q n00 p_efeit ia          total credIt'  qr.I'aI    educed fion,
a.nd  a     l re I' to-Irnt-tr           rate   t hruh 1h 4a         a                             iS   125l 1 to  1-  n, Q83
F ic gn Lichd,,e 'iv. CIDeQta
if -t eOr'.  ra^e  'etched  r high   Peducc potent ril instabili    ii to 3nqose wrthholding tla  on interest on rx   Satisfacto'y progress  in Adopting
ic-tie..,1e t.nq  in    le"I t                - t- . ll   .r,tetrnh o-ugh atn'r'. airred at                                                     deposits to achteve consisltency -ith  TL    further masures for reducing C.,
i. 1l  .   '~r,xiei 'cana  or base  reducinq  sir-.enr,    bs utilautIon  and it depeposits    iThe Gonreirment Introducedd a                                                                     rwKy  substitution and increastng
xxiii  i e-nlri.   i  n  lowe'  .fr.n   rreas'riq oraint ity oI it deportso                                                                     S1 tax on ro deposits  iv  2,87 to stttprone  intuvtty of ro depcosits such as
lxx I teitie,.   'rant  in t'ov  lax                                                                                                            the relat Ive attlractiveness of It deposit s e       finiaxY sOize CeequtetIent for Fx
:,d weak ina r .' nq  'i   I-nt -rane                                                                                                           its a nis ro  deposits And also reduced            srqlit deposits.
a-   e, i gi 'ti   'l I'                                                                                                                  interest rates pard on rese-ie regurre             2  ditfereatiatled reserve
tevs on ii deposits which satisties this  requireinnis for tX deposits with
-ondllon                                          I lowertt    esera  erqui,eent on longer
tees fit deposits                       tl
35 ID
rt 'ID
'C
I-I
1'.-
. -



IJUFL Y   I 5AL   Li
'i o,oitt 1. h -Iil- *'r,*1 lix
it  i t .rcigterrbtn ng t he Bricki ng iicterrrt>^   Of%  
C,sfltm  AtlCa                              MltAttni%                                        Prl tIt  kI s             SAria A               IT L       UFLLIIVU                                momiIl    t  S      ILLL
1he harming .ys9err i       , nof eliit veIy  G.-nerint Intends to strength,rn the          Under  At IV. a new banklng 1aw -a&
arc ring out it. t1ncfl      i n of cenrilc  ban.king system by reorienting bankers        passe. d dith set standaids of capital
_ibrlrritioc and allcation because    attiltudes and practiCes towards pra                  adequacy.   aa  credtl erpos.ie rAtt
efy banks are -tehnically ir-nleni    dential banking through the followung                 tn a single and a troup of bo-rrIers and
ci evlrtr I   Pet  clu- d1e I  .e- !  itasues-                                       it-roduced dePosil Inst anre for  -a1a1
iccyi pe'cenl rye --  on. orrecrif.t-g  ouc                                                 depositos   Under SAI V. steps tO
.necnt S Dci 'o 1 1                                                                    develop a unifor, chart of accounts for
banks and a law on external auditors
alctlgthen0ip  0of PtujCttlil Rcgilattgn:i                                                  wee initiated         A decree was aIso
passed to define ncn performing loans
Inactguleqra   bank trig  e............. qulai inns have  e tal ie ons aIn t0                              '-)el F.... to   aPt.iyoee and pronisdoning ril-es f1    tory  gter n  os                                        sset
led lo poor icroacial dl.ciptune.    tending pract ies espec rally currenl  ac           the latter his prOved inadequate because bre on loan toa-n of iasai iAnd ctOtdren              iapntrod utio  nda otwIhted rtitatse
iiwrrirdent lending pia(ticc .  in     count lending by dci mug  non  petniisn           not8 D of loans a   or oerdraft basis          n  oan c si          on                         s        t o andother    e.atrtdti
ideate loan   lassi  f lcation, pro   loans on both ob)ect ice and subject i                                                                                                            adequacy and reduce the loan
v    Ioning  and suspenion of           It a         e      ir    cpliria                UndI isAL I Agntn   wa  reched                                                                     estai I   deposit taking
-.t accical and high loan conen' lion and t in a   aturly date for all                   Inlet *11  on external auditing ot all                                                         f      'inncial  institutions
tij  oc nt account loans  b  requie cla...                                               banks I'ma Iqit   teritra-  Bank has
1ircatIon of all la.s by i sk, class            issued *dit guidellnes and dliectives
and adequate pfonsrclimng including              to banks to inipiant agreent
siustrension of interest accual. rI              I prOned B     Iank supe",sin  and
reduce loan concentration ratlos by              roalint aon pioced-es were introduced
adopt ing a riski asset/capital ratio            A bankzIng inst rtuti ( ICISI was 
_rh a penalty -eight  ora         loan          established to t-ran bankers  in cdi _-
I pnCentat ions                                  bank Ing pratt ces
rc aiLO.C, rt  f Dilank Rgguoatian.
aid ,aUPC, i O
Inforcemreni ncr .i .rmg .-rgul.-l cr0n. Sirongiy enforce regulations throcrrh                                                                                                          sonbn   uiOst   f  ntl
ucAk becacc... .e  .r cii tc rt ent hhnk    .trengthened erarinatron proced;ri. and                                                                                                     Increasngthe n..be, of act Ie
e.  In  -d                                                                                                                               ~~~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and tOiigdand the,eetn
crammer . and  I .     .  .r Irmnilig   larger numnber of examiners                                                                                                                      n   bIntS*dthdreoet
of appropriate trainin pte wogra
lwtEr OV t   tj1jQJ Ent rJy c d
InlOrEdI ran DitolViU'C
Lar  iii adequate  Iequal roe s and    t        I er na  Aditing ac  ordng t o new reqidtsf
audil hare re tilled in tick of re   utat ions .i ii provide iritorhcnl r                                                                                                                           bnn on  c ra n   as per th  new
alit iv .1 ti rnancisal  rn rtion on    true enient ot financial dishes ang                                                                                                             regulations to be' Cleted by
probtIwm b-nk.                          bank. and enable actions to b, iaken                                                                                                            septebee  1o  i9qeoV
JDQ
dated coenant
*-1



!UMLY.  "SA       IL1
trfaon,t  LmtL  19natl  Ly
1  Strenqthentn9 the Santin9 System                                                                                                                                             Loan C-dlt.1-s
Pltbled  Aru BA3MLL hl                                                                           ex iK  &tlaymhinU imbWtMdf IN. I                 3! AM   ULLrUInS                                                      ELM
L.lQriO;elD   t LOtMLILhYg
L9 nroiLnt. -Ln1i
Present industry struct.re oitgo         Need to create more cpetition  through               Banlkng Loo  lt 19H. libe,.I,zed entry
potistte and lnetftcient                 I beat entry of sound PrOmoters of                   conoltions for banI 
both local and foreign bankS
s   tlt.  PIAL1,1.1 tO L    al CALbh
Anl.191,ilL Dank5
P-reent p i-redrie, to deal _ trl in  To create an effect re and independent                                                                   Stlengthbn capitat requirements for ne.   ( lwtetton of a draft lao  for the
.o01-1 ban-.  nadequate  -n-e          rnethants to deal  ituh  insolent banks                                                               anO et.tinq bkankiq Institutions                estabiltsthnt of an  Mndependent tns
r,Irannq up if non pertorrinq             If not ltquldated  by rmonng bad loan                                                                (Condition sattsfled by action taten            titrtiona) mechanism to restructute
Doittl>IO  .tonu,ti rel-rrnation         po-tfolio  chan.glng   drepent  nd         t pi in l9B8l                                                                                              financially  tnsolent tnstattimos.
f  ba.eha1deiularm. ir1rere.al   ties. etiminating (aiss a . e             o_ner: and                                                                                                          particularly to enable It to pur
of oat onal zat an at -pr irte            iCtor ing the bank to nornul oper at ion                                                                                                             Chase non perforing assets and t&ae
bhnk., not -ndr-taken                     I nludine sate to the pi nate .ectar  It                                                                                                             00Cr or transfer oversihip
. pr-sate ban.
bCatiut4fla rig 2f .UCinrrint Q_ed 
lank.
(.--einhrent ._ncd 0.-k    i  Iu-1-1l  1e-elop acion panrog. -   for each bank                                                                $Issue d-rectiCe to State o-ned banks to    Substantial copletton  of act on  C
InetI cent  WI  -in      i       ucuk    to irVraoe f ianc1W   mAbiity and cpy                                                                preDae  ctie    progra,s to restructure          progr_as for restructurIng and rm
Neea. tI nani , O  -n   p., e     -    I  L tn  I - -I I i l  It rienCy  and p-epir e a  t. it                                                anad iOrnore l ionnc lat and operating           Proning peefornnce of State  o,,ned
-e.ti-ttu, nq                            9IC  pl in to ieorqann:e the qlo)errnt                                                               PCerfraance as per agreed yo0                    ban,s
.nOea banking  .e,to  through argeis
C t 
UlCAi=gt -itl  mJliotn ?tOLJII-nd
t:rItfuf.1r ln g      Ln;oloCnt tln,cl                                                                            rt                                                                                   _nftlgJ VARL b,lng;s
In:o  ent .t to-tblei  bank . ieed       I-oeirrnrnt plans to restiactare  rn.ot                                                                                                               Olsbursrnt Would be made on
f nani na  n.-.tuIrtIs., *ng tC Ient public banks by adOpting sound                                                                                                                             cetpt of *,,dencE thot the
- l englhei  ank ng  I.  e  and ce    pi inc ipies  rent loned In Ite         abo,e                                                                                                           ooerrnot has ade a capital
tire  -ithr  Io.-es to the  -onern   "a- artotated $tbt  -ilttoi in I198 bud                                                                                                                   contributlon to a tank In line .tth
,rent                                    get for ths purpo.e                                                                                                                                   a restructuring plan. sattsfactory
to ti,e tank, prepared in roof triity
.1th agreed princ iples.
x
rc *t



IWRKLr.  F5$A(   jJ
P"090til GO di r  Ioi ItLi
"anCY Artd Jfhotal MarJkets                                                                                                                                           Loan Condit ons
Probtie Arta                                21iectives                    btIn    hltTIR11  nrtL                     r   AIFM *              BY L  sf fLC!IYVIES                             I  IM     -INa  E    LUt_
,QoerrUent SCCurItIes adn  Interbank
Mar btC
study the feesibility of the wider
-st *ited distr iut  lon has  nrseaa od Intrease coayt it oai  l    conS .f                                                                                                                  nt         entre, to  rte
ntr-rst rate paid   Secondary ewrI t   Freasory securities to reduce costs and                                                                                                              greater cerpttition in primary and
9treltrwni  timpeded by lack of las  on  derelop secondary  aret br encoir-9qnQ                                                                                                              secondary  Atakets for Goveemar,nt
purDuCase aqrerwnts   (oarlete in    repurchase aqreeertnis   Develop  at rul                                                                                                               bistonds
tbtltzat ion of required rese-res          faulrrr  for ta.ation of                                                                                                                          a)nancat to  a) Introductlon of no  ce_etitlee
er.t restrictine    Analies  to an         O -rrn                                                                                                                                           bidding for the public,  including
tort itt rsstrol   nt,t raussngDsq pnobte rr                                                                                                                                                thiOurIr lentral SAll broaches.
o-r itrw, i-d bira,,t                                                                                                                                                                       b) Reductian rof minkag  size of
tenders and deposit reduiran"ts
for Indirduals and no. banks.
c) Alltn foemal repurchase
agrearints and/or coiiateraiited
loans bete.. banks and clients
subject to strtct regulation and
super.ision_ including a
Stan"darized contract and adequate
portection for both parties ana
restricted najor -st~ttatons
di Alle  Central Seor to buy back
small aunots of bonrds teorn            4
individuals.
Ct should establish training
courses in securities trading in
Itinorte   mPles  ndfired I'ittm
and Wsur t 'C5
rortt oft market f.r I 1rjPO.ate Secui   Oeepen ard ioreoe market for                      lhe Gonecinent aqeetel to (1) Strengthen   Intend conerage o1 audit to all tires                 fstablish Coundi of St,o', fi.nan
I. jStock, and  -oni.i -ipeded by lack Corporate Iecurilies through iamrrored              Capital Market Board   it) Introduce           issuing debt securitIes o,er TL 1                 rat Adtisor, (CSFA
.  infor-at ion rlr;closure and stand       intormation disclosure and establish            audit of coirante;  ' suIng securities        billion  In *9111
..t   and t-igh t-fi.at ion and  -effect    a  .rganization to develOp the                  to PubliC. I ill rl1-t corporations to
toe Ian Incentroes                          alco-ritoqg protes.on mnd  tanda-d,             raise funds fr-oit pub Ic by issuin,g
Promote loreiga  Do-ttolto tnoesrnw-t to    bonds and ce.riat  papers,  and li1d
OJcPoen rapttlt roarrrr                        establish a councl  r S.orn crnan,cia
Adv-iso    ttem ist,J yet to be
achie,,ed. AlSO cona rae of Audit
regulation Iel.ted to about 140 I l,Ws
for i9Q7 but wIl be increased to a11
firoms by lIo   Iesa ieguiatlion to
pro,rote foreign poitioliti *n nettiil
under prepaation
me 
JP -4
O t4
'C4



- 60 -                              Annex IV
Page 1 of 3
DECREE ON PROVISIONING TO BE MADE BY BANKS UNDER ARTICLE 32 OF THE
BANKING LAW.
AIM
Article I - The aim of this Decree is to specify the provisions to be
made by the Banks against cash or non-cash credits, define loss of
creditworthiness, and overdue cases in relation to this Decree and regulate
the terms and conditions for the implementation of the above mentioned items.
DEFINITIONS
Article 2 - Some terms that take place in this Dectze are defined
below.
a)   Loss of the creditworthiness cases:  Under the implementation of
this Decree, loss of creditworthiness cases are defined as
follows: loans to borrowers whose internally generated fund are
not sufficient to meet currently maturing debt; loans to
borrowers which are significantly undercapitalized; and loons to
borrowers lacking sufficient working capital to meet their
operating needs. They also include loans which carry more than
a normal degree of risk due to the absence of current and
satisfactory financial infot.nation or documentation.
Uncreditworthy loans are not protected by the current sound
worth and paying capacity of the obligor.
b)   Overdue cases:  Under the implementation of this Decree, overdue
cases come into being for those credits working on a current
account basis when:
- the credit used is not paid within one month after the fixed
maturity date or after the cut-off of the account;
- the account limit is exceeded continuously for at least one
month;
- the accrued interest for quarterly periods is not paid within
one month;
- one or more of the conditions, that is, the capitalization,
refinancing or opening of new credit for the end period
interest comes into being.
For other credits, overdue cases are realized when the principal
and/or interest is not paid timely.
For credits that work on a current account basis, end period interest
and those charges arising from legal responsibilities, may unly be added up to
the principal after the account is cut-off. No increases in credit limit will
be permitted until maturity.
c)   Special follow-up:  Special follow up starts when loss of the
credit worthiness cases are determined.
d)   Administrative follow-up:  Administrative follow-up starts when
overdue cases are realized.



- 61 -                               Annex IV
Page 2 of 3
e) Legal follow-up: For the implementation of this Decree, a credit
which is already under administrative follow-up and not paid
within 3 months, the outstanding balance will be considered to be
under legal follow-up together with accrued interest for this
period. To these accounts, no interest accruals other than
4nterest accruals due to late payment charges can be made but
these accruals cannot be included in revenues until collected in
the form -f cash.
When considered necebzary, those credits which are overdue may be
directly taken under legal follow-up without going through administrative
follow-up.
Provisioning of Credits:
Article 3 - After the effectiveness of this Decree, Banks will make
provisions of:
a) 152 of the entire balance outstanding of the credits unrder
special follow-up, thereafter, provisions will be 50% at the end
of 12th month and 100% when full loss is likely to be incurred
or, at the latest, at the end of the 24th month.
b) 15Z of the outstanding baiance of the credits under administrative
follow-up at the end of the 3rd month of thc due Cate.
c) the outstanding balance of the credlts under legai tollow-up.
i)   25% at the end of the  6th month after the due date.
ii)   501 at the end of the 12th month after the due date.
iii)   75% at the end of the 18th month after the due date.
iv)  1001 at the end of the 24th month after the due date.
When the credit which is under special follow-up is subject to
administr._tive or legal follow-up, tL.e provisioning is continu-. to the new
case with redluction of the amount charged according to special foiluw-up.
Expenses under Co,porate Tax:
Atticle 4 - Al1 of these provisions made by the Banks under this
Decree can be vritten as e;oenses.  Those amounts written as credit expenses
for overdue credits other than secured are also considered to be expenses for
the purposes of Corporate Tax.
Write-off:
Article 5 - A credil under legal trocedures may be written-off if not
collected after the date of l00' provisioning.  As soon as loans enter a legal
procedure status, interest will not be accrued.



- 62 -                               Annex IV
Page 3 of 3
Exceptions:
Article 6 - This Decree will not be applicable to:
- funds realized by related law, Decree or circulars;
- credits allocated by the instruction of authorities and the risk
of which is not a burden for intermediate banks;
- agricultural support credits;
- credits transferred to another bank through liquidation under the
related articles of Decree No. 70 and the Banking Law No. 3182
and;
- transactions realized under the framework of Law No. 3332.
Terminated Decrees:
Article 7 - Decree of Council of Ministers No. 85/10128 dated
December 5, 1985 and the Decree of Council of Ministers No. 87/11440, dated
February 2, 1987 are terminated.
PROVISIONAL ARTICLE 1 - Those provisions made by the banks for
credits under administrative or legal procedures in response to Decrees
85/10128 and 87/11440, will be taken into account as a total and the
insufficient portions will be upgraded to comply with the principles of this
Decree within 24 months of the effectiveness of this decree as mentioned below.
At the conclusion of first quarter, 1/8
At the conclusion of seccnd quarter, 2/8
At the conclusion of third quarter, 3/8
At the conclusion of fourth quarter, 4/8
At the conclusion of fifth quarter, 5/8
At the conclusion of sixth quarter, 6/8
At the conclusion of seventh quarter, 7/8
At the conclusion of eighth quarter, 8/8 of the reserve balance
required will be established.
Article 8 - This Decree shall become into force on...
Article 9 - This Decree shall be enforced by the Council of
Ministers.



- 63 -                             Annex V
Page 1 of 4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR
STRENGTHENING BANKING SUPERVISION
AND FOR
ESTABLISHING A MECHANISM TO DEAL WITH
RESTRUCTURING OR LIQUIDATION OF
INSOLVENT BANKS
1.l.     Background
Supervision of the banking system in Turkey is a shared
responsibility. The Board of Sworn Bank Auditors (BSBA) is responsible for
supervising banks through onsite examinations. The Banking Department within
the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade is responsible for
establishing prudential regulations, enforcing laws, rules, and regulations,
and following-up criticisms cited in examination reports prepared by the
surveillance and early warning analysis.
In coniunction wilh FSAL-I, a number of measures were taken to
strengthen the capability of these organizations to fulfill their supervisory
responsibilities. These intluded the strengthening of the Central Bank's
offsite surveillance functicn, enhanced prudential reporting to the Central
Bank, the revision of the BSBA's examination methodology, and training of bank
supervisory staff both in Turkey and abroad. These measures were successful
in introducing new concepts of bank supervision and in strengthening the
capability, skills, and knowledge of the banking supervisors. FSAL-II seeks
to build on this base and accelerate the integration of new methodologies into
the supervisory process. To acccmplish this technical assistance will be
provided for a var ety of training activities.
2.       Training Programs
Training provided to bank supervision staff should encompass a wide
range of activities: in-house programs offered on a regular basis as part of
an individual's normal career p.ogression, seminars conducted locally on an
ad-hoc basis to meet specific needs, on-the-JoD training, and fellowships to
attend seminars abroad. In-house programs and on-the-job training needs are
currently met by the supervisory agencies themselves, and in conjunction with
courses provided by the Center for International Banking Studies (CIBS) in
Istanbul. Therefore, technical assistance is to be provided for seminars to
be conducted both locally and abroad to augment existing training efforts.
2.1      Ad Hoc Seminars
As a supplement to existing training programs for bank supervision
personnel, it will be necessary to conduct seminars on an ad hoc basis to meet
pressing needs or to respond to changes in the environment brought about by
new technologies, new instruments, or other externalities. In this regard,
the tank supervisory agencies may find it necessary to bring in foreign
experts to conduct seminars two or three times a year. Possible seminar



- 64 -                              Annex V
topics might include:                                                   Page 2 of 4
Problem and Failing Institutions
Electronic Data Processing Activities
Off-Balance Sheet Activities
Fiduciary Activities
Money Market Activities
Capital Market Activities
Bank Dealer Activities
White Collar Crime
Commercial Bank Management
Commercial Lending and Credit Administration
Treasury, Asset and Liability Management
The CAMEL Components
International Banking and Foreign Exchange
Strategic Planning
Bank Accounting
2.2      Seminars Abroad
Attendance by bank supervisors in seminars abroad often provides a
cross-fertilization of ideas and a sharing of experiences. It also enables
participants to grow and develop in their profession. In addition, the
seminars frequently address topics which are too specific in nature to justify
the costs of holding the seminar locally and to do so might involve more
participants than is actually necessary. Therefore, it may be appropriate to
send up to ten senior bank supervisors abroad annually to acquire specialized
skills and advanced training in carefully selected programs.
3.       Program Costs
3.1      Capital Expenditures
The cost of training materials, teaching aids, reference and textbooks
is estimated at $50,000 over two years.
3.2      Recurrent Expenditures
The cost of providing foreign experts to conduct seminars in Turkey
is estimated at $100,000 and TL27,000,000. This estimate is based on three
two-week seminars each year for two years to be conducted by two foreign
experts, i.e., a total of twelve round trips by air and six man-months of
instruction.
The cost of sending bank supervision staff abroad is estimated at
$100,000 over two years. This estimate is based on sending ten participants
abroad each year for three weeks.
The costs ascociated with in-house and on-the-job training programs
will be absorbed through the supervisory agencies normal budgets with the
exception of the amount included as capital expenditures above.
The total cost of implementing training programs for strengthening
bank supervision is estimated at $250,000.



- 65 -                             Annex V
-Page 3 of 4
3.3      Program for Training the Staff of the Fund to Deal with Insolvent
Banks
3.3.1    As described in Annex V, the Fund initially would have three
divisions: administrative, legal and operations. The persons comprising the
administrative division would need a good, basic understanding of business,
accounting, and finance. They should be able to obtain this knowledge and
training through their formal education and special courses available in
Turkey.
The lawyer constituting the legal division would need experience in
the financial and general business aspects of the law. This person would need
exposure to lawyers currently working for a mature fund such as the one in
Spain or the United States.
The staff of the operations division would need a basic unde standing
of business and finance plus in-depth knowledge of bank operations and bank
supervisory issues. Ideally, the initial staff would come f-om the ranks of
sworn bank auditors, senior supervisory personnel in the Treasury or the
Central Bank, or external bank auditors. Any lack of the basic skills could be
made up through bank supervisory training courses and other courses available
in Turkey. For persons with no actual field experience as an auditor, a period
of service as a sworn bank auditor would be useful. For persons who have or
who acquire the basic skills, training by the staff of a mature fund would be
needed.
3.3.2    Concept for Technical Assistance
Technical assistance for training the Fund's staff can be divided
into two components. The first component involves bringing technical advisors
to the Fund for short periods of time. The second component involves sending
the Fund's staff members to other countries to observe fund operations. This
technical assistance program primarily covers the period 1989-90, although
assistance to the attorney drafting legislation to establish the Fund, if
needed, may begin in 1988.
3.2.3    Appointment of Technical Advisors
A technical advisor to the attorney drafting legislation to establish
the Fund should be provided for a period of one month. This advisor should be
an attorney with extensive experience on the staff of a mature fund. This
experience should include senior level experience. This would be best done in
Turkey because the Turkish attorney would need access to Turkish law books.
After the members of the operations division have completed their
training missions to the foreign fund as described below, their training should
be enhanced by technical advisors brought to Turkey from the foreign fund for
short periods o. time. A total of six short sessions is envisioned to cover
the following functions: analysis of distressed banks; operational legal
issues; development of restructuring plans; bank closing procedures; operation
of interim banks; and liquidation of assets. The advisors should be
professionals with substantial experience in position of responsibility with a
mature fund. They should have not only adequate technical knowledge but good
communications skills. Ideally, the advisors should assist the Fund's staff
members to make decisions about actual banks. The short sessions would not be



- 66 -                            Annex V
Page 4 of 4
in a classroom setting but would consist of informal sessions between the
advisors and their counterparts.
3.2.4    Training Abroad
All of the staff members of the operations division should be
permitted to observe operations of a mature fund for a period of about one
month. This assignment would include rotating period following functions:
intensive analysis for failed banks; disposal of assets of closed banks; board
of directors presentations and approvals; committee actions related to closed
bank activities. The assignment would include attendance both at headquarters
and appropriate field offices. Trainees would receive explanation of
activities and would be given copies of all pertinent manuals to review and
retain for reference purposes.
3.2.5    Progra.m Costs
Capital Expenditures. The Fund will requirp microcomputers,
peripheral equipment, a copy machine, reference materials, and other related
equipment and materials in order to begin operations in the most efficient and
productive manner. Therefore, $50,000 is provided for this purpose.
Technical Advisors. The cost of bringing technical advisors to Turkey
for assignments totalling seven man-months is estimated to be $15,000 and TL
1,500,000 per assignment, or a total of $105,000 and TL 10,500,000.
Training Abroad. The staff of the operations division is expected to
increase from six to ten over a two-year period. Assuming that the ten bank
specialists will receive a one-month assignment abroad, the costs associated
with this training will consist of round trip transportation from Turkey,
internal transportation among cities in the host country, lodging, and
subsistence. These costs are estimated to be $6,000 per person per
assignment, for a total of $60,000.
The total technical assistance program is estimated at $215,000.
3.2.6    Training of staff of commercial Banks in Securities Dealing.  The
Capital Markets Board would organize five seminars (3 days duration) in
conjunction with the CIBS on training staff of banks and securities dealers on
securities dealing. The cost of organizing these seminars is estimated at
$35,000.



- 67 -                             Annex 'VI
Page 1 of 5
LEGA!. AND OPERATIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR A REMODELLED
DEPOSIT INSU.ANCE/ FINANCIAL REHABILITATION FUND
1.1      Princip'les and Objectiv'es
The preYzen. ad-hoc procedures followed in dealing with banking
insolvency need t.o be strergthened through the incorporation of the following
principles and objectives. Tbhese principles and objectives have successfully
guided the rehabilitation and restructuring of financial institutions in other
countries.
1.1.1    Legal and Financial Autonomy
Legal and financial autonomy is necessary for the Fund to be able to
deal with insolvent banks. The Fund should be capable of functioning in a
manner which:
a.   is automatic, quiick, and efficient with clearly delineated
authority and responsibility;
b.   is free from political interference;
c.   permits it to develop its own organization ard fulfill its
staffing requirements for highly skilled personnel unimpeded by
civil service salary constraints;
d.   provides greater financial accountability;
e.   enhances public confidence in the Government's ability to deal
with bank failures and maintains the integrity of the banking
system;
f.   ensures the primacy of its implementing legislation and related
legal framework over commercial laws and other regulations which
might otherwise provide barriers to the effective handling and
treatment of failing or failed banks.
i.1.2    Removal of Management ar.d Ownership
For reasons of equity, efficiency, and financial discipline, existing
owners and management should be held accountable for their failures:
a.   stockholders' equity and rights should be elim4.nated and any
rights to collections would be handled on a strictly residual
basis;
b.   the Fund should have the right to remove any or all management.
1.1.3    Ability to Deai With Non-Performing Portfolio
Ir. order to facilitate the rehabilitation of failed banks, it is
essential that:
a.   the Fund removes bad assets from the failed bank and replace
those assets with cash or equivalent securities in an amount



- 68 -                              Annex VI
sufficient to balance assets and deposits;               Page 2 of 5
b.   the Fund dispose of non-performing assets promptly in order to
maintain its cash flow, taking into account the need to
rehabilitate economically viable firms and borrowers.
1.1.4    Prevention of Nationalization of Private Banks
In line with the Government's policy of fosteJing private ownership
and initiative:
a.   the Fund should return restructured banks to the private sector
within a maximum period of two years;
b.   the Fund should avoid the public perception of nationalization,
even for a temporary period, by establishing an independent
mechanism to acquire ownership or control of failed banks.
1.1.5    Least Cost and Integrity of Banking System
The Fund should operate to:
a.   minimize the cost to the Government of dealing with the failure
of a particular bank as well as the potential costs of resultant
ripple effects on other banks throughout the system, e.g.,
liquidity support.
1.2      Operating Policies and Procedures
1.2.1    The Fund's operating policies and procedures for dealing with failed
or failing banks should be as follows:
a.   through information obtained from the Treasury, the Board of
Sworn Bank Auditors, the Central Bank, and/or other sources, the
Fund identifies a bank approaching insolvency or which is
insolvent (insolvency occurs when net worth is reduced to zero);
b.   the Central Bank may provide liquidity support to a failing bank
if needed and appropriate until the Fund is able to develop an
effective restructuring plan or ownership is taken over. The
Central Bank's loans to individual banks would be repaid by the
Fund in the case of failure;
c.   after a thorough analysis of the bank and after all known losses
are charged off, the Fund would require the stockholders of the
failing bank to replenish capital to at least the minimum capital
adequcy requirement to restore it to profitable operations;
d.   assuming that stockholders do not replenish capital, the Fund
would deal with the resulting insolvency or near insolvency in
three ways:
- First Option. The Fund would cancel the charter, close the
bank, and merge its good assets and deposits with a new or
existing bank;
- shareholders' equity is extinguished and shareholders lose all
claims and privileges and the Fund assumes temporary ownership
and management;



- 69 -                              Annex VI
Page 3 of 5
- the Fund aLcquires all bad assets, including previously
written-off assets, from the failed bank at current book value
less tbe amount of nominal capital for cash or equivalent
securiLies which would be an amount sufficient to reconstruct
capital and profits;
- a new or existing bank assumes the deposits and purchases the
good assets of the rehabilitated bank. As part of the
purchase and assumption, the Fund may receive a premium for
the going concern value of the bank;
- the acquiring bank provides additional capital as needed to
bring capital to a level which at least meets the minimum
capital adequacy requirements of the Banking Law;
- the Fund may facilitate the merger with a temporary loan,
deposit, or other instrument as needed;
- Second Option.  The Fund closes the bank and liquidates it;
- the Fund pays depositors up to insurance limits and is
subrogated to rights of depositors;
- the Fund acquires all assets;
- the Fund liquidates assets and pays claims of creditors
according to legal preference; stockholders receive any
residual value.
1.3      Financing of the Fund
Ideally, the Fund should be financially self-sufficient. However,
given the level of financial distress thought to exist in the banking system,
the initial demands upon the Fund are likely to exceed financing provided
through traditional channels. The following explains the sources of financing
for the Fund:
1.3.1    Primary Financing
a.   primary financing of the Fund would be provided through premiums
assessGd against member banks for deposit insurance. Membership
in the deposit insurance system is mandatory for all banks;
b.   an additional source of financing for the Fund is the interest
it receives on its investments. The Fund would be required to
invest solely in Government securities offering safety and
liquidity.
1.3.2    Secondary Financing
a.   secondary financing would be provided through long-term loans
from the Central Bank disbursed either in cash or government
gecurlties;
b.   in addition, stand-by lines of credit should be available from
the Central Bank to meet unexpected funding requirements.  7hese
lines would have preference as to repayment by the Fund.
1.3.3    Losses Incurred in Dealing With Failed Banks
In restructuring failed banks, it is the role of the Fund to absorb
losses.  However, such losses should be recovered over time from the collect.on



70 -                             Annex VI
Page 4 of 5
of insurance premiums and the proceeds from liquidation of assets. I.oans made
to the Fund by the Central Bank would be repaid in full.
1.4      Organization and Staffing
The Fund would be established as a separate legal entity with
quasi-government status and its own staff and compensation programs. The
principal elements of the Fund would include:
1.4.1    Board of Directors
a.   a small board of directors would provide direction and
leadership to the Fund. Board membership would include
representatives of the Central Bank, the Treasury, and the
private sector with the public sector representatives providing
a majority.
1.4.2    Chief Executive Officer
a.   the Chief Executive Officer should be a person with a
substantial background in banking, finance, and supervisory
matters and should possess the stature to deal effectively with
individuals in all segments of government and industry.
1.4.3    The Staff
a.   the staff should be a core group of highly skilled professionals
who would manage the work of the Fund, using temporary support
from other sources including other govcrnment agencies, audit
firms, consultants, and the legal profession;
b.   the staff should be relatively well paid, on a par with private
industry, to attract and retain highly qualified individuals;
c.   the staff would focus its effort_ entirely on handling failing
or failed banks so as not to be distracted by other duties. The
staff would rely on Treasury, the Sworn Bank Auditors, and the
Central Bank to regulate, supervise, and monitor the ccndition
of banks.
1.5      Legal Framework
1.5.1    The Banking Law needs to be amended to provide the Fund with the
necessary powers and authorities to fulfill its responsibilities. In
modifying the legal framework, car3 should be taken to harmonize changes with
commercial law and other related laws; however, the changes should ensure that
the Banking Law is given primacy and that the measures needed to be undertaken
by the Fund are in no way diluted. The following items contain some of the
important authorities which should be vested in the Fund. The Fund should:
a.   have a wide array of powers to buy assets, place deposits, make
loans and borrow as needed to f.lfill its responsibilities;
b.   have all the powers of a legal entity, e.g  to make contracts;



- 71 -                              Annex VI
Page 5 of 5
c.   have the authority to exercise such incidental powers needed to
carry out its responsibilities;
d.   have the authority to obtain information from banks, the Central
Bank, Treasury, and Board of Sworn Bank Auditors and to require
outside audits of banks paid for by banks;
e.   have the authority to remove prior management and hire new
management;
f.   have the authority to declare a bank insolvent, close it, and
extinguish the rights of shareholders and to intervene in an
institution which fails to meet the minimum capital adequacy
requirements after an unsuccessful call for additional capital
from shareholders;
g.   have the authority to effect mergers of banks and liquidate
banks;
h.   would be required to act as receiver for all failed banks;
i.   have the authority to operate, manage, and rehabilitate a bank,
with or without adequate capital, while attempting to sell or
merge it;
j.   have the authority to take all actions necessary to collect
assets acquired from banks. In this regard, the Fund will have
full legal rights as successor of the failed bank, e.g., the
ability to foreclose assets, restructure loans, convert debt
into equity, enter into agreements with collection agencies,
package and sell assets, etc.;
k.   have the authority to set the premium rate, levy premiums, and
collect delinquent premiums;
1.   be exempt from taxation.



- 72 -                             Annex VI
Attachment 1
DEPOSIT INSURANCE/FINANCIAL REHABILITATION FUND    Page 1 of 2
1.1      Organization and Staffing
1.1.1    3oard of Directors
A small board of directors, of perhaps five persons, would provide
direction and leadership to the Fund. Board members would serve on a
part-time basis, fulfilling their responsibilities through attendance at
frequent meetings of the Board. Members would include representatives of the
Central Bank, the Treasury, the Board of Sworn Bank Auditors, the private
sector and the chief executive officer of the Fund to ensure adequate
coordination of all decisions effecting the banking system and its economic
and financial implications. It would be desirable to have persons with
financial or business experience. Active bankers would be prohibited from
serving to prevent conflicts of interest. Members would serve for a specific
term. The public sector members would always constitute a majority.
1.1.2    Chief Executive Officer
The position of chief executive officer should be similar to that in
private industry with appropriate compensation and responsibilities. The
person selected should be a professional with a substantial background in
banking, finance, and supervisory matters. This person should have the
stature to deal effectively with individuals in all segments of government and
the financial industry. This person would be selected by the Board of
Directors.
1.1.3    Administration Division
The administration division initially would consist of four
professionals. They should have a financial and business background. They
would have the following responsibilities:
a.    maintain the corporate records such as by-laws, minutes of
board meetings, etc.;
b.    maintain the corporate accounting records and prepare financial
reports;
c.    assess and collect premiums from member banks;
d.    invest surplus funds;
e.    disperse funds for restructuring of banks, salaries, and other
operating expenses;
t.    negotiate long-term loans and standby credits from the Central
Bank as needed;
g.    carry out personnel functions;
h.    acquire and maintain adequate premises equipment, furniture,
and supplies.
1.1.4    Legal Division
The legal division would consist of one aLtorney with a background in
banking and finance. This person's responsibilities would include the
following:



- 73 -                            Annex VI
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 2
a.    continuously review information from the Central Bank, Treasury,
Board of Sworn Bank Auditors, and external auditors to identify
distressed banks. Distressed banks are banks that are insolvent
or approaching insolvency;
b.    work closely with other regulatory authorities to make certain
the true financial condition of the distressed bank is known,
losses are charged off, and appropriate demands for new capital
at, made to present stockholders;
C.    in sit..ations where capital remains grossly deficient, develop
and implenment a plan to restructure and return the bank to the
private sector. if possible, or to liquidate it if necessary;
d.    dispose of assets acquired in the restructuring of banks;
Emphasize the sale of groups of assets to investors rather than
labor intensive efforts tc, collect individual loans;
e.    monitor the condition of rest-tctured banks which are being
operated by the Fund and have not yet bee.. returned to private
or public ownership; and
f.    pay off depositors, at least to the extent of their insurance
coverage, in the liquidation of failed banks.
1.1.5    Operations Division
The operations division initially would consist of bank specialistb
They must have a broad background in business and finance as well as
specialized knowledge of bank operations. Their responsibilities would
include {he foliowing:
a.    continuousiy review information from the Central Bank, Treasury,
Board of Sworn Bank Auditors, and external auditors to identify
distressed banks. Distressed banks are banks that are insolvent
or approaching insolvency;
b.    work closely with other regulatory authorities to make certain
the true financial condition of the distressed bank is known,
losses are charged off, and appropriate demands for new capital
are made tc present stockholders;
c.    in situations where capital remains grossly deficienit. develop
and implement a plan to restructure and return the bank to the
private sector, if possible, or to liquidate it if necessary;
d.    dispose of assets acquired in the restructuring of banks.
Emphasize the sale of groups of assets to investors rather than
labor intensive efforts to collect individual loans;
e.    monitor the con.dition of restructured banks which are being
operated by the Fuuid and have not yet been returned to private
or public ownership; and
f.    pay off depositors, at least to the extent of their insurance
coverage, in the liquidation of failed banks.
1.1.6    The Fund would be expected to have sufficient secretarial and
clerical personnel in addition to the professic'nals described above. The
Fund would use temporary support from other sources, such as other government
agencies, audit firms, consultants, and attorneys, during periods of lntense
effort involved in restructuring banks.



- 74 -                             Annex VII
Page 1 of 5
PROPOSED TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR FINANCIAL
RESTRUCTURING OF PUBLIC SECTOR BANKS
1.1      Introduction
The efficiency of state-owned banks needs considerable improvement in
order to enable these banks to compete in Turkey's deregulated financial
markets. In order to achieve this goal, the Treasury has instructed
state-owned banks to prepare action programs, if necessary, with the help of
consultants to restructure their operations. The main focus of these action
programs would be on the financial restructuring of banks using the results of
independent external audits which have been initiated starting with the 1987
accounts. This core task would be complemented by measures to strengthen
organization, management, policies systems, and procedures in order to improve
operational efficiency and competitiveness. The financial restructuring
package would be based on the actual resource needs of the bank after
non-performing loans have been carved out of the portfolio, taking into
account its medium term strategic plan and profitability targets. The package
would specify the yearly resource gaps over the plan horizon and the sources
of funds (Treasury equity and quasi-equity contributions and internally
generated funds).
The bank's medium term strategic plan would specify the bank's
strategy to improve profitability and competitiveness through cutback of
unprofitable services and activities, introduction of new services ana
expansion of existing more profitable services, and better cost control. It
wouid also provide the framework for restructuring the bank's staffing and
management and for formulating operating policies and procedures and the new
organizational structure.
1.2      Identification and Quantification of Problems and Their Causes
The first step in restructuring financial institutions is to identify
and quantify the extent of problems and their causes. Therefore, at a
minimum. the following actions should be taken:
1.2.1    An assessment of the quality of assets and the causes of problem
assets.  The assessment should consider (1) the level, distribution, and
severity of classified assets; (2) the level and composition of non-accruing,
non-performing, and reduced rate assets; (3) the adequacy of valuation
reserves; (4) management's ability to administer and collect problem assets;
(5) undue concentrations of credit; and (5) the adequacy, effectiveness, and
adherence to lending policies and credit administration procedures.
In performing the assessment, the coverage of the portfolio should
not be less than seventy-percent of the outstanding loans, advances, and
participations. Typically, all loans, advances, and participations to a
single. obligor or related group of obligors which exceed a cutoff amount equal
te one-half of one percent of paid-up capital and retained earnings should be



Annex VIT
Page 2 of S
examined and appraised.  Past due loans and advances, renegotiated loans and
advances, internally identified problem loans and advances, loans and advances
to insiders and their related interests, investments, equity participations,
foreclosed or repossessed properties, contingent liabilities and guarantees,
and miscellaneous assets should also be appraised. In addition, a sample of
loans, advances, and participations below the cutoff amount, not otherwise
selected for review, should be appraised. In assessing the quality of loans
and advances, primary emphasis should be placed upon the borrower's ability to
repay. Collateral support should normally be of secondary importance.
1.2.2    An appraisal of concentrations of credit with particular emphasis o
credit extended to: (1) insiders and their related interests; (2) ccnnected
parties; and (3) major economic sectors. Concentrations are defined as any
credit or combination of credit representing 252 or more of capital.
1.2.3    An appraisal of the adequacy, effectiveness and application of
policies and procedures for: (1) the granting of credit, including procedures
for approving credit, establishing and enforcing repayment programs,
collecting past due loans, provisioning for actual and potential losses,
writing-off of bad assets, debt recovery, and management reporting; (2)
managing foreign exchange risk, including trading limits, the segregation of
duties, accounting and revaluation procedures and management reporting
requirements; and (3) asset and liability management, including procedures for
managing exposure to changes in interest ra2es.
1.2.4    An assessment of the quality of earnings, giving appropriate
consideration to: (1) the accuracy of reported earnings; (2) the level,
quality and composition of income and expense components; (3) e&rnings trends;
(4) the ability of earnings to cover losses and provide for adequate capital;
and (5) dividend payout and earnings retention.
1.2.5    An assessment of liquidity, asset and liability management, including
the treasury and foreign exchange functions, giving appropriate consideration
to: (1) cash management practices; (2) the volatility of deposits; (3) the
frequency and level of borrowings; (4) the reliance placed on
interest-sensitive funds; (5) access to money markets or other ready sources
of cash; (6) the ability to readily convert assets into cash; (7) the capacity
to meet unexpected deposit withdrawals and other demands ftr payment; (8) the
ability to readily fill reasonable credit demands; (9) the overall adequacy,
effectiveness, and compliance with liquidity, asset and liability management
policies; and, commitments, contingent liabilities, and guarantees.
1.2.6    An assessment as to solvency and the adequacy of capital, giving
appropriate consideration to: (1) the volume of risk assets; (2) the volume
and severity of marginal and inferior quality assets; (3) growth experience,
plans, and prospects; (4) management's strength in relation to the above; (5)
earnings retention; and (6) access to capital and financial assistance. If
capital is inadequate or the bank is technically insolvent, the amount of
capital necessary to absorb losses, bring capital to an adequate level, and
ensure its ongoing viability should be estimated.
1.2.7    An appraisal of the quality of management and board supervision, both
in the context of financial performance and its ability to guide the bank or
financial institution in the future. In assessing the quality of management
supervision, the following factors should be considered: (1) technical



- 76 -                                   Annex VII
Page 3 of 5
competence and administrative ability; (2) ability to plan and respond to
changing circumstances; (3) the adequacy, effectiveness, and compliance with
management systems, including written policies and procedures, internal
controls, internal audit, budgeting, planning, and management information
systems; (4) depth and succession; (5) tendencies toward self-dealing; (6)
compliance with banking liaws, rulings, and regulations; and (7) the financial
condition and operating performance of the institution.
1.2.8    An assessment of the effectiveness and reliability of accounting and
administrative policies and procedures, as well as financial and
administrative internal rontrols and checks. This assessment should include a
determination that assets are being adequately safeguarded, that transactions
have been executed in accordance with policy, and that transaction have been
adequately recorded to permit timely preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Systems of internal
controls and checks, including internal audit, should be reviewed and
evaluated in order to de ernine the degree of relian:e that can be placed upon
them, and the extent cf testing and verification that needs to be performed.
1.2.9    An assessment as to the fairness and accuracy of financial
statements. Where financ:ai statements are inaccurate or unfairly represent
the condition of the bank, necessary adjustments should be itemized and
quantified. Special emphasis should be placed upon: (1) the adequacy of
provisions for losses and adjustments necessary to bring valuation reserves to
adequate levels; (2) adjustments to the profit and loss statement for interest
taken into income on non-performing assets; (3) adjustments to the profit and
loss stater.ent for past due interest which has been capitalized, renegotiated,
or refinanced.
1.2.10   An assessment of the institution's overall condition, viability, and
future prospects and the causes of existing or potential problems which impact
the bank's condition and future viability.
2.       Preparation of the Restructuring Plan
After the current condition of the bank has been determined and the
sources of problems identified, a restructuring plan should be prepared to
effectively rehabilitate this bank so that it operates in an efficient and
profitable manner and to ensure its ongoing viability. This plan should
comprise three parts - the strategic plan, the capitalization plan, and the
operational plan.
2.1      Strategic Plan
2.1.1    A strategic plan should be developed which ensures that the bank will
achieve satisfactory levels of profitability within a reasonable time frame
(assume to be no more than three years). The strategic plan should address
the bank's goals and objectives, its strengths and weaknesses, and its
potential opportunities and threats. For example, specific objectives of the
strategic plan should include targets for return on assets, market share,
asset growth, resource mobilization, etc. Factors which might enable such
targets to be achieved would include decisions concerning: the types of
products and services to be provided or discontinued; the markets to be served
(e.g., customers, geographic areas industrial sectors, etc.); and the branches
to be opened or closed.



Annex VII
- 77 -                              Page 4 of 5
2.1.2    The capitalization and operational plans flow from the strategic plan
and contain specific measures necessary to achieve the bank's strategic goals
and objectives. These are discussed below.
2.2      Capitalization Plan
The capitalization plan should ensure that the following steps are
taken:
2.2.1    All known losses should be written-off through a charge against the
reserve for loan losses or as a direct charge against capital.  Additionaily,
all potential losses, or portions thereof, should be provided against.
2._ 2    After losses have been recognized, capital should be replenished
through the injection of cash.  The amount of capital needed should be
determined through an evaluation of the bank's overall risk profile but in no
event should it be less than the minimum pre   - bed by law.
2.2.3    A medium term capitalization plan should be developed to augment
capital as necessary in view of factors such as planned growth, earnings
retention, the nature cf future operations and attendant levels of risk.
Future capital would come from such sources as retained earnings and the
Government.
2.3      Operational Plan
The operational plan should contain the following elements:
2.3.1    A staffing plar should be developed.  This plan should aim at
reducing overstaffing but ensure that sufficient human resources are available
and possess the necessary skills to profitably achieve the bank's goals and
objectives.  To the extent that management changes are needed or desirable,
the plan should specify actions in this area.
2.3.2    A financial plan should be formulated and financial management
systems, including treasury operations and a short-term budget process, should
be developed to maximize revenues, control costs based upon cost accounting
concepts,, an;; ensure that cash flows are sufficient to meet liquidity needs.
The budget process should provide frequent comparison of budgeted amount to
actual results and should require explanations of significant variances.
2.3.3    A fixed asset plan should be developed to rationalize the  ank's
investment in fixed assets. This plan should address the opening and closing
of branches, the effective use of existing bank premises, and the curtailment
of new investments in banking premises unless supported by satisfactory
cost-benefit analyses.
2.3.4    Written policies and procedures should be developed for all
significant areas of the bank's activities including: loans and advances;
equity participations; treasury, asset and liability management; foreign
exchange; and investment portfolio management.
2.3.5    Management information systems should be developed to ensure that
accurate and timely information is provided to the bank's decision makers so
that they may direct, control, and execute policies in an informed manner.



- 78 -                            Annex VII
Page 5 of 5
2.3.6    Internal controls, including both accounting and administrative
controls, should be strengthened to ensure compliance with policies, to
safeguard assets, and to prevent fraud.
2.3.7    Internal and external audit activities should be strengthened to
ensure the integrity of financial reports, to appraise and strengthen the
quality of internal controls, and to recommend changes in operations to improve
efficiency.
2.3.8    Loan supervision procedures should be strengthened through
establishing an internal loan review department to appraise the quality of
loans and advances on an ongoing basis, to determine the adequacy of an
non-adherence to established policies, and to determine the causes of
significant problems in the lending area.



- 79 -                              Annex VIII
Pare 1 of 2
Draft Terms of Reference For a Study of Taxation
of Financial Instruments and Intermediation
I. Pi;rpose
The purpose of the study is to examine how government taxes and
expenditures (subsidies) have contributed directly to distorting flows of
financial resources with respect to (1) choice of financial instrument, (2)
channel of financial intermediation, (3) relative tax position of financial
transactor and (4) purpose of financial transaction. The study should
formulate recommendations for changes in relevant government taxes and
expenditures that would help eliminate existing distortions and facilitate the
development of an efficient financial sector. The study is to encompass the
system of reserve and liquidity requirements on commercial banks which, to the
extent it absorbs funds into non-interest or lower interest bearing assets to
the benefit of the public sector, can be considered as equivalent to a tax on
bank intermediation.
II. Components of the Study
1.       Taking Stock
Section 1 of the study will provide a detailed description of all
government taxes and expenditures directly impacting on financial transactions,
or the holding of financial instruments, other than personal and corporate
income taxes at general rates.  For each relevant tax or expenditure item, the
study will show (1) the legal basis, (2) the specific institutional
arrangements and their evolution since 1980, and (3) the revenue or expenditure
realized under the item during 1980-87.
2.       Analysis of intended purposes and effects of present system
Section 2 of the study will discuss the intended purpose of each of
the government taxes and expenditures described in Section 1 and seek to assess
whether this purpose is being achieved.  This section will further attempt to
estimate to what extent the relevant government taxes and expenditures have
altered the allocation of financial resources between different financial
instruments, different channels of intermediation, and different uses of credit
-each relative to a hypothetical baseline of a neutral fiscal impact on
financial instruments and intermediation.
3.       Suggested program for action
Drawing on any relevant experiences made by other countries at
Turkey's stage of development, Section 3 of the study will develop a program
for rationalizing the fiscal treatment of the financial sector and its
operations, with a view to eliminating existing distortions and eventaally
establishing neutrality of direct fiscal impact with respect to the criteria
listed at the outset. Proposed action; should be ranked according to the
expected relative gain in terms of overall distorcive effect and should



Annex viii
- &0 -                             Page 2 of 2
include estimates of the expected direct cost/gain to the budget.  Where a
discriminatory tax or expenditure is proposed to be retained, a detailed
justification addressing the costs and benefits is to be provided. Where
applicable, the impact of the proposed changes on monetary policy, and
monetary policy implementation, should be assessed.



- 81 -
Annex IX
TURKEY
Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Timetable of Key Loan Pr( -ssing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                         nine months
(b)  Prepared by:                                   The Government of Turkey
with Bank assistance.
(c)  First Bank mission:                            June 1987
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:                   March 1988
(e)  Negotiations:                                  May 1988
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                 Jun(, 30, 1988
0 2asR



- 82 -
Page I of 2
STATUS OF BANK G.ROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
A.                 STATEWNT OF SANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS L
(As of March 31, 1988)
LoQn       Fiscal                                                                     A"ount (S millions] /t
LMKL__ _*Ar   Borrower                        Purjose                            lnk         OA   undisburse
Sixty loans, four B-Loans
and fourteen credits fully disbursed                                           3724 3?7L  196.15 Lk
1742-TU   1979   Reoubl1c of Turkey           Grain Storage                       79.00                 55.71
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey           Karakaya Hydropower                120.0                   0.03
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey           Fifth Xivestock Developmnt          51 00                 0.73
1917-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey           Oil Recove'y                        62 00                  8.04
1985-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey           Fert''lzer Rationalization        10 00                  21 54
1998-TU   1981   State Investment             State Industrial Enterprise
Finance                           'C 00                  6.31
2094-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey           Erzurum Rural 0eveloWment           40.00                 17.49
2159-TU   1982   ISKI                         Istarzul Sewerage                    88 i0                 8.73
2318-TU   1983   TCZB                         Secord Agricu'tural Credit          150.40                17.32
2322-TU   1983   TEK                          'EK  :.                             161.00                85.75
2327-TU   1983   TPAO                         '"race 'as Exploratior               iS 20                17,72
23n-Tu   '984   Republic of Turkey            :naust-al Training                   26 80                25.79
2400-TU   1984   Republic of Turkey           Tecnn'cal Assistance for SEEs    4.65                      2.28
2405-TU   1984   Republic of Turkey           Agr E.ters on and Resea,ci           '2.20                44.97
2433-TU   1984   Republic of Turkey           IAEE 2" 9at'on                      1'5.30                88.05
243S-TU   1984   Republic of Turkey           Secorn  H gnway                     186 40               114.05
2535-TU   1985   Republic of Turkey           Tr.'-d Ports                        134.50                89.54
2536-TU   1985   Republic of Turkey           Industrial Schools                   S' '                53 .75
2537-TU   1985   Republic of Turkey           Cukurova Reg. Urban Oevt.             9.20                 0 14
2585-TU   1985   Republic of Turkey           Agr-c. Sector Adjustment Lr    300.00                     85 07
2886_ru   1985   TEK                          Fou.tn TEK Transmission             142.00               129.42
2602-TU   1986   TEK                          Power System Operations Asst.   140.00                   126.79
2647-TU   1986   nepublic of Turkey           Smi'' & Medium Scale ;ndustry  '00.00                     36.55
2650-TU   1986   TEK                          Elbistan 0 and M                     10.00                 4 04
2655-TU   1986   Republic of Turkey           KdJrakteDe Hydropower              200.00                187. 1
2663-TU   1986   Republic of 'urkey           Dra,-age & On Farm Oevelop.        255.00                234.99
2714-TU   1986   Republic of Turkey           F'rar: a' Sector ACj.  .oar        300.00                  5.57
2739-TU   1987   Republic of Turkey           Ra'"ays '1                         197 00                170.48
2750-Tu   1987   Repuolic of Turkey           Sir H-dropower                     1'2.00               1'0.41
2776-TU   1987   Reputlic of T,irkey          Nor Formal Voc. Train'ng             58.5s0               SS S
2818 TU   1987   Republic of Turkey           Izm,r -ater Sup. & Sewerage.g  184.00                   '72.88
2819-TU   1987   Republic of Turkey           Zukrova ur0an 0evelopmnrt _.c   20.00                    '09.84
2856-TU   1987   Republic of Turkey           Enersg  Sector Adjust. loan        325.00                108.74
2888-Tu   1988   ISKI                         Istanbul W. Swoply                 216.00                '98.00
2901-TU   1988   TSKSB  SYKB, and
Republic of Turkey         Ird. Exocrt 0ev.                   300.00                300.00
2922-TU   1988   Republic of Turkey           Ind  T"a'ning 1I                   1L5.80                11S5_9
Total                                                        842'.12   196 'S    809.74
of whicli has been repaid                                  1321.04   _28 2
Total now outstanding                                        7106.12    169 23
A,,unt sold                         3.55
of w'hich Ma- been repaid
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                L QL,08    169.23
Total undisbursed                                                                  2809.74
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a ieparate report
nn all Bank IDA financed projects in evecuLton. whlich is uCCated twice yearly
and circulated to the Execwtiie 0',ectors on Aoril 30 and October 31.
Lk  Net of cancellatlonsr
_   Not yet effective
L9  Prior to exchange adjustments
5'9/88
(30911 p. 1)



- 83 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
STATUS Of BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
S.                                      STATEMENT OF IFC INV_STMENTS
(As of March 31, 1988)
Fiscal                                                                              Amount $ millions
YeIar-                 pblkiator            Type of Business                   Loan      Eouity      Total
11 projects fully closed out                                                    113.60      4.23     117.85
1964/67/69/        TSKS                       ORC                                60.00      4.77      64.77
72/73/75/76
77/80/83
71/72
1970/71/           Viking I                   Pulp and Paper                      2.50      0.82       3.32
82/83
1970/86/87         ACS                        Glass                              20.70      1.68      22.47
1971/76/           NASAS                      Aluminum                            8.56      1.46      10.04
83/84
1976/79            Asil Oehk                  Steel                              12.00      4.00      16.00
1079/80/82/84/85  ISAS                        Motor Vehicles & Access.            8.85      2.34      11.19
1986               Can Elyaf                  Fiber Glass                         7.94       -         7.94
1979/81            Trakya Cam                 Glass                              33.15      3.23      36.38
83/84
1980               MENSA                      Textile and Fibers                  4.00       -         4.00
1981               K1rklareli
Ca Sanayii
A.S.                   Glass Tableware                    12.95       -        12.95
1982               M.A.N.
Motors                 Motor Vehicles & Access.            7.89       -         7.89
1984               Pinar                      Food and Food Processing            3.90       -         3.90
1985               HAMAS                      Motor Vehicles & Access.            6.47       -         6.74
1986               Silkar Turiaz  Yatirum   Tourism                               5.81       -         5.81
Ye Isletmelari A.S.
1986               Eska Turi2n Ye             Tourism                             2.38       -         2.38
Ticaret A.S.
1987               Guney Sanayi ve            Textiles                           16.48       -        16.48
Ticaret Isletmelari
A.S.
Total Gross Connitment                                      327.18    22.53      350.11
Less Cancellations. Terminations
Exchange Adjustments, Prepayments
and Sales                                                22S 49    ILAA       23f.a97
Total Comnitments now held by IFC                           lCifi69    11.  C   13A14
Total  Jndisbursed                                           15.0 .Ol3            1S.33
S/9/88
(09821 p. 5)



S~,i ~.ON



NOTES



MAP SECTION



4)^,x,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fM Ineblu                                    oP                                                               U   S   S   R         
,)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mp  rz.L                                                                      .,  ''
N Z  )  ; ^ ZOrQUIdQ4 \? \ |KUr \ t .F -410p  ,rt
) t.  a  h  p;'; i a l 5A7 z ' r /-a., I oI4V , . 0 ,?e I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
4~~~~~~~~ k1  v                -t       f                              X4tV1                                                  9                       <  K> 
tA   W  't  ' i'               1x,                ; $.Aa,;            W/ t             4),    ;            I/nnat:    ,3               y ~~~~~~~~<:            <      \   T1
'  -  Vl""~~~~- / t > . X1 L \ ' Sf~Qanir                  w            s  _) 
d~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nwe 1  Fll3       V   ,        ?  PifyAnQse                                                                                             OFrS
de., ~~~~                                     ~AA                                                                                       IRAN"~~2
"   9   i~~~~~~~~~~M                          . RPBI .retF,. .w o
Moln~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o -o3d 
WIvers~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W                                                                  , 4,.
J   +00   Zon   Noo                                                            ; 2 Rlj u3^                             8       rS       D~~~~~~~~~~ A 
< . . . . . w 2~~~~~~~~Kme
9                Klromrtlrs                                                                                                                 * U  R I( E YF- e
< }   .  sn  ltlo  ISo  roo                                                                                GRFECE                                 ,r~<  IStSYRIAN
I   _  _. __   L____J                                                                                                                        / j~~~~~ARA
aD  C               lo                                                  3>                                      _                  Ctf'CUz         ARZ  } IRAO    z           D j  REUBLI



