Dom.t of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rqlt N. 12385
PROJECT COMPLlTO0I REPORT
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSThENT LOAN
(LOAN 2714-TU)
AND
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSThENT LOAN
(LOAN 2964-TU)
OCTOBER 6, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12385
Type: PCR
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonance of
ther offcial duties. Its contents may not othewi be disclosed witbout Wotld Bak authortition.



Currenoy Unit - Turkish Lira (TL)
Va1ue Of U861.O0
1986                            675
1987                            8S7
1988                          1,422
1989                          2,122
1990                          2,609
1991                          4,172
1992                          6,872
March 1993                    9,374
CB          -     Central Bank
cIas        -     Center for International Banking Studies
CMB         -     Capital Narkets Board
DYB         -     State Investment Bank
EBS         -     Extra-Budgetary Funds
IC          -     European Community
FURRS       -     Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme
GA?T        -     General Agreement of Trade and Tariffs
CDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
GNP         -     Gross National Product
aOT         -     Government of Turkey
18         -     Istanbul Stock Exchange
OECD        -     Organizat ion for Economic Co-operation and Development
PCR         -     Project Completion Report
PICP        -     Private Investment Credit Project
PSBR        -     Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
RUSF        -     Resource Utilisation and support Fund
SAL         -     Structural Adjustment Loan
SMI         -     Small- and Medium-Scale Industries
SONs        -     State-Owned Enterprises
TRB         -     Development Bank of Turkey
rISCAL   R
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD IIANK
WahNn  D.C. 20435
U.S.A.
-asE
October 61993
MEMORANlM TQ   EX13alIV DIRECIeRS An1 PlSIX
SUBJEC: Poject Completio Report on Turkey - Fcial Secor
Adjustment Loan and Second Fmancial Sptor Adjustment Loan
am  2714-TU and Loan 2964-TU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Turkey - Fancial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Lon 714-TU) and Second Fnancial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2964-TU) prepared by the
Europe and Central Asia Regonal Office, with Part H repared by the Borower.
The PCR provides a good account of the impletation experience and lessons from these
two loans. Although prgr  was made on some issues, the overal reform progam was orly
partially completed and some measures have been reversed. Of priar concem was the inability
of the Govment to provide a stable macroeconomic envrnment to support the financial sector
progam  Overall, the PCR suggests that the outcome of the two FSALs was less than satisfa
and not susnab, with limited institutional impact. The Government's contribution (Part II)
hig   ts the benefidal impact of Bank involvement and the successfil tecical assstance
associated with the loans.
The primy goals of the FSALs were to prevent a collapse of the financal system,
coasidered imminent at that time, and to improve the alocation of credit A banking csis was
Indeod fotled through bank recapitaliation and the strength g of prudental regulations.
The latter objective, which was to be accomplished mainly by reducing govement taation of and
interfence (by targeig preferential credits) in the flnmcial system was not achieved, however.
Eucsive taxation and the use of preferential credits have continued. The planned audit wil
evaluate the basic rationale for the FSAL as well as the sequencing of financial sector reform and
other adjustment and insttutional development measures.
Afttahment
nbb doa_nm bo a muicud douftdmad mdy be used by muplean  the peiform  of lhi ofda dut  Its
mono  y sot oetwe be ddws_d widao Woi Bnk authaIn



FOR 0ENIC95us.D    ONLY
FEnUCIAL UCTOR
(LOA  271440)
AND
SECOND FINANCIAL SrCTOA           Low
JLOA 2964-10)
Table of Contents
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . .   * . .   * * * * * * * * * * * * *  il
PART I:  PROJE'SPERSBA               ....PECTIVE........ .            1
INACIAL  CTO  ADJUSTMENT LOAN MLOAN 2714-T) . . . . . . .1
i.    IMODUCTON        . 40**. *&00. . 9&. ..............................  I
Project Identity  . .  . . . . . . . . . .......  . ..          1
Turkey's Overall Economic Performance Since 1980  . . . . .     1
Developments l986-92  . .................   .                   3
II.  THE PSAL ADJUSTMERT PROGRAM AND ITS JUSTIPICATION . . . . .      4
Objectives and Scope of Policies under the
Adjustment Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     4
III.  THE BANK'5 ROLE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     5
Design of the Reform Program  . . . . . . . . .  . . . .        5
Appropriateness of the Program's Design . . . . . . . . . .     5
IV.   IMPLEMETATION OF THE -COEINMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM. . .       6
V.   MNOITORING OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . .      9
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     9
Loan Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .. .       9
VI .  LESONS LEARNED AND FOLLOW-UP MEASURE.. FSAL I  . . .  .  ..     9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without Wor1d Bank authorition.



-Tale of Content. (contine)
SECOND 1RUIANCIqA  SCTOR AOJUSTILO   LOA 2964-61        . .. .       10
VII.  Fa II  OTIVs  . 6 . . . . . . .  .                  , , *  . * . . a  .  10
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
Fiacia  Sector Adjustmet lasues Prior to PFAL II . ...         10
Scope of Policies under the Adjuetuent Program  . . . . . .    11
VIII. TER RA' ROL .E 4. .*. . ..    . . . . . . . . .    . . . .  .  14
Deign of PSAL   Program .. ....   .... ...............    14
T.  IR9L&vENT&N OF TIME GOVKET'S AROGRAM  . . . . . . . .            15
Macroeconomic Policy Developments and Actilon
Taken y the Government   ............ ...                   15
X.   SECMORALPRO RffML1NAT           * .   . .  .....    .           17
Interest Rate Policies  ..................                     17
The treugtbeug of the BankingSystem.  .....4..                 19
Money andCapital Mrkets.. ...............                      22
I.   MTORING OF =T  ADJVSTHT PO                                      23
Disbursemeate . . . . . . . . . .                              23
Loan Supervision  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      23
XII. LESSONS LEARNED AN- FOLLOW-UP _ES8S FL I I . . . .             23
Suetaiability  . . . . . . . . .  .        ; . *  . * * * * . .  24
PART Its PROJECT REVIEW MMCK BORROWER'S PIRSPICTIVE  .    .....     27
PART IlIs STATISTICAL INFORMATION
FSL Is Bsic Data Sheet                ................         43
PSL IIs BIic Data Sheet  ................                     44



- 1 
FINANCIAL SECTIOR ADSTHN  LOIf
sCoND FZEMCThL SeO  ADDju8I'INT LAN
LIN"S 2714-T2 AND 22§§MT
This is the Project COmpletion Report (ICR) for the First and Seond
Financial Sector Adjustment Loans in Turkey, for which Loan 2714-TU and Loan
2964-TU in the amount of US$300 mllion and US$400 million we"e approved on
June 10, 1986 and June 21, 1988, respectively.  FSAL I was closed on June 30,
1991, two year behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursermet was on July 17, 1991. FMA II was closed on December 31, 1992,
two years behind schedule. US$100 mllion, representing the floating tranche,
was cancelled.
The PCR was joLntly prepared by the Country operations Dlvlsion of
country Department I of the surope and Central AsLa Regional OffLce (Preface,
Evaluatlon Summary, Parts I and 11X), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparatlon of this PCR was stated ln December 1992, and li based,
among others, on the Proesdent's Report, Loan Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Dank and the Borrower, and internal Dank memoranda.



- Li -
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
AND
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOANS 2714-TU AND 2964-TU
RVALWATI2V SQM^RY
(i)        Obiectives and pnsian. The Bank provided these loans to the
Government of Turkey to asslst ln reforming and developLng the country's
flnanclal system by Introducing measures to improve resource mobilizatLon and
allocation, render the sector more responsive to market signals, strengthen
the banking system and expand the capital and money markets. FOAL I laid the
foundation whLIe FSAL II was designed to deepen and broaden the scope of
reforms. Through both loans, technical assistance was provided for
lnstitution building, training of staff of relevant institutions, preparation
of related studies and the automation of information systems. The sectoral
programs under both loans required that a satisfactory macroeconomlc framework
be in place.
(LL)       I 2lgWSZiatLonIL  ienga.  The implementatLon of the reform
program for the financial sector under both loans was only partially
completed. Partly due to the reforms taken, a banking crisis was forestalled.
Prudentlal regulatLons and external auditing and off-site monitoring of banks
and capital market institutions were improved and are now generally in line
with international standards. The capital base of the banking sector was
strengthened, and non-performing loans were identified, correctly classified
and provided for. Public sector banks moved away from sectoral specialization
into more diversified operations and now have to compete wAth private banks on
a more "level playing fieldO. The absolute and relative size of public sector
banking has been reduced with the closure of some banks, the merger of others,
and the promotion of private banking; other public sector banks are being
considered for privatization. An institution to address bank failures and
insure small depositors has been designed and is expected to be legislated and
created.
(iii)      The relative size of preferential credits has declined.
Subsidized credit programs, such as the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance
Scheme, were curtailed. The central bank rediscounting window for
preferential term credits was closed. Foreign exchange and local currency
deposits are now equally treated tax-wise to minimize currency substitution.
A foreign exchange interbank market and a gold market were established in the
central bank, allowing for greater mobility between currencies. The capital
account was fully liberalized. Taxation of the banking system was reduced by
a phased reductlon in reserve requirements of banks. Explicit taxation on



- iii -
financial intermediation and transactions were also reduced to further cut th1
spread between the banks' lending and deposit rates.
(iv)       On the other hand, several of the reform measures still remain to
be done, while others have been partially reversed. Te regulations on loa
concentration and the legislation for the creation of the bank failure
resolution institution were drafted but not yet passed. The largest bank,
which is a government bank, has not been completely reformed and restructured
(leading to the cancellation of the floating trancho). The state banks
identified for prlvatlsation have not yet been privatlsed. On-site bank
supervision by the Treasury, while strengthened, is not yet fully adequate. A
new preferential credit program, while not fully funded, has been established.
Lending rates to the agriculture sector continue to be administered and
subsidized. Taxation of the banking system still derives from flscal
exigencies rather than for prudential and efficiency reaeons.
(v)        Of greater concern was the Government's inability to implement
satisfactory macroeconomic reforms to support the financial sector program.
Driven by state enterprises losses, the budget defielt continued to exceed
targets and has been the principal cause of continued high inflation. It has
also led to high real interest rates as the government continued to crowd out
the private sector. Without the needed macroeconomic underpinnings, some
financial sector reforms have been neutralized while others have been
jeopardized. Attempts to assuage the impact of macroeconomic instability have
caused further distortions, reversing earlier reforms, e.g., the creation of a
new subsidized credit program to promote investments which have been dampened
by the chronic instability.
(vi)       Regults and Sustainabilitv. While many of the institutional
reform measures for the financial sector under both operations have been
institutionalized and will continue to influence the sector positively, many
of the sector policy reform measures have been neutralized, and in some cases
reversed, due to the absence of a sound macroeconomic framework and the felt
need to seek alternative, short-term and partial solutions. Financial sector
reforms, that promote market efficiency and financial prudence, will be
sustainable only if they are anchored on a sound macroeconomic framework.
High nominil and real interest rates on a prolonged basis will debilitate the
financial sector, cause significant disintermediation, fragment financial
markets, and promote speculative activities. many of the gains achieved under
both operations have been and could be lost unless the government adopts sound
macroeconomic policies for the medium term in which the markets can believe.
(viL)      Lehsons Learned.  The importance of a sound macroeconomic
framework as the foundation of a successful financial sector reform and
development program is the over-riding lesson to be drawn from both PSAL I and
II. In retrospect, considering that macroeconomic adjustment in Turkey is
closely tied to a reform of the state enterprise sector, it may have been more
fruitful to tackle both financial and enterprise sector reforms together. The
danger of an over-load could have been forestalled by taking time-slices of
reforms across both sectors, rather than one sector after another.



(viLi)     There wre also problems in term  of overestimating instltutLonal
capacity and undeestimating the time needed for implementatio. Many of the
reform measures, especially the instLtutLonal reforms, take longer than the
normal interval between firAt and second tranches. The"e problems could be
tackled by requiriag more up-front actlons and/or by programaing measures more
realistically, perhaps over a series of SECALs or ln conjunctLon with related
lnvestment operatlonas e.g., financial intermediation operations.
(i.)       Finally, an apprecLation of the polltlcal underplnnLngs of a
reform aenda is necoesary. In the final analysis, in Turkey, elected
officLals decide whether reform measures, especlally macroeconomic measures,
sbould proceed or not. Bank counterparts in the civil service need to
convLnce their elected officials of the need and benefits of reforms and their
tLmng. The Bank can support reform-mLaded civil servan'cs by sending clear
and consistent signals of support or disapproval.



FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
AND
SECOND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMT LOAN
. _NS 2714-Tn AND 2286-TU
PART It  PROJECT P     RN MANKS PRsPECT
FINANCIAL      C a    MENT  LA  (. 2714-TU
Proigat Identity
1.1   Project Name            Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan No.                2714-TU
RVP Unit                ECA Region
country           s    Turkey
Sector            s    Finance
Turkey' Oeall Economi Pef        ancene18
1.2         In 1980, the Turkish economy was struggling with severe macro-
economic imbalances, pervasive distortions, triple digit inflation, a very
small export base representing less than 5 percent of GNP, an overvalued
exchange rate, a large and inefficient Sol sector, high unemployment and an
overwhelming debt burden. In addition to these problem., the country faced a
crippling foreign exchange shortage with disruptions in imports and a
declining real GDP. The import-substitution strategy of economic development,
with a well-protected domestic market increasingly stimulated by expansionary
monetary policies, was clearly no longer sustainable. This point was made
more all the more clearer by the jump in oil prices during 1979.
1.3         In January 1980, confronted with the worst crisis of the
Republican era, the Government announced a new economic strategy aimed at
stabilizing the economy, placing greater reliance on market forces instead of
quantitative controls, emphasizing the efficient growth of the private sector,
and giving priority to exports. The wide ranging reform. included exchange
rate adjustments, import liberalization, export promotion measures, public
sector reforms, a revamping of financial/monetary policies, price
liberalization and tax reforms. The immediate aim in this paradigmatic change
in economic policy was to reduce the high rate of inflation and the external
deficit. The excess absorption of the pre-1980 economy declined as
consumption growth was reduced through falling real wages and interest rate
increases. Consequently, the current account deficit in the balance of
payments was reduced sharply.



-2 -
1.4        A major factor in this was the rapid increase in merchandise
exports which grew at an annual rate of 25.9 percent (in US$) ln 1980-8S.
especlally strong were manufactured exports which expanded at a annual rate
of 40.1 pwrcent in the same period, makLng Turkey the global leader in export
growth for the same perLod. By 1985, exports amounted to approximately 16
percent of CDP, up from less than S percent in 1980. Thls rapid growth ln
exports was due to strong external demand (especially from OPEC countrLes), a
range of export LncentLves, real exchange rate depreciations, weak domestic
demand and excess production capaclty resulting from the 1979-81 recession.
With imports LncreaeLng at a slower pace, reflecting the constriction of
Laternal demand, the current account defiLcit fell from 5.8 percent of GDP In
1980 to 1.9 percent in 1985.
1.S         Indeed, unlike most countrLes which responded to the debt-
servicing criLsi of the 1980. by sharply constrLcting lnternal demand to
reduce imports, Turkey was able to weather the criLss wlth les trauma by
relying foremost on Lncreasing exports. It should also be noted that Turkey
benefitted from a vast reschadulLng of its external public debt between
1978-80, prior to the onset of the debt crisis. Other balance ct payment
assistance included an OECD crafted consortium which provLded a major
fLnancial aid package and IMP standbys amounWing to US$1.2 billion and five
IBaD structural adjustment loans (SAL) amounting to a total of US$1.6 billion
in the 1980-86 period. Also provided were approximately US$2 billion in
project loans.
1.6         The design of the SALs evolved from a focus on stabliLzation and a
re-orientatlon of macroeconomic policies in the early 19808 (SAL I) to a
balance between macroeconomic and sectoral policies in SAL V. 8AL I (March
1980) supported the Government of Turkey's (GOT) January 1980 measures and
directly responded to Turkey s ImLediate lnternal and external problems.  Its
major objectives were to lncrease foreign exchange earnings, reduce inflatLon
and improve domestic resource mobilization. Priority was given to export
incentives, improved external debt management, promotlon of private savings
and reduction in public investment.
1.7        SAL II supported policy reforms not fully implemented under SAL I
and started the shift from immediate economic stabilization towards addressing
the country's structural problems to achieve long-term, sustainable growth.
Indeed, with variations in form and emphasis SAL 11 set the agenda for the
entire SAL program. Its agenda inoluded increasLig domestic resource
mobilization, export promotion, import liberalization, reducing and
rationalizing the public investment program, development of energy resources
(reducing dependency on imported oil), increased production of agricultural
exportable, and reform of the state-owned enterprises (SOEs). SAL III (May
1982) contlnued with the agenda set out by it. predecessor while with SAL IV
(September 1983) and SAL V (July 1984) the program became more sectorally
focussed with agrlculture, energy and finance coming under sector adjustment
loans.
1.8        The Turkish economy responded positively to the new economic
strategy adopted by the government and supported by the Bank and the Fund.



-3-
Responding to the ramrkable Lacrease in exports, growth resumed ln 1981 with
real annual increases of i percent attained untll 1985. Inflatlon Ahich had
surpassed the 100 percent mark in 1980 was reduced to approximately 36 percent
in 1985. The capltal markets were revitalized and the strengthening of the
banking system Lnltiated, while Turkey's entrepreneurs responded energetically
to the now opportunitles opened to them by the liberal economlc environment.
Nevertheless, unemployment was barely dented whlle on the social front real
wages had decllned wlth negatlve effects on income dlitrlbutlon.
Dsvel2oMets 1986-22
1.9         This impresLve economlc performance began to be undermined ln
1986 as large increases in publlc expendltures weakened domestic flnanclal
balances. Driven in large part by the resumption of parliamentary politLes as
the mliLtary withdrew fully from the scene, public expenditures were
Lncreasingly financed through domestic borrowLng at hlgh interest rates. And
while government expendltures underplnned growth rates of 8 percent in 1986
and 7.3 percent in 1987, the PSBR started to climb alarmingly. Reaching 8.2
percent of GNP in 1987, it declined slightly to 7 percent in 1988 despite a
nearly 8 percent decrease ln publie Investments. Inflation started to rlse,
climbing to slightly over 70 percent in 1988. While the steep increase in
interest payments on the domestic public debt precluded any meaningful
lowering of the PSBR, payments on the external debt also increased followlng
real devaluations designed to spur exports. The government found itself
caught ln a vicious circle where deficits, debts, and lnterest payments fed on
each other. After 1989. revltalized labor unions also moved to recoup their
losses durlng the past decade and sharp wage increases followed in both the
publlc and private sectors. The SOX sector whose fLnancial performance had
been temporarily lmproved through prLce hikes in the early 1980's, also
increased their demands on Treasury as wage hikes came into play while
operating costs mounted in spite of an investment freeze. Price hikes coased
to be a solution to the 8Oe predicament as an open trade regime and fears of
fueling inflation restrained the offectiveness of such palliative measures.
1.10        The impact of the Gulf War on the TurkLih economy is diffLcult to
quantlfy. Nevertheless, aside from the temporary relief extended by
substantLal amounts of external assistance, the basic parameters of the
sltuatlon did not change. In 1990, the economy achieved a growth rate of 9.2
percent while inflation decllned slLghtly to 60 percent against the 63 percent
registered in 1989. The PSBR increased slightly to approximately 9 percent.
The real effects were to be felt ln 1991 as the economy grew at only 0.3
percent, a real decline on the order of 2 percent, and lnflation rose to 66
percent whlle PSBR stood at a record 15.9 percent of GNP.
1.11        The new government, a broad-based coalitlon, announced lts
stabilization program in January 1992. The program envlsaged keepLng
expenditures at 1991 level whLie increasing revenues, mainly through improved
tax collection procedures. The program targeted an Lnflat$onk rate of 42
percent for 1992 with the wage bill and lnterest payments at appropriate
levels. However, lack of action on the SOEs and inabLlity to keep wage hikes
to le7els commensurate with the inflatlon target announced in the program have



-4-
translated into a 66 percent inflation rate at end 1992 while PSBR stood at a
high 14 percent of GNP. structural changes deemed necessary for long-term
macroeconomic stability, i.e., rationalizing the tax structure and dealing
with money-losing SOBs, were not addressed in a meaningful and effective
manner.
II. TEE FSAL ADJUS=MENT PROORAM AND ITS JUSTIFICATION
Qbieotios and ofigne of pgligcies undfr the AdJustment Proaram
2.1         Recognizing that the process of financial reform in Turkey would
require a sustained effort over the medium term, the Bank approved the first
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL 1) in June 1986. The loan of $300
million to be disbursed in two tranches ($197 million for the first tranche, a
second tranche of $100 millinn and $3 million for technical assistance) was to
support a medium term prograr of policy and institutional reform measures set
out in the Government's lettear of Financial sector Policies. In line with
this mandate, PSAL I supported reforms in three main areas, though the focus
was to be on the banking sector, the mainstay of the country's financial
system, and on institutional strengthening. These three principal areas of
reform included the followings
(i)    Financial Policieas  Reforms under this heading
included the maintenance of positive deposit rates and
positive lending rates on selective credits,
reductions in selective credits to reduce subsidies
and improve credit allocation, and a lowering of
reserve and liquidity requirements to reduce the high
cost of non-preferential borrowing.
(ii) Financial InstitutLons and Reoulationss The focus
here was on strengthening the banking system which
accounted for over 90% of assets in the financial
sector. Steps commensurate with this goal included
the introduction of standardized accounting methods.,
the training of staff at commercial banks and the
introduction of external audits for these banks, the
strengthening of the off-site surveillance and
supervision capacity and the strengthening of the
Board of sworn Bank Auditors and its procedures.
Measures were also included to strengthen the
interbank market.
(iii)  Money and Cagital Marketas  The aims here included the
further development of short-term instruments such as
Treasury bills and commercial paper as well as medium
term instruments (Treasury and corporate bonds).
Steps were also to be taken to improve the Capital
Market Board's procedures and to institute external
audit requirements for corporations listing their



shares in the stock exchange or aellUng commercial
paper.
2.2         The major bgzefits of the reform program were to be the creation
of a more efficient financial sector, thereby enhancing growth through
increased savings and the channeling of these to productive investments.
Furthermore, the development of a greater variety of fLnancial instruments was
to contribute to a revival of private investments in the economy. The main
risk centered around the ability of the government to control inflation.
Without measures to reduce Turkey's persistently high inflation rate it would
have been difficult to reduce interest rates which were a major cause of
corporate financial distress. The Government's commitment to sound
macro-economic policies, as outlined in the Letter of Policy Intent prepared
by the Government and through ongoing dialogue, was supposed to mitigate this
risk. other risks related to the prospects for the rapid development of
capital markets and the degree of resistance that might be encountered in the
introduction of external audits for banks and corporations. However, these
risks were deemed manageable given the comitment of the Government to the
reform program as well as the pace of the progress made under SALs IV and V.
II. THE MAN'S ROLE
3.1         The Bank's role in the FSAL I program built on the experience
garnered in the Turkish financial sector though a succession of studies and
operations undertaken in the context of the 1983 Financial Sector Study and
SAL IV and SAL V. Indeed, the 1983 study undertaken by the Bank was crucial
in enabling the government to design a comprehenoive reform program which
tackled the basic weaknesses of the sector. Overall, the positive dialogue
maintained with the Government meant that the Bank's role in the reform design
process was effective and well received.
Desian of the Reform proaram
3.2         The reform program was designed at a time when Turkey appeared to
have responded well to the 1980 crisis and the reform program of the
Government as supported through the SALs. Indeed, the Operations Evaluations
Department's 0Uvaluation of structural Adjustment Lending in Turkey' (1988)
noted that Turkey'. commitment to the program of structural adjustment was
solidly expressed throughout the life of the SALs. The sama report also notes
that it was largely this understanding which led continuing Bank assistance to
Turkey to switch to greater sectoral focus and reduced emphasis on
conditionalities, especially at the macroeconomic level. Thus, both SAL IV
and SAL V programs were characterized by their greater focus on sectoral
issues as the economy grew and the Government continued to be responsive.
Awprooriateness of the Proaram's Desian
3.3         While th.e FSAL I program was appropriate in the context of the
trend towards greater sectoral focus and the partnership characterizlng Bank
assistance to Turkey under the MALs, the economic and political environment in



-6-
Turkey was to change rapidly in the post-1985 era. Tho atmosphere of economc
crisis was perceived to have lifted. Furthermore, the post-1985 period also
saw the rapid opening-up of the political environment in Turkey, a process
which was to culminate in the 1987 elections. The political liberalisation
increased pressures on public expenditures as the Government increasingly felt
the need to respond to revitalized labor unlons, electoral exigencies, the
fiscal impacts of greater local autonomy and a more complex decision-making
process. These now pressures would add measurably to the Government's
inability to forcefully address macroeconomic policies and move to address
Turkey' s chronic inflation problem. The Lssue of ownership by the Government
of the reforms and projects supported by the Dank became incr"eaingly complex
as the Bank, counterparts, bureaucrats and politicians, held divided views and
priorities.
IV. 1MELUM3NThT!ON OF THE GOVRPCR4MRNT' S           PROGRAM
4.1         The acroconomic  olicLgo pursued under the FBAL I agenda
produced some positive results though the overall result was mlxed. In 1986,
the economy registered growth of 8 percent, agaLnst the 5 percent foreeaen in
the Government's program, but the public deficit reached approximately 6
percent of GNP. Inflation did decline to 35 percent (CPI) in 1986 compared to
45 percent in 1985. However, this was largely attributable to the fall in oil
prices world-wide and a very good harvest. The 1987 program of the government
had foreseen growth slowing down to 5 percent, inflation down to 20 percent
and the PSBR reduced significantly. None of these targets were met with the
economy growing at nearly 7.5 percent while inflation increased dramatically
to 74% and the PBMR grew to approximately 8.2 percent. These results were in
large part due to the general parliamentary elections held in 1987 and
consequent politlcal pressures to postpone tough stabilization measures and,
on the contrary, increase public expenditures to please the electorate. The
inability to reduce lnflation, despite some gains in 1986, impacted negatively
on the effectiveness of many of the policy measures adopted under FMAL I.
4.2         on the reform of interest rate 2olicies, the record is also a
mixed one. on the positive side all non-preferential credits had been
liberalized by 1987 and the government had coMmitted itself to raise interest
rates for selective credits to positive levels by the end of 1986. The
proportion of selective credits, which flowed to the economy on preferential
terms was also reduced and interest rates on most selective credits did attain
positive rates, though these were below the very high rates for non-
preferential credits. Overall, the share of preferential credits was reduced
from 42% of all bank credits in 1983 to 23% in 1987. moreover, the share of
rediscounted credits to total credit declined from 16.6% in 1983 to 7.4% Ln
1987. However, selcative credits under preferential terms continued to be
provided to agriculture, industrial artisans, exports, and housing. This
contravened second tranche release conditions which had stipulated that all
preferential credits to productive sectors become positive for tranche release
to take place. The Government justified the continuation of these policies on
grounds that existing market failures and conditions (prominent among these,



the high r"el interest rates on non-preferential credit,) made such measures
necessary.
4.3         Administered deposit rates were brought up to and maintained at
positive rates but they did dip to negative levels for a brief period in late
1987 when inflation increased sharply, leading to an erosion of financial
depth. There were also other reverses. Deposit rates on large CDs and
deposits with maturitios of one year or more which had been liberalized were
flxed once again in 1988 - again pointing out how unstable macroeconomic
policies and the resultant high and chronic inflation threatened reforms ln
the financial sector.
4.4         To address partially the very high interest rates on
non-preferential credits, reductions were made in reserve and liquidity
requirements. There was, however, a minor and temporary increase in late
1987, again due to fiscal exigencies brought on by the sharp upward movement
ln inflation during that period. FaAL I conditions were met on the
government's Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (VIS), designed to
protect investors from the devaluation of the TL when they borrow long-term
foreign exchange loans. The scheme continued but interest rates became
positive.
45         FSAL I had also included the preparation of an implementation
program for the establishment of an export credit and insurance system. To
this end the goverrment moved to convert the existing State Investment Bank
(DYD) into an Bxport-Import Bank. Action was rapid and effectlve on this
issue and the legislative package was prepared in 1986 and enacted in 1987,
with Eximbank starting operations in the same year, thus meeting one of the
seoond tranche release conditions.
4.6         The strenathening of thg bankina system was a critical component
of the F8AL I package. In this regard, the requirement that the accounts of
coumercial banks would have to be audited by independent external auditors
acceptable to the Central Bank (CB) of Turkey had already been included in the
Bank's Act of 1985. This became effective in early 1986 with the advent of a
system of standardized accounting and reporting. And by January 1987 the
government had issued regulations acceptable to the Bank on standards to be
followed by auditing firms thus meeting another second tranche condition
requiring that external auditing for commercial banks commence by 1987. The
system enabled the CB to monitor the financial situation of commercial banks
and to serve as an early-warning system alerting the CD to potential problems.
4.7         A decree was passed in 1986 to define non-performing loans and
provisioning rules for term loans but this proved to be less than adequate
given that 80% of loans were on an overdraft basis. This loophole was to be
dealt with under PSAL II. More successful were steps to improve the audit
techniques utilized by the Board of Sworn Bank Examiners. These were brought
into line with contemporary supervisory methods and strengthened. A new
manual was prepared, incorporating a shift towards evaluating management
control systems within each bank rather than simply focussing on compliance
checking. Both of thes positive developments were considered to have



resulted in compliance with other second tranche conditions. However, the
issue posed by the inadequate number of sworn audltore relative to the task at
hand remained unaddressed.
4.8         Legislation w4a enacted for the establishment of The Council of
Sworn Financial Advisers, a government appointed body to regulate the
accounting and auditing profession in Turkey and raise standards to
international levels. However, no appointments were made to the body as had
originally been foreseen under the FSAL I program and second tranche
conditions on this issue remained unfulfilled. In line with technical
assistance provisions within FSAL I, steps were also taken to establish the
Center for International BanklAg Studies which was to train commercial bank
staff in modern techniques. The Center was operated by Citibank until 1991
under a five-year management contract from the Turkish Bankers' Union, the
latter bearing local costs of operation.  overall, while some important steps
were taken in the context of strengthening the banking system, much remained
undone and the PSAL I program remained incomplete.
4.9        The PSAL I agenda for money gnd canital market included the
further development of short and medium term instruments as well as
strengthening the regulatory framework governing capital markets and bringing
transparency to the stock exchange operations. In Kay 1985, as part of the
reform program foreseen under SAL V, the government moved towards an auction
system for selling its securities, setting up a regular auction schedule at
the end of 1986. This has enhanced the government's ability to sell its debt.
With the introduction in early 1987 of open market operations, the Ca gained
the ability to more effectively control the money supply.
4.10        The number of firms issuing bonds also increased in 1987 rising to
211 compared to 76 in 1986. Funds raised through bonds reached TL317 billion
in 1987 versus 57 billion in 1986. The Istanbul Stock Exchange which started
operations in January 1986 grew rapidly though it remained considerably
smaller than stock markets in other developing countries like Korea, Malaysia,
and Thailand. This again was an indirect result of inflation as high interest
rates offered on other instruments, especially treasury paper and on deposits
made it loes attractive for investors to invest in equities. During 1987,
however, a total of 141 firms Lssued TLI81 billion in shares, representing an
increase of 80% over 1986. A condition in the FSAL I loan agreement was
specifically linked to the external audits to be required of firms listed in
the ISE as well as of companies issuing securities to the public. This step,
however, was delayed since the Capital Markets Board (CMB) was openly wary of
such a move, voicing concerns that the requirement would be difficult to meet
given the existing lack of qualified auditors. While second tranche release
had been made conditional on the issuance of these regulations, the Dank
agreed to disburse merely on the basis of a commitment by the government to
pass said regulations. The CMB finally did issue a communique in December
1987 which made it mandatory for companies in the primary market (whose shares
were publicly traded) of the ISE and all firms with a registered capital of
TLS billion or more to have their 1987 and subsequent accounts audited.
However, the communique did not explicitly provide for external audits of
firms issuing securities to the public and was therefore incomplete. In



-9-
short, important components of the VSA" I program for Money and Capital
Markets were not completed under the program.
V. MOWITORNNO O? THE  JSTMFNT PROGRAM
Disburoemente
5.1         First tranche release was approved on June 16, 1986, upon loan
effectiveness. Second tranche release was effected on schedule in March 1987.
Details on second tranche release conditions and their status are discussed in
section D. The loan was closed on June 30, 1991 and was fully disbursed on
July 31, 1991.
Loan Supervis ion
5.2         There were two supervision missions in the context of PSAL I.  The
first was in November 1986 and the second took place in February 1987 and was
related to the release of the second tranche. Supervision for the loan
appears to have been adequate given the Government's stated commitment to the
reform program. In retrospect, it is clear that developments prior to the
November 1987 elections merited better monitoring. There were no procurement
problems under the loan.
VI.  LESSONS LEARNED MD FOL-UP MEURES  FSAL 
6.1         The importance of adopting and adhering to sound macroeconomic
policies appears to be the overriding lesson to be drawn from the FSAL I
experience. This point was to be made even clearer through experience gained
in the context of FSAI II. The FSAL I program also showed up weaknesses in
evaluating institutional capacity in Turkey. Another fact which needs to be
acknowledged in the context of the FSAL I program is that Turkey's status
within the Bank as a country having successfully weathered the adjustment
process from an inward-looking, protected economy to one concentrating on
export-led growth produced an institutional momentum of its own. This may
partially account for what appears to be, in retrospect, less emphasis on
macroeconomic conditions than now appears warranted. This point is applicable
to a lesser extent for FSAL II as well. Lessons to be drawn from these and
other particular weak points as well as the broader lessons to be drawn from
the PSAL I and ISAL II are discussed in greater detail in Section F of the
ISAL It section of the PCR.



- 10 -
SECOND FINUNCIAL SECTOR ADJVUSTME1T LAN  LOAN 2964-Tn 
VII. FSANL II ODJICTIVES
Progeat Identity
7.1   Project Name      :    Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan No.          a    2964-TW
RVP Unit          a    ECA Region
Country           X    Turkey
Sector            s    Finance
Financal^  Sector Adjugtment Issues Pror to FSAL It
7.2         As noted in the PSAL I section of the PCR, the Bank's involvement
in the governent's efforts to reform the financial sector had started with a
major sector study in 1983 and through sector-specific reform measures
contained in SAL IV and V, followed in 1986 by FSAL I. The focus in these
operations was to strengthen the banking sector, develop money and capital
markets through the introduction of new instruments, improve the regulatory
and institutional framework and reduce preferential credits. Overall, the
record of achievements under PSAL I was mixed, with the Government initiating
many of the agreed steps but failing to complete the full agenda.
7.3         Reflecting the fact that the PSAL I agenda ramained incomplete and
needed following-up, PSAL II had the following objectivess
(a)   Imnrovlnc mobilization and allocation of funds and
fostering financial deepening through appropriate
interest rate policies, including maintenance of
positive rates on deposits and preferential credits;
lowering of non-preferential lending rates through
appropriate macroeconomic stabilization; further
reductions in preferential credit programs; and
reducing currency substitution and increasing the
maturities of foreign exchange deposits.
(b)   Strent thenina the bankino sector and enhancing the
ability of the banking sector to mobilize and allocate
funds efficiently by fostering a competitive
environment and financial discipline through new
regulations on loan classification, provisioning and
concentration; better enforcement of regulations,
improved information disclosure; a more effective
mechanism to deal with insolvent banks; actions o
improve the efficiency of public banks; and initiation
of financial restructuring and recapitalization of
problem banks.



- 11 -
(c)  Regarding mony and canital makektg  the program aimed
to increase competition in the Government securities
markets and to develop the secondary market for such
securities; adopt external auditing of securitLes
issuers to reduce market risks; promote foreign
portfolio investments to deepen the capital marketal
and review the taxation of financial instruments and
intermediation.
8coti of Policies under the AdJustment Proaram
7.4         Recaadipg integet rate policieg, the government had achieved some
progress in this area, reducing the volume of selective credits as a
proportion of total credits from 43% in 1983 to 23% in 1987. However, the
issue remained on the agenda since preferential credits continued to be
provided to agriculture and a number of other productive sectors. In this
vein, a condition under FSAL II to be met by loan effectiveness was to further
adjust the system with the aim of bringing all rates to positive levels.
7.5         In contrast, non-preferential credits carried high interest rates.
These were largely due to (i) high fiscal deficits/PSDR which made necessary
high reserve and liquidity requirements as well as high taxes on
intermediation, and (il) the high real rates of return on Treasury bills and
bonds which put upward pressure on lending rates. The government had already
attempted to tackle the former problem by a phased lowering of reserve
requirements from 25 percent in April 1985 to 12 percent in June 1986. These
rates, however, did not prove to be sustainable and with the failure to
control the deficit, reserve requirements were once again raised to 16
percent. While the issue of lowering reserve requirements would be dealt with
as a second tranche release condition, the principal issue of achieving and
maintaining appropriate macroeconomic policies was a condition of the first
tranche.
7.6        Another second tranche release condition was the completion of a
study by the Government on the taxation of financial instruments and
intermediation. Second tranche release was also contingent upon further
reductions in the spread between deposit and lending rates through further
reductions in reserve requirements, transaction taxes and charges imposed by
the Resource Utilisation and Support Fund, one of the larger Extra-Budgetary
Funds operating in Turkey.
7.7         The FSAL program also aimed to reduce instability through measures
to reduce currency substitution and increase the maturity of foreign exchange
deposits. To achieve this objective, the government agreed to raise
withholding taxes on interest on foreign exchange deposits to achieve
consistency with deposlts in Turkish LLras (TL). Second tranche release was
made contingent upon satlsfactory progress in adopting further measures for
reducing currency substitution such as the setting of mlnimum size requirement
for foreign exchange sight deposits and the establishment of differentiated
reserve requirements for foreign exchange requirements with lower reserve
rpquirements for longer-term foreign exchange deposits.



- 12 -
7.8         Learo the strnahnina'ao  the bacing  Inm, the FSAL 11
program built on the steps taken under SAL IV, V, and FsAL I. -The Turkish
banking system was unable to effectively carry out its functions of resource
mobilization and allocation because many banks were technically insolvent or
severely distressed dva to the high level of non-performing loans in their
portfolios. This was especially true of public sector banks which accounted
for approximately 50 percent of banking sector assets and where the needs for
financial and operational restructuring were particularly evident. For the
sector as a whole, the objective set forth by the Government was to reorient
bankers' attitudes and practices towards prudential banking. In this vein,
the Government agreed to promulgate a decree on loan classification and
provisioning in line with international standards. This was to be achieved by
loan effectiveness. Furthermore, the Government also agreed to introduce a
weighted risk-asset to capital ratio and other quantitative criteria so as to
strengthen capital adequacy and reduce the loan concentration levels of
deposit-taking institutions.
7.9         The F8AL It agenda also focussed on strengthening enforcement of
banking regulations and supervision. Therefore, It was agreed with the
government that the number of sworn bank auditors would be increased while
their training would be expanded. The Government agreed to increase the
number of sworn bank auditors to 50 by 1989 and to 100 in 1990. This was made
a condition for second tranche release. Measures were also taken to improve
transparency and information disclosure. It was agreed with the Government
that special portfolio audits of all commercial banks as per the new audit
regulations would be completed by September 30, 1988. This too was a second
tranche release condition.
7.10        As noted above, government-owned banks were especially hard hit by
the financial distress in the state enterprise sector. The Government's
objectives in this regard were the preparation of action programs for each
bank and the consequent improvement of their financial viability and
operational efficiency. Also sought was a strategic plan to reorganize the
government-owned banking sector through downsizing, mergers and restructuring.
The Government agreed to issue a directive to state-owned banks to prepare the
required action programs noted by loan effectiveness. Second tranche release
hinged upon the substantial completion of these action programs. For this
purpose, the government allocated $300 million in the 1988 budget. The
release of the $100 million floating tranche within FSAL TI was made
contingent upon receipt of evidence that the Government had made a capital
contribution of no less than the equivalent of $100 million for the
restructuring and recapitalization of problem banks in accordance with plans,
satisfactory to the Bank.
7.11        F8AL II measures for dealing with insolvent banks extended beyond
the problems posed by government-owned institutions. Existing procedures for
dealing with insolvent banks, established by the Banking Act of 198S, were
considered deficient. The government lacked the power to separate the
non-performing assets from insolvent banks and correspondingly reduce the
equity of existing shareholders as a means towaru restructuring or
liquidation. This power was needed to prevent or resolve bank failures. The



- 13 -
Government agreed to strengthen capital requirements for new and existing
banks by loan effectiveness as the first phase of a program to deal with
insolvent banks. Second tranche release was to be contingent upon the
preparation of regulations satisfactory to the Bank for the establishment and
operation of an independent institutional mechanism responsible for
restructuring or liquidating financially insolvent banking institutions.
7.12        Recardino measures to develco money and canltal markets, the Bank
as well as the Government recognized that while some important steps had been
taken in this area, major developments in these markets could only be expected
once the country embarked on, and adhered to, sound macroeconomic policies and
succeeded in reducing inflation. Within this framework, emphasis was put on
the government securities market and corporate equities and fixed-income
securities. The objectives of the government were to increase competition in
the auctions of Treasury securities to reduce costs and develop secondary
markets by, among others, legalizing repurchase agreements. The major problem
with regard to government securities, despite the considerable progress in the
development of this market through previous efforts, was the restricted
distribution of these instruments. Most securities were held by banks and
consequently there was little activity in the secondary market. To the extent
that distribution could be widened to reach other institutions and individual
investors, Treasury could reduce its borrowing cost while increasing the depth
of the financial market.
7.13        The Government also aimed to develop a rational framework for
taxation of financial instruments. Anomalies continued to exist in the tax
treatment of financial instruments with banks facing no taxes on incomes from
Treasury bills whereas the interest paid on deposits to fund these bills was a
tax-deductible expense, in effect encouraging banks to hold bills in contrast
to making loans. Earlier, we had noted that T. deposits were subject to a 10
percent withholding tax while foreign exchange deposits were liable for only a
5 percent withholding tax. To deal with these sets of issues the Government
agreed to study the feasibility of the following measures: (i) introduction of
non-competitive bidding of Treasury bills for the public, including direct
sales through branches; (ii) reducing the minimum size of tenders and deposit
requirements for individuals and non-banks; (iii) permitting formal repurchase
agreements and/or collateralized loans between banks and clients subject to
strict regulation and supervision, including contractual protection for both
parties; and (iv) allowing them to buy back small amounts of bonds from
individuals. The second tranche release also required the establishment of
courses in securities trading in the Center for international Banking Studies
(CIBS), established under the PSAL I program. The Government moved to
initiate a study on the tax system to formulate a consistent tax treatment of
financial instruments. The satisfactory completion of all of these studies
were part of the conditions attached to second tranche release.
7.14        Turkey's embryonic corporate equity and fixed-income security
markets continued to be hampered by high inflation, ineffective tax incentives
and lack of information disclosure standards. The objectives of the
government were to deepen and improve the market for corporate securities
through improved information disclosure and the establishment of an
organization to develop the accounting profession and set requisite standards.



- 14 -
The Goverrment also aimed to promote foreign portfolio lavestments to deepn
capital markets. The Goverment agreed that by loan effectiveness auditLng
requirements would be extended to all firm issuing debt aecurities of over
TLI billion in 1988. It was also agreed that the Council of Sworn Financial
Advisors, the body referred to above ln the context of improving standards In
the auditing profesmLon, would be established and start operating for second
tranche release to take place. It should be noted that the latter two
conditions were carry-overs from FSAL I. The Capital Markets Board also
agreed that all firm liated on the Istanbul Stock Exchange would be subject
to external audits by 1990.
Vill. T=M 'ANK'S RoE
8. 1       The Bank played an important role in putting together the FVSR  SS
reform program, building on country and sectoral experience gained through the
five SALs, FSAL I and various studies, notably the Financial Sector Study
undertaken in 1983. The Bank's experience not only allowed it to put together
an appropriate reform package closely consistent with the Government's stated
macroeconomic and sectoral objectives, but also to play a strong role in
attracting co-financing through a loan syndication by Japanese financial
institutions of $300 million equivalent, with an IBRD B-loan of $29.8 million.
Desin of the FSAL IS Proaram
8.2        As noted above, the reform program undertaken under FlAX IS built
upon the experience gained through previous IBRD operations and studies in
Turkey. The program design appears to have initially been adequate to the
task at hand, i.e., responding to the deleterious effects of inadequate
policies for the economy in general and On the financial sector in particular.
The focus was on dealing rapidly with possible bank failures which could
affect the financial sector as a whole. The risks foreseen included the
inability of the Government to adhere to its macroeconomic policy objectives,
underscored by the Government's poor performance in this area in early 1988.
Other major risks included the opposition of both private and public sector
banks to the proposed reforms in the banking sector. The Bank considered that
the government's commitment to these reforms largely reduced the risks in this
category. Indeed, private sector banks would eventually comply with the
reform program while the inability to effect reforms in public sector banks
was not because of resistance by their management. In fact, the umper
echelons of public sector banks were largely changed in 1988. What remained
unchanged and thus presented a major barrier to reform was the continuing use
of public banks as policy instruments supporting various sectors such as
agriculture, small industries and others. On the issue of macroeconomic
policies, conditions more explicit than required of the FSAL I operation were
put in place.
8.3        it should also be noted that a number of problems were not
foreseen which would eventually lead to the cancellation of the floating
tranche. These problems included mounting political constraints as the
Government increasingly lost popular support, elections were held and a new



- 15 -
government took over. The Gulf war was another major extraneous factor which
impacted directly on the FPA" II program. In response to the additional
burdens brought on by the war on the Turkish economy, the Government moved
quickly and effectively to adjust its macroeconomic program. The Bank moved
to support this adjustment program through several means, including the
release of the second tranche.
IX.  IUP&h=NTATION OF THE GOVNRNM!NT'S BROGRAM
Macroeconomic Policy DEvelogments and Actiotns Taken by the overnment
9.1         The PSAL It program required the issuing of a Statement of
Macroeconomic Policy, satisfactory to the Bank, by loan effectiveness. The
Government provided the relevant document in May 1988 and thio was found to be
satisfactory by the Bank. The Government also agreed that it would achieve
the macroeconomic targets set forth in its 1988 Annual Program for second
tranche release to take place. This entailed a return to sustainable
macroeconomic balances through tighter demand management while still pursuing
the structural transformation of the economy. Accordingly, growth was to be
reduced to approximately S percent, inflation targeted at around 30 percent.
Domestic demand was to be curbed and domestic savings, as a ratio of GDP, was
to rise from 25.6 percent in 1987 to 30 percent in 1988. Investments were
also to be curbed and measures taken to increase tax revenues. Furthermore,
it was lhoped that the advent of the Higher Planning Council in late 1987 would
facilitate the adoption of these measures by centralizing economic policy
making. However, second tranche release was delayed by a number of factors to
be discussed below and the macroeconomic requirement was interpreted by the
Dank as a condition to be met at the time of the proposed tranche release.
9.2         The Turkish government request for second and floating tranche
release was delayed to August 1990. With this delay, the second tranche
release macroeconomic condition was interpreted to mean compliance with the
targets set forth in the 1990 Annual Program. The 1990 program focussed on
achieving higher growth with a reduction in the fiscal deficit and '.nflation.
The 1989 growth rate had been 1*7 percent while total PS9R stood at 7.8
percent of GDP with inflation at over 60% and reaching 70% by the end of the
year. The 1990 targets were for a growth rate of 5.7 percent while the
inflation target was 43 percent by year-end. PSBR was to decline to 5.1
percent of GDP.
9.3         In the first half of 1990 the economy exhibited stronger than
anticipated growth (10%) while inflation was reduced significantly as the CB
adhered to its tighter monetary program with the 12-month inflation declining
to 46% through August. In terms of the FSAL program, it is important to note
that this tighter monetary policy was facilitated by the ease with which the
Central Government could finance its deficits through auctions rather than
through Central Bank credits. central Bank credits to the public sector
actually declined between December 1989 and July 1990. On the external front,
the $1 billion surplus in the current account in 1989 was replaced by a $1.4
billion deficit in the first half of 1990 as exports grew by only 6% compared



- 16 -
to the 3S% growth in imports. The Central Government deficit also rose,
reflecting the large public sector wage increases granted in July 1989 and the
mid-year adjustments of January 1990. These translated into higher PSBR. The
government moved to limit the annual civil servant salary increases due in mid
1990. It also moved to increase the percentage of funds going from the Extra
Budgetary Funds to the budget from 30 percent of their revenues to 50 percent.
However, it was the Oulf crisis which was to put its imprint on the
deteriorating economic situation in the second half of 1990. And it would be
the Government's swift and appropriate response to adjust the macroeconomic
iprogram accordingly which allowed the Bank to certify that second tranche
macroeconomic conditions had been met.
9.4         Regarding the costs of the crisis to Turkey, the country's
traditionally close economic relations with Iraq and Kuwait and Ankara's swift
compliance with the UN trade embargo was to have a large negative impact on
it- lalance of payments and fiscal budget starting in the second half of 1990.
Thy main costs included foregone royalties from the Iraqi pipeline to the
Mediterranean via Turkey, losses in exports to Iraq and Kuwait (estimated at
approximately $800 million excluding trans-continental trucking revenues)
reduced workers' remittances, lost income in construction contracts, the non-
payment of Iraqi debt service, and losses from tourism revenues as the
industry felt the effects of regional instability. These non-oil effects
combined were estimated to cost the Turkish economy about $1.2 billion in 1990
and $2 billion in 1991. In addition, each dollar increase in the price per
barrel of oil was estimated to cost Turkey an additional $60 million in 1990
and $150 million in 1991. Including the economic effects of higher oil price,
therefore, the total impact of the Gulf crisis was estimated at about $2
billion in 1990 and was expected to reach $4 billion in 1991.
9.5         In response to this unforeseen burden, the government moved
swiftly to effect additional fiscal measures. First, the Government made
clear the maintenance of its policy to adjust domestic oil and related energy
prices fully to world price developments. Starting in early August oil prices
were raised on three separate occasions by September (by 63% for gasoline, 38%
for motor oil, and 24% for fuel oil), generating a substantial addition to the
1990 tax revenues as well. Second, effective September 5, 1990, the
Government raised import duty by 5 percentage points across-the-board, except
where exemptions previously applied (mainly direct and indirect exporters) or
where the increase in rates would violate prior agreements with the EC and
GATT. Third, the Government decided to increase the VAT rate on foodstuffs
from 3% to 5 to be effective October 1, 1990. The revenue increases from
these measures already taken were estimated to exceed the additional (non-
defense) fiscal cost of the crisis in 1990. Lastly, a freeze on most
expenditures (other than personnel and interest payments) was to be kept open
as an additional option for the rest of the year. These and other measures
were estimated to be sufficient to raise fiscal revenues by about $2 billion
(2 percent of GNP) on an annual basis.
9.6         It was also noted that in order to sustain these recent
improvements and achieve a permanent reduction in inflation, further
reductions in the PSBR must be attained in the context of the 1991 Annual



- 17 -
Program.  1991, however, was to be marked by the continuing effects of the
Gulf war, especially evident in the first half of the year, and the general
parliamentary elections to be held in October 1991. This political event
rendered the government unable tp pursue much reform on the macroeconomic
front. Indeed, with growth at only 0.3 percent and the PSBR at 15.9 percent
of GNP and inflation increasing to 66 percent, 1991 was to be a disappointing
year. Similarly, 1992 was to show little progress in terms of the
stabilization measures required by the economy. Whlle PS8R was reduced
somewhat, it still stood at the 13-14 percent range, inflation increased to
nearly 70 percent. The only positive change was that the country registered a
S.S percent growth rate.  The lack of movement in the macroeconomic arena
meant that the financial sector continued to suffer from many of its perennial
ills as attempts to overcome the deleterious effects of Turkey's inflatlonary
environment led to interventionist measures and reversals on a number of
measures taken earlier.
X. ScgAL PROOM -MPLEMENTATION
Interest Rate Policies
10.1        Satisfactory progress to reduce the spread between banks'
effective lending and deposit rates was one of the conditions in this area of
financial sector reforms. The spread between the banks' effective lending and
deposit rates was accounted for by three components, namely the explicit taxes
on financial intermediation (the transaction tax, a levy earmarked for the
Resource Utilization Support Fund, and the stamp duty), the implicit taxes
from liquidity and reserve requirements, and the banks" margin for
intermediation costs and profit. The rate of explicit taxation was reduced
through the abolition of stamp duty. Implicit taxes were reduced as a result
of a gradual reduction in average reserve requirements, initiated in April
1989. On average, reserve requirements declined from 17.1% of deposit
liabilities in April 1989 to 13.4% in July 1990. As a result of these
actions, the average cost of funds to the banks declined by 22.8% from 67.6%
in April 1989 to 44.8% in July 1990. Overall, however, the Government's
inability to control inflation and the consequent high interest rates it
offered to sustain its growing internal indebtedness wvuld make it impossible
to appreciably lower commercial lending rates and make long-term loans
available to investors. Nevertheless, the lowering of reserve requirements
and the restrictive monetary program pursued by the Government did have a
favorable impact on banks' cost of funds and the second tranche release
conditionality on this front was considered as having been met.
10.2        In terms of the Government's objective of achieving positive real
interest rates on preferential credits, the FSAL rI program foresaw that
adjustments would be made to the preferential interest rates to bring them
closer to positive levels by loan effectiveness date. This conditionality was
met through the Governmentfs adjustment of interest rates on some agricultural
loans from 23% to 29% in February 1988 and its bringing to positive levels
rediscount rates on medium term credits. Second tranche release
conditionality on this issue specified achievement of positive real interest



- 18 -
rates on all preferential credits for the productive sectors (i.e., excluding
housing). Meaoured, as agreed with the Government, against the average cost
of funds in the banking system as a proxy for inflationary expectations, real
interest rates, excepting those for the agricultural sector, became positive.
While this reflected little real change from what had been achieved under FSAL
I, the Government took two further steps in this regard which went beyond the
agreed condition to reduce distortions created by the supply of preferential
credits to the productive sectors. First, the stock of these credits as a
percentage of total assets in the banking system was sharply curtailed.
Second, outstanding interest subsidies were transferred from the banking
system to the Government budget and were financed on an explicit basis.
10.3        In this respect, the most significant policy reform was the
decision of the CB to phase out its rediscount facilities for preferential
credits for investments. At the beginning of the 19808, preferential credits
rediscounted by the CB equalled 22% of total credit of the banking system. In
1990, this use of rediscount facilities for preferential credits was
eliminated. The remaining rediscount windows was confined to short-term (91
day) liquidity support for banks at an interest rate set in line with the
average cost of funds to the banks. With the decline in average cost of funds
in the banking system, the CB maintained its rediscount rate (effective 52%),
eliminating the remaining subsidy. This satisfied the Bank that the condition
had been met. However, there were to be reversals on this front beginning in
1991 with the announcement of the Investment Incentives Regulations. These
proposed heavily subsidized credits to eligible investors from the Resource
Utilization and Support Fund (RUSF). While this worrying development was
stymied by lack of funds in the RUSF, the Government did issue a decree in
March 1992 which merged the RUSF with other SBFs, thus generating funds of
approximately $700 million. Much of this is to go towards providing
subsidized credits with interest rates ranging from 0% to 30% depending on the
sector. While this new scheme replaced an older one in which outright grants
were provided based on the amount of equity brought in by the investor, it is
clear that a new distortionary mechanism had been introduced into the system.
Deemed necessary by the government since investments started falling as of
1990, this scheme represents another distortionary mechanism brought in to
counteract the effects of the inability to pursue and adhere to sound
macroeconomic policies.
10.4       A further sectoral condition required satisfactory measures to
reduce curreney substitution and increase the attractiveness of domestic
currency deposits. Also sought was an increase in the maturity of foreign
exchange deposits. The Government's introduction of a 5S withholding tax on
foreign exchange deposits and its reduction of Interest rates paid on reserve
requirements for such deposits satisfied conditions agreed to be met by loan
effectiveness. Further steps were also taken. In August 1989, the Governmnt
took the final steps to fully liberalize the capital account. The Turkish
lira officially met the conditions for currency convertibility in compliance
with Article VIII of the IMF Articles of Agreement. This reform appeared to
have dampened currency substitution. Complementing the capital account
liberalization, the Government took the following additional measures to
equalize the treatment of foreign exchange and lira deposits: (a) lira deposit



- 19 -
rates were further liberalised; (b) the rate of withholding tax on foreign
exchange deposits was raised from 5 to 10% thereby equalizing it with the tax
rate on lira deposits; (a) a foreign exchange interbank aaket and a gold
market were established; (d) differential reserve requirements were set for
eight and time deposits to increase the maturity of foreign exchange deposits;
and (e) banks were obliged to place 5% of their reserve requirements for
foreign exchange eight deposits In lira. These measures satisfied the Bank
and second tranche release conditions were also declared to have been met.
The Strenathening o-f Ah Banking SySgem
10.5        The PSAL II program required the introduction of a risk-weighted
aset-capital ratio and other quantitative criteria to improve the capital
adequacy and reduce loan concentration of deposit-taking institutions. In Way
1988 (as a condition for release of the first tranche), the Government issued
a decree on loan classification and provisioning along international
standards. The decree, however, met with stiff opposition from the banking
sector, making the Government pull back. It issued a clarifying communique
(October 1988), which diluted the May 1988 decree substantially by allowing
banks to reschedule non-performing loans once more before provisioning and by
exempting off-balance sheet items from the provisioning requirement. The Bank
informed the Government that this communique not only constituted a breach of
the first tranche condition, but also threatened collapse of the remaining
reform program, since it could set a precedence in how the rest of the reforms
would be implemented. After further consultations with the Bank and the
Turkish banking community, the Government reinstated the standards of the
original decree in October 1989. With the integrity of the program restored,
implementation resumed after a delay of one year, accounting in large part for
the delay in the release of the second tranche.
10.6        A critical component of this package still remains unfulfilled.
While the government did issue an appropriatt decree on loan classification,
implementation of the decree has so far been based on loan classification on
the basis of ageing of arrears. Loan classification on the basis of loss of
creditworthiness have yet to be integrated into the system.
10.7        The Government also issued a decree on capital adequacy
regulations that required banks, according to an explicit phase-in schedule
(5.5% at end-1989, 6% and 7% at end-1990 and end-1991 respectively) to reach
the risk-weighted capital adequacy level of 8% proposed in the Bank of
International Settlements Guidelines by December 31, 1992. In light of the
portfolio losses revealed by the special portfolio audits conducted under the
new loan classification and provisioning regulations, the decree implied very
substantial infusions of equity capital into the banking system. By December
31, 1989, Turkish banks' capital adequacy rose to the minimum 5.5% as required
and the 8% standard is in effect today. Finally, the Government submitted to
Parliament amendments to the Banking Law, including reforms of prudential
regulations on single borrower and single group loan exposure limits. The
proposed exposure limits bring the TurkLsh standards closer to accepted
international practice.



- 20 -
10.8        With these actions, the Bank considered that sectoral conditions
for the second tranche had been met. To date, however, parliament has not yet
passed this piece of legislation and consequently loan exposure limits,
especially to groups, continue to be dangerously high (100% of a bank's
networth). Furthermore, exposure limits are wrought with exceptions (e.g.,
loans with bank quaranteee are exempt from calculations), a worrisome issue
particularly in Turkey given the high levels of concentration in the
enterprise sector. This means that gross exposures to holding groups in
Turkey are still exceedingly high. A Bank mission in March 1992 reported that
in one case such exposure exceeded 300% of a bank's networth.
10.9        Another important component within the FSAL II program was the
submission of a draft law for the establishment and operation of an
independent institutional mechanism responsible for bank failure resolution.
A related first tranche release condition had been that capital requirements
for new and existing banking institutions would be strengthened. This
condition was satisfied by the issuance of a decree in 1988. The preparation
of the draft law for the Deposit Insurance Corporation was one of the
conditions for second tranche release. Agreement was reached on the draft law
which would create this institution and define its role and mandate, its
relationships to the Treasury and the Central Bank, and its powers, duties and
resources. an issue regarding the salaries of this institution delayed
clearance of the draft by the Council of Minlsters, but this problem was
resolved and the draft was presented to the Prime Ministry for submission to
the Council of Ministers, to be followed by submission to parliamentary
committees and the general assembly of Parliament. With this action, the Bank
considered that the second tranche condition in this regard had been met.
However, up to now parliament has still not enacted the proposed legislation
for the establishment and operation of the Deposit Insurance Corporation.
This, in effect, means that a critical part of the financial sector reform
agenda remains incomplete. Turkey still lacks a mechanism for the orderly
resolution of Bank failures to prevent sector-wide crisis.
10.10       The reform program foreseen under PSAL II also aimed to increase
the number of sworn bank auditors actively involved in bank examination at the
Commission of Sworn Bank Auditors to not less than 50 in 1989 and 100 in 1990.
Early in the program implementation, however, it became evident that this
target of 50 auditors could not be reached on time given the structure and
duration of the Commissionfs apprenticeship program. Expansion of the
Commission, a speclalized agency of the Treasury responsible for on-site
supervision of banks, nonetheless proceeded at the maximum possible pace
consistent with its 2-year apprenticeship and associated training program, and
the number of sworn bank auditors had reached 45 by the end of 1990 (as
opposed to 25 at the start of the program). The number stood at approximately
70 as of December 1992.
10.11       viewing effective bank supervision as central to the success of
the program, the Government also took additional steps (after technical
consultations with the Bank, resulting in a modification of the condition) to
strengthen the overall supervisory system in a way that complements the
Commission's work. In this context, the Central Bank developed a complete



- 21 -
off-site supervision system, supported by an international training program,
and improved external financial audits through quality control of external
auditors. It was also foreseen that the proposed Deposit Insurance
Corporation would have the power to undertake independent bank examinations if
not satisfied with available supervision reports. Thus, an overall framework
was seen to be developing with checks and balances that would ensure
appropriate supervision of banks. This condition was therefore certified to
have been met. As noted above, however, the Deposit Insurance Corporation
still remains inoperative and thus a fairly important component in reforming
the supervisory capabilities of the Government remains unfulfilled.
10 12       The restructuring of government-owned banks which were
particularly inefficient and financially weak was a very important part of the
FSAL II agenda. The Government's strategy for the state banking system
consisted of three main elements. First, the role of state banks was to focus
on those sectors (e.g., agriculture, small-scale enterprises) where market
imperfections created problems of access to credit. Second, the state banks
that lend to these sectors were to operate on a commercial basis. Third, the
remaining state banks were to be progressively privatized. Against such a
sectoral strategy, the Government undertook the following actions. All state
banks were made subject to the same prudential regulations as private ones.
The Government also took the decision to privatize four state banks and
transferred these to the Public Participation Fund for privatization. Only
one of these has been privatized to date, though the others still remain on
the block. The restructuring of the remaining state-owned banks, however, has
stalled. The Development Bank of Turkey (investment projects), Emlak Bank
(housing) and Balk Bankasi (small business loans) have yet to be restructured
through the separation of their developmental from their commercial
activities.
10.13       Similarly stalled has been the restructuring of Ziraat Bank, the
country's single largest bank which still accounts for nearly half of assets
held by public sector banks and over 20% of assets in the banking sector as a
whole. Ziraat Bank also plays a critical role in providing subsidies to the
agriculture sector. The portfolio audit for Ziraat, on which its
restructuring program was to be based, proved to be a time-consuming process
due to a large number of small borrowers and numerous branches of this bank.
The audit, however, was in progress and scheduled for completion by external
auditors on November 27, 1990. Given the exigencies of the Gulf crisis and
the aovernment's swift and appropriate response to it, the Bank agreed to the
government's proposal that the completion of a satisfactory restructuring
program of Ziraat Bank be made a condition of the floating tranche, instead of
the second tranche. This proposal was also consistent with the objective of
the floating tranche which was to provide funds for the recapitalization of
problem banks being restructured according to a plan agreed with the Bank.
10.14       The government did suomit proposals for the restructuring of
Ziraat Bank but these failed to satisfy the Bank and this condition for
releasing the floating tranche was not met. The government indicated that,
due to political considerations, it could not pursue the restructuring of
Ziraat Dank as originally agreed. It decided to allow the loan to close on



- 22 -
December 31, 1992 without any further action, effectively cancelling the
floating tranche.
10.18      A number of other worrisome developments also surfaced in the
1991-1992 period. A Dank mission to Turkey in March 1992 noted these and
communicated its concerns to the Government. One such issue was the
increasingly risky activities engaged ln by banks. These seriously Lncreased
the potential for bank failures affecting the viability of the sector as a
whole. One of the effects of the unstable macroeconomic conditions affecting
the economy was a soft credit market, affecting bank profitability. This was
further aggravated by the narrow spreads resulting from the intense
competition for top-rated borrowers and the higher requirements for
provisioning and capital adequacy. Faced with this situation, banks moved to
compensate for foregone profits through risky money market and currency
positions inherently unsuitable for deposit-taking institutions, such as
taking open positions in currency and money markets. Given that this
speculative behavior continues to be rewarding for most banks, it is difficult
to convince bankers of the risks involved. The Bank suggested to the
Government that a revlew of prudential regulations relevant to these
speculative and risky activltles be undertaken and appropriate revlsions made
where necessary.
10.16      Also noted were further developments whlch undermined the credit
dlscipline underpinning the enactment of the prudential reforms undertaken by
the Government, largely in the context of FSAL UI. Banks continued to provide
loans to SOEs wlth little attention to financial fundamentals and such loans
were not classified despite loss of credltworthiness. Furthermore, SOE
arrears contLnue not to be provlded for. Banks and independent audltors
justlfy these practices on the grounds that SO0 loans are implLcitly
guaranteed by the Government. Aside from the effects noted above on
prudentLal reforms, this situation also underlined another critical problem.
Continued access to loans promotes continued loss-takLng by SONs sLnce it
provides the liquidity for these enterprlses to continue carrying on business
as usual. Loans to SOEs are profitable from the banks' point of view because
interest is reset and pald according to market rates. Penaltles are levied on
arrears and principal is eventually serviced. These operations, in effect,
reinforce a vicious cycle by contributing to the Government's deficit, further
crowding out the private sector, and fueling inflation.
Monev and Caoital Markets
10.17      FSAL Ir stipulated that independent audits be required of firms
issuing debt securlties of over T$1 billion as of 1988, as a conditlon for
flrst tranche release. Thls condition was met. other positive steps were
taken by the Government through the promulgation of various regulatory
measures in 1992 to promote financial prudence in capital and money markets.
These measures, however, were insuffLcient to stimulate the stock market.
Treasury bills, foreign exchange holdings and bank deposits offer more secure
and higher yLelds (e.g., up to 81- 85% on one-year bank deposits and an
annualized rate of 97% on three month Treasury Bills). In such an
environrent, the stock market has lost its attractlveness, especially when



- 23 -
compared to the halcyon days of 1989 when it emerged as the best performing
stock exchange in the world. Again, these developments can all be directly or
indirectly tied to the prevailing macroeconomic instability.
XI.  MITORING OF  EUSTMENT PROG_M
11.1           The first tranche of F8AL II was made available on June 27,
1988, the date of effectiveness. The commercial syndication and the B-loan
were also made available shortly afterwards. Second tranche was expected to
be released approximately 12 months after effectiveness. However, delays in
the implementation of key sectoral reforms delayed the second tranche release
by over two years to October 1990. A key consideration in the release of the
second tranche were the impact of the Gulf war on the Turkish economy and the
Government's quick response to it. Given its design, no release schedule
pertained to the floating tranche. The Government first made a request for
release of this portion of the loan in January 1989. However, the condition
for release, namely the restructuring and recapitalization of problem banks,
was considered not met. At the release of the second tranche, the floating
tranche condition was modified to refer to the restructuring and
recapitalization of Ziraat Bank. This condition was not met and the floating
tranche so the loan was allowed to close on December 31, 1992, effectively
cancelling the floating tranche.
Loan suDervisign
11.2        There were four supervision missions ins (a) November 1988a (b)
June 1989k (c) December 1989; and (d) September 1990. Supervision of the loan
was adequate.  There were no procurement problems under the FSAL  I.
XII. LESSONS LEAPNED AND FOLLOW-UP MEASURES, FSAL I & UI
12.1        The program of sectoral reforms agreed under the FSAL I and II
programs was only partially completed. Still, a measure of success can be
claimed within the confines of specific areas under the program. For example,
the absence of a banking crisis underlines the fact that the prudential
reforms and other measures such as strengthened supervision undertaken in the
context of the FOAL reform packages have achieved a measure of success.
However, the continuing lack of progress on the Deposit Insurance Corporation
as well as ongoing problems in terms of loan provisioning and exposure limits
demonstrate that important components of banking sector reforms remain undone.
similarly, while certain steps were taken regarding public sector banks, the
cancellation of the floating tranche for PSAL II underscores the fact that
moeaningful restructuring of the largest bank is still not on the government's
agenda.
12.2        Overall, however, the single most glaring deficiency has been the
inability of the Government to implement adequate stabilization measures and



- 24 -
adhere to sound macroeonomic policies. This failure has neutrallzed oome and
jeopardise  other refoms Ln the financial sector. continued macroeconomic
Lntability has prompted distortionary interventionist measures by the
government and speculative activity by the banks. it has also constralned the
development of capltal markets. Clearly, the most important lesson to be
learned from these operations Ls that the financLal sector reforms are
sustaLnable only when anchored on a sound macroeconomic framework. Without
the exlgencles brought about by the Gulf war, lt is highly unlikely that the
Government would have oved with the same urgency and effectiveness on the
macro front that allowed the Bank to release the second tranche. Events after
the Gulf war have demonstrated that the government was not ready to follow-
through on the reforms undertaken ln response to the Gulf criLis.
12.3        In retrospect, it is also clear that the BO  sector and its
attendant problems should have received greater emphasis in both loans. While
the crisis in the SO sector was not as acute in either 1986 or 1988 as it was
to become after 1990 when wage hikes and lack of investments accelerated and
compounded the inefficiencles in the sector, both the Bank and the government
were aware of the central role SO0 reform would play in establishing a
sustainable macroeconomic program.
12.4        There have also been problem with both programs in terms of
overst@l8ating institutional capacity. This was evident in FSAL II with the
numbers of sworn Dank auditors being scaled down by over 50% and in FSAL I
wher the lack of audltors was presented by the government as the
justification for moving slowly on imposing auditing requirements for firms in
the 13s as well as the banks. Clearly, future programs need to be designed
with a sharper focus on institutional issues and better preparatory work needs
to be conducted to prevent similar occurrences. Various non-governmental
groups did resLst some of the reforms undertaken by both programs. Overall,
these were dealt with fairly effectively, though the failure to limit exposure
liilts and delays in implementing reforms to aid transparency did occur and
contributed to the inomplete results of both operations. The lesson here is
that unless there is a clar sense of ownership on the part of
decision-makers, reforms are unlikely to weather the inevitable opposition
from entrenched groups. In this context, better dialogue with affected groups
might help, as would Bank assistance through studies and technical assistance
to Government efforts to gather the support necessary to implement reforms.
Suaain4mtL 4
12.5        The Lisue of whether the actions taken under the VSAL programs are
sustainable will depend to a large part on macroeconomic conditions and the
degree of ownership by the government on various components of the FSAL I and
UI programs. In thli regard, there are a number of lessons which might be
derived from these operations in Turkey. Structural adjustment operations are
generally introduced in erisis situations. Counterpart agencies as well as
the Bank face a narrow range of optlons and in-country opposition is muted by
the general sense of crLsis and the urgent need to take measures however
unpalatable they might be politically or socially. There is little choice
gince the perception is that failure to take adequate measures will only



- 25 -
further worsen a rapidly deteriorating environment. This is generally a
situation where the political and oocial costs of not taking necessary actions
exceed the costs of taking the steps needed to achiove stabilization and
sustainable growth. This was the situation facLig Turkey ln 1980, leadlng to
the rapld and effective measures taken by the Government and supported by the
Bank and the IMF. Turkey's economlc situation in 1986 or 1988 did not conform
to this sLtuationi indeed growth has averaged over 5 percent annually In the
1986-1992 period. When crisis threatened in 1990 in the wake of the Gulf
situation, the Government did indeed once again move rapidly and effectively,
paving the way for the second tranche release of the F8AL II program.
12.6        Furthermore, in an environment like Turkey where counterparts are
invariably not the decisLon-makers but are answerable to elected officials
likely to change at relatively short intervals, there is a problem of
effecting ownership for reform programs on the part of the Government.
Unpalatable stabliLzation measures are usually polLtically difficult for
elected officials to agree to. Bank counterparts are unable to deliver on
agreed reforms unless elected officials approve them. This has also meant
that it is more difficult to achleve such objectives as positlve real interest
rates, reduction in bank taxation, the elimination of credit subsidies and
other objectives, which require strong political consensus. Clearly only
operations which enjoy broad societal consensus across numerous political and
economic groups can hope to succeed in such an environment.
12.7        The Bank may need to develop more fully activities desLgned to
generate consensus on needed reforms. In Turkey, for example, assistance to
the Government ln dealing with particularly sensitive matters such as the
downsLzing of SOEs could be undertaken ln conjunction with counterpart teams
composed of technocrats from a variety of agencies. A multi-agency approach
might facilitate securing support from elected officials since the overall
plan would have the support of all relevant agencles on which these officlals
rely for advice. In situations such as these, the issue of ownership is
resolved, since elected officials and other decision-makers would be Lnvolved
in the process of making choices.
12.8        These multi-agency operations would also be of special import in
an environment in which Bank assets are thinly stretched. Continued
assistance in a constrained environment would require that operatlons be
especlally well-deslgned and targeted, a process whlch should be greatly aided
by joint Bank/Government efforts from the very first steps of designing a
project.



- 27 -
THE REPUBUC OF TURKEY
PRIME MINISTRY
THE UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY AND FOREIGN TRADE
Ret. DEI-IV-1t 13w17?                                   Ankara,
07 i*e,U
Mr.Fred LEVY
Division Chief
EC CD1
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
U.S.A.
Ref: Project Completion Report of l.and II. Financial Sector Adjustment Loans
(2714-TU, 2964-TU).
To begin with, we would Oke to extend our deepest appreciation for your
invaluable contributions and kind cooperation extended in the context of referred Loans
and also for well prepared Project Completion Report.
At first, we would present a brief overview of the financial system and what has
been done in the sector during the restructuring process.
In parallel with the 1980 Stabilization Program which was based on the principles
of free market economy with a broad range of targets, the Turkish financial sector faced
with significant structural changes especially after the second half of the 1980's. In line
with the globaliation in the World's economies, the Turkish financial sector, especilly
the banking sector has been in a struggle to become an integral part of the Tnternational
finance sector. Since the banking sector constitutes about dosely 90 % of the financial
sector, the focus of the reforms under the FSAL were given to the banking sector. In



^ 28 -
this context, there have been so many improvements to strengthen banking sector by
putting into force the prudenatai regulations consistent with intemational practices and
guidelines. In this respect most of the required measures have been introduced by the
appropriate authorities.
In early 1986, Uniform Accounting System was put Into effect. Without regarding
their nature, all the banks are required to conform to the Accounting System. On the
other hand, there have also been some studies aiming at the modifications in the
Accounting System to achieve more uniform and transparent balance sheet in order to
make more accurate comparision among the banks.
Auditing of the accounts of commercial banks by independent external auditors
acceptable to the Central Bank of Turkey has been put into action in January 1987.
Since then, the accounts of all commercial banks have been audited by independent
auiditors against generally accepted accounting rules issued by Govemment and to
be submitted to the Treasury and Central Bank of Turkey until the end of April in each
year. Thus through providing off-site supervision ability to Treasury and Central Bank,
the soundness of the system was enhanced.
A decree to define non-performing loans and provisioning rules for loans was
issued in May 1988. The standards of the original decree was reinstated in October
1989. After then, all the banks operating in Turkey are required to put aside provisions
for non-performing loans on their balance sheets. On the other hand, regarding the
loan classification on the basis of loss of creditworthiness, the implementation of



- 29 -
Provision Decree was criticized in the Project Completion Report implying that lack of
sufficient regulations on the basis of loss of crediworthiness. However, during the
meetings that had been held with the World Bank partidpation, this issue had been
discussed and our concem about the matter was expressed by pointing out the difficufty
of determining the creditworthiness of the borrowers. Nevertheless, the regulatory
adjustments have been made and a draft covering all the points Including the loan
classification on the basis of creditworthiness has been prepared by the regulatory
authorities. The draft will possibly be put Into effect soon. One of the other area
addressed during the mentioned period Is the capital structure of banks. The
Government issued a decree (Communique No.6 in 1989) on the capital adequacy
regulations that required the banks to reach risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio of
minimum 8 % by December 31, 1992, Also, In April 1993, the Government has Issued
a new Communique (No:8), some amendments have been made on the risk weighted
assets and the basic components of capital to comply with the EC standards.
There have also been remarkable improvements in the audit techniques utilized
by the Board of Swom-in Bank Auditors. These were brought into line with the
contemporary methods and strengthened. A new audit manual was prepared,
incorporating a shift towards evaluating management control system. In addition to this
notable developments, the Board of Sworn-in Bank Auditors has started to consolidate
the audited balance sheets of the banks operating in Turkey for three years. Thus the
Board is able to evaluate the banking sector as a whole and to make much more
meaningfull recommendations in achievement of sound and safe banking practices in
Turkey. On the other hand, the number of Sworn in Bank Auditors was supposed to be



- 30 -
increased to 100 untill 1992 by FSAL It Program. However, between 1989I91, the Board
was not able to open assistant auditor entrance examination, The number of Sworn-in
Bank Auditors have only been increased to 70 by the end of December 1992. In
addition to that, the Board is planning to open new entrance examination wfithin 1993.
Besides the number of authorized vacancies of Board will be likely increased.
In order to increase the efficiency of the bank supervision to be in line with
international standarts, the amendments of the Banking Law related to the ratio of large
exposure to the banks equity capital are being reviewed for revision in parallel with the
European Community Directives. Furthermore, the minumum level of ownfunds the bank
should possess has been recently increased. Thus, the minumum required amount of
ownfunds has been made equal to 5 million ECU which is the necessary amount in the
European Community. However, most of the banks' shareholders equity amount is much
greater than the value given above. The Deposit Insurance Corporation which was one
of the targets of FSAL Program, has not been established yet, eventhough a draft on
Deposit Insurance Corporation which was designed to operate of an independent
institutional mechanism to restructure financially insolvent banking institutons, was
presented to the Parliament but returned because of the elections held in 1991.
The action programs to restructurn and improve performance of State owned
banks were prepared and submitted to tie World Bank in January, 1989. Conceming
the restructuring of public banks, two important mergers were performed in 1992.
Tobank and Denicilik Bankasi were transferred with all their assets and liabilities to
Halkbank and Emlakbank respectively. Moreover, two other public banks, namely



- 31 -
Etibank and SOmerbank are already In the process of privatization. Public Pa: dcipation
Administration evaluate the proposals and alternatives to take the right step on this
matter. Also, certain action plans which was the conditionality of FSAL II floating tranch
have been taken by T.C.Ziraat Bankast on the enhancement of the capital base and
treatment of agricultural credits under the portfolio audit measures to improve the banks
efficiency. Public sector banks are moving away from sectoral specialization into more
diversified operations as they have competed wifth private banks on a more equal stand.
Together with the growth of private domestic and foreign banks and the establishment
of new banks, the absolute and relative size of the public sector banking should be
certainly decreased.
In addition to the points mentioned above, several further steps have been taken
and are in process to Improve the functioning of the aforementioned measures. Within
this framework, several studies have been conducted among different financial
authorities. These are counted as bringing the current applicable accounting standards
in Turkey in compliance with those of intemationally implemented, performing the
supervision of banks on a consolidated basis according to the EC Directives and
preparing the "disclosure requirement' for the financial tables complying with EC format.
In spite of the promising progress achievWJ in the banking sector so far, the
banking sector is still shallow at some degree and it needs some strengthening
measures.



- 32 -
As it has been steed In the Completion Report, the most of the problems the
Turkish Banking Sector suffering today Is due to the longlasting high inflation rate. In this
context, we agree with the conclusion In the Report that "the single most glaring
deficiency has been the inability of the Govemment to initiate adequate stabilizaton
measures and adhere to sound macro economic policies which should bring down
Inflation". Without macro economic stability, foundation of a healthy financial system Is
not possibl. In fact, the single most Important iem behind the problem of macro
economic instability In Turkey is the level of public sector deficits. On the other hand,
since it has not been possible to sharply cut down the inflation rate, the industrial and
financial sectors, in brief the Turkish economy seems accustomed to live with high, but
stable at some degree infation rate. Also it may be claimed that one of the main reason
of the high inflation rate is the unadequacy of capital market deepness. Under these
circumstance, the banking sector in Turkey, just as in other countries, is experiencing
serious problems due to high Inflation rate. Although, banks nominal profits appear to
have Increased during the inflationary periods, the magnitude of the stockholders equity
is being worn away. Also, high inflation rates made the Turkish banks' cost of funds
increase. As a consequence of growing cost of funds, the interest on loans increased
and caused to restriction on especially the low risk investment possibilities. Today, it
Is clear that there is an excess demand in Turkey driven by public sector. However,
taking into consideration the high unemployment rate and high rate of increase in
population, it can be said that reducing public investment will lead to a very high social
cost by creating problems in forthcoming years. For this reason, rather than cutting
down effectve public investments, it is better to adopt the policies aiming the reduction
of Public Sector Borrowing Requirement through increasing public revenues by



- 33 -
embracing tax reform and decreasing public expenditures through accelerating the
privatization of the State Economic Enterprises. In fact, the Turkish Government is
dedicated to realize this measures and is already In the process of preparing the
required reforms.
In the meantime, deposits are the greatest source for Turkish commercial banks
and the rate of interest applied on deposits is very much related to the inflation rate.
Today, the savings are orientated towards shortrun Investments. Because of the
structure of funds in the banking system inwhich shortrun funds are dominant This-
situation has arisen due to the depositors inflation expectation and will lead to increase
in shortrun interest rates, which in turn, will negatively affect some banks with liquidity
problems or mismanagement.
As a matter of fact that taxation policy is one of the most significant and efficient
instrument In the achievement of financial targets. Taxes are not merely source of
funding, they are also a means of correcting distortions in fund utilization. In this context,
taxation of the banking system has been relatively reduced by a phased reduction in
the reserve requirements of banks. Meanwhile, reduction of the implicit and explicit
taxation on the banking system which is the main reason of the spread between the
banks lending and deposit rate could not be achieved to a satisfactory degree because
of the sizable public sector deficit. An important part of the deposit are being sterilized
through required reserves and banks liquidity requirements. Besides, Banking and
Insurance Transactions Tax and Resource Utilkation Support Fund premium cause the
cost of the credits to the borrower to increase. Nevertheless, as the financial markets



- 34 -
deepen and allow much more the open market operations of the Central Bank to
function adequately as a monetary instrument, reserve requirements should also be
reduced further to level that is required only for prudential reasons.
The banks are supervised in various way in Turkey. Banks along with their own
Internal control mechanism, are also inspected by the Swoom in Bank Auditors, Private
Independent Supervision Institutions and Central Bank of Turkey and finally, the banks
which are the state owned enterprises by Supreme Auditing Court, Prime Ministry.
Despite all these supervision mechanisms, however it i difficuk to say that the
supervision system in Turkish banking system Is effective as much as required. Under
this circumstance, Treasury has intended to organize a Symposium with the participation
of relevant supervision institutions to discuss the World Bank's Report "The Development
of Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditng Services in Turkey" and to develop a
stategy and actions program to improve accounting and auditing services in Turkey.
On the other hand, the liberalization of the foreign exchange regime created an
opportunity for banks to increase their profitability by mobilizing foreign exchange funds
into the banking sector and allowing them to be involved In Treasury actvities with an
efficient TL and foreign exchange fund management. However this increased tendency
to substitute the TL for foreign currencies, which negatively affected the efficiency of the
banking sector. Therefore some measures which are previously mentioned were
Introduced to provide an equal return on the TL and the foreign exchange deposit.



_ 35 -
Meanwhile, the banking sector faces with a potential risk in the context of its
dominance of the financial sector. First investments would be financed principally by
bank credit, which could encourage high leveraging by enterprises. Second, as projects
become larger and more capital Intensive, risk exposures and portfolios concentrations
of banks could make the system vulnerable. Third, the banking system itself Is highly
concentrated not only In terms of assets but also In terms of cose linkages through
interlocking relationships with holding groups. For this reason, it is essential that other
nonbank financial sectors such as stock exchanges, commercial papers and bond
markets should be deepened. In support of this, Turkish authorites have been gradually
preparing and issuing the required regulations to differentiate the investment products
and investor structure.
Regarding the interest rate policy during the program period. There were several
measures taken to reform the preferential credit system since 1989. The most significant
one was the decision taken by the Central Bank in December, 1989 and Implemented
in 1990 to terminate its rediscount facalities for preferential credits. The remaining
rediscount window is confined to short term liquidity support for banks at an interest
rate set in line with the average cost of funds of the banks. It was planned to integrate
the rediscount facility with the interbank and open market operations and make the
rediscount rate market driven. In line with the abolition of Central Bank's rediscount
facilities, the Foreign Exchange Risk Insurance Scheme (FERIS) interest rate was
changed from a ffxed rate to a floating rate adjusted on a monthly basis according to
last three month arithmetic average of auctioned Interest of three month Treasury Boil.
After then, FERIS interest rate has reached to positive real level. Moreover, the



- 36 -
Government decided to freeze the Scheme for new foreign credits and also committed
its decision to the World Bank in the context of Private Investment Project Loan (3346-
TU). In addition to that, the Government took signfficant steps to reduce interest
subsidies for the housing sector which is the second biggest beneficiary of interest
subsidies after agriculture, even though it is not a part of the FSAL reform program. It
is planed to move further to a market-oriented scheme through the development of a
secondary mortgage market Preferential credit programs for agriculture remain but a
decreasing content. Under agreements with the World Bank, average of all agriculture
interet rate approached to 4positive level.. While, it must be taken into consideration that
agricultural sector are subsidized in some way all over the World without any exception.
Concerning the developments in the other financial sub-sector, two new financial
markets which are Foreign Exchange Market and Gold Market were introduced in 1988
and 1989 respectively. The regulatory framework which brought the requirement of
external audits for all firms listed istanbul Stock Exchange, was issued in line with the
promulgaton of amendment to Capital Market Law in the end of July, 1992.
Subsequently, the Capital Market Board has been enabled to respond quickly to rapid
changes as the Turkish capital market expands and matures by having broad authority
to adopt and revise regulations under the general framework of the Law. With the
revision of Law aiming the deepness of the financial market, greater competition
emerged through encouragement of the institutonal investors. In this manner, istanbul
Stock Exchange has started to sharply recover due to regulatory measures taken in the
end of 1992 after the slump during the gulf Crisis and the following period. The average
daily trading volume has increased to roughly 40 million US Dollars in the second



- 37 -
quarter of 1993. The IMKB (ISE) Index reached to its historical record level 8330 at
the beginning of May 1993, which was close to 6000 at the end of 1992, whereas the
total trading volume for the first three months of 1993 was 246183 mllon US Dollars.
Moreover, the most Interesting development witnessed In 1992 has been the Introduction
of asset-backed securities. As a result, most of the banks have issued securWit  based
on assets as a different financial Instrument Regulatory arrangements put Into effect to
legalize Repo (repurchasing) contracts which had been executed In praice wifthout
Government control. Also, In recent years, Turkish financial sector has witnessed the
introduction of various financial instrument. Howevr the introduction of broad set of new
products may be seen irrational without first achieving a substntial improvement In the
macroeconomic front and makes the banks to go to risky operations. Nevertheless,
taking into consideration the huge amount of financial relation In the debt outstaning
of Turkey, Turkish financial instutions should be familiar with the new financial technics
in order to transfer the risk to the international markets. Meanwhile. In spite of all the
abovementioned developments, the required deepening In the overall financial sector
has not yet been achieved and new measures to develop the financial markets are
being prepared.
Regarding the technical assistance (TA) component of the Financial Sector
Adjustment Programs, Sworn-in Bank Auiditors' foreign country training facifities have
been financed by FSAL I and FSAL II TA Component In order to make the auditors
familiar with the new accounting and auditing techniques.



- 38 -
Some part of the T.A. of FSAL I was used to finance electronic educatonal
equipment needs of Central Bank. Besides, several Central Bank staff also paricipated
In short-term banking courses. Another area of utilization of the TA has been the
enrichment of specialization level in Treasury on banking, securites insurance Industries
and general economic management Issues through short courses, seminars In foreign
and local institutions. Some of the machinery and equipment purchase of the Treasury
in order to develop management information system have been also supported by FSAL
I and 11 s' T.A. Component Further, the consultansy study of the Mass Housing Fund
for the creation of a mortgage backed securities market In Turkey was also partally
financed by FSAL 11 T.A component.
Within the general purpose of achieving the development of the capital markets,
a part of the technical assistance component of the first Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan was allocated to the Capital Market Board's use. This amount, which the Capitl
Market Board had access to, was utiized mainly for educational purposes, namely the
training of the Board's technical staff. Also seminars were organized by the Board for
training the staff of intermediary instftutons (brokerage houses and banks).
In addition to the above mentioned training programs, within the frame of
technical assistance of the FSAL I., for the purpose of upgrading the computing facties
of the Capital Market Board, the purchase of the personal computers took place.
As a part of the general financial market developments that had taken place In
Turkey in the relevant period, securities markets experienced substantial positive



_ 39 _
changes especially wih regards to secondary market acAties. Especially in the period
after 1989, there had been both qualitative and quantitative developments which
deserved careful atntion. With the growth in secondary market trading figures, two
issues became urgent to be deaft with: One of them was the need to modemize the
infrastructure of the securities market to enable it to handle safely and efficiently the
existing (and expanding) volume of trading. Another dimension of the safe functioning
of the market was related to the confidence in the market by the current and potential
market participants.
Against this background of developments in the securities mrkets, Capital Market
Board initiated an integrated modernization study in 1990, with the objective of preparing
a market plan comprising structural priorities for the Turkish securities markets and the
general characteristics of systems and technology platforms to be implemented. This
study was also party financed by the technical assistance part of FSAL 1.
The Board's objective in this study was to develop an overall strategic plan for
the future development of the Turkish capital markets and to prepare a plan for the
modernization and automation of the existing capital market infra-structure at the
technical level, which included issues like electronic dissemination of market data,
automated trade execution, electronic cash and securities clearance and settlement,
depository and related custody/brokerage accounting service.
The study on the strategic plan, comprising Issues like secondary market for
bonds, launching of derivative markets, promotion of institutional investors, market



- 40 -
surveilbnce services and the ole of the C   Market Board In the transiton process,
was conducted paralle to th sMarket Automaton and System Design" part of the
project This study was completd in May 1991 and a final report was released which
was merely a conceptuaJ design and a guide for the succeeding Implementation phase
of the Modemizton.
Furthermore, some pat d the technical assitnc  of FSAL I Program was
provided for the  ablishment of CIBS (Center For Intemational Banking Studies) it can,
contary to what has been sbted, rightfully be daimed that much has been
accomplishWd throughut five years under the managernent of Citibank and that the
functioning of the Center in Oine with the pro-set ob, ives (later enlarged to include
contributng to the develpmnent of banidng career in the Turkic Republics of Central
Asia and the Balkan Countries) Is successfuly being carried out by The Banks
Assodation of Turkey eO  since the contact terminaton wih Citibank and transfer of
management rigfs to the Associon.
From its incepfion In mid 1986 fil year end 1991 CI0S delivered a total of 212
course offerings top 3838  partipans. The courses delivered consisted of 15 core.
programs, 140 banking seminar, 38 English Language courses and 19 tailored
programs. uring this period a total of 31 dmferent programs were offered. The most
popular banking programs were Treasury Simulation Game, Intemational Trade Products
and Basic Credit Evaluation. The majority of the 3838 participants were from 71
domestc banks/financial tutions.



- 41 *
Besides contributing to achievement of goals set at the beginning, establishment
of CIBS has given the opportunity to share the expertise of Citibank; and the technology
transfer tt.us Initiated still continues.
From 1992 onwards The Banks Association of Turkey has been utilizing the
training premises for the purpose of educatng bankers from the Turkish Republics of
Central Asia and the Balkan Countries. 6-12 month long training programs, specially
tailored to the needs of the countries in question, consist of both English or Turkish
Language training and Banking training. In line with the initial objectives, extra capacity
Is used to deliver courses designed for Turkish bankers.,
To summarize, it is clear that the Implementation of the reform program for the
banking sector has been substantally completed. Its success is evidenced by the
absence of a banking sector crisis, although several public bank is still being
restructured. Through changes in prudential regulations and improved audits and
monitoring of banks, the financial positon and performance of the banking sector has
been clarffied. But we have still struggled to improve the other non-bank financial sub-
sector in order to create a deepened and healthy financial sector. To this end,
Government of Turkey has been enthusiastic to adopt and implement the necessary
regulations to provide a suitable financial environment. In the meantime, the Bank's
intention to get involved in social projects like the education and health projects is quite
understandable. In this respect, during the 1993 CISR meeting, the same opinion was
expressed to the World Bank and Turkish Government has been in the process of
preparing effective social projects with the cooperation of the World Bank.



- 42 -
Despite the unperfect resuts, it can be doubtlessly said that having a structured
reform agenda for the financial sector such as FSAL programs have been extremely
beneficial for Turkey. In other words, the process of trying to meet the obgations itsel
was more important than the end result. Therefore, we are in the opinion that FSAL type
projects shall be recommended for the other countrels in the context of financial sector
reform process as a whole. This sort of projects are good Instrument to form and
Implement a reform agenda and also to discipline actions of Govemment.
Best regards.
SW-



- 43-
PART III s   ESTIALQ -IOA 0
IVUITs MM  FOAM=IAL UlCTOR               L-
LmN 271445  AN
A   (US$300 Million)
As of (Date) a
$310193
Oriinlg      Disbursed    Cancelled    Repaid   Outetanding
Loan/Credit go.  30L.2           300.0.         - .Q5                2311,20
Or1sina1 Loan/Credit Date(s)  Actual or  e-eastiated
iitiatig 1oru                   J. 1. 1985                  Bout. 20. 1985
Letter of Development
Policy                        t  1. 1985_                 ha  13. 1986
legotiations                   Au.. 1. 1985                1Nu 5. 1986
Board Approval                  $Set, 1. 1985               June 10. 198
Loan/Credit Asreemnt            Sent. 3. 1985               June J12. 1986
Iffectiveness                   Sent. S. 1986               June 16. 19
Loan/Credit Closing            JAne 30. 1289                June 30. 1991
Actual Completion               June 30. 1991               Jun. 30. 1991
FY86   FY87    Fg88   FY89   FY90   FY91   PY92
(1)    Planned              -00.00          300.0 
(1i)   Actual               Z7.Q0 2l1.97  294.43 294.74 294.74 299.33 300.0Q
(ii)  (ii) as S of ()        382    -8  -i-
nESSION DATA
No. of    no. of    Staff   Date of
Month. Year          Weeks      Persons   Weeks   Report
Preparation           108                  A          i-.4   16       111268L
Appraisal             R01Z16..             a          a8       24     02LL1fLi
Supervision I         1I/86                2          I       .a2   1JA25L8A
Supervision II        L2/L7 _L2                       2        4A    9.LZL!z
Completion            06f93                3       _.1          3     06f309L23
FOLLOWr-C                   --- II N   uS
Turkeys  Second Fluancial Sector Adjustment Loan. Loan No. 296        apprved on
sJ 21.. I1 In the amount of US$AQ40m1ilon.



- 44 -
InItiRUs SECOUD FIINNCI&  SECTRm          LOAN
LOAN 2964-TU DATA
Amounts (US$400 Million)
As of (Date):
5/3Il/3
Original     Disbursed    Cancelled    Repaid   Outstanding
Loan/Credit No.  400.,           299.6        1000- ,      a.o        320.6
Original Loan/Credit Date(s)   Actual or Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum            Jan. 1. 1987                Jul. 23, 1987
Letter of Development
Policy                        Mart 18, 1987                Mar. 18,  1988
Negotiations                    Ayr. 1. 1987                 May 11. 1988
Board Approval                  July 1. 198Z                 June 21. 1988
Loan/Credit Agreeuent            July 3. 1987                June 24. 1988
Effectiveness                   June 3. 1987                 June 27. 1988
Loan/Credit Closing             Dec. 31A  1990               Dec. 31. 1992
Actual Completion               Dec. 31. 1990                Dec. 31, 1992
CWULA!T.vK LOAM DISBUEIT
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    PY92    FY93
(iM    Planned                  200.0   300.0   40-.-
(ii)   Actual                   125.0   200.0    0.0    300.0    0.0      0.0
(iii)  (il) as I of (i)         62.52    67-              751
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of    Staff   Date of
Mouth. Year        Weeks     Persons   Weeks   Report
Preparation            01l88                3         2        15     01/27188
Appraisal              03/88                2         5        IQ     03119.88
Supervision 1          11L88                2         3      _6       12/21/88
Supervision IIL 06/89                       2         5        IQ0    07/14/89
Supervision III        12189                2         4        8      02/06/90
01/92 2.5                     2         S     09/20/90
Completion              1L9_3            _       3    1               06/30/93



