Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2964 TU
             (Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 24, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June  24,  1988,  between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 9, 1988,
from the  Borrower  describing  a  program  of actions, objectives
and policies  designed  to  achieve  structural  adjustment of the
Borrower's  financial  sector  (hereinafter  called  the Program),
declaring  the  Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of the
Program, and requesting assistance from  the Bank in the financing
of essential imports and  services required during such execution;
and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of  the  Program  to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than  six  months after the Closing Date
     or such later date as may  be agreed for this purpose between
     the Borrower and  the  Bank,  the  Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the  Bank  a  report,  of  such  scope and in such
     detail  as  the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request,  on  the
     execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by the  Borrower  and the Bank of their
     respective  obligations   under   the   Loan   Agreement  and  the
     accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (c)  "Department" means  the  Department  of  Banking  of the
Borrower's Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade;
     (d)  "Board of Bank Examiners"  means the Borrower's Board of
Sworn Bank  Examiners,  operating  within  the Undersecretariat of
Treasury and Foreign Trade pursuant  to  Law No. 3182, dated April
25, 1985; and
     (e)  "FY" or "fiscal year" means the period January 1 through
December 31.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in the Loan  Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to four hundred
million dollars ($400,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1990 or
Page  3
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of  one  percent  (°  of  1%)  per  annum  above  the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings for  the  last  Semester  ending prior to the
commencement of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the  Bank  shall  notify  the   Borrower  the  Cost  of  Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in  carrying  out  the  Program  and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be carried out,
in accordance with a  plan  and  time schedule satisfactory to the
Bank, over the period from June 30, 1988 until June 30, 1990:
          (i)  a program for internal and external training of the
               staff  of  the  Board  of  Bank  Examiners  and the
               Department,  designed  to  strengthen  the  banking
               supervision capacity of said staff;
         (ii)  a program for internal and external training of the
               staff of the  institutional  mechanism, referred to
               in Part A.6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, on the
Page  4
               arrangements  and   procedures   involved   in  the
               liquidation   and    restructuring   of   financial
               institutions; and
        (iii)  training  seminars  for  commercial  banks'  staff,
               brokers  and   security   dealers   on  trading  in
               securities.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  provide the  materials  and  equipment required for
               the carrying out of  the training programs referred
               to in paragraph (a) of this Section; and
         (ii)  employ, to  assist  in  the  implementation of such
               programs, experts  whose qualifications, experience
               and terms  and  conditions  of  employment shall be
               satisfactory to  the  Bank.  Such  experts shall be
               selected   in   accordance   with   principles  and
               procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
               the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
               Bank Borrowers and by  The  World Bank as Executing
               Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with  consistently  maintained  sound  accounting  practices,  the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
Page  5
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, support the related withdrawals.
     Section 3.05. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause (a)  new  instructions  to  be issued for the
carrying  out   by   the   Borrower's   banking   institutions  of
classification of loans in their portfolios; and (b) based on such
instructions,  an  audit   of   the   asset   portfolios  of  such
institutions to be completed by September 30, 1988.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Undersecretary  of the Treasury and Foreign
Trade of  the  Borrower  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Basbakanlik
          Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
          Mustesarligi
          Mithatpasa Caddesi No. 18
          Yenisehir - Ankara
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               HAZINE, Ankara              821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
                                           821-42689 (ANK-TR)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
Page  6
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
                        By /s/ Hikmet Ulugbay
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Hans-Eberghard Kopp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan  may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to
be made):
     (a)  in respect of the reasonable  cost of goods and services
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds; and
     (b)  in respect of the reasonable  cost of goods and services
required for the carrying out  of the training activities referred
to in Section 3.03 of  this Agreement; provided, however, that the
amount of the Loan  to  be  withdrawn  on account of such training
activities shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as  designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco,    unmanufac-
                                            tured, tobacco refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco,  manufactured
                                            (whether  or  not con-
                                            taining  tobacco  sub-
                                            stitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive  and asso-
                                            ciated materials
      667                    -              Pearls,  precious  and
                                            semi-precious  stones,
                                            unworked or worked
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
     718                     718.7          Nuclear  reactors, and
                                            parts   thereof,  fuel
Page  7
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated     for
                                            nuclear reactors
     897                     897.3          Jewelry    of    gold,
                                            silver   or   platinum
                                            group  metals  (except
                                            watches    and   watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
      971                    -              Gold,     non-monetary
                                            (excluding  gold  ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods or services  supplied  from  the  territory of the Borrower,
except that  withdrawals  may  be  made  for  expenditures in such
currency on account of 85% of  the  cost  of goods and 100% of the
cost of services required for  the training activities referred to
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except  that  withdrawals  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $50,000,000  may be made on account of
payments for expenditures  before  that  date  but  after April 1,
1988.
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $50,000 equivalent,  except  for  goods required for the
training activities referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.   After the aggregate  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account  and  the  total  amount of such commitments
shall have reached the  equivalent of $200,000,000, withdrawal may
be made and commitment may be entered  into to pay amount to or on
order of the Borrower:
     (a)  in  respect  of   expenditures   to   be  financed  from
$100,000,000 of the remaining proceeds  of the Loan only after the
Bank shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange of views as described
in Section 3.01 of this  Agreement, based on evidence satisfactory
to the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program,  and  (ii) with the actions described
in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  with respect to the remaining $100,000,000 equivalent of
the Loan, only  after  the    Bank  shall  be  satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described  in  Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on  evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  the actions
described in Part B  of  Schedule  4  to  this Agreement have been
taken.
4.   If, after  either  of  the  exchange  of  views  described in
paragraph 3  above,  the  Bank  shall  have  given  notice  to the
Borrower that the  progress  achieved  and  actions  taken are not
satisfactory and, within 90  days  after such notice, the Borrower
shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to
the Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
Page  8
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1994
     through   March 15, 2005                       16,665,000
On September 15, 2005                               16,705,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
     Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000,000 or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines  is deleted and the fol-
lowing is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
Page  9
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in  the  United Nations publication, Deve-
               lopment Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $10,000,000 each shall be awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan  Account  in  respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documenta-
tion and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account,  the copies of such contract
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to the provisions  of  paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of
this Schedule, as the case may  be, shall be furnished to the Bank
as part of the evidence  required  under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A:   Actions in Paragraph 3 (a)(ii)
1.   Satisfactory progress has been  made in achieving the targets
described in the Borrower's Annual Program for the year 1988.
2.   Satisfactory progress has been made in reducing, as specified
in the Program, the  spread  between  banks' effective lending and
deposit rates.
3.   Achievement of the target  of  positive  interest rate on all
Page  10
preferential credits for the  productive sectors, specified in the
Program.
4.   Satisfactory measures have  been  taken  (a)  to increase the
attractiveness of local currency deposits so as to reduce currency
substitution, and (b) to increase the maturity of foreign exchange
deposits.
5.   The introduction of a  weighted  risk asset-capital ratio and
other quantative criteria so as to strengthen the capital adequacy
and reduce  the  loan  concentration  of  deposit-taking financial
institutions.
6.   Preparation of regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
establishment  and  operation   of  an  independent  institutional
mechanism  responsible  for  restructuring  financially  insolvent
banking institutions.
7.   Increasing the number of sworn  bank auditors of the Board of
Bank Examiners, actively involved in bank examination, to not less
than 50 and  development  of  an  appropriate training programs to
further increase their number.
8.   Preparation of  action  programs  to  restructure and improve
performance of State-owned banks.
9.   Completion of a study to  develop a framework for taxation of
financial instruments.
10.  Completion of a study  to  develop measures for improving the
marketing  of  Government  securities  and  for  development  of a
secondary securities market.
Part B:   Actions in Paragraph 3 (b)
     The Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence: (a) that the
Borrower  has  proceeded   with   the   implementation  of  plans,
satisfactory to  the  Bank  and  prepared  in  accordance with the
principles referred to in  the  Program,  for the restructuring of
banking  institutions  which   are   insolvent   or  in  financial
difficulties, and (b) that the amounts of capital infusion already
provided to such  banking  institutions towards such restructuring
have amounted to not less than the equivalent of $100,000,000.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  and services required
during the execution of the Program  and to be financed out of the
proceeds  of  the  Loan  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $75,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
Page  11
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Each such deposit shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account in the respective
equivalent amounts as shall  have  been  justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of  paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02
               of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
               Program, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the  Loan shall follow such proce-
dures as the Bank shall  specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized  in  making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
Page  12
