                                                                      40280
                                 PAKISTAN

              NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM PROJECT
                          (CREDIT NO. 2999-PK)




                               Follow Up to the
Meeting of the Executive Directors of the World Bank (October 31, 2006) on the
           Inspection Panel Investigation Report No. 36382-PK and
                 Management Report and Recommendation

                         PROGRESS REPORT ON

               IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACTION PLAN




                                July 5, 2007


                                                                Contents

Introduction ..................................................................................................................................... 1
Summary of Progress on Implementation of The Action Plan....................................................... 2
Progress on Immediate and Short Term Actions............................................................................. 3
Progress on Medium Term Actions............................................................................................... 10
Long-Term Outcomes ................................................................................................................... 11


                                                                Annexes

Annex 1.   Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund's (PPAF) Sindh Coastal Areas Development
           Program (SCAD)
Annex 2.   Note by the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP), World Bank and PPAF:
           "Graduating the Poorest: Linking Safety Nets with Microfinance"
Annex 3.   Report by FAO Consultant: Assessment of Badin and Mirpurkhas Districts, Flood
           Management Plan
Annex 4:. Report by FAO Consultant: Assessment of Present Condition of LBOD and Kadhan
           Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD)

                                                                  Tables

Table 1.   SCAD Projects by Partner Organization and Districts
Table 2.   Action Plan

                                                                    Box

Box 1. SCAD Implementation in Keti Bunder

                                                                  Figure

Figure 1.  Left Bank of Indus River in Southern Sindh

                                                              Acronyms

AKPBS      Aga Khan Planning and Building                                     NGO                Nongovernmental organization
           Service                                                            NWFP               North West Frontier Province
AWB        Area Water Board                                                   PO                 Partner Organization
CGAP       Consultative Group to Assist the                                   PPAF               Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
           Poorest                                                            SAFWCO Sindh Agricultural and Forestry
DPOD       Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain                                                             Workers Coordinating Organization
FAO        United Nations Food and                                            SCAD               Sindh Coastal Areas Development
           Agriculture Organization                                                              Program
FAO-TCP FAO Technical Cooperation                                             SCAN               Sindh Coastal Areas Network
           Program                                                            SIDA               Sindh Irrigation and Drainage
FO         Farmers' Organizations                                                                Authority
GoP        Government of Pakistan                                             WAPDA              Water and Power Development
GoS        Government of Sindh                                                                   Authority
KPOD       Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain                                        WB                 World Bank
LBOD       Left Bank Outfall Drain                                            WSIP               Sindh Water Sector Improvement
NDP        Pakistan National Drainage                                                            Project
           Program




                                                                       ii


                                         PAKISTAN
                   NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM PROJECT
                                    (Credit No. 2999-PK)

   MANAGEMENT REPORT ON STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
                          ACTION PLAN FOLLOWING THE
     INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT (No. 36382-PK) AND
 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION (INSP/R2004-0007/4&5)



Introduction

1.    On October 31, 2006, the Executive Directors discussed the findings of the
Inspection    Panel's    Investigation    Report      and      the   Management         Report    and
Recommendation on the Pakistan National Drainage Project (NDP, closed in December,
2004).

2.    The Panel found that the design of an earlier project, the Left Bank Outfall Drain
(LBOD, closed in December 1997), whose ongoing contracts were funded and completed
under the NDP for about 3.3 percent of LBOD's total cost), underestimated prevailing
conditions and the risk of extreme meteorological events. This contributed to the
breakdown of the outfall system, suffering of local people in the lower Badin district, and
to adverse impacts to fisheries and wetland habitats, known as "dhands". The Panel also
found instances of non-compliance with Bank operational policies.

3.    The Management Report stated that while the LBOD and NDP projects did create
opportunities for poor people by expanding agriculture substantially, all involved in the
projects could have done a better job of mitigating the risks and impact of natural
disasters on the poor within and outside the project areas.

4.    After the closing of the NDP,1 Management has continued to work with the GoP
and GoS to address the reform agenda initiated under the project, as well as to address the
drainage and outfall challenges arising from the LBOD. An Action Plan prepared for this
purpose identifies suitable strategies and instruments to progress on the reform agenda
and to support the poorest people of the lower Badin and Thatta districts. The plan
includes a poverty alleviation fund, a flood response plan, and a new lending in the water
sector approved by the Executive Directors.

5.    At the Board's request, this report provides an update on progress made in the
implementation of the Action Plan before the 2007 monsoon season. It describes the
activities and projects initiated for the short term, as well as those being developed for the
medium and longer term. The summary of the Action Plan is provided in Table 2. Four
annexes are attached. These materials have also been posted on www.worldbank.org.pk.



1The Implementation Completion and Results report was sent to the Executive Directors in May 2007.

Bank Management has committed to report back to the Board again in November 2007
on the implementation of the Action Plan.

Summary of Progress on Implementation of The Action Plan

6.     Local communities and civil society organizations in Thatta district were visited
in April 2007 by senior Bank Management. Overall, the GoP and GoS have been diligent
in implementing the follow up actions approved by the Executive Directors as part of the
agreed Action Plan. This report highlights the major results of the first eight months of
the implementation of the Action Plan:

     Significant progress has been made to address the harsh conditions of the
       population living in the area. Direct actions to alleviate poverty are in place
       through an inclusive consultation process with the communities. The Pakistan
       Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) agreed to intervene in the area in June 2006.
       Since then, ten nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) have engaged in efforts to
       improve the living conditions of the transient fisherfolk communities. This has
       resulted in 290 community projects prepared, approved, and being implemented
       with a commitment of about US$2.8 million. The PPAF is proving to be the right
       instrument to address extreme poverty in the communities outside the irrigation
       network given its targeting effectiveness and its partnership with capable NGOs.
       The mobilization capacity of the PPAF contributed significantly to the emergency
       relief efforts following the earthquake of October 2005 in NWFP and Jammu &
       Kashmir.

     A rapid assessment of ecological and livelihood conditions of the "dhands" in the
       vicinity of the outfall system has progressed less than expected. The consultation
       process on the terms of reference for the study with the Government and partners
       active in the area, the identification of a source of financing, and the appointment
       of qualified consultants took longer than planned. The assessment is now under
       way, and the first phase results will be available in September, 2007.

     Progress has been made in assessing and improving local government flood
       management systems. The assessment was carried in April/May, 2007 and
       discussed with the Government. Also, the district government of Badin, with the
       help of the Bank, has developed a "Contingency Plan to Combat Cyclones and
       Floods" for 2007. A similar plan is under preparation for the Mirpurkhas district.
       While the preparation of these plans represents an important initiative in
       addressing flood risks and vulnerability, capacity building at the local level will
       remain a long term issue, and the Bank will continue to assist the Government in
       supporting this action over the medium to long term.

     Progress has been made in carrying out an assessment of the functionality of the
       outfall system as well as in implementing the most urgent repairs. The assessment
       was carried out in April/May, 2007 and discussed with the Government. Increased
       efforts to repair the damages to the irrigation and drainage infrastructure that
       occurred during the floods of 2003 and 2006 have been made over the last couple


                                              2

        of years by the GoS with a commitment of US$12.6 million, of which US$2.5
        million were spent in the last year. While the risk of floods has been reduced by
        enlarging the flow capacity of the outfall drains, the GoS has yet to put in place a
        detailed maintenance program for the drainage network. The maintenance
        program is expected to be effective by November 2007 and will be supported
        under the Water Sector Improvement Project (WSIP). Detailed plans to improve
        the functioning of the complex drainage infrastructure have also been initiated
        and will be supported under the WSIP.

     Appraisal and negotiations of the Sindh WSIP have been completed in March,
        2007 and Board presentation is expected in September, 2007. The delays
        experienced between negotiations and Board presentation stem from the required
        clearances of the negotiated documents from the GoS and the GoP. This process
        has not finalized yet, and approval from Federal authorities is expected during
        their next meeting in August. Major lessons learned during the last ten years of
        the Bank's involvement in the water sector have been incorporated into project
        design.

7.      Management believes that while immediate actions have been taken to address the
main issues affecting the area as a consequence of the floods of 2003 and 2006, flood
risks in the coastal zone of the Indus river system will continue to be high. Historically,
these areas have been flooded as part of natural phenomena. Efforts to reduce such risks
need to be sustained through structural and non-structural measures in the medium and
long term, which are being contemplated under the WSIP and potential follow-up
operations.


Progress on Immediate and Short Term Actions

8.      The Bank's short term actions were selected to provide an immediate response to
the plight of affected people and to address other related issues, including:

         Implementation of the Sindh Coastal Area Development Program (SCAD) in
           southern Sindh, including review of the social profile of the population in
           Badin and Thatta districts under the PPAF livelihoods program, with the aim
           of identifying specific nomadic and other vulnerable groups and addressing
           additional livelihood support issues;

         Rapid assessment of ecological and livelihood conditions in the dhands to
           identify immediate measures to improve these conditions;

         Rapid assessment of existing local government flood risk management
           systems to reduce flood damage and vulnerability by building capacity and
           improving flood risk response;




                                             3

         Assessment of the condition of the right embankment of the LBOD spinal
            drain and its discharge to the Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD) and
            preparation of a detailed maintenance plan; and

         Timely implementation of the WSIP in order to ensure a rapid startup of the
            technical studies to design measures to improve the performance of LBOD
            and prepare a comprehensive flood and drainage plan for the left bank of the
            Indus River in southern Sindh.

9.      Implementation of the SCAD. The SCAD was established under the PPAF with
the objective of rehabilitating the livelihoods of coastal communities and developing
local capacity through better integration of Sindh coastal areas with the rest of the
country and economy (see Annex 1). The SCAD includes: (a) improving access to basic
services, including health, education, and drinking water supply and sanitation; (b)
increasing incomes through improved crop, fisheries and livestock production as well as
marketing and micro-finance
services; (c) securing access to,            Box 1. SCAD Implementation in Keti Bunder
and better management of,            Keti Bunder is a small town along the Sindh Coast in Thatta
coastal area natural resources;     district, with a population of 1,460 persons living in 285
                                    households. The majority of the population is engaged in
(d) forming viable community        fishing and the average monthly income per household is about
organizations that are inclusive,   US$70. Only 3 percent of the female population and 21 percent
well governed, and can operate      of the male population is literate. In the last ten years the
in partnership with the public      community has been affected by droughts and floods. Drinking
and     private    sector;    (e)   water is supplied by tankers from another town. Expenditure
                                    on water represents 30 percent of the income of the household.
integrating these areas with the    Not surprisingly, the major health issues are waterborne
national       economy         by   diseases.
developing      rural     growth    The PPAF, through the Aga Khan Planning and Building
centers; promoting integrated       Service partner organization (AKPBS), is implementing
development       of     physical   several projects with the active participation of the community:
                                    safe drinking water; street cleaning; household latrines; waste
infrastructure,        including    and storm water disposal; oxidation ponds and repairs of the
construction    of    productive    existing protection bund.
infrastructure, such as jetties
and wharfs; and developing transport and mobility, through the construction of inter- and
intra-village roads and intermediate modes of transport, using infrastructure grants and
micro-credit; (vi) promoting technological innovations, particularly the use of solar and
wind energy for pumping water and generating electricity; and (vi) reducing physical
vulnerability, through the construction of flood protection and sea water containment
structures and better response mechanisms by communities. 8.

Financing agreements have been signed over the last year with ten partner organizations
(POs) participating in the SCAD through an informal organization, the Sindh Coastal
Areas Network (SCAN). The network provides a platform for improving the quality of
life, alleviating poverty and reducing vulnerability in the SCAD area through a
coordinated, cooperative and collaborative effort of all members, local community
organizations and external support agencies. Out of US$18 million allocated for the
SCAD under the PPAF, US$2.5 million have already been committed. The main
activities being carried out are:


                                                4

          The Social Safety Nets Survey has been completed;

          Social mobilization commenced in January 2007;

          A survey has been carried out to map all settlements in the coastal area and
              identify nomadic groups. The survey covers 2,830 settlements and includes
              socio-economic conditions especially in terms of housing, occupation, water
              and sanitation. The maps generated from the spot survey provide a GIS basis
              on which progress can be recorded;

          Eighteen community infrastructure projects (service and income improvement
              projects such as water supply and sanitation, roads, latrines, etc.) and seven
              integrated area upgrading projects, which include several community
              infrastructure and income improvement interventions at the village level, have
              been initiated;

          The table below summarizes the number of sub-projects approved by location.
              Annex 1 provides a breakdown of the types of projects being implemented
              and Annex 2 describes a CGAP/World Bank/PPAF pilot project to link safety
              nets with microfinance;

          The sub-districts (Talukas) along LBOD/KPOD--Badin, Golarchi, Tando
              Bago and Jati--are being targeted for early program implementation. Three
              POs are intervening in these areas and 98 projects have been initiated in 36
              villages.



                 Table 1: SCAD Projects by Partner Organization and District2

S. No         Partner          Districts       Amount Approved/       Projects     Community         Beneficiaries
            Organization                       Committed (M.Rs)                  Organizations
   1     NRSP                Badin                            53.48          83                83          21,580
   2     SPO                 Thatta                          17.736          25                25           6,500
   3     AKPBS               Thatta                          23.972          43                46          12,000
   4     IET                 Karachi W                         6.506         10                11           5,120
   5     SCOPE               Malir                               6.5         27                27           8,640
   6     HANDS               Karachi E                         3.587         14                14           5,040
   7     BRDS                Badin                            3.601          15                15           5,400
   8     SAFWCO              Thatta                          19.657          36                36           9,380
   9     Sindh RSP           Thatta                            1.72           7                 7           1,680
  10     TRDP                Tharparkar                        18.0          30                30           7,500
 Total                                                      154.759         290               294          82,840
                                                  (US$2.5 million)




2The Table is a revision of the table that was included in the Action Plan. Two activities have been added
in the section on "Immediate and Short Term" actions, and some of the dates have been amended for
reasons that are explained in this report.


                                                      5

10.    Progress of the SCAD program under PPAF financing is overall satisfactory
considering its promptness in mobilizing resources and partner organizations starting
June 2006, and its community driven approach. While the PPAF covers the whole Sindh
coastal area, targeted interventions are also being implemented specifically to
communities under the direct influence of LBOD. While the PPAF has yet to show
visible results, the demand-driven approach requires initial investments in social
mobilization prior to income generating activities to ensure sustainability and community
empowerment. The PPAF is also perceived as being too widely spread. However, when
the SCAD program was conceived, the policy choice was to address poverty issues more
broadly than what would be needed strictly around the LBOD area.

11.    Rapid Assessment of Ecological and Livelihood Conditions in the Dhands.
The dhands study has suffered significant delays due to extensive consultations on the
scope of the study with the Government and existing organizations active in the area.
Identifying the source of financing and appropriate expertise also proved more difficult
than expected. However, the assessment is now under way. Funding through the Bank-
Netherlands Trust Fund for Pakistan has been approved, contracts have been signed, and
field work started in mid-June 2007.

12.    The overall study has been divided into three coordinated sub-components.
Component A, to be carried out by the National Institute of Oceanography, will (i) review
the monitoring data concerning the interaction of the dhands wetland system and the
LBOD outfall, including the Tidal Link, (ii) describe the direct physical impacts on the
wetland system, and (iii) using new field data, investigate the intrusion of marine
ecosystems into the dhands and model its effects. Component B will assess the status of
the freshwater ecosystem and its wetland functions and services, including fisheries and
water quality, and identify adverse and favorable trends. Component C will conduct
consultations with local stakeholders in Badin and in and around the dhands, and
undertake a socio economic assessment of the fishing communities directly linked to the
dhands.

13.    Field work, data analysis, and reporting are planned to be completed by mid-
August, 2007. Findings and recommendations will be discussed with stakeholders in a
final series of consultations, including GoS, and the report will be finalized by end of
September, 2007.

14. Rapid Assessment of Existing Local Government Flood Risk Management
Systems. The rapid assessment was carried out in April/May, 2007 and discussed with
the Government. Badin is one of the most flood vulnerable areas of Pakistan. Flooding is
frequent during the monsoon season and the period of flood inundation is typically very
long. The region has few natural drains and its vicinity to the Indian border limits the
possibilities of water disposal. For this reason, the area has low population, with the
exception of transient fisherfolk located near the dhands, who normally move upland
during severe weather. The flooding in this area is a natural occurrence. However, the
floods of 2003 were particularly severe and evacuation and relief operations had to be
carried out by the Army, the Provincial Relief Committee, and the District Coordination




                                            6

Offices. The area was again hit by floods during 2006 and damages and relief operations
occurred principally in Mirpurkhas district, north of the coastal zone.

15.     Most recently, on June 23, 2007, tropical cyclone Yemyin 03B lashed the coastal
area of Pakistan. While Karachi was the most affected area, floods were also reported in
the area under LBOD influence. As part of its contingency plan, the GoS organized a task
force to operate the canal network and reduce the water flows to prevent additional
flooding in lower Sindh. Rohri canal and Nara canal were closed and irrigation officials
reported that the banks of LBOD, Mirpurkhas main drain and other drains were normal
and under control. The LBOD system was not affected by the cyclone. Under the PPAF
activities, the Sindh Agricultural and Forestry Workers Coordinating Organization
(SAFWCO) has begun social mobilization in the affected areas and implementation of
relief actions, such as distribution of food, forage and seeds to the population.

16.     The past experience of the 2003 and 2006 floods was the basis for preparing a
"Contingency Plan to Combat Cyclones and Floods" in 2007 by the District Coordination
Officer in Badin. This flood management plan includes: an early warning system; strict
watch of the LBOD system; and location of refuges and other infrastructure that can be
used in case of emergencies. It also establishes the role of different institutions during
emergencies and identifies actions needed to improve the situation of the people and the
role of the government and NGOs in cases similar to those in 2003.

17.     The flood management plan for Badin needs further improvement. The Bank has
identified and discussed with the GoS and the Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority
(SIDA) the approaches that are needed, such as a clear definition of who is responsible
for early alerts and warnings; improvements in the communication network; and
responsibilities of the different institutions involved in dealing with flood management,
including NGOs. A Bank consultant met with NGOs, including one of the requesters, to
incorporate their ideas and concerns in the Flood Management Plan, during a field visit to
lower Sindh on April 20, 2007. The institutional capacity of SIDA is expected to be
improved through the capacity building component under WSIP. SIDA is working to
improve the coordination required to make the Contingency Plan work. Mirpurkhas
district also is preparing a Flood Management Plan, using the Badin example as a
template (see Annex 3).

18.     While the preparation of these plans represents a promising beginning in
addressing flood risks and vulnerability, low institutional capacity at the local level keeps
remaining a long term issue, and since the closing of the NDP in 2004 the Bank's
leverage in influencing decision making and investments has considerably reduced.
Government efforts to reduce flood risks and vulnerability in the area can be supported
however through the forthcoming WSIP, which among other things plans to help the
Government examine long term options and solutions to irrigation and drainage issue of
the outfall area.

19. Assessment of the Right Bank of the LBOD Spinal Drain and KPOD. The
assessment was carried out in April/May 2007 and discussed with the Government. The
emergency repair work to restore the functionality of the outfall drains--KPOD and



                                               7

Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain (DPOD)--was undertaken during 2004 and 2005 by the GoS,
in association with the 5th Corps of Engineers, Pakistan Army. About 394 cuts and
breaches in drains and 224 cuts in canals were repaired by the Left Bank and Nara Area
Water Boards (AWBs) and further strengthening of both banks of LBOD and KPOD has
been continued after the 2006 floods. As of May 31, 2007, a total of Rs.756 million
(US$12.6 million) has been committed in repairs and reinforcement of the system; to date
about Rs. 322 million (US$5.3 million) has been spent, US$2.5 million of which in the
last year. However, SIDA has estimated that a total of Rs 1,053 million (US$17.55
million) is still needed to complete the strengthening of the outfall system (see Annex 4)
and the implementation will take over two years.




                   Figure 1. Left Bank of Indus River in Southern Sindh
                             (Source: POE Drainage Master Plan)


20. In carrying out repair works and strengthening of drain banks, the discharge
capacity of the KPOD and LBOD spinal drains has been increased to about 9,000 cubic
feet per second (cusecs) as compared to the original design of 4,400 cusecs. This has
been done by moving the bank out from the service road in the right bank of the drain
(inspection path) by at least 20 feet and raising its level. The other bank, which does not
have a path for field based inspection, has been raised in most reaches of the drain.
Finally, the weir controlling the flow to the DPOD has been modified by reducing its
crest level to discharge more water. With these measures, the storm water carrying


                                             8

capacity of the drainage system has been increased significantly, enabling it to handle
larger volumes of water and thus protecting the area against flooding.

21. The actions taken by the GoS to strengthen LBOD and KPOD will reduce the risk
of flooding in the area. However, the GoS has yet to put in place a detailed maintenance
program for the drainage network and this work is expected to start by November 2007
and will be supported under WSIP. Detailed plans to improve the functioning of the
complex drainage infrastructure will require long term solution including the need to
evaluate possible new structural options. A comprehensive solution to the flooding
around the left bank of the Indus and safe disposal of drainage/flood waters will need to
be developed through the studies envisaged under WSIP, as indicated below. The Bank
provided guidance in the further refining of the flood management plan and the
methodology will also be used for developing a sound Asset Management Plan in LBOD
following the experience used in Punjab.

22.    Implementation of WSIP Phase-I Project. The WSIP was negotiated in March
2007. It was approved by the GoS and the GoP. It will be submitted for approval of the
Executive Committee of the National Economic Council in July 2007 and to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors in September 2007. The delays experienced between
negotiations and Board presentation stems from the need to wait for required clearances
of the negotiated documents from both the Government of Sindh and the Government of
Pakistan.

23.    The overarching objective of the WSIP is to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of irrigation water distribution in three AWBs--Ghotki, Nara and Left
Bank--particularly with respect to measures of reliability, equity and user satisfaction.
This would be achieved by: (a) deepening and broadening the institutional reforms that
are already underway in Sindh; (b) improving the irrigation system in a systematic way,
covering key hydraulic infrastructure, main and branch canals, and distributaries and
minors; and (c) enhancing long-term sustainability of the irrigation system through
participatory irrigation management and developing institutions to improve operation and
maintenance of the system and cost recovery. Improved water management would lead to
increased agricultural production, employment and incomes from about 1.8 million
hectares or more than 30 percent of the irrigated area in Sindh, which is one of the
poorest regions of the country. The WSIP covers the catchment area of the LBOD.

24.    The WSIP will finance the following components:

       (a)      Community Development and Capacity Building (US$10 million):
       capacity of SIDA, AWBs, and Farmers' Organizations (FOs) would be
       strengthened under the project, enabling them to perform their responsibilities
       according to the Sindh Water Management Ordinance of 2002. The project would
       strengthen the capacity of FOs to carry out operation and maintenance of the
       irrigation and drainage systems;

       (b)      Rehabilitation and Improvement of Irrigation and Drainage System
       (US$139.8 million): the main and branch canals, distributaries/minors (secondary



                                            9

        level canals) and drainage system in FOs areas would be rehabilitated and
        improved and a modern water measurement and accounting system would be
        installed throughout the canal systems in the three AWBs;

        (c)     Management Plans for Major Irrigation & Drainage Infrastructure (US$12
        million): A feasibility study for rehabilitation of the Gudu barrage would be
        prepared and assistance provided to prepare studies for rehabilitation of the
        Sukkur and Kotri barrages. A regional master plan would be prepared to deal with
        floods and drainage issues on the left bank of the Indus River and measures
        designed for improvement of the Indus delta and the coastal zone;

        (d)     Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project Impact and Environmental
        Management Plan (US$4.2 million): This component would be for monitoring
        and evaluation and supervision of the environmental management and social
        action plans; and

        (e)     Project Coordination, Monitoring, Technical Assistance and Training
        (US$9 million): This component would support project coordination, monitoring
        of implementation activities, management and supervision of procurement by an
        independent project management consultant/ procurement agent, and technical
        assistance and training.

25.     Particularly relevant is Component C of the WSIP, which includes detailed
studies and preparation of a regional master plan in consultation with stakeholders. This
plan would address flooding and drainage issues in the area on the left bank of the Indus
River, taking into consideration structural and non-structural measures, including
remedial measures for any outstanding deficiencies in the LBOD and measures for the
retention and/or safe disposal of storm and flood water. A separate plan would be
prepared for rehabilitation and improvement of the delta area, wetlands and coastal zone,
taking into consideration the environmental importance of the region and its economic
potential, and drawing upon international experience. Feasibility studies would be
completed and detailed designs would be prepared for priority works for implementation
under a future investment project that Sindh may undertake with the assistance of its
development partners.


Progress on Medium Term Actions

26.     Flood Management Plan for the Left Bank of the Indus River. A common
understanding has been reached with the Governments of Sindh and Pakistan regarding
the approach, methodology, and allocation of resources for preparation of a master plan
to manage flood issues in the area of the Indus River and the coastal zone. About US$7
million have been allocated under WSIP to carry out this work, along with preparation of
feasibility studies and detailed designs of priority works identified under the plan.
WAPDA has begun studies in the area to determine the need for a structure in KPOD to
control the back flows coming from the Tidal Link and the overall criteria for redesigning
the capacity of the outfall system.



                                            10

27. Coastal Development Program. Under the FAO Technical Cooperation Program
(FAO-TCP), a mission visited Sindh on December 6-19, 2006 to develop a project
concept note for a Coastal Development Program . While mission's findings were
discussed with the GoS and GoP, the final concept and the scope of the activities for the
FAO-TCP are still under discussion and are not expected to be finalized before March
2008. Additionally, an Asian Development Bank (ADB) supported project (US$40
million) is financing mainly demand-driven community infrastructure. The PPAF has
allocated about US$18 million. These are substantive resources for the coastal area,
which counts about two million inhabitants. The coastal development program will need
therefore to ensure alignment of its interventions and also address some of the issues
identified under the regional planning studies mentioned above. The approach to coastal
development will be finalized during the WSIP studies.


Long-Term Outcomes

28.     In the context of improving management of irrigation and drainage infrastructure,
services and equitable distribution of water in Pakistan, the Bank has intensified the
dialogue with all Provinces in an effort to pursue institutional reforms coupled with
infrastructure development. In Punjab, the Irrigation Sector Development Policy Loan
(DPL-II)3 is actively promoting a new governance agenda in the irrigation sector to
increase accountability and transparency in service provision and farmer participation. In
Sindh, the WSIP would cover 30 percent of the irrigated area in which the Government
has taken action to reform irrigation and drainage institutions, establish AWBs and
develop FOs for irrigation management. The implementation of WSIP is a significant
step in addressing the present governance issues in the Province by strengthening the
financial management and procurement systems and pursuing the process of devolving
irrigation management to the farmer community for greater accountability and
transparency. In Balochistan a small scale irrigation and watershed management project
combined with drought mitigation measures is being prepared. In NWFP the Bank is
pursuing a dialogue to sustain the initial reform efforts carried out under the previous on-
farm water management project.

29. An improved institutional framework for water resources management is also
central to the Bank's ongoing discussions with the GoP on further development of dams
and water resources infrastructure on the Indus River. Pakistan is moving steadily to
ensure the sustainable management of the Indus system; this will include the preparation
and implementation of a comprehensive framework of policy and institutional reforms
and development plans, all to provide sustainable and equitably-shared benefits to the
people of Pakistan. This concept has been fully endorsed by key stakeholders at the
highest level in the Government and by most civil society organizations. The challenge
for the Bank and other donors is to move the process forward in a manner that ensures


3To support the Government of Punjab Medium Term Irrigation Sector Reform Program begun in 2005 to
implement institutional and policy reforms to improve their asset management plans; to make
interprovincial water allocation and distribution more transparent; to decentralize irrigation management to
water users associations; and to improve water productivity.


                                                     11

full government ownership at the federal and provincial levels and leadership in the water
reform process, compliant with international best practice.



Conclusions

30. Implementation of the five actions under the Action Plan agreed by the Executive
Directors during the discussion of the findings of the Inspection Panel's Investigation
Report and the Management Report and Recommendation on the Pakistan NDP project is
broadly on track. Although the solution to many of the poverty, ecological and flood
management issues of the outfall area of Sindh are of a long term nature and require
management and structural measures, the activities initiated under the Action Plan are an
important step in the right direction. Despite strong support at a high level in the GoS,
weak capacity at the local level will remain a serious issue and will need considerable
strengthening. The Sindh coastal zone and, in particular, the LBOD outfall system will
continue to remain a high-risk subject.

31. Management's assessment is that addressing the complex socio-ecological and
structural issues affecting this area will continue to be a difficult challenge compounded
by recurrent and adverse weather events. Management will remain actively engaged in
following up on these issues. The NDP project is now closed, but the Bank will continue
to support the Government through the on-going dialogue, the PPAF, the WSIP and the
coastal zone management initiative under preparation. Management will report again to
the Board on further progress in implementation of the Action Plan and other issues as
needed, in November 2007.

32. As stated in October 2006 Report, in Management's view the Bank was diligent in
the application of its policies and procedures in this case. The Bank has done its best to
help the Borrower to address two distinct problems with specific inherent complexities:
the technical challenges of an outfall system in southern Sindh presented by LBOD, and
the national reform process challenges taken up by NDP. NDP succeeded in initiating a
process of critical governance reforms, changing the direction and strategy in the sector
towards decentralization, participatory management and the empowerment of farmers.
This was a critical step in transforming a governance system that was over 100 years old.
This process will continue for some time, but the foundation has been securely
established.

33. In regard to LBOD, with hindsight, the Bank could have made some judgments
differently, especially by calling for more explicit consideration of risks and tradeoffs in
the context of a participatory planning process during the LBOD design stage, by finding
a way to support the implementation of the LBOD Environmental Management Plan at a
much earlier stage, and by encouraging and supporting Sindh to undertake the livelihood
diagnostic study in the coastal areas of Badin that were not benefited directly by LBOD.
The Government of Pakistan and Sindh have promptly responded to the flood
emergencies in the outfall area of LBOD, which as has been repeatedly assessed by
different experts as a flood prone zone.



                                             12

                                       Table 2: Action Plan

              Activities & Projects                  A  B   C      Responsibility   Updated-
                                                                                    Schedule
Immediate and Short Term
 Implementation of Livelihood Improvement                       Pakistan Poverty
   Program in Badin and Thatta Districts                         Alleviation Fund  2006-2007
       Phase I (US$2 million)                                    (PPAF)            2007-2009
       Phase II (US$16 million

 Sindh WSIP
       Appraisal                                                 GoS/GoP/SIDA      Nov. 2006
       Board Presentation                                        WB                Aug. 2007
       Effectiveness                                             GoS/GoP/SIDA      Nov. 2007

 Socio-economic and environmental diagnostic                    WB/SIDA           Sep. 2007
   study of the dhands and surrounding areas

 Assessment of the conditions of the right
   embankment of the LBOD spinal drain and                       SIDA/WAPDA        July 2007
   KPOD. Preparation of a maintenance plan.

Rapid Assessment of Existing Local and                           SIDA/Local        May 2007
Government Flood Risk Management Systems.                        Governments.

Medium Term
 Flood Management Master Plan for the left                      SIDA              2007-2009
   bank of the Indus River in southern Sindh

 Coastal Development Program                                    WB/FAO-TCP        Mar. 2008
    Project Concept Note

Long Term Outcomes
 Improved management (O&M) of irrigation and
   drainage infrastructure; improved service                     GoP/GoS/WB        2006-2009
   delivery and governance; and transparent and
   more equitable water allocation and distribution

 Modern institutional framework for Indus Basin                 GoP/GoS/WB        2009-2016
   water resources management

 Sustained governance reform agenda                             GoP/GoS/WB        2009-2016

 KEY: A: Poverty and livelihoods, B: Flood risk, C: Threatened ecosystems




                                                   13


                                         Annex 1
        PPAF's Sindh Coastal Areas Development Program (SCAD)

Introduction
        The Sindh coastal areas have experienced a myriad of social and economic
impacts as a result of natural disasters many of which have occurred in the last decade.
Certain communities, particularly fishermen, have been the most vulnerable, relying on
debt and migration as coping mechanisms. In order to help these vulnerable communities
out of poverty, the PPAF, its existing/potential partner organizations (POs) working in
and near the coastal areas, the World Bank and the communities discussed the role each
can play to implement an integrated upgrading program for the area. Interactions with
communities were conducted through an immersion process, where representatives from
PPAF, the Bank, partner organizations and consultants spent days and nights in the
homes of fishing communities, learning what challenges they face and their hopes and
fears. This intensive interaction has helped everyone better understand what needs to be
done and how.

Outreach and Partner Organizations
        With a view to deepening its outreach in the coastal belt, the PPAF has partnered
with highly regarded civil society organizations with a track record of consistently high
performance. At present there are ten POs (see box) participating in the Sindh Coastal
Areas Development Program (SCAD); inclusion of several more is likely in the near
future. (see Map 1 below for areas allocated to each PO). A formal network, i.e., Sindh
Coastal Areas Network (SCAN) of these ten POs, has also been formed.

             Box - Sindh Coastal Areas Development Program: Participating POs
                 1. Aga Khan Planning & Building Services (AKPBS)
                 2. Badin Rural Development Society (BRDS)
                 3. Health and Nutrition Development Society (HANDS)
                 4. Indus Earth Trust (IET)
                 5. National Rural Support Program (NRSP)
                 6. Sindh Agricultural and Forestry Workers Coordinating Organization
                     (SAWFCO)
                 7. Society for Conservation and Protection of Environment (SCOPE)
                 8. Sindh Rural Support Program (SRSP), and
                 9. Strengthening Participatory Organizations (SPO)
                 10. Thardeep Rural Development Program (TRDP)

Program Strategy
The strategy for the SCAD includes: (i) improving access to basic services including
health, education and drinking water supply and sanitation; (ii) increasing incomes
through improved crop, fisheries and livestock production, as well as marketing and
micro-finance services; (iii) securing access to, and better management of, coastal area
natural resources; (iv) forming viable community organizations that are inclusive, well
governed and can operate in partnership with the public and private sector; (v) integrating
these areas with the national economy by developing rural growth centers; promoting
integrated development of physical infrastructure, including construction of productive

infrastructure, such as jetties and wharfs; and developing transport and mobility, through
the construction of inter and intra-village roads and intermediate modes of transport,
using infrastructure grants and micro-credit; (vi) promoting technological innovations,
particularly the use of solar and wind energy for pumping water and generating
electricity; and (vi) reducing physical vulnerability, through the construction of flood
protection and sea water containment structures and better coping mechanisms of
communities.

Nature of Interventions
    Physical Infrastructure
     Developing Rural Growth Centers (Integrated Area Upgrading Projects)
     Reducing Physical Vulnerability
     Constructing Productive Infrastructure
     Developing Transport and Mobility
     Promoting Technological Innovations
     Integrating Work-Fare Concepts in Infrastructure Projects
    Improvement of Health and Education Services
     Adopting, Upgrading and Operating Government Facilities
     Developing New Community Managed Facilities
    Capacity Building and Social Mobilization
     PO Staff Trainings
     Community Trainings
    From Social Safety Nets to Micro-Finance
     Built-in Work-Fare Program in Infrastructure Development
     Social Safety Nets
     Food Stamps for Participating in Community Meetings and Social Work
     Cash Transfers
     Asset Transfer
    Envisioned Activities under SCAN
     Promoting mutual learning through a SCAN web page, output specific
        workshops, and exchange visits
     Study tours to relevant success stories of the region
     Facilitating linkages with various development sector organizations, R&D
        institutions, manufacturers and suppliers of equipment
     Dissemination of baseline data, case studies and progress reviews of projects
        handled by various members
     Dissemination of best practice case studies and information on innovative
        products
     Publication of a bi-annual news letter

Progress to Date
    Brief over view of the activities undertaken
     SCAD Action Plan (2007-12) Under Preparation
        Baseline Survey of 2,800 Settlements Completed
        Delineation of Union Councils boundaries in progress

        Launching of the Action Plan Scheduled for June 27, 2007
     3 Health and Education Facilities Adopted and Improvement Process Initiated
     Social Safety Nets Survey Completed
     8 Existing and 2 New POs identified for the Program and Financing Agreements
        Signed
     Social Mobilization Commenced in January 2007
     18 Conventional Projects and 7 Integrated Area Upgrading Projects (IAUP)
        Initiated, 3 IAUPs and 10 Conventional Projects Completed

    Mapping All the Coastal Settlements
        A survey has been carried out to map all settlements in the coastal areas to be
    covered by the PPAF under the SCAD program. The survey covers about 2,830
    settlements and includes socio-economic information for Sindh's coastal zones,
    especially in terms of housing, occupation, water and sanitation (indicators of
    poverty). The maps generated from the spot survey provide a GIS basis on which
    more analysis can be undertaken by PPAF at a later date, including recording changes
    and progress in a visual format. The findings have been collated and mapping of
    coastal settlements has been completed.

    Investments and Financing Agreements
        Of US$18 million allocated for the SCAD under the PPAF, US$2.3 million have
    already been committed for a number of proposals accepted/approved by the POs.
    The areas (Talukas) along LBOD/KPOD in Badin are being targeted for early
    program implementation. Financing agreements have been signed with ten POs for
    290 projects that will be implemented by 294 community organizations and will
    benefit 82,840 people. Details are presented in the following table:

 S.       Partner                     Amount                    Community
No     Organization    Districts  Approved (M.Rs)    Projects  Organizations    Beneficiaries

 1         NRSP         Badin           53.48           83           83            21,580

 2                      Thatta         17.736           25           25            6,500
           SPO
 3        AKPBS         Thatta         23.972           43           46            12,000

 4          IET         Karachi
                         West           6.506           10           11            5,120

 5        SCOPE         Malir            6.5            27           27            8,640

 6        HANDS         Karachi
                         East           3.587           14           14            5,040

 7         BRDS         Badin           3.601           15           15            5,400
 8       SAFWCO         Thatta         19.657           36           36            9,380
 9       Sindh RSP      Thatta          1.72            7            7             1,680
 10        TRDP        Tharparkar       18.0            30           30            7,500
              Total                    154.759         290          294            82,840

Social Safety Nets Pilot
The PPAF, with support and technical assistance from the Consultative Group to Assist
the Poorest (CGAP), has also embarked on a program of social safety nets for the Sindh

coastal areas. Detail of this innovative pilot which can potentially have far reaching
impacts for the extremely poor and destitute is included in Annex 2.

Constraints
       The PPAF has disbursed and/or committed over 100 percent of its funds and
therefore, is faced with financial constraints to accelerate implementation. It is hoped that
once additional financing for Social Financing is approved it would be able to support
SCAD prior to PPAF III (scheduled to commence in fiscal year 2008-2009).

Map 1 - Coverage under the Program  PO Allocation of Areas

Annex 2.

CGAP, World Bank and PPAF
Graduating the Poorest:
Linking Safety Nets with Microfinance

Conventional microcredit is not always appropriate for people at the bottom of the economic ladder.
In fact, for food-insecure people or people without sustainable livelihoods, credit can lead to
indebtedness and actually increase their vulnerability. But this does not mean that microfinance has
no effective role in working with the poorest.


After studying various institutional experiences, CGAP has found that using financial services to
build on safety net programs can provide an important pathway for the poorest to "graduate" out of
chronic food insecurity. As clients meet their consumption needs through a safety net program,
accumulate savings, learn simple business skills, and develop financial discipline, they can use credit
and other financial services to better manage their lives and pursue independent economic activities.


This "graduation" model
assumes that the poorest                      How the Graduation Model Works

need grants, food aid, or
subsidized employment to
provide for basic survival
needs. Once these needs
are met, livelihood training
and carefully sequenced
financial services (starting
with savings and later
credit) can help clients
graduate from dependence
on safety net programs and
become full-fledged
microfinance clients.


CGAP, the World Bank and the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) have partnered to pilot
the graduation model in the coastal areas of Sindh (in Badin, Thatta and West Karachi). These areas
are amongst the poorest in Pakistan. Five NGO and MFI partners have been selected for the pilot.
Work is underway to determine a targeting strategy for the poorest, identify livelihood options for
them, develop appropriate packages of asset, training and health services, and create the correct
sequencing of savings and other financial services. A study visit to BRAC in Bangladesh has also
been organized. BRAC runs the largest "graduation program" linking safety nets and microfinance
and the visit will assist in develop concrete ideas for the pilot. A rigorous impact assessment design is
being developed jointly by Yale University and the MIT Poverty Lab to determine causality between
program participation and changes in the economic and social conditions of clients.


                             Annex 3
        Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations




                            REPORT

                              ON

                       ASSESSMENT OF

BADIN AND MIRPURKHASS DISTRICTS, FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLAN


                          Prepared By:

                 Muhammad Ehsan, Consultant




                          June 14, 2007




                        Islamabad Office

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AWB      Area Water Board
CCB      Community Participation Basis
DCO      District Coordination Officer
EDO      Executive District Officer
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP      Gross domestic Product
GOP      Government of Pakistan
GOS      Government of Sindh
HANDS    Health and Nutrition Development Society
HESCO    Hyderabad Electric Supply Company
ICZM     Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IUCN     International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
LBOD     Left Bank Outfall Drain
MAF      Million Acre Feet
NGOs     Non Governmental Organizations
NIO      National Institute of Oceanography
NRSP     National Rural Support Program
OFWM     On Farm Water Management
PEPA     Pakistan Environment Protection Agency
PFF      Pakistan Fisher Folk Forum
PMU      Project Management Unit
RBOD     Right Bank Outfall Drain
SCAD     Sindh Coastal Area Development
SCDRP    Sindh Coastal Rehabilitation Project
SRSP     Sindh Rural Support Program
SUPARCO  Space and Upper Atmospheric Research Organization
TMA      Tehsil Municipal Administration
WAPDA    Water and Power Development Authority
WSIP     Water Sector Improvement Project

                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS


A.   BACKGROUND................................................................................................................1

B.   INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................3

C.   FLOOD EVENTS..............................................................................................................3

     Review of 2003  Flood and affected Population .............................................................. 3
     Review of 2006  Flood and affected Population .............................................................. 5

D.   RESPONSE TO 2003-FLOOD EVENT..........................................................................7

     General7
     By GoPakistan.................................................................................................................... 7
     Response by GoSindh in respect of 2003 Event ................................................................ 7
     By International Community.............................................................................................. 8
     By NGOs............................................................................................................................ 8
     By UN and its Allied Agencies .......................................................................................... 8

E.   RESPONSE TO 2006-FLOOD EVENT..........................................................................8

F.   FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLANS .................................................................................9

     General9
     Badin District ................................................................................................................... 10
     Mirpur Khas District ........................................................................................................ 10

G.   ASSESSMENT OF FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLAN OF BADIN DISTRICT.......10

H.   RECOMMENDATIONS................................................................................................12

I.   RECOMMENDED CONTINGENCY PLAN TO COMBAT CYCLONES &
     FLOODS  BADIN DISTRICT .................................................................................... 14




Appendix 1: Recommended Contingency Plan to combat Cyclones and Floods -
            Badin District


                                         ASSESSMENT OF
      BADIN AND MIRPURKHASS DISTRICTS, FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLAN


                                    A.   BACKGROUND

1. Messrs Khadim Talpur, Mohammad Ali Shah, Mustafar Talpur, Munawar Hassan Memon, Iqbal
Hyder, Mir Mohammad Buledi, and Najma Junejo on their own behalf and on behalf of "others who
live in the area known as District Badin, Sindh Pakistan" in the Indus River Basin submitted a Request
for Inspection to the Inspection Panel of WAPDA on September 10, 2004. The Request raised issues
most of which related to the prior LBOD Stage 1 Project, which closed in 1997. The location and
component of the LBOD Project is shown in Fig.1. The Requesters claimed that the LBOD system was
faulty and they had incurred losses because of its poor design. The Requesters claimed that the Bank
had failed to observe or had otherwise violated various provisions of its own operational Policies and
Procedures. They also voiced concerns that the NDP project would extend the system to serve the entire
Indus Basin, adding more effluents from the upper basin, through a National Surface Drainage System
(NSDS).

2. Although the NDP project as originally conceived in the 1997 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was to
have laid the groundwork for the NSDS, the concept was subsequently rejected as a result of extensive
studies and reviews. Thus NDP did not extend the LBOD Spinal Drain constructed under LBOD Stage
1 Project that was closed in 1997. Responding to the claims in the Request about LBOD, the
Management authorized an investigation through a Panel of Experts.

3. The Inspection Panel conducted the required investigations. The Panel met with the Requesters,
local authorities and stakeholders including fisher folk, and discussed with Government of Sindh (GOS)
authorities actions which could be undertaken in the short and medium term to address flood
vulnerability and socio-economic and livelihood issues of people living in close proximity to LBOD
and in the coastal zone of southern Sindh. The Panel issued its report outlining the findings of the
investigation. The Management issued its Response in July 2006.

4. One of the five activities contained in a Short Term Action Plan approved by the Board of
Executive Directors of the Bank in the light of Panel's recommendations is: "Rapid assessment of
existing local government flood risk management systems to reduce flood damage and vulnerability by
building capacity and improving flood risk response."

     Fig.1  Location and Components of LBOD System




Nawabshah
Component



                       Sanghar
                       Component




                                 Mirpurkhas
                                 Component




                                                   Area Flooded in 2003

                                       B.    INTRODUCTION

5. For carrying out activity "Rapid assessment of existing local government flood risk management
systems to reduce flood damage and vulnerability by building capacity and improving flood risk
response" services of a consultant1 have been retained.

6.   Starting work on April 09, 2007, the consultant studied various reports related to flood events of
2003 and 2006 and the damaged caused by them, previously prepared2. The consultant undertook a
mission to site from April 15, 2007 to April 21, 2005. He visited Karachi, Hyderabad, Mirpurkhas,
Badin, Mirpurkhas Main Drain, LBOD, KPOD and starting point of Tidal Link to learn about the
project area and see repair works accomplished and/or on-going, and to discuss the issues with
government officials, technical staff of the concerned agencies and Institutes, local government
officials, and NGOs3. Government and non-government officials and technical experts were extremely
generous with their time and provided data and background information and reports to the consultant.
The World Bank Islamabad Office, the office of PC of NDP Sindh, the staff and management of the
Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority (SIDA), the Chief Engineer and Staff of WAPDA's Hyderabad
Office, the Director (Left Bank Canals AWB) and the Director (Nara Canal AWB) provided substantive
support to the Consultant. The consultant is grateful to all these officials and experts for their
hospitality and assistance. The findings of the studies carried out by the Consultant are presented in this
report.

                                       C.    FLOOD EVENTS

Review of 2003  Flood and affected Population

7. During the month of July 2003, Nawabshah, Mirpurkhas and Badin districts received heavy
rainfalls4: Nawabshah (304 mm), Mirpurkhas (192 mm) and Badin (292 mm). The run-off produced by
the rains in Nawabshah and Mirpurkhas districts, which includes the catchment area of LBOD System,
enters the surface drains of LBOD System and goes to sea through LBOD Outfall system. Review of
the design of LBOD Outfall system indicates that it has been designed to cater for a drainage rate of 1.5
cfs / sq. mile which is equivalent to surface drainage rate of 42 mm (1.67 inches) in a month. Rainfall
received in 25 days of July 2003 was on the average 295 mm, which was 7 times the discharge capacity
of LBOD.

8. Considering the envisaged run-off factor of 20%, LBOD system received 0.286 MAF of the total
quantity of 1.43 MAF produced by the catchment area of LBOD due to rains. In order to drain out rain
water, 2,050 drain inlets, with a capacity 1.8 cfs each, have been provided in the drains. The design
discharge of LBOD Outfall system is thus 4,000 cusecs (7,934 AF/day) but it can accommodate up to
6,000 cusecs (11,900 AF/day) utilizing the freeboard. At this rate it would have taken ordinarily 24
days to evacuate this volume of water. In addition, Badin catchments area of 3.3 million acres received
about 300 mm rainfall which also entered in LBOD System.

9. For expediting evacuation of rain water from their fields the population of Nawab Shah, Sanghar
and Mirpurkhas made cuts in the drains of LBOD system that further increased the flow in Outfall
Drain. This caused overflowing in the LBOD. The situation further aggravated due to flows from canal


1Mr. Muhammad Ehsan
2List of documents consulted in preparing this report is given in Appendix 1
3A list of organizations and officials met by the consultant is given in Appendix 2.
4Metreological Records of rainfall

escapes and breaches that entered LBOD. It is pertinent to note that I&P Department did not close the
inflows to irrigation canals despite the rainfall that worsened the flow condition in LBOD system which
had to carry many times more discharge than the capacity of drains. High tide in sea and high level in
Shakoor Dhand obstructed the flow, and area in the vicinity of Badin district suffered badly. It was
observed on July 25, 2003 that a discharge of about 9000 cusecs passed through Spinal Drain in the
proximity of RD 159+000. There were several breaches in the system particularly in KPOD. The area
flooded is shown in Fig.1.

10. According to the information provided by the local government of Badin, the monsoon 2003 floods
affected 390,469 persons in 1,407 villages of Badin district alone. The death toll was 88 persons and
321 injured. The 11,699 houses were destroyed while 21,063 houses were partially damaged. 9,110
heads of cattle were lost and 229,931 acres of cropped land was affected. In response, the authorities
established 100 relief camps in the affected areas for relief operation and 23,650 persons were provided
food and shelter for more than a month. Table 1 gives the names and population badly affected by 2003
floods.

                     Table 1: Villages and Population Badly Affected by 2003 Floods

   Sr.                               Affected             Sr.                                Affected
  No.    Name Village               Population            No.    Name Village              Population
   1     Khamoon Mallah                 320               32     Manthar Khaskheli             120
   2     Khamoon Mallah-II              209               33     Adam Khaskheli                120
   3     Shadman Lund                   278               34     Gudo Khore                     42
   4     Missri Mallah                  225               35     Hashim Mallah                  62
   5     Haji Hajjam                    200               36     Samoon                        100
   6     Hanif Mallah                   275               37     Ali Bengali                   120
   7     Gaji Mallah                    150               38     Anwer Bengali                  60
   8     Yousuf Mallah                  175               39     Rajab Mallah                   54
   9     Ramzan Sheedi                  51                40     Karo Mallah                    78
   10    Jumoon Mallah                  204               41     Nawab Ali Jamali               48

   11    Faqir       Mohammed
         Mallah                         118               42     Mohammed Chandio               60

   12    Ibrahim Mallah                 107               43     Mohammed Notiar                72

   13    Master     Allah    Bux
         Mallah                         85                44     Natho Bajeer                   54

   14    Haji Ahmed Mallah              93                45     Ramzan Chandio                 84

   15    Gul         Mohammed
         Talpur                         357               46      Khamiso Dhandhal              48

   16    Ramzan Khaskheli               230               47     Ahmed Notiar                  120
   17    Lakho Pir                     2,000              48     Natho Jamali                   42
   18    Bahadur Khan Lund              300               49     Allah Dino Notiar              36
   19    Pir Bux Mandhro                104               50     Pinyo Mallah                   90
   20    Yousuf Bhatti                  138               51     Sahbdino Jat                  180

   21    Mohammed         Hassan
         Mandhro                        96                52     Lakhadino Notiar               60

   22    Jurio Mallah                   180               53     Beer Mallah                    90
   23    Haji Raboo                     50                54     Khan Dal                       48
   24    Sono Khan Chandio              120               55     Haji Sujawal Jat               60
   25    Malhar Mallah                  156               56     Behdmi                        840
   26    Rafiq Bengali                  54                57     Allah Rakhio Jat              150
   27    Rafiq Dal                      60                58     Photo Jat                     104
   28    Tamachi Bajeer                 50                59     Murad Malir                  1,406
   29    Photo Chandio                  60                60     Patel Qasim Dal               900
   30    Ali Shah                       72                61     Nabi Bux Lund                 360
   31    Mohammed Khaskheli             54



Review of 2006  Flood and affected Population

11. Similar to the event of unusual rains generated flood during the month of July 2003, there was a
flood event again in the LBOD project area in April 2006. There were intensive rains the particulars of
which are given in Table 2.

                                      Table 2: Rainfall in April 2006

                  Sr. No.            Taluka                            Rainfall (mm)

                     1.              Badin                                  298
                     2.              Matli                                  231
                     3.              Talhar                                 205
                     4.              S.F. Rahu                              110
                     5.              Tando Bago                             144
                     6.              Mirpurkhas                             272
                     7.              Digri                                  362
                     8.              Jhudo                                  150
                     9.              Kot Ghulam Muhammad                    207
                     10.             Sindhri                                281
                     11.             H.B.Mari                               273

12. Besides sheet flows caused by the intensive rains, again the population made cuts in the drains of
LBOD system for expediting evacuation of rain water from their fields that increased the flow in
Outfall Drain. This caused not only the overflowing and breaches in the LBOD but the breaches and
overtopping also occurred in other main drains, branch drains and sub-drains of the LBOD System.
Another significant phenomenon that occurred was heading up of water upstream of pipe culverts
which have been designed to carry much less discharge than occurs due to heavy rains and cuts made
by farmers. This caused breaches in the banks upstream, notable of these was at RD 350 culvert bridge
across MMD, which caused breach in the left bank of MMD that threatened Mirpurkhas city. In order
to safely pass the flow in the reach RD 245 to RD 500 of Spinal Drain of LBOD System earthen and
gunny bag dowels were constructed in emergency.

13. Breach occurred in LBOD Spinal Drain at RD-435 NIP that affected villages; (i) Haji Khalid
Bhurgri; (ii) Haji Qasim Bhurgri; (iii) Nawab Younis Talpur. Local people made cuts in the
embankment of MMD to obtain relief from flooding, which subsequently converted into breaches at
RD-117 IP, RD-151 NIP, RD-152.5 IP, RD-189 IP, RD-202 IP, RD-216 IP & RD-219 NIP affecting
the villages Rano Ramdhan. Overtopping in MMD at RD-201 to 208, RD-213 to 217, RD-231 to 236
affected the villages; (i) Chounrow Bhurgri; (ii) Gul sheer Gorchani; (iii) Mirwah Gorchani; (iv);
Khalid Leghari; (v) Syed Ali Nawaz Shah; and (vi) Muhammad Khan Banglani. Breach in Mirpurkhas
Main Drain MMD at RD-354 caused flooding in the entire area of Taluka Hussain Bux Marri. The
District Administration of Mirpurkhas sought the help of Pak Army teams and IPD staff to take
remedial measures for repairing washed away embankment of MMD between RD-350 to RD-357 in
order to save Mirpurkhas city. The breaches at RD-62 & 63 of Sanghar Main Drain (SMD) affected the
village Khuda Bux Rajar and areas surrounding areas Sanghar Sugar Mill. Upward action of Dhoro
Puran Outfall Drain seriously affected Aliani village and Roshan Abad near Jhudo.

14. It is pertinent to note that the event of 2006-Flooding did not impact Badin district as severely as it
happened during 2003-flooding. This is due to diligent work carried out by Army in filling breaches
immediately after the occurrence of 2003-flooding, and later in restoration work carried out by
AWBLBC that is still in progress.

                                    D.    RESPONSE TO 2003-FLOOD EVENT

General

15. Immediately after the flooding occurred in July 2003, the Federal Government as well as Provincial
Governments launched a massive relief operation. International community also provided help in that
the Governments of Switzerland (through SDC), Japan and Greece donated cash and relief items to the
Government of Pakistan for flood affectees. Several indigenous and international NGOs participated in
relief operations during and immediately after the flooding event of 2003.

By GoPakistan

16. The President and the Prime Minister separately visited the affected areas after the occurrence of
the flooding in 2003. The Government of Pakistan provided grant of PKR 100 million for undertaking
rehabilitation in the flood affected areas. The Government of Punjab provided grant of PKR 50 million
for the Sindh province for undertaking rehabilitation in the flood affected areas.

17. National Rural Support Programme (NRSP) provided relief assistance to the affected people
belonging to its Community Organizations. It has also provided food rations to 514 households and
cooked food in relief camps in Golarchi Taluka to 2,175 persons and medical assistance to affected
population.

Response by GoSindh in respect of 2003 Event

18. In view of the devastating damages caused by the flooding in 2003, the Sindh Government declared
emergency and established a fund for relief operation contributing 50 million Rs from resources of
Sindh Government. A Provincial Relief Committee was constituted to review the losses caused by the
heavy rain and floods in the province, especially the damages to life and property in the districts of
Badin, Thatta and Tharparkar. The Provincial Relief Committee and District Coordination offices were
made responsible for the relief operations; affected families were provided tents, blankets and various
food items, such as flour, pulses, cooking oil, sugar, tea, milk powder, etc. GoSingh arranged
evacuation of marooned people by employing various government agencies including the Pakistan
Army. The flood-affected victims were provided shelter at relief camps set up at the premises of various
schools and other government buildings.

19. Nara Canal AWB and Left Bank Canal AWB provided technical assistance and support to various
agencies involved in relief operation. They carried out emergency restoration works for the danaged
irrigation and drainage networks in order to clear the floodwater and assured the availability of canal
water in the area. Using machinery and equipment available in Lower Sindh Mechanical Division major
breaches in irrigation and drainage networks were plugged in order to safeguard the people and
valuable property including standing crops, buildings, roads network and others infrastructure.

20. Later on, a detailed assessment of losses and structural damage to LBOD and irrigation networks
was prepared in order to restore the damaged infrastructure. Several schemes were prepared and
implemented to restore the damaged infrastructure.

21. It was decided by GoSindh that the families of the victims (dead), who were bread-earners, would
be given Rs. 100,000 each while other families would be given Rs. 50,000.

By International Community

22. The Government of Switzerland, through SDC, provided US$ 36,700 for rehabilitation work in
Dadu and Tharparkar districts. The Government of Japan donated cash grant of US$ 10,000 to the
Government of Pakistan, which was in addition to the relief items worth US$ 160,000 handed over to
the Sindh Government. The Government of Greece donated relief items worth US$ 57,000 to the
Government of Pakistan for flood affectees.

By NGOs

23. In order to meet the immediate needs of the flood-affected population of Badin, Thatta and Dadu
districts, the International NGO Forum comprising of Islamic Relief, SCF-UK and OXFAM-GB,
Action Aid, Catholic Relief Service, Concern Pakistan and Church World Service jointly contributing
funds to provide food and non-food packages in the relief camps and affected people in villages. These
packages consisted of essential food items, water purifiers with containers, hygiene kits and cooking
utensils. SCF-UK provided food to Tharparkar through Thardeep Rural Development Programme
(TRDP) and to Badin through Strengthening Participatory Organization (SPO). Concern Pakistan
distributed tents worth EUR 40,000 (US$ 45,610) in Badin through the Church World Service. Focus
Humanitarian Assistance provided food assistance to five hundred families for seven days as well as
mosquito coils and water purification tablets to these families for ten days.

24. The Pakistan Red Crescent Society (PRCS) provided blankets and medical camps using US$
50,000 contributed by ICRC. PRCS had allocated US$ 50,000 from its own resources for relief work in
Sindh and Balochistan provinces. In addition, PRCS received donations: (i) US$ 50,000 from USAID
for emergency food supplies to the affectees in Sindh; and (ii) US$ 50,000 from the Chinese Red Cross.
These funds were used to provide food, health and shelter to the affectees in both the provinces.

By UN and its Allied Agencies

25. The UNICEF delivered Jerry Cans of drinking water and water purification tablets worth US$
40,000. Tents purchased by UNDP from funds allocated by OCHA (US$ 50,000) were distributed to
the affectees in Badin. UNDP provided another amount of US$ 50,000 for coordination, monitoring and
logistics support of relief activities in Sindh. WFP procured and distributed food supplies (400 tones
wheat flour and 100 tones edible oil) worth US$ 200,000 for 240,000 beneficiaries in Thatta, Badin,
and Tharparkar districts. Half of the food supplies were distributed in Badin, being the worst affected
district. WHO also provided 50,000 water purification tablets and 50,000 packets of ORS worth US$
15,000.

                                    E.    RESPONSE TO 2006-FLOOD EVENT

26. During the event of 2006, GoSindh carried out relief operation in the affected areas similar to the
one carried out in response to the event of 2003 flooding. Since the damage during 2006 flooding was
relatively on lesser scale than the 2003 event the relief operation was all indigenous effort. GoSingh
arranged evacuation of marooned people by employing various government agencies including the
Pakistan Army. The flood-affected had to be provided shelter at relief camps set up at the premises of
various schools and other government buildings. Affected families were provided tents, various food
items, such as flour, pulses, cooking oil, sugar, tea, milk powder, etc.

                                   F.    FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLANS

General

27. Pakistan has had a long history of repeated localized and widespread flooding. Much of Pakistan is
a flood prone region, with steep upper catchments and the potential for high intensity rainfall. The flood
problem has been exacerbated by the progressive denudation of river catchments and the general
deterioration of river channels from significantly reduced flows during non-flood seasons because of
increased diversion from the rivers. Despite reservoir construction and major investments in flood
protection, there remains a considerable flood hazard. The capacities of the dams to attenuate flooding
and regulate river flows are being reduced by siltation.

28. Flooding mainly impacts on three areas of the country:

29. The main riverine areas adjacent to the Indus and its tributaries (the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Sutlej
and Kabul) where annual floods are used for irrigation. These areas are heavily populated and suffer
catastrophic damage due to high intensity floods;

30. High torrent affected areas where intense local rainfall on steep, largely denuded mountainsides can
cause major flash floods. Such floods cause immense damage due to erosion and inundation of
agricultural and populated lands and to communications and urban infrastructure. large and sudden
deposits of sediment from hill torrents near the confluence with major rivers may change hydraulic and
morphological conditions locally in the main river, adversely affecting flooding and erosion conditions;
and

31. Areas of poor drainage where water ponds in agricultural and urban areas as a result of heavy
summer (monsoon) rainfall;

32. Generally Pakistan is impacted by the high floods in main riverine areas adjacent to the Indus and
its tributaries every year during the Kharif season. These high floods cause severe damage to public
infrastructure, private property, human life, crops and livestock, as happened in 1950, 1955, 1957,
1973, 1976, 1978, 1988, 1992 and 1995. Due to expectation of this category of flooding every year, the
local administrations of the respective districts and other related departments in the vicinity of riverine
areas prepared Flood Management Plans containing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in 1980s to
combat these floods. These Flood Management Plans have evolved into effective instruments for
providing relief to population affected by a flood event. District Administrations generally deal with the
non-structural measures to mitigate the effect of floods while the Irrigation Departments of the
concerned areas deal with up-keep of the flood protection infrastructure to avoid or minimize flooding.

33. The flooding that occurred in Badin area during 2003 and Mirpurkhas in 2006 was of the category
mentioned under bullet three above. Although the Badin area had witnessed rain water floods in the
years 1959, 1961, 1962, 1964, 1967, 1970, 1973, 1976 & 1979 but these were relatively of much less
severity than that of 2003 flooding. The flooding in Badin area was not expected to be recurrent event
every year, as during the forty years (1959 and 2000) only about a dozen times the noticeable flooding
due to rains occurred.     The area used to remain under water from 2 to 3 months due to poor
drainage.This inundation used to spoil crops in the vastly affected area, sub-merging hundreds of
villages and displacing thousands of people. The inundation of area for months was a fact accepted
without much of a complaint. Due to the fact that the flooding was an accepted norm and of the
magnitude much less than that occurred during 2003, preparation of a Flood Management Plan
containing SOPs prior to the 2003 event of flooding had not been considered necessary. The gravity of
the situation became noticeable after the 1998 cyclone but the flooding in 2003 due to unprecedented

rains prompted preparation of a Plan to combat an emergency. Otherwise, the effects of the floods were
mitigated with spurred reaction, as no formal Flood Management Plan existed.

Badin District Contingency Plan to combat Cyclones & Floods

34. District Coordination Officer, Badin prepared a Flood Management Plan after the 2003 flooding
event in year 2004 prior to monsoon season to combat situation similar to that occurred in 2003. It was
reported to be have been updated every year. The updated version of this document is entitled
"Contingency Plan to combat Cyclones & Flood / Rain 2007". This Flood Management Plan is specific
to the requirement of Badin District and was prepared keeping in view the lessons learnt during the
2003 flooding. As explained in para 38, the Contingency Plan prepared for Badin District gives only
non-structural measures (flood warning systems, laws and regulations, and readiness for providing the
relief measures to the affected population). It was found that the "Contingency Plan to combat Cyclones
& Flood / Rain 2007" has been circulated to the key responsible officers of the district. During the
meeting with representatives of 4 NGOs on April 20, 2004, the Bank Consultant saw its copy with one
of the representatives.

Mirpur Khas District Contingency Plan to combat Cyclones & Floods

35. Mirpurkhas has yet to prepare a Flood Management Plan. The district administration (DCO)
informed that a Flood Management Plan similar to the one prepared for Badin District would soon be
prepared. As happened after the 2003 event, the effects of the flood event of 2006 were mitigated with
spurred reaction, as no formal Flood Management Plan existed for the Mirpurkhas District.

                                   G.    ASSESSMENT OF FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLAN
                                         OF BADIN DISTRICT

36. Damaging effects of flooding are as follow:s

     Loss and damage to public infrastructure;
     Loss of private property;
     Loss of crop or reduction in yields of crop;
     Loss of human life and livestock; and
     Spread of water borne diseases.

37. The purpose of a Flood Management Plan for an area is to prevent and/or minimize the damaging
effects of floods. Therefore a good plan should contain preventing measures and mitigation measures
prior to and after the damage caused by a flooding. For minimizing the damaging effects of a flood two
types of measures are necessary; (i) Structural (flood protection works); and (ii) Non-structural (flood
warning systems, laws and regulations, and readiness for providing the relief measures to the affected
population). Structural measures are meant to prevent or minimize the damaging effect by keeping the
flood water away from the populous areas and safe passage of the flood water to the disposal areas or
facilities.

38. The Contingency Plan prepared for Badin District gives the background of 2003 flooding and
informs about the inadequacy of structural measures as those existed. However, it does not include the
structural measures but suggests addressing the structural deficiencies. The Contingency Plan prepared
for Badin District gives only non-structural measures (flood warning systems, laws and regulations, and
readiness for providing the relief measures to the affected population).

39. It mainly focuses on preparedness for providing relief measures in the event of a flooding,
including flood warning system, evacuation of marooned population and the temporary shelter. The
plan contains the narration of the lessons learnt from 2003 Flood Event, which forms the basis of the
preparedness plan.

40. It states that the early warning of cyclones and heavy rains will be communicated through Radio,
TV and Police wireless system. The Plan does not mention as to who would be responsible for issuing
the Early Warning. It is learnt that NIO carries out research development connected with tides and do
publish the reports containing information about the tides. But the Meteorological Department is
responsible to tracks down cyclones and the cloud systems producing heavy rains. Logically, the
Meteorological Department should be the one to issue the early warning and they do as per their SOP
but it is not mentioned in the Plan. There is a small meteorological station in Badin supervised by a
junior official. This station monitors the rain fall as it occurs but is not in a position to issue the early
warning. Accordingly, a clear source for receiving the early warning needs to be mentioned in the plan
along with the official responsible in the District Administration to communicate the early warning to
the remotest possible areas in Badin district i.e. the villages and settlements near the coast line such as;
Shaikareyo etc. These settlements are remote and prone to suffer the most in case of a flooding, and
have no TVs or radio receivers. It is time consuming to reach these places. It was learnt `Tapedars'
were the last link to pass on the information that, being revenue collecting staff, are not popular and not
considered credible. Therefore, there must be a foolproof way to provide the information to the
population in remote areas in time, which is considered credible by them.

41. The mechanism to declare the emergency is stated in the Plan, and establishing control rooms at
District level, Taluka level along with the telephone numbers of the concerned officials are given. There
is mention of Relief Commissioner's Office in Hyderabad along with his telephone number but the role
of the Relief Commissioner is not defined.

42. The mechanism to declare the emergency is stated in the Plan, and establishing control rooms at
District level, Taluka level along with the telephone numbers of the concerned officials are given. There
is mention of Relief Commissioner's Office in Hyderabad along with his telephone number but the role
of the Relief Commissioner is not defined.

43. The duties of the concerned XEN Drainage, Revenue Department, Education Department (for
providing school buildings for the relief camps), Health Department, Taluka Muncipal Administration,
Agriculture Department, Civil Defense, HESCO, telephone Department, Southern Gas Company, W&S
Department, DPO-Badin and EDO (Community Development) are given in the Plan. Also mentioned in
the Plan are roles of Edhi Welfare Trust and Pakistan Army. But the roles at union council and/or
village level are not indicated.

44. The Contingency Plan includes the list of school buildings and number of rooms in them along with
their capacities to accommodate displaced persons. It also includes the list of `DEHs' (villages) and
their population, organized taluka-wise along with the names of the concerned `Tapedars'. But the list
of DEHs most vulnerable to flood risks is not prepared.

45. The Flood Management Plan does not indicate details as to where the population of specific `Dehs'
would be given shelter in case of need.

46. During the 2003 event, the hygienic conditions in schools where shelter was provided became bad,
safe drinking water became short in supply and inadequate latrines made overall environmental
conditions as intolerable. An officer spending money from the Government Exchequer to provide food
during 2003 event is reported to have to face a lot of inquiries and embarrassment after the event in

Badin District. For the future, the Secretary Government of Sind Food Department is requested to
direct Director Food and Deputy Director to make prior arrangement of supply from Karachi and
Hyderabad at the time of need / emergency. But the logistic indicating the quantities of food, safe
drinking water, medicines etc., and the budget for the same is not indicated in the Plan.

47. Although the induction of NGOs and other philanthropic is implied in the Flood Management Plan
but the detailed mechanism to organize and implement the participation by them is not indicated. It was
informed by the representatives of the NGOs that during the 2003 relief operation there was no Disaster
management Committee formed, which if had been formed including co-opted representatives from
private sector and/or NGOs could have provided better guidance and arrangements particularly towards
shortages of food items etc. There is no provision for forming such a committee in the Flood
Management Plan.

48. The Flood Management Plan rightly points out the need for strict watch on the LBOD drains, which
is virtually non-existent for the time being. This is subject of O&M of LBOD System. SIDA needs to
look into it to improve the situation.

                                    H.   RECOMMENDATIONS

49. There is need to have a comprehensive Flood Management Plan for Badin and Mirpurkhas districts
including structural measures. In this connection, Government of Pakistan has approved a PC-II for an
amount of Rs. 41 Million for carrying out the Feasibility Studies by retaining services of consultants to
identify and mitigate the problem in LBOD Outfall and Badin Area Drainage System. The TOR for
carrying out the Feasibility Studies by retaining services of consultants to identify and mitigate the
problem in LBOD Outfall and Badin Area Drainage System have been prepared by participation of
stakeholders. The recently approved Project of Water Sector Improvement Program (WSIP), which
would be implemented with the World Bank's financial assistance, among other things, "[...]" will
support the preparation of a comprehensive flood management plan for the Left Bank of the Indus River
in Sindh including the Indus delta and coastal areas. This regional drainage master plan, agreed with
local stakeholders during preparation of the national Drainage Master Plan, will encompass both surface
drainage, sub-surface drainage, water logging and salinity control and flood risk management, and will
include appropriate structural and non-structural options (e.g., flood warning and communications,
flood proofing and improved preparedness and response systems). Planning and infrastructure
management capacity will be built and the capacity of local authorities will be strengthened. A modern,
world-class knowledge base will be developed with appropriate analytical tools and information
management systems to support planning, operations and management. The detailed design would be
prepared and made ready for implementation of the priority works identified under the master plan
under a future investment project that Sindh may undertake with the assistance of its development
partners"[...]"

50. The Government of Pakistan has formed a National Disaster Management Authority. It would be
appropriate to have participation of this newly formed institution in preparing Flood Management Plan
for the Left Bank of the Indus River.

51. WAPDA South must coordinate at appropriate level with GoSindh as well as consult other
stakeholders in carrying out the Feasibility Studies through services of consultants to identify and
mitigate the problem in LBOD Outfall and Badin Area Drainage System. For preparing a
comprehensive DMP there shall be need for stakeholder participation, as has been done in preparing the
DMP for Kotri.

52. In the interim the following actions are recommended for improving the existing local government
flood risk management systems to reduce flood damage and vulnerability by building capacity and
improving flood risk response:

    (i)     A system for ensuring the communication of early warning that is considered credible and
            clearly understood by the population prone to adverse effects of flooding needs to be
            established. A clear methodology should be framed to communicate warnings generated by
            the Meteorological Department in the shortest possible time, describing the SOPs of the
            departments, officials involved along with their responsibilities and logistics for
            implementing the system.

    (ii)    Routine vigilance through out the year and special vigilance during the Kharif season in
            respect of all drains in the LBOD System should be incorporated in the Flood Management
            Plan. This aspect is to be dealt as part of O&M activities to be carried out by the concerned
            AWBs. SIDA in association with AWBs should prepare Standard Operating Procedures
            (SOP) for carrying out proper O&M of the surface drains of LBOD System. The O&M
            Manual (in 5 Volumes) prepared by WAPDA in 1991 and criteria used by IPD for
            computing M&R yardstick should provide the foundation to prepare the requisite SOP.

    (iii)   As the schools are used to give shelter, the primary purposes of school buildings to provide
            education to children is jeopardized due to deterioration using those as residential buildings
            that require substantial repairs afterwards but generally are not carried out due to limited
            budget available with W&S Department. Instead of immediately rushing the affected
            population to school building to provide shelter, which is itself a time consuming process
            (convincing people to move and to arrange transport and boats) it will be a good option to
            provide/construct shelters in the vulnerable villages. It is there recommended to provide
            shelters alternate to school buildings. This alternative could be constructing elevated
            earthen plate-forms close to each of DEHs so that the affected population can stay near to
            their properties but a higher elevation above the expected highest water level of flooding.
            There would be need, however, for the land to construct these elevated earthen plat-forms.
            As per the discussions held with the representatives of NGOs met, this can be done with
            community participation basis (CCB). The community can contribute piece of land while
            investment may be arrangement from an on-going project. It is considered that area
            required per person would be of the order of 2.5 m2 to 3 m2 per person. The plat-forms
            would be on the average about 2m high and can have wooden or steel trusses to install
            temporary covers such as tarpaulin. If constructed on CCB, the up-keep and maintenance
            can be carried out by the community. During the dry season these plate-forms can be used
            for community functions such marriage ceremonies etc. A total of 61 villages in 2003 and
            about 10 villages in 2006 were severely affected. Considering these villages prone to risk of
            flooding again and adding a few more, a total number of 80 villages would perhaps require
            these plat-forms. But the number should be determined by consultation with the concerned
            communities.

    (iv)    The list of `Dehs' most vulnerable to flood risks needs to be prepared, and shown on a map
            indicating roads to establish evacuation paths. These `Dehs' should receive the early
            warning of an emergent event at the top priority.

    (v)     The preparedness at village level needs to be reflected. The personnel relating villages can
            be informed as to where to contact in case of emergency, and also trained to initiate
            measures to save themselves from a big catastrophe.

    (vi)    It was learnt that a provision of stockpile edibles, medicines and clean drinking water for
            three days is maintained but during 2003 it took some 15 days for the affected population to
            return to their place. Adequate quantum of needed edibles, medicines and clean drinking
            water are to be determined, and stockpiles maintained as part of the Flood Management
            Plan. And, adequate budget allocation should be provided for this purpose as part of the
            Flood Management Plan.

    (vii)   There should be a provision for forming a Disaster Management Committee, which may
            include co-opted representatives from private sector and/or NGOs in addition to the
            government functionaries for providing better guidance and arrangements in the Flood
            Management.


                                   I.   RECOMMENDED               CONTINGENCY            PLAN      TO
                                        COMBAT CYCLONES & FLOODS  BADIN
                                        DISTRICT

53. Building on the Contingency Plan to combat cyclones and floods for Badin and incorporating the
above observations an implementable Contingency Plan has been prepared, the contents of which are
included in Appendix 3.

54. The Flood Management Plan for Mirpurkhas District should be prepared by the district
Administration using the Badin District Flood Management Plan as a guide.

                                          APPENDIX 1




RECOMMENDED CONTINGENCY PLAN TO COMBAT CYCLONES &
             FLOODS  BADIN DISTRICT


                                                                                                            APPENDIX 1




                                         CONTENTS

A.  BACKGROUND................................................................................................................1

B.  QUALITIES OF AN EFFECTIVE FLOOD MANGEMENT PLAN ..........................1

C.  COMPREHENSIVE FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLAN...............................................2

D.  CONTINGENCY PLAN FOR BADIN DISTRICT.......................................................3

    D.1  Objectives of the Plan ........................................................................................... 3
    D.2  Badin District ........................................................................................................ 4
    D.3  Experience of 2003 Floods.................................................................................... 4
    D.4  Declaring Emergency in the District..................................................................... 6
    D.5  Control Rooms ...................................................................................................... 6
    D.6  Most Vulnerable Villages..................................................................................... 6
    D.7  Arrangements for Early Warning.......................................................................... 7
    D.8  Vigilence of LBOD System during Moonsoon..................................................... 9
    D.9  Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) of the Department involved in Flood
         Management.......................................................................................................... 9
    D.10 Possible Relief Camps......................................................................................... 15
    D.11 Names of Key Staff of District............................................................................ 19
    D.12 Shelters in the Most Vulnerable `Dehs' .............................................................. 20
    D.13 Facilities at Shelters (schools)............................................................................. 21


      RECOMMENDED CONTINGENCY PLAN TO COMBAT
                CYCLONES & FLOODS  BADIN DISTRICT

A. BACKGROUND

1. Badin district was hit in 1999 by a cyclone that caused loss of 75 human lives but unprecedented
heavy rains in the last week of July 2003 combined with breaches in irrigation canals and drains created
a situation of extreme emergency especially in three talukas: Badin, Tando Bago and S. F. Rahu. With
quick response and with highly dedicated efforts of 206 Brigade and its two units: (i) 4 Punjab; and (ii)
21 FF, Rangers and the Police and the Administration situation was survived and thousands of people
were saved. But still 86 people lost their lives and 56 thousands people had to be shifted into the relief
camps. Many areas could not be reached even on boats therefore five helicopters were used for
dropping the food. People lost all their household belongings. Houses, cattle and crops were destroyed
and there was acute shortage of food. Survey shows that more than hundred thousand families were
worst affected.

2. Pakistan is impacted by the high floods in main riverine areas adjacent to the Indus and its
tributaries (Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej) every year during the Kharif season. These high floods
cause severe damage to public infrastructure, private property, human life, crops and livestock. Due to
expectation of this flooding every year, the local administrations of the respective districts and other
related departments in the vicinity of riverine areas have prepared contingency plans containing
Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to combat these floods. These contingency plans are effective
instruments for providing relief to population affected by a flood event. District Administrations
generally deal with the non-structural measures to mitigate the effect of floods while the Irrigation
Departments of the concerned areas deal with up-keep of the flood protection infrastructure to avoid or
minimize flooding.

3. Although the Badin area had witnessed major rain water floods in the years 1959, 1961, 1962,
1964, 1967, 1970, 1973, 1976 & 1979 but these were not expected to be recurrent event every year. The
floods used to destroy crops and affect vast area, sub-merging hundreds of villages and displacing
thousands of people. The area remained under water from 2 to 3 months due to poor drainage. The
inundation of area for months was an accepted fact. Due to the fact that the flooding was not expected
to be a recurrent event and of the magnitude that occurred during 2003, no contingency plan had been
prepared containing SOPs prior to the 2003 event of flooding. The response to the unprecedented
flooding that occurred in Badin area during 2003 was spurred by the enormity of the impact.
Afterwards, it prompted DCO, Badin to prepare a `Contingency Plan' to combat disaster causing events
in future, such as cyclone of 1998 and flooding in 2003.

4. The document prepared by DCO, Badin gives a treatise on preparedness for providing relief
measures in the event of a flooding, including flood warning system, evacuation of marooned
population and the temporary shelter. The plan contains the narration of the lessons learnt from 2003
Flood Event, which formed the basis of the preparedness plan but there are some gaps that need to be
addressed. This Annex 4 gives the `Recommended Contingency Plan for Badin District, incorporating
some missing details in the Contingency Plan prepared by DCO, Badin.

B.       QUALITIES OF AN EFFECTIVE FLOOD MANGEMENT PLAN

5. Damaging effects of flooding are as follow:

          Loss and damage to public infrastructure;

                                                                                           APPENDIX 1


         Loss of private property;
         Loss of crop or reduction in yields of crop;
         Loss of human life and livestock; and
         Spread of water borne diseases.

6. Flood Management Plans are prepared to prevent and/or minimize the damaging effects of floods.
Therefore a good plan should contain preventing measures and mitigation measures against the
damaging effects mentioned in para 5 above, prior to and after the damage caused by a flooding. For
preventing/minimizing the damaging effects of a flood two types of measures are necessary; (i)
Structural (flood protection works); and (ii) Non-structural (flood warning systems, laws and
regulations, and readiness for providing the relief measures to the affected population). Structural
measures are meant to prevent or minimize the damaging effect by keeping the flood water away from
the populous areas and safe passage of the flood water to the disposal areas or facilities.

C.      COMPREHENSIVE FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLAN

7. There is need to have a comprehensive Flood Management Plan for Badin and Mirpurkhas districts
including structural measures. In this connection, Government of Pakistan has approved a PC-II for an
amount of Rs. 41 Million for carrying out the Feasibility Studies by retaining services of consultants to
identify and mitigate the problem in LBOD Outfall and Badin Area Drainage System.

8. The scope of work included in approved TOR, also endorsed by participant of the meeting of
stakeholders on January 11, 2007, is as follows:

        (i)   To undertake a comprehensive study, conforming to the international standards, of
              LBOD System, must cover the following aspects.
           To examine the existing and required surface and subsurface water drainage capacity of
              the present system of LBOD outfall drains and its collector drains.
           The system needs to be enhanced in order to carry out taking saline and storm water in
              the event of maximum rains.
           Estimation for upcoming maximum saline effluent and storm water to be handled under
              worst scenario (historical rainfall intensity /over 300 mm rainfall) and evacuation of
              storm water should be possible within a maximum period of three to five/three days.
           To determine the deficiencies in the system in relation to the desired capacity of the
              system.
           The other options for disposal of the drainage effluent/ surface runoff through an outfall
              aligned in a North-south direction may also be considered, because one reason for failure
              of the tidal link is its alignment in an East-West direction.
           To suggest the appropriate structure at suitable place and related items of work
              necessitated to stop further scoring / intrusion of sea water in between RD.0 to RD.(-)22
              of KPOD.
           Analysis of the present lines/ alignments of outfall drains and study of pre-inception of
              LBOD and natural drains/Dhoras and the best option to carry the storm/saline effluent
              smoothly into sea.
           Analytically determine parameters for redesigning of the entire LBOD Stage-I system
              and maximum permissible effluent and run-off recommended to be handled by the
              system.

                                                                                          APPENDIX 1


           Analyse financial effects of various options highlighting the recommended option in
               relation to benefits.
        (ii)   Re-design entire LBOD System, including outfall drains, to provide for the following:
           Rainfall intensity of 75 mm with a return period of 50 years.
           Rainfall intensity of 150 mm with a return period of 50 years.
           Historical rainfall/ more than 300 mm.
        (iii) Prepare the PC-1 Pro-forma [as modified by the Planning Commission] incorporating
               each one of the above mentioned options for approval and implementation.
        (iv) Suggestions of stake holders may also be considered before finalizing the study for
               redesign of LBOD system.
        (v)    Assess the damages caused to the entire LBOD system and people of the area etc, due to
               alleged defective designing of LBOD system.
        (vi) The environmental aspects of entire project may also be assessed and mitigation
               measures may be suggested.
        (vii) The study of disposal of storm water into sea through Dhoro Puran Drain and activation
               of other natural drains as source of smooth transportation may also be conducted.

9. The recently approved Project of Water Sector Improvement Program (WSIP), which would be
implemented with the World Bank's financial assistance, among other things, "[...]" will support the
preparation of a comprehensive flood management plan for the Left Bank of the Indus River in Sindh
including the Indus delta and coastal areas. This regional drainage master plan, agreed with local
stakeholders during preparation of the national Drainage Master Plan, will encompass both surface
drainage, sub-surface drainage, water logging and salinity control and flood risk management, and will
include appropriate structural and non-structural options (e.g., flood warning and communications,
flood proofing and improved preparedness and response systems). Planning and infrastructure
management capacity will be built and the capacity of local authorities will be strengthened. A modern,
world-class knowledge base will be developed with appropriate analytical tools and information
management systems to support planning, operations and management. The detailed design would be
prepared and made ready for implementation of the priority works identified under the master plan
under a future investment project that Sindh may undertake with the assistance of its development
partners"[...]"

10. The Government of Pakistan has formed a National Disaster Management Authority. It would be
appropriate to have participation of this newly formed institution in preparing Flood Management Plan
for the Left Bank of the Indus River.

11. In the interim the following Contingency Plan for Badin Districts recommended for improving the
existing local government flood risk management systems to reduce flood damage and vulnerability by
building capacity and improving flood risk response. This Plan is generally based on the Contingency
Plan that has been prepared by DCO, Badin but some missing details have been provided.

D.      CONTINGENCY PLAN FOR BADIN DISTRICT

D.1 Objectives of the Plan

12. Following are the objectives of the Contingency Plan for Badin District to combat cyclones and
flooding caused by rains.

                                                                                              APPENDIX 1


    (i)        To combat heavy rains, floods and Cyclones keeping in view past experience so that human
               lives are saved and other loss is minimized;
    (ii)       To provide standard operating procedure for District departments in case of emergency; and
    (iii)      To ensure maximum timely relief to the affected people.


D.2 Badin District

13. Badin District was established in the year 1975. It comprises five Talukas: (i) Badin; (ii) Matli; (iii)
Shaheed Fazal Rahu; (iv) Talhar; and (v) Tando Bago, and 46 Union Councils with 13 revenue circles,
103 `Tapas' and 497 `dehs'. It is bordered by Tando Muhammad Khan, Hyderabad and Mirpurkhas
districts in the north, Tharparkar and Mirpur Khas in the east Tando Muhammad Khan and Thatta
districts in the west and Run of Kutchh (Arabian Sea) in the South, which also forms international
boundary with India. Total area of the district is 6,525 Sq. Kilometers with population of 1,108,117.
The district lies between latitude 24o5' and longitude 68o 15' to 69o 25' E of Greenwich.

14. The list of Revenue Circles in given in the Table D.2.1

                           Table D.2.1: List of Revenue Circles of Badin District

                                S.No       TALUKA          NAME OF CIRCLE
                                   1            2                   3
                                   1     Badin            Badin
                                   2                      Nindo
                                   3                      Seerani
                                   4     Talhar           Talhar
                                   5     S.T. Rahu        S.F.Rahu
                                   6                      Tarai
                                   7                      Ahmed Rajo
                                   8     Matli            Matli
                                   9                      Phulejani
                                  10                      Tando Ghulam Ali
                                  11     Tando Bago       Tando Bago
                                  12                      Pangrio
                                  13                      Dadah

15. Most of the population (83%) resides in rural areas with farming as main source of livelihood.
Akram Wah, Phuleli and Guni Canals of Kotri Barrage and Nasir Canal of Sukkur Barrage irrigate the
district. It is at the extreme tail end of irrigation system. Main crops are sugar cane, rice, tomato, wheat
and sunflower. There are six sugar mills and 30 rice husking mills in the district. The district produces
about 50% of the total production of crude oil of Pakistan but remains one of the poorest districts of
Sindh. Recent history shows that it has remained in the grip of disasters in one form or another.
Cyclone, heavy rains, earthquake, droughts and floods have followed each other with short intervals.

D.3 Experience of 2003 Floods

16. Although District Badin was very badly hit in 1999 by a devastating cyclone in which 75 human
lives were lost but unprecedented heavy rains during the last week of July 2003 combined with
breaches of canals and drains created a situation of extreme emergency in the district, especially in
three talukas; (i) Badin; (ii) Tando Bago; and (iii) S. F. Rahu. With quick response of the
Administration, facilitated by excellent and prompt efforts of 206 Brigade and its two units: (i) 4-

                                                                                             APPENDIX 1


Punjab; and (ii) 21-FF, Rangers and Police the situation was survived and thousands of people were
saved. Yet 86 people lost their lives and 56 thousands people had to be shifted into the relief camps. As
many areas could not be reached even with boats, five helicopters were used for dropping the food.
People lost all their household belongings. Houses, cattle and crops were destroyed and there was acute
shortage of food. Survey shows that more than hundred thousand families were worst affected.

17. The 2003 floods were caused by a combination of factors: i) rainfall in the area; ii) water coming to
the area by the canals in the left bank below Kotri (total of more than 40,000 cusecs) iii) drainage water
of the record storm in the month; iv) drainage water coming from the upper Nara basin carried by
LBOD; v) the connection of the upper DPOD basin to the LBOD system; v) high sea levels and surge
caused by the storm which blocked the direct discharge of the water and raised the levels in the KPOD
and LBOD; vi) DPOD emergency flood way did not function as per design. There were breaches in
LBOD and KPOD the flow through which inundated the adjoining areas.

18. Following were the specific observations/experiences:

        (i)      LBOD was a major cause of concern for the district. Unless it is properly re-designed it
                 might cause heavy human and economic loss in next monsoon rains.
        (ii)     During monsoon season, all gauges of irrigation canals should be properly monitored
                 by Senior Irrigation Officers. In case of forecast of heavy rains the flow of water should
                 be effectively stopped from the head. Experience tells that although record and reports
                 of Irrigation Department show that there was no discharge of water in the canals but on
                 ground canals were full of water. In fact functionaries at lower level in collusion with
                 Zamindars continued water flows and when heavy rains occurred the Zamindars
                 blocked their water courses and resultantly canals at the tail end burst and caused
                 flooding of the area.
        (iii)    Boats and vehicles for evacuation of population form low-lying areas should be kept
                 ready during monsoon season. People did not move even after early warnings till the
                 area were inundated with water and then it became very difficult to evacuate large
                 population.
        (iv)     Food Supply must be kept ready during rainy season because local traders refused to
                 supply without cash payment and they also did not have much stock available.
        (v)      Duties of all departments and officers should be clearly defined and responsibilities
                 assigned because in case of emergency most of the officers avoided to take
                 responsibility and only few officers were seen working dedicatedly.
        (vi)     Relief Camps should be properly managed by posting a senior officer as in charge of
                 camp. Food, drinking water, sanitation, electricity and proper medical cover would be
                 required at each camp.
        (vii)    Mobile medical teams with sufficient provision of medicines must be available to
                 prevent any out break of diseases. Stock of medicines should be kept available.
        (viii)   Vaccination of cattle and fodder for cattle must be arranged by Agriculture Department
                 during the season.
        (ix)     All roads and Government Buildings in the low lying areas especially in those areas
                 which were flooded should be constructed at reasonably higher level so that those could
                 be used as refuges in case of flooding of the area.
        (x)      The low lying areas of district must have a proper surface drain network for draining
                 out the water in case of cyclones or heavy rains.
        (xi)     A proper media cell must effectively operate round the clock which would help in
                 informing local and international relief agencies and NGOs.

                                                                                         APPENDIX 1


        (xii)   Close coordination with the Brigade should be kept, as its quick response to the
                emergency situation saved thousands of human lives during 2003 event. The whole
                rescue and relief operation was carried out very successfully and efficiently with
                complete dedication and commitment of Army Officers and Jawans.

D.4 Declaring Emergency in the District

19. Whether or not a cyclone or an unusual rain storm will take place in a specific area is forecast by
the Meteorological Department. It is understood that the Meteorological Department has a SOP
according to which it informs the responsible provincial government about the event that may cause
damage to lives and property. When the situation arises in which there is likelihood of any Cyclone,
Heavy Rains and Flood, District coordination Officer in consultation with Zila Nazim would declare
emergency in the District and all Government Functionaries, NGOs and Armed Forces would be
informed to be on high alert. District Coordination Officer (DCO) in consultation with Zila Nazim
would declare emergency in the District and all Government Functionaries, NGOs and Armed Forces
would be put on high alert, only after the provincial government informs to do so.

D.5 Control Rooms

20. A District Control Room shall be established in the office of the District Coordination Officer,
Badin with telephone No. 861996 immediately upon receipt of information from the provincial
government, which would function round-the-clock. Daily situation report would be provided to this
control room by all other control rooms, established at Taluka level (para 20). The Metrological
Department would be kept in touch continually, for weather forecast. The telephone numbers of
Metrological Department are :

                        Metrological Station     Telephone No

                        Badin                        861125

                                                     853053

                        Karachi                   021-8112880


21. Control Rooms shall also be established in each Taluka upon receipt of information to do so from
the DCO, Badin to function with following Telephone numbers.

                        Sr. No, Taluka                     Telephone No

                           i.     Badin                        861245

                           ii.    S. F. Rahu                   853053

                          iii.    Talhar                      8730280

                          iv.     Tando Bago                   854037

                           v.     Matli                       8740205


D.6 Most Vulnerable Villages

22. The following 61 `dehs' were affected by the 2003 flooding. These 61 `dehs' will form major part
of the list most vulnerable `Dehs'. It is estimated that total number of the most vulnerable villages in

                                                                                        APPENDIX 1


Badin district could be of the order of about 80, some of them in very remote areas close to sea shore
e.g., Shaikareyo etc.

       Sr.                                                 Sr.
       No.     Name Village                                No.    Name Village

        1      Khamoon Mallah                              32     Manthar Khaskheli
        2      Khamoon Mallah-II                           33     Adam Khaskheli
        3      Shadman Lund                                34     Gudo Khore
        4      Missri Mallah                               35     Hashim Mallah
        5      Haji Hajjam                                 36     Samoon
        6      Hanif Mallah                                37     Ali Bengali
        7      Gaji Mallah                                 38     Anwer Bengali
        8      Yousuf Mallah                               39     Rajab Mallah
        9      Ramzan Sheedi                               40     Karo Mallah
       10      Jumoon Mallah                               41     Nawab Ali Jamali
       11      Faqir Mohammed Mallah                       42     Mohammed Chandio
       12      Ibrahim Mallah                              43     Mohammed Notiar
       13      Master Allah Bux Mallah                     44     Natho Bajeer
       14      Haji Ahmed Mallah                           45     Ramzan Chandio
       15      Gul Mohammed Talpur                         46      Khamiso Dhandhal
       16      Ramzan Khaskheli                            47     Ahmed Notiar
       17      Lakho Pir                                   48     Natho Jamali
       18      Bahadur Khan Lund                           49     Allah Dino Notiar
       19      Pir Bux Mandhro                             50     Pinyo Mallah
       20      Yousuf Bhatti                               51     Sahbdino Jat
       21      Mohammed Hassan Mandhro                     52     Lakhadino Notiar
       22      Jurio Mallah                                53     Beer Mallah
       23      Haji Raboo                                  54     Khan Dal
       24      Sono Khan Chandio                           55     Haji Sujawal Jat
       25      Malhar Mallah                               56     Behdmi
       26      Rafiq Bengali                               57     Allah Rakhio Jat
       27      Rafiq Dal                                   58     Photo Jat
       28      Tamachi Bajeer                              59     Murad Malir
       29      Photo Chandio                               60     Patel Qasim Dal
       30      Ali Shah                                    61     Nabi Bux Lund
       31      Mohammed Khaskheli


23. A detailed map of Badin District shall be prepared showing location of these most vulnerable
villages. This map of a reasonable scale can be prepared using a Survey of Pakistan Map, and it should
be prepared by a well qualified cartographer giving details of the roads, towns and cities to facilitate
establishing evacuation routes. This map should be hung in each of the control rooms at district and
Taluka levels. The copies of this map should also be available at `Revenue Circles' and the concerned
`Tapas'.

D.7 Arrangements for Early Warning

24. A system for ensuring the communication of early warning that is considered credible and clearly
understood by the population prone to adverse effects of flooding shall be established. A clear

                                                                                            APPENDIX 1


methodology shall be framed to communicate warnings generated by the Meteorological Department in
the shortest possible time, describing the SOPs of the departments, officials involved along with their
responsibilities and logistics for implementing the system.

25. The control room supervised by the DCO, immediately upon receipt of information from the
provincial government shall send the official signals to the five `talukas' to establish the control rooms
at the respective taluka headquarters informing them about the forecast of the impending danger, its
nature and expected time of occurrence.

26. The district control room shall also formally alert the concerned departments of other departments.
This formal information may be in the form of a radio/wireless signal, written communication etc, duly
documented.

27. Although the announcements will be broadcast via Radio, TV and Police Wireless System but in
order to ensure that the population in remote areas who do not have radio receivers and TVs should
receive the warning at the earliest. In this regard, Taluka control rooms shall communicate to all 13
Revenue Circles, 103 `Tapas' which shall arrange via special messengers dissemination of information
to 497 `Dehs' promptly. About 80 most vulnerable `Dehs'5 shall be given priority to get the
information. In `Dehs' the announcements should be repeatedly made using loudspeakers and
communication system in mosques, informing about the expected event and associated risks The
suggested arrangements for communicating early warning are shown diagrammatically below.

                          Flow Diagram for Communicating Early Warning


                                         Metereological Department         Radio, TV, Newspapers


                                           Provincial Government
  Other Departments, NGOs
   and Private Sector Local              DCO, Control Room-Badin
 Philinthropic Organizations
                                      5 Nos. Taluka Control Rooms at
                                       Badin, S. F. Rahu, Tando Bago,
                                              Talhar and Matli


                                          13 Nos. Revenue Circles


                                              103 Nos. 'Tapas '


                                               497 Nos. 'Dehs '                     Mosques

28. It is important that the most vulnerable `dehs' are promptly informed about any expected event. For
this purpose, `dehs' and the `Tapas' in which these `dehs' are located can be provided with
radios/wireless sets during the monsoon period. These radios/wireless sets (about 100 Nos.) can be
given in the custody of responsible `Tapedars' and `Village Heads'.




5 Include 61 `Dehs' badly affected during 2003 flooding.

                                                                                               APPENDIX 1


D.8 Vigilance of LBOD System during Monsoon

29. Two types of vigilance are part of the O&M activities of a drainage system that is to be provided by
SIDA through the concerned AWBs: (i) routine vigilance through out the year; and (ii) special vigilance
during the Kharif season (`aabkalani period'). O&M of the surface drains in LBOD system has been
below par mainly due to two reasons; (i) inadequate funding; and (ii) un-smooth handing over of the
system to GoSindh  handed over by WAPDA in 1993-94, returned to WAPDA in 1994 and again
handed over to Go Sindh in 2002 which accepted it with reservations. Immediately after the take-over
by GoSindh, there was an unusual flooding event in 2003. From that time onwards instead of routine
O&M activities repairs and strengthening of drain embankments are being carried out with O&M funds
as well as special budgeting provided by Federal Government and GoSindh. There has been no standard
operating procedure (SOP) in vogue for carrying out O&M activities.

30. The IPD procedure indicated by the criteria of the yardsticks for O&M of surface drains prepared
by IPD in November 1988 does not provide any amount for ant vigilance on the drainage system. As
such, no regular `beldars' or temporary `beldars' have ever been engaged on LBOD system during
monsoon season.

31. The key player in carrying out vigilance is a `beldar' who patrols over a reach of drain entrusted to
him to carries out routine minor repairs, overseen by the concerned sub-engineer. The sub-engineer
should also carry out frequent visits during the monsoon season. AENs and XENs should also make
visits prior to monsoon season to check for special interventions (in weak areas) needed to render the
banks of the drain safe against breaches.

32. The `beldars' should be deployed at least during the 4 months of Kharif season as per the following
criteria: (i) one `beldar' for patrolling 10 RDs of a main drain; (ii) one `beldar' for patrolling 15 RDs of
a branch drain; and (iii) one `beldar' for patrolling 20 RDs of a sub drain. In order to ensure attendance
and daily patrol of the `beldars', a `Mate' (Foreman) needs to be deployed for a team of 10  12
`beldars'.

33. In order to enable the sub-engineer to frequently supervise the `beldars' and also supervise several
M&R works simultaneously on-going (normally the case) an official transport (a motorcycle) to the
sub-engineer to visit remotely located sites should be provided. The `beldars' should be provided
bicycles, `kassis' etc.

D.9 Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) of the Department involved in Flood Management

34. The duties of the concerned XEN Drainage of SIDA, XEN, Irrigation of AWBs/Irrigation
Department, Revenue Department, Education Department (for providing school buildings for the relief
camps), Health Department, Taluka Municipal Administration, Agriculture Department, Civil Defence,
HESCO, telephone Department, Southern Gas Company, W&S Department, DPO-Badin and EDO
(Community Development) are given in the paragraphs that follow.

D.9.1 SIDA/Irrigation Department

35. The duties to be performed by the concerned staff of SIDA, AWBs and Irrigation Department shall
be as follows:

         (i)      Executive Engineer (Drainage):

                  a)       He shall ensure that LBOD and other drains are working properly and rain
                           flood water is continuously disposed off through the drains in the System.

                                                                                         APPENDIX 1


               b)      He shall arrange for vigilance by deploying the `beldars' at least during the 4
                       months of Kharif season as per the following criteria: (i) one `beldar' for
                       patrolling 10 RDs of a main drain; (ii) one `beldar' for patrolling 15 RDs of a
                       branch drain; and (iii) one `beldar' for patrolling 20 RDs of a sub drain. In
                       order to ensure attendance and daily patrol of the `beldars', a `Mate' (Foreman)
                       shall also be deployed for a team of 10  12 `beldars'

       (ii)    Executive Engineer (Irrigation):

               a)      The Executive Engineers shall establish a round the clock control room in their
                       office for making liaison with all concerned and prepare contingency plan of
                       the Department and circulate its copy to all concerned before June 2006.

               b)      The Executive Engineers shall identify the vulnerable points of LBOD and
                       Irrigation Canals.

               c)      The Executive Engineers shall be in touch with the Meteorological Department
                       and inform the sister agencies about any emergency.

               d)      The Executive Engineers shall make special arrangements for watch and
                       patrolling of vulnerable points.

               e)      The Executive Engineers shall make infrastructure arrangements in case there
                       is any breach.

               f)      The Executive Engineers shall establish flood warning center at Taluka level.

               g)      The Executive Engineers shall make arrangements of sand bags and other
                       material to be used at the time of need.

D.9.2 Revenue Department

36. The officials of the Revenue Department shall carry out following duties in case of a flood
emergency:

               a)      The Revenue Department shall establish control room at each Mukhtiarkar
                       Office round-the-clock under the supervision of DDOs Revenue.

               b)      The Revenue Department shall prepare contingency plan for evacuation of
                       people residing in low-lying areas to safer places on any emergency.

               c)      The Revenue Department shall make arrangements for the availability of
                       sufficient number of tents for any emergency.

               d)      The Revenue Department shall form quick response teams, comprising
                       representatives of all concerned department for dealing with any emergency.

               e)      The Revenue Department shall arrange tractor trolleys and manpower in
                       coordination with Police Department for dealing with any emergency.

               f)      The Revenue Department shall mobilize the village staff in the pre-and-post
                       emergency work during moon-soon season.

                                                                                            APPENDIX 1


                g)      The Revenue Department shall take steps for the arrangements of Relief Funds
                        from the Relief Commissioner in case of any emergency.

                h)      The Revenue Department shall make prior arrangements of food supply in
                        coordination with food department and distributions in case of emergency.

                i)      The Revenue Department shall make arrangements with coordination of
                        District Police Officer, Badin for sufficient transport (Vehicles) for the
                        evacuation and shifting of affected persons to relief camps with the assistance
                        of Police, Rangers and Armed Forces in case of any emergency.

D.9.3 Education Department / EDO, Education

37. The duties to be performed by the EDO, Education (Education Department) shall be as follows:

                a)      The EDO, Education shall detail sufficient staff on duty at all relief camps.

                b)      The EDO, Education shall assist the Taluka Revenue Officers for properly
                        establishing the relief camps in schools and provision of food in case of any
                        emergency.

                c)      The EDO, Education shall ensure that all basic facilities are made available at
                        each camp and monitor the duties of staff in case of any emergency.

D.9.4   Health Department / EDO, Health

38. The duties to be performed by the EDO, Health (Health Department) shall be as follows:

                a)      The EDO, Health shall ensure availability of doctors, paramedical staff and
                        medicines in all hospital of the District during moon-soon season for
                        preventive steps.

                b)      The EDO, Health shall depute medical teams at each relief camp in case of any
                        emergency.

                c)      The EDO, Health shall make arrangements for the prevention of epidemic
                        diseases.

                d)      The EDO, Health shall make sure availability of all vaccines especially dog
                        bite and anti snake for any emergency.

                e)      The EDO, Health shall make arrangements for mobile medical teams with
                        sufficient medicines during the emergency.

D.9.5   Taluka Municipal Administration under the Supervision of Taluka Nazims

39. The officials of the Taluka Municipal Administration shall carry out following duties under the
supervision of the concerned taluka `Nazims' in case of a flood emergency.

                a)      The officials of the Taluka Municipal Administration shall establish round-the-
                        clock Control Rooms during the emergency.

                                                                                           APPENDIX 1


               b)      The officials of the Taluka Municipal Administration shall ensure de-watering
                       pumping machines are in proper order for emergency.

               c)      The officials of the Taluka Municipal Administration shall ensure proper
                       cleaning of `nullahs' for draining out the rainy water during moon-soon season.

               d)      The officials of the Taluka Municipal Administration shall identify the
                       dangerous buildings and take necessary action as per Municipal Buildings
                       Laws.

               e)      The officials of the Taluka Municipal Administration shall ensure the Fire
                       Brigade and concerned staff available round-the-clock.

               f)      The officials of the Taluka Municipal Administration shall declare it essential
                       for the staff to be present during the emergency in order to ensure availability
                       of staff.

               g)      The officials of the Taluka Municipal Administration shall assist the concerned
                       Revenue Officers for arranging manpower and establishing Relief Camps in
                       case of any emergency.

               h)      The officials of the Taluka Municipal Administration shall arrange the required
                       labour force and assistance from locals in case of emergency.



D.9.6 Agriculture Department / EDO, Agriculture

40. The duties to be performed by the EDO, Agriculture (Agriculture Department) shall be as follows:

               a)      The EDO, Agriculture shall make arrangements for machinery from
                       mechanical wing for emergency.

               b)      The EDO, Agriculture shall depute DO, Animal Husbandry and his staff to
                       save the livestock from flood diseases and losses during moon-soon season or
                       in case of any emergency.

               c)      The EDO, Agriculture shall ensure availability of wooden material to Irrigation
                       Department at the time of emergency by DO, Forest.

D.9.7 Civil Defence / Deputy Controller Civil Defence, Badin

41. Civil Defence shall be responsible for the following:

               a)      The Deputy Controller Civil Defence, Badin shall remain available along with
                       staff in DCO Control Room in shifts round-the-clock in case of any emergency.

               b)      The Deputy Controller Civil Defence, Badin shall arrange the Razakars/
                       volunteers for rain relief/rescue activities at the time of need/ emergency.

D.9.8   Hyderabad Electric Supply Company (HESCO)

42. The concerned XEN/SDO shall carry out the following duties during an emergency:

                                                                                       APPENDIX 1


                a)       The concerned XEN/SDO shall ensure that no case of electrocution occurs.

                b)       The concerned XEN/SDO shall make sure that in case of any breaking of live
                         electric wires immediate steps are taken.

                c)       The concerned XEN/SDO shall ensure uninterrupted supply of electricity, as
                         far as possible.

D.9.9   Telephone Department

43. Assistant Executive Engineer, Telephone department shall ensure full functionality of telephones
all over the district and provide assistance to all departments on demand in case of need. Important
telephone number that needs to be kept working are tabulated below

        S. No DESIGNATION                                OFFICE            RESIDENCE
          1      Army Cantonment Badin                     861200-861201
          2      District Nazim Badin                      862081-862108     862082-862108
          3      District Coordination Officer Badin       861001-862362          862362
          4      District Police Officer Badin             861667-861324          861234
          5      Executive District Officer (Rev)              861744             861744
          6      Executive District Officer(Edu)           861183-861784          862248
          7      Executive District Officer(W&S)               862283             862248
          8      Executive District Officer (Health)           861871             861871
          9      Superintending Engr. Irrigation               861259             861259
          10     Executive District Officer (Agr)              861623             857241
          11     Taluka Nazim Badin                            862165             862250
          12     Taluka Nazim Talhar                           8730230           8730745
          13     Taluka Nazim Matli                            8740760           8810483
          14     Taluka Nazim T.Bago                           854120               -
          15     Taluka Nazim S.F.Rahu                         853018               -
          16     SDO HESCO Badin                               861972               -
          17     Civil Surgeon Civil Hosp:Badin           8619081-862479          862285
          18     Deputy Manager Sui Southern                   862241             861255
          19     Assistant Engr. Telephone                 861266-861111          861961
          20     Fire Brigade Badin                              116                -
          21     Emergency Police Badin                           15                -
          22     Edhi Center Badin                               115                -
          23     Executive Engr H/Way Badin                    861410               -
          24     District Officer Road & Transport             861840             861840
          25     Distt. Officer Social Welfare Bdn             861232             861232
          26     Deputy Controller Civil Defence               861996               -
          27     Deputy Distt. Officer (Rev) Badin             861358               -
          28     Deputy Distt. Officer (Rev) SFRahu            853197             53017
          29     Deputy Distt: Officer (Rev) Matli             8740255              -

                                                                                            APPENDIX 1


           30     Deputy Distt: Officer (Rev) T.Bago            854037                    -
           31     Mukhtiarkar (Rev) Badin                       861245                861245
           32     Mukhtiarkar (Rev) Talhar                      8730280              8730280
           33     Mukhtiarkar (Rev) SFRahu                      853053                853053
           34     Mukhtiarkar (Rev) Matli                       8740205              8740205
           35     Mukhtiarkar (Rev) T.Bago                      854037                854037
           36     Asstt: Engr. Drainage Badin                   861422                    -
           37     Meteorological Department Badin               861125                862174
           38     Zakat Officer Badin                           861322                    -
           39     Executive Engr Irrigation Badin               861422                861422

D.9.10 Southern Gas Company

44. The officials of the Company shall make sure proper safety of gas lines and its supply.

D.9.11 Works and Services Department/EDO,W&S

45. The concerned EDO, W&S Department shall carry out the following duties during an emergency:

                 a)      The concerned EDO shall make sure the availability of staff and arrange
                         machinery for removal of debris and ensure that all roads are motorable for
                         evacuation and relief.

                 b)      The concerned EDO shall arrange private crane lifters in case of need during
                         the emergency.

                 c)      The concerned EDO shall ensure water supply, electricity and drainage at all
                         relief camps in coordination with Executive District Officer (Education) and
                         Executive District Officer (Revenue) during the emergency.

D.9.12 Food Department / District Food Controller

46. Secretary Government of Sind Food Department shall be requested to direct Director Food and
Deputy Director Food to make prior arrangement of supply from Karachi and Hyderabad at the time of
need / emergency.

47. The logistic indicating the quantities of food, safe drinking water, medicines etc., and the budget for
the same shall be prepared by the DCO, Badin, and informed to the Secretary Government of Sind Food
Department. Edibles that are fungible shall not be stockpiled, because they normally become rotten

48. Six portable disinfestation systems with a generator and inverse osmosis plants, producing 1-2
lts/sec of potable water shall be procured and deployed as follows: (i) 2 Nos. at Badin, and (ii) one each
at Taluka Headquarter. It is estimated that each of this inverse osmosis plant would cost about Rs.
1,500,000 (about US$ 25,000). This is one time investment and may be funded through an on-going
such as; Sindh Coastal Area Development Program (SCAD).

D.9.13 District Police Officer. Badin

49. The police department shall perform the following special duties during an emergency:

                                                                                           APPENDIX 1


                 a)      The District Police Officer, Badin shall be requested to provide help to the
                         Irrigation Department and Revenue staff to avoid closure of Modules by
                         Landlords / Agriculturist in case of floods in Canals / Water Courses.

                 b)      The District Police Officer, Badin shall assist in evacuation of people from
                         flooded areas.

                 c)      The District Police Officer, Badin shall provide security to relief material and
                         its distribution.

D.9.14 Executive District Officer (C.D.D), Badin

50. The induction of NGOs and other philanthropic agencies is cornerstone of the Contingency Plan.
For the induction of NGOs and other philanthropic agencies EDO (C.D.D) shall chalk out a detailed
mechanism to organize and implement the participation by them. A Disaster Management Committee
shall be formed to assist DCO, Badin. This Disaster Management Committee shall include co-opted
representatives from private sector and/or NGOs that are willing to provide not only the guidance but
shall make arrangements for the material help particularly towards shortages of food items, tents, etc.

D.9.15 Edhi Welfare Trust

51. Edhi Welfare Trust shall be requested for funeral arrangement of un-claimed dead bodies, and
other assistance as well to affected peoples in case of emergency.

D.9.16 Pakistan Army

52. Pakistan Army has provided an effective, quick and excellent response to save human lives during
2003 event. Control Room, supervised by DCO Badin shall request Pakistan Army to provide the
following help in case of an emergency:

                 a)      Providing boats (71 boats are generally available at HQ 18 Division
                         Hyderabad), heavy vehicles and Helicopters for rescuing the people from
                         affected areas.

                 b)      Providing general assisting in relief work.

                 c)      Providing medical assistance.

D.10    Possible Relief Camps

D.10.1 Taluka Badin

53. The list of schools/institutions indicating approximate capacity as well as the person in-charge that
can be used as relief camps in Taluka Badin is given in the Table D.10.1.

                                                                                    APPENDIX 1


                      Table D.10.1: List of Schools/Institutions in Taluka Badin

S.No. Name of School/            Name of Incharge/Name of Doctor and         Total Capacity of
      Institution Camp           Para Medical Staff                          Class Accommodation
                                                                             Room  ( Persons)
1                 2                                  3                         4          5
1    Government Islamia          Mr. Abdul Razak Memon EDO Colleges
      Degree College Badin       Badin                                         18
                                 Dr. Nate Chango MO. Mr. Maqbool Turk
2    Govt: College Hostal Block  Mr. Rafique Ahmed Leghari Asstt:
      Badin                      Progessor GDBC Badin
                                 Dr. Muhammad Ramzan Udhejo MO,                22        500
                                 Mr. Walidad
3    Govt: Girls Marvee College  Mr. Arbab Ali Phulpoto Asstt: Prof:GIDC
      Badin                      Badin                                         8         200
                                 Dr. Shamshad Ali ?MO Mr. Mahveer
4    Govt Service Center Badin   Mr. Wankjee Principal                         8         200
                                 Dr. Odho Mal MO Mr. Shamsuddin
5    Govt Poly Tec: Institute    Mr. Nazim Ahmed Shah Principal                22        500
      Badin                      Dr. Anwar MO Mr. Khamiso
6    Govt. Mono Tec: Institute   Mr. Abdul Ghafoor Lecturer GIDC Badin
      By Pass Road Badin         Dr. Ahmed MO Mr. Ramzan                       12        300
7    Govt. Commercial Training   Mr. Ghulam Hyder Hashmani I/C DOE
      Center Badin               Tech: Badin                                   5
                                 Dr. Manzoor MO Mr. Yaswant Roi                          200
8    Govt: B Pry: School Badin   Mr. Lala Qadir Bux Membon SPE                 10        200
      Sindhi                     Dr. Rasool Bux MO MR. Khalid
9    Govt: P School Badin Urdu   Mr. Ali Akbar HST
                                 Dr. Muhammad Hanif MO                         5         100
                                 Mr. Shafi Muhammad
10   GPS Haji Khamiso Bhatti     Mr. Abdul Sattar Bhurgari HST
                                 Dr. Abdullah MO Mr. Abdul Sattar              5         100
                                 Soomro
11   GPS Gharibabad Badin        Mr. Ghulam Muhammad Abbasi HST
                                 Dr. Sujait MO Mr. Ashfaque                    5         100
12   GPS Agrovil Coloney         Mr. Manzoor Ahmed APE
      Badin                      Dr. Iqbal Memon MO MR. Muhammad               5         100
13   GPS Pir Aali Shah Kot       Mr. Muhammad Umar Soomro HST                  5         100
      Badin                      Dr. Abid Ali MO Mr. Nazir
14   Govt: Elementary College    Mr. Muhammad Ismail Panhwar
      Badin                      Principal Dr. Nusrat MO Mr. Sulleman          10        200
15   GBHS Badin                  Mr. Muhammad Ramzan Mandharo                  17        340
                                 HST Dr. Zafar MO Mr. Wahidino
16   GGHS Badin 쵪               Mr, Muhammad Khan Junejo HST                  10        200
                                 Dr. Sulleman MO Mr. Allah Bux
17   GGHS Badin 춊i              Mr. Samoon Mallah Dr. Akhtar MO Mr.           10        200
                                 Khamiso Chang

                                                                                             APPENDIX 1


   D.10.2 Taluka Talhar

   54. The list of schools/institutions indicating approximate capacity as well as the person in-charge that
   can be used as relief camps in Taluka Talhar is given in the Table D.10.2.

                         Table D.10.2: List of Schools/Istitutions in Taluka Talhar

S.No. Name of School/                 Name of Incharge/Name of Doctor and           Total   Capacity of
      Institution Camp                Para Medical Staff                            Class   Accommodation
                                                                                   Room     ( Persons)
 1                  2                                     3                          4              5
                                      Mr. Abdul Qayoom Chang HM
 1    GHS Talhar                      Dr. Mangan Khan MO Mr. Allahdino               8             160
                                      Mr. Abdul Rahim Chang
 2    GHS SAB Talhar                  Dr. Muhammad Umar MO Mr. Ashraf                5             100
                                      Mr. Zahid Hussain Kaheri HST
 3    GBPS Talhar                     Dr. Muzafar Ali MO Mr. Ali Raza                8             160
                                      Mr. Ali Nawaz Lashari
 4    GGHS                            Dr. Abdul Sallah MO Mr. Dilshad                7             140
                                      Mr. Hassan Ali Nahiyoon Principal
 5    GP College Saeedpur             Dr. Asadullah Mol Mr. Asghar Arain             10            200

                                      Mr. Muhammad Bux Nixamani
 6    GHS Saeedpur                    Dr. Talib MO Mr. Sain Bux                      7             140

                                      Mr. Ghulam Mustafaq Khoso
 7    GHS Rajo Khanani                Dr. Ghulam Murtaza MO Mr. Santosh              7             140
                                      Mr. Niaz Hussain HST Dr. Tayab MO
 8    GHS Ghulam Shah Mori            Mr. Asghar Khatti                              7             140
                                      Mr. Muhammad Bachal jamali
 9    GHS Khadharo                    Dr. Zakir MO Mr. Abdul Rahim                   7              14
10    GHS Ghulam Mohd                 Mr. Abdul Majeed Afridi                        7             140
      Nixamani                        Dr. Dilshad MO Mr. Alidino
                                      Mr. Ali Muhammad Kumbhar HM
11    GHS Peeru Lashari               Dr. Muhammad Aslam MO Mr. Younis               5             100


   D.10.3 Taluka Tando Bago

   55. The list of schools indicating approximate capacity as well as the person in-charge that can be used
   as relief camps in Taluka Tando Bago is given in the Table D.10.3.

                            Table D.10.3: List of Schools in Taluka Tando Bago

S.No. Name Of School Camp             Name of Incharge/Name of Doctor and           Total   Capacity of
                                      Para Medical Staff                            Class   Accommodation
                                                                                   Room     ( Persons)
 1                  2                                     3                          4              5
      GHS Tando Bago                  Mr. Muhammad Ismail Memo                       12            240
 1                                    Dr. Harichand MO Mr. Usmanulhaq
      GGHS Tanod Bago                 Mr. Qamarzaman HST Dr. Harichand               5             100
 2                                    MO Mr. Usmanulhaq

                                                                                             APPENDIX 1


S.No. Name Of School Camp            Name of Incharge/Name of Doctor and           Total    Capacity of
                                     Para Medical Staff                            Class    Accommodation
                                                                                  Room      ( Persons)
      GBPS Tando Bago                Mr. Ashfaque Ahmed Memon                        5             100
 3                                   Dr. Nasir Ali MO Mr. Akbar
 4    Govt Mono Tech: Instt: T.      Mr. Imdad Ali Jat Dr. Nazir MO Mr. Asif        20             600
      Bago
      GHS Khalifo Qassim             Mr. Ghulam Mustafa Dr. Zulfiqar MO              5             100
 5                                   Mr. Akbar Bhurgari
 6    GHS Pangrio                    Mr. Karim Bux Panhwar Dr. Fazal                17             340
                                     Rehman MO Mr. Shoukat
 7    GHS Wali Muhammad              Mr. Sultan Ali Dr. Irfan Ashraf MO Mr.          5             100
      Malkani                        Hariram
 8    GHS Haji Khan Chandio          Mr. Hussain Bux Chhalgari                       5             100
                                     Dr. Ashokkumar MO Mr. M. Ali
 9    GHS Baloch Chak                Mr. Ghulam Hyder Dr. Saeed MO Mr.               5             100
                                     Ibrahim
10    GHS Khoski                     Mr. Muhaumdin Kaleri                            7             140
                                     Dr. Ibrahim MO Mr. Nasir


   D.10.4 Taluka Matli

   56. The list of schools indicating approximate capacity as well as the person in-charge that can be used
   as relief camps in Taluka Matli is given in the Table D.10.4.

                               Table D.10.4: List of Schools in Taluka Matli

S.No. Name Of School Camp            Name of Incharge/Name of Doctor and           Total    Capacity of
                                     Para Medical Staff                            Class    Accommodation
                                                                                  Room      ( Persons)
 1                  2                                    3                           4              5
 1    GBDC Matli                     Mr. Muhammad Yousuf Kalkepoto
                                     Dr. Zulfiqar Saheto MO Mr. Rahim Bux           20             400
 2    GHS Matli-I                    Mr. Mumtaz Hussain ADO
                                     Dr. Nadir Ali MO Mr. Allah nawaz               24             500
 3    GHS Matli-II                   Mr. Muhammad Ayoob HM
                                     Dr. Azam Nixamani MO Mr. Asghar                10             200
 4    GGHS Matli                     Mr. Zahid Hussain HST Dr. Abdul
                                     Karim MO Mr. Majeed                            12             240
 5    GHS TG Ali                     Mr. Sattar Ali Shah HM Dr. Zahid MO            10             200
                                     Mr. Khanoo
 6    GGHS TG Ali                    Mr. Abdul Ghani HST Dr. Bheemoon
                                     MO Mr. Remesh Kumar                             6             120
 7    GHS Haji Sanwan                Mr. Muhammad Ashraf HST Dr. Saleem
                                     MO Mr. Ramzan                                   5             100
 8    GHS Thari                      Mr. Muhammad Akram HST
                                     Dr. Muhammad Uris MO Mr. Tahir                  5             100
 9    GHS Umardin Punjabi            Mr. Muhammad Ashraf HST                         5             100
                                     Dr. Munawar MO Mr. Idress
10    GHS Gulab leghari              Mr. Qadir Bux HST Dr. Bharo MO Mr.

                                                                                             APPENDIX 1


S.No. Name Of School Camp             Name of Incharge/Name of Doctor and          Total    Capacity of
                                      Para Medical Staff                           Class    Accommodation
                                                                                  Room      ( Persons)
                                      Najamdin Chandio                               9             200
11    GHS Malhan                      Mr. Ghulam Mustafa HM Dr. Anwar MO             5             100
                                      Mr. Sanaullah
12    GGPs Matli                      Mr. Banhoon HST Dr. Aftab MO Mr.               5             100
                                      Yousuf
13    GMS Jamil Coloney Matli         Mr. Abdul sattar Bhatti HST Dr. Abdul
                                      Jabbar MO Mr. Yousuf Memon                     5             100
14    G Mono Tech: Instt: Matli       Mr. Anwar Ali Dr. Anwar Memon MO
                                      Mr. Asghar Arain                              10             200


   D.10.5 Taluka Shaheed Fazal Rahu

   57. The list of schools indicating approximate capacity as well as the person in-charge that can be used
   as relief camps in Taluka Shaheed Fazal Rahu is given in the Table D.10.5.

                             Table D.10.5: List of Schools in Taluka Tando Bago

S.No. Name Of School Camp             Name of Incharge/Name of Doctor and          Total    Capacity of
                                      Para Medical Staff                           Class    Accommodation
                                                                                  Room      ( Persons)
 1                   2                                   3                           4              5
      GBHS Golarehi                   Mr. Muhammad Moosa Khoso
 1                                    Dr. Siddique Memon MO Mr. Mukhtiar            10             200
      GHS Golarehi                    Mr. Abdul Majeed SS Dr. Ashraf Memon
 2                                    MO Mr. Mohan Lal                              10             200
      GGPS Golarehi                   Mr. Altaf Hussain JST Dr. Muhammad
 3                                    Khan MO Mr. Missari                            5             100
      GGPS Jaffar Jakharo             Mr. Ziaullah Cheema HST Dr. Abdul
 4                                    Hafeez Soomro Mr. Mango                        2             25
      GHS Khorwah                     Mr. Muhammad Khan Chang
 5                                    Mr. Muhammad Hassan MO                         5             100
                                      Mr. Ashfaque Maheri
      GBHS Kario Ganhwar              Mr. Ali Ghulam Nimrio Dr. Muhammad
 6                                    Ismail MO Mr. Ali Khan                        10             200


   D.11     Names of Key Staff of District

   58. The names of the officers of Revenue Department in the district are given in Table D.11.1.

                      Table D.11.1: List Reveue Department Officers in Badin District

   S.No      Designation                                      BPS       Name of Officer
     1       Executive District Officer (Revenue) Badin      BPS-19     Mr. Zahid Ali Abbasi
     2       District Officer (revenue) Badin                BPS-18     Mr. Muhammad Sadiq Rajar
     3       Deputy District Officer (Revenue) Badin          BPS-17    Mr. Nazir Ahmed Qureshi
     4       Deputy District Officer (Revenue) Talhar         BPS-17    Mr. Sardar Ahmed
     5       Deputy District Officer (Revenue) S.F Rahu      BPS-17     Mr. Hadi Bux Zardari

                                                                                              APPENDIX 1


S.No     Designation                                          BPS        Name of Officer
  6      Deputy District Officer (Revenue) Matli             BPS-17      Mr. Ghulam Qadir Junejo
  7      Deputy District Officer (Revenue) T. Bago           BPS-17      Mr. Ghulam Qadir Junejo
  8      Mukhtiarkar (Revenue) Badin                         BPS-16      Mr. Qamar Memon
  9      Mukhtiarkar (Revenue) Talhar                        BPS-16      Mr. Shoukat Ali Shaikh
 10      Mukhtiarkar (Revenue) S.F. Rahu                     BPS-16      Mr. Ali Muhammad Shah
 11      Mukhtiarkar (Revenue) Matli                         BPS-16      Mr. Saleem Ahmed Memon
 12      Mukhtiarkar (Revenue) T. Bago                       BPS-16      Mr. Shankar Lal Rathore
 13      Mukhtiarkar (Estate) Badin                          BPS-16      Mr. Mushtaque Memon
 14      Mukhtiarkar (Estate Headquarter) Badin              BPS-16      Mr. Ghulam Rasool Soomro
 15      Mukhtiarkar (Revenue) Badin                         BPS-11      Mr. Muhammad Umar Memon
 16      Mukhtiarkar (Revenue) Talhar                        BPS-11      Mr. Shabir Ahmed Rind
 17      Mukhtiarkar (Revenue) S.F. Rahu                     BPS-11      Mr. Hameed Nohario
 18      Mukhtiarkar (Revenue) Matli                         BPS-11      Mr. Qazi Imtiaz
 19      Mukhtiarkar (Revenue) T. Bago                       BPS-11      Mr. Abdul Aziz Junjo


59. The names supervising tapedars of Revenue Circles are guven Table D.11.2.

                       Table D.11.2: List Supervisinf Tapedars in Badin District

           S.No       NAME OF CIRCLE                 NAME OF SUPERVISING TAPEDAR
             1                   2                                         3
             1      Badin                       Munshi Muhammad Ismail Memon Addl: Charge
             2      Nindo                       Munshi Khair Muhammad Bhurgaro Addl:
                                                Charge
             3      Seerani                     Munshi Mir Muhammad Khan Talpur
             4      Talhar                      Munshi Bashir Ahmed Mughal Akkl: Charge
             5      S.F.Rahu                    Munshi Karoji Sodho Addl: Charge
             6      Tarai                       Munshi Kheto Sodho Addl: Charge
             7      Ahmed Rajo                  Munshi Mevo Khan Nohani Addl: Charge
             8      Matli                       Munshi Soran Singh
             9      Phulejani                   Munshi Karam Ali Shah
            10      Tando Ghulam Ali            Munshi Ali Bux Chandio
            11      Tando Bago                  Munshi Muhammad Aslam Nixamani
            12      Pangrio                     Vacant
            13      Dadah                       Munshi Noor Ali Khowaja


D.12     Shelters in the Most Vulnerable `Dehs'

60. As the schools are used to give shelter, the primary purposes of school buildings to provide
education to children is jeopardized due to deterioration using those as residential buildings that require
substantial repairs afterwards but generally are not carried out due to limited budget available with
W&S Department. Instead of immediately rushing the affected population to school building to provide
shelter, which is itself a time consuming process (convincing people to move and to arrange transport
and boats) it will be a good option to provide/construct shelters in the vulnerable villages.

61. This option can not only provide shelter in case of moderate threat but can buy time for arranging
suitable transport to shift affected population in case of a severe situation requiring safe havens (schools

                                                                                          APPENDIX 1


etc.). The option would involve constructing elevated earthen plate-forms close to each of the
vulnerable `Dehs' so that the affected population can stay near to their properties but at a higher
elevation above the generally expected highest water level of flooding. It is considered that area
required per person would be of the order of 2.5 m2 to 3 m2 per person. The plat-forms would be on the
average about 2m high and can have wooden or steel trusses to install temporary covers such as
tarpaulin. There would be need, however, for the land to construct these elevated earthen plat-forms.

62. As per the discussions held with the representatives of NGOs met, this can be done with community
participation basis (CCB). The community can contribute a suitable piece of land while investment may
be arrangement from an on-going project. If constructed on CCB, the up-keep and maintenance can be
carried out by the community. During the dry season these plate-forms can be used for community
functions such as marriage ceremonies etc. A total of 61 villages in 2003 and about 10 villages in 2006
were severely affected. Considering these villages prone to risk of flooding again and adding a few
more, a total number of 80 villages would perhaps require these plat-forms. But the number should be
determined by consultation with the concerned communities.

63. The construction of elevated plateforms, if generally agreed by the population of vulnerable
villages, can be funded through an on-going project such as; Sindh Coastal Area Development Program
(SCAD).

D.13     Facilities at Shelters (schools)

64. As the schools/educational institutions are used to give shelter, their buildings are deteriorated
using those for residential purposes. The hygienic conditions deteriorate due to lack of toilets. W&S
Department shall address this deficiency in these buildings. Nd after the emergency is over shall
restofre these buildings.

65. The provision of stockpile edibles, medicines and clean drinking water for three days is normally
maintained but during 2003 it took some 15 days for the affected population to return to their places.
Adequate quantities of needed edibles and medicines for at a week shall be maintained initially, as part
of the Flood Management Plan. And, adequate budget allocation should be provided for this purpose as
part of the Flood Management Plan.


                             Annex 4
        Food and Agriculture Organization of United Nations




                            REPORT

                              ON

                       ASSESSMENT OF

PRESENT CONDITION OF LBOD AND KPOD AFTER RECENT REPAIR

          WORKS AND FURTHER WORKS NEEDED




                          Prepared By:

                 Muhammad Ehsan, Consultant




                          June 06, 2007




                        Islamabad Office

                                i



         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB      Asian Development Bank
AWB      Area Water Board
DCO      District Coordination Officer
DPOD     Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain
EDO      Executive District Officer
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOP      Government of Pakistan
GOS      Government of Sindh
HANDS    Health and Nutrition Development Society
ICZM     Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IUCN     International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
KPOD     Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain
LBOD     Left Bank Outfall Drain
MAF      Million Acre Feet
MMD      Mirpurkhas Main Drain
NGOs     Non Governmental Organizations
NIO      National Institute of Oceanography
NRSP     National Rural Support Program
OFWM     On Farm Water Management
PEPA     Pakistan Environment Protection Agency
PFF      Pakistan Fisher Folk Forum
PMU      Project Management Unit
RBOD     Right Bank Outfall Drain
SCDRP    Sindh Coastal Rehabilitation Project
SRSP     Sindh Rural Support Program
SUPARCO  Space and Upper Atmospheric Research Organization
TMA      Tehsil Municipal Administration
WAPDA    Water and Power Development Authority
WSIP     Water Sector Improvement Project

                                                          ii




                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


A.   BACKGROUND................................................................................................................1

B.   INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................4

C.   FLOODS ............................................................................................................................4

     1. Review of 2003  Flood and its effect on LBOD..................................................... 4
     2. Review of 2006 - Flood and its effect on LBOD...................................................... 9

D.   REPAIR WORKS CARRIED OUT AFTER FLOOD EVENTS ...............................11

     1. Repair Works carried out by Pakistan Army.......................................................... 11
     2. Works Carried out/Being carried out by Left Bank Canals AWB ......................... 12
     3. Works Carried out/Being carried out by Nara Canal AWB ................................... 14

E.   PRESENT CONDITION OF LBOD.............................................................................15

     1. LBOD Spinal Drain................................................................................................ 15
     2. Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD)..................................................................... 15
     3. Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain (DPOD) ...................................................................... 15
     4. Other Main Drains, Branch Drains and Sub-Drains of LBOD System.................. 16

F.   FURTHER WORKS REQUIRED TO BE DONE FOR SURFACE DRAINS .........16

     1. General ................................................................................................................... 16
     2. Description of Civil Works needed to be carried out ............................................. 19

   G.   ACTIVITIES FOR SUSTAINABLE SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM OF
     FLOODING.....................................................................................................................20

     1. Studies Initiated...................................................................................................... 20
     2. Studies Envisaged in WSIP.................................................................................... 22
     3. Need for Coordinating Studies ............................................................................... 22

H.   O&M OF LBOD..............................................................................................................22

     1. General ................................................................................................................... 22
     2. WAPDA Produced Manuals................................................................................... 23
     3. Criteria for O&M of Drains.................................................................................... 23
     4. Current Budget Allocations.................................................................................... 24
     5. Recommended Practice of O&M............................................................................ 24
     6. Need for Updating O&M Yardsticks...................................................................... 24

I.   CONCLUSIONS..............................................................................................................25

J.   RECOMMENDATIONS................................................................................................25

                                  iii


ANNEX 1:         Persons Met

ANNEX 2: List of Documents Consulted

                                                1


                                     ASSESSMENT OF
   PRESENT CONDITION OF LBOD AND KPOD AFTER RECENT REPAIR
                      WORKS AND FURTHER WORKS NEEDED

                                  E.    BACKGROUND

66.   On September 10, 2004, the World Bank's Inspection Panel (the Panel) registered a
Request for Inspection, submitted by Khadim Talpur, Mohammad Ali Shah, Mustafar Talpur,
Munawar Hassan Memon, Iqbal Hyder, Mir Mohammad Buledi, and Najma Junejo on their
own behalf and on behalf of "others who live in the area known as District Badin, Sindh
Pakistan" in the Indus River Basin (Requesters). Many of the issues raised in the Request
related to the LBOD Stage 1 Project, co financed by the Bank with ADB and other donors,
which had closed in 1997. Fig. 1 gives the location and components of the LBOD System. The
Requesters claimed that the LBOD system was faulty and they had incurred losses because of
its poor design. The Requesters claimed that the Bank had failed to observe or had otherwise
violated various provisions of its own operational Policies and Procedures. They also voiced
concerns that the NDP project would extend the system to serve the entire Indus Basin, adding
more effluents from the upper basin, through a National Surface Drainage System (NSDS).

67.   The Executive Directors and the President of IDA were notified on September 17, 2004
by the Panel of receipt of the Request. Responding to the claims in the Request the
Management authorized an investigation.

68.   The Inspection Panel conducted the required investigation. The Panel met with the
Requesters, local authorities and stakeholders including fisher folk, and discussed with
Government of Sindh (GOS) authorities actions which could be undertaken in the short and
medium term to address flood vulnerability and socio-economic and livelihood issues of people
living in close proximity to LBOD and in the coastal zone of southern Sindh. The Panel issued
its report outlining the findings of the investigation. The Management issued its Response in
July 2006.

69.   Although the NDP project as originally conceived in the 1997 Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) was to have laid the groundwork for the NSDS, the concept was subsequently rejected
as a result of extensive studies and reviews.No extension of the LBOD spinal drain to join a
national surface drainage system was done under the NDP project.

70.   In the light of Panel's recommendations the Board of Executive Directors of the Bank
approved a Short Term Action Plan, which consists of five activities:

         Implementation of the Coastal Area Development Program (CADP) in southern
             Sindh

         Rapid assessment of ecological and livelihood conditions in the dhands to identify
             immediate measures to improve livelihoods and ecological conditions

         Rapid assessment of existing local government flood risk management systems to
             reduce flood damage and vulnerability by building capacity and improving flood
             risk response

                                      2


 Assessment of the condition of the right embankment of the LBOD spinal drain
  and KPOD and preparation of a detailed maintenance plan

 Processing of the Water Sector Improvement Project (WSIP) in order to ensure a
  rapid startup of the technical studies to design measures to improve the
  performance of LBOD and prepare a comprehensive flood and drainage plan for
  the left bank of the Indus River in southern Sindh.

                         3


  Fig.1  Location and Components of LBOD System




Nawabshah
Component



                       Sanghar
                       Component




                                  Mirpurkhas
                                  Component

                                                    4


                                      F.    INTRODUCTION

71.    For carrying out activity indicated under bullet point 4 in para 5 above relating to
`Assessment of the condition of the right embankment of the LBOD spinal drain and KPOD
and preparation of a detailed maintenance plan' services of a consultant6, have been retained.

72.    Starting work on April 09, 2007, the Consultant studied various reports previously
prepared7. The Consultant undertook a mission to site from April 15, 2007 to April 21, 2007.
He visited Karachi, Hyderabad, Mirpurkhas, Badin, Mirpurkhas Main Drain, LBOD, KPOD
and starting point of Tidal Link to learn about the project area and see repair works
accomplished and/or on-going, and to discuss the issues with government officials, technical
staff of the concerned agencies and Institutes, local government officials, and NGOs8. It is
pertinent to mention that presently it is not possible to inspect the Tidal Link beyond its starting
point without a boat, which is on account of virtually non-existent IP. Government and non-
government officials and technical experts were extremely generous with their time and
provided data and background information and reports to the consultant. The World Bank
Islamabad Office, the office of PC of NDP Sindh, the staff and management of the Sindh
Irrigation and Drainage Authority (SIDA), the Chief Engineer and Staff of WAPDA's
Hyderabad Office, the Director (Left Bank Canals AWB) and the Director (Nara Canal AWB)
provided substantive support to the Consultant. The Consultant is grateful to all these officials
and experts for their hospitality and assistance. The findings of the studies carried out by the
Consultant are presented in this report.

                                      G. FLOODS

Review of 2003  Flood and its effect on LBOD

73.    During the month of July 2003, Nawabshah, Mirpurkhas and Badin districts received
heavy rainfalls9: Nawabshah (304 mm), Mirpurkhas (192 mm) and Badin (292 mm). The run-
off produced by the rains in these districts, which includes the catchment area of LBOD
System, enters the surface drains of LBOD System and goes to sea through LBOD Outfall
system. Fig. 2 shows the schematic diagram of LBOD System and its outfall. Review of the
design of LBOD Outfall system indicates that it has been designed to cater for a drainage rate
of 1.5 cfs / sq. mile which is equivalent to surface drainage rate of 42 mm (1.67 inches) in a
month. Rainfall received in 25 days of July 2003 was on the average 295 mm, which was 7
times the discharge capacity of LBOD.

74.    Considering the envisaged run-off factor of 20%, LBOD system received 0.286 MAF of
the total quantity of 1.43 MAF produced by the catchment area of LBOD due to rains. In order
to drain out rain water, 2,050 drain inlets, with a capacity of 1.8 cfs each, have been provided in
the drains. The design discharge of LBOD Outfall system is thus 4,000 cusecs (7,934 AF/day)
but it can accommodate up to 6,000 cusecs (11,900 AF/day) utilizing the freeboard. At this rate
it would have taken ordinarily 24 days to evacuate this volume of water. In addition, Badin
catchment area of 3.3 million acres received 300 mm rainfall which also entered in LBOD
System.



6Mr. Muhammad Ehsan
7List of documents consulted in preparing this report is given in Annex 2
8A list of organizations and officials met by the consultant is given in Annex 1.
9Meteorological Records of rainfall

                                       5



                  Fig.2  Schematic Diagram of LBOD System




                                  WNSMD


           ENSMD

                                                          SMD




                                                                  DRAIN
                                                 MMD
                                                                       INALPS


                                                                             LBOD




                                          LBOD SPINAL DRAIN




                      KOTRI DRAINS
                      (Karo & Fuleli)
                                         KOTRI DRAINS




    SINDH DHANDS
      (Cholri, Pateji                                         DPOD
    Sanhro & Mehro)                              KPOD


SEA
                   TIDAL LINK                     SHANKOOR
                                                    DHAND
                           RANN OF KUTCH

                                               6


75.   For expediting evacuation of rain water from their fields the farmers of Nawab Shah,
Sanghar and Mirpurkhas made cuts in the drains of LBOD system that further increased the
flow in Outfall Drain. This caused overflowing in the LBOD. The situation further aggravated
due to flows from canal escapes and breaches that entered LBOD. It is pertinent to note that
I&P Department did not close the inflows to irrigation canals despite the rainfall that worsened
the flow condition in LBOD system which had to carry many times more discharge than the
capacity of drains. High tide in sea and high level in Shakoor Dhand obstructed the flow, and
area in the vicinity of Badin district suffered badly. It was observed on July 25, 2003 that a
discharge of about 9,000 cusecs passed through Spinal Drain in the proximity of RD 159+000.

76.   The 2003 floods were thus caused by a combination of factors: i) Rainfall in the area; ii)
water coming to the area by the canals in the left bank below Kotri (total of more than 40,000
cusecs) iii) Drainage water of the record storm in the month; iv) drainage water coming from
the upper Nara basin carried by LBOD; v) the connection of the upper DPOD basin to the
LBOD system; v) high sea levels and surge caused by the storm which blocked the direct
discharge of the water and raised the levels in the KPOD and LBOD; vi) DPOD emergency
flood way did not function as per design. Plates 1 to 4 show condition of the flow in LBOD
and inundation of area during 2003  Flood.




               Plate 1: Flow through LBOD at RD-274 during 2003-Flood

                                  7




Plate 2: View of Berm of KPOD after Receding of Water of 2003-Flood




              Plate 3: Inundation caused by 2003-Flood

                                             8




          Plate 4: KPOD at RD 50 after receding of Water, Inundation Visible

77.  There were several breaches in the system particularly in LBOD and KPOD. List of
breaches that were plugged by SIDA is given in the Table 1.

                Table 1: List of Breaches in LBOD and KPOD (July 2003)

      Sr. No.    Location                                   (RD)    Breach
                                                                  Width (Ft)

          1.     Shadi Large (LBOD)                         182       35

          2.     Kazi Qudus village (LBOD)                  165       130

          3.     Kazi Qudus village (LBOD)                  163       50

          4.     Kazi Qudus village (LBOD)                  162       100

          5.     Shadi large (LBOD)                         170       45

          6.     Vidhri Chak (KPOD)                         158       80

          7.     Vidhri Chak (KPOD)                         158       30

          8.     Vidhri Chak (KPOD)                         158       50

          9.     Village Mukhtiar (LBOD)                    277       40

         10.     Village Rahim Notkani (LBOD)               279       55

         11      Village Mehrab Chandio (LBOD)              285       50

         12      Near VRB (LBOD)                            295       25

                                                 9


Review of 2006 - Flood and its effect on LBOD

78.   Similar to the event of 2003-flood that occurred due to unusual rains during July 2003,
there was another flood event in the LBOD project area in April 2006. There were intensive
rains in the Lower Sindh as indicated in the Table 2:

                                     Table 2: 2006 Rainfalls

         Sr. No.           Taluka                                  Rainfall (mm)

           1.              Badin                                         298
           2.              Matli                                         231
           3.              Talhar                                        205
           4.              S.F. Rahu                                     110
           5.              Tando Bago                                    144
           6.              Mirpurkhas                                    272
           7.              Digri                                         362
           8.              Jhudo                                         150
           9.              Kot Ghulam Muhammad                           207
           10.             Sindhri                                       281
           11.             H.B.Mari                                      273

79.   Besides sheet flows caused by the intensive rains entering the drainage system, the local
farmers again made cuts in the drains of LBOD system for expediting evacuation of rain water
from their fields that increased the flow in the Outfall Drain. This not only caused overflowing
and breaches in the LBOD but also breaches and overtopping occurred in other main drains,
branch drains and sub-drains of the LBOD System. However, no water came to the area by the
canals in the left bank below Kotri during the 2006 Event.

80.   It is pertinent to note that the event of 2006-Flooding did not impact Badin district as
severely as it happened during 2003-flooding. This is due to diligent work initially carried out
by Army in filling breaches immediately after the occurrence of 2003-flooding, and later in
restoration work carried out by AWBLBC that is still in progress.

81.   Another significant phenomenon, however, that occurred was heading up of water
upstream of pipe culvert bridges which had been designed to carry much less discharge
than occurs due to heavy rains and cuts made by farmers. This caused breaches in the
banks upstream, notable of these was at RD 350 culvert bridge across MMD, which caused
breach in the left bank of MMD that threatened Mirpurkhas city. In order to safely pass the
flow in the reach RD 245 to RD 500 of Spinal Drain of LBOD System, earthen and gunny bag
dowels were constructed in emergency. The major breaches that occurred due to flooding are
given Table 3.

          Table 3: List of Overtopping and Breaches in LBOD System (April 2006)

                                                                            (RD)
     Sr. No.    Nature and Location
                                                                      NIP          IP

     Overtopping in LBOD

         1.     Several Overtopping in the reach                     212-235

                                       10


                                                     (RD)
Sr. No.  Nature and Location
                                                NIP       IP

  2.     Overtopping in LBOD                             225

  3.     Several Overtopping in the reach               248-296

  4.     Several Overtopping in the reach      270-298

  5.     Several Overtopping in the reach               298-300

  6.     Several Overtopping in the reach      304-306  304-306

  7.     Overtopping in LBOD                    362

  8.     Overtopping in LBOD                    431

  9.     Overtopping in LBOD                    443

 10.     Overtopping in LBOD                    449

 11.     Overtopping in LBOD                    455

 12.     Overtopping in LBOD                    479

Relief Cuts by people converted to Breaches

  1.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)             52

  2.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)            117      117

  3.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)            151

  4.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)                     152.5

  5.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)                     189

  6.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)                     202

  7.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)                     216

  8.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)            219

  9.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)

         Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)

Breaches and Washing-away of Embankments

  1.     Breach in LBOD                         435

  2.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)                    350-357

  3.     Sanghar Main Drain (SMD)               62-63

                                              11


                                H. REPAIR WORKS CARRIED OUT AFTER
                                      FLOOD EVENTS

Repair Works carried out by Pakistan Army

82.   After the 2003 floods, Rs.50 million were provided by WAPDA from the balance loan
amount of the LBOD project in order to cope with immediate post flood situation. The
emergent works to restore functioning of the outfall drains (KPOD and DPOD) were executed
during the year 2004-05 in association with 5 Corps Engineers Pakistan Army in the following
locations:

         Weir at RD 159 of KPOD: In order to pass more flow in DPOD to reduce
            passing of flow of the magnitude that passed in July 2003 through KPOD,
            the weir was slashed so as to lower it by 2 ft.

         KPOD, RD 25 to RD (-) 5: The earthwork has been carried out to restore
            Inspection Path (IP) in this reach. Also, the stone pitching in the reach RD
            (-)5 to RD (+) 1.030 has been provided on the outer slope of the
            embankment to counter the wave action of high water that may be caused by
            high tides that can come from the direction of Cholri Dhand due to collapse
            of the Cholri weir. The site was visited on April 17, 2007 and the works
            were noticed to be in reasonably good condition.

         KPOD, RD 60 to RD 50: The earthwork has been carried out to restore
            Inspection Path (IP) in this reach. No stone pitching has been provided on
            the outer slope of the embankment. The site was visited on April 17, 2007
            and the work was noticed to be in reasonably good condition.

         KPOD, RD 60 to RD 52: The earthwork has been carried out to restore
            Non-inspection Path (NIP) in this reach. No stone pitching has been
            provided on the outer slope of the embankment. The site was visited on
            April 17, 2007 and the work was noticed to be in reasonably condition.

         Seerani Branch Drain RD.0.0 to RD.16: It was envisaged to restore Seerani
            Branch Drain. Also planned was the stone pitching along outer slope of IP
            side. The work has been reported to be completed.

         KPOD RD 0 to RD 84 (Both NIP &IP): The repairs to 10 pipe outlets were
            carried out.

         Repairs to 4 bridges at RD 27, RD 58, RD 77 and RD 84 of KPOD were
            carried out.

         KPOD RD 0 to RD 84 (Both NIP &IP): 16 new pipe outlets were
            constructed.

                                              12


Works Carried out/Being carried out by Left Bank Canals AWB

83.   More PSDP schemes have been prepared for execution during the period 2005-07 in
order to strengthen both banks of LBOD from RD 204 to RD 159, and KPOD in various
reaches. The works of these schemes are being procured and supervised by the Left Bank
Canals AWB.      The works included in these schemes were inspected by the Consultant in the
company of MD, SIDA and Director, Left Bank Canals AWB on April 17, 2007, and found to
be at various stages of completion. The particulars of these schemes are given in Table 4.

       TABLE 4: Works Carried out/Being Carried out by Left Bank Canals AWB

                                                                 Expenditure
                                          Contract Amount
No.    Description of Scheme                                      As of End       Status of
                                                (Rs. M)          March 2007       completion
                                                                   (Rs. M)

 1.    Earthwork for IP of KPOD RD                13.19                0.00       Work just
       (-) 5 to RD (-) 10, and stone                                              started
       pitching on outer.

 2.    Earthwork for IP of KPOD RD                13.17                0.00       Work just
       (-) 10 to RD (-) 15, and stone                                             started
       pitching on outer.

 3.    Earthwork of guide bank                    16.03                0.00       Work not yet
       KPOD RD 0 - RD 4, and stone                                                started
       pitching on outer and inner
       sides of the guide bank.

 4.    Earthwork of guide bank                    15.24                0.00       Work not yet
       KPOD RD 4 - RD 8, and stone                                                started
       pitching on outer and inner
       sides of the guide bank.

 5.    Earthwork for NIP of KPOD                   5.65                0.00       Work just
       RD 5 - RD 15, and stone                                                    started
       pitching on outer.

 6.    Earthwork for NIP of KPOD                  11.65                0.00       Work just
       RD 5 - RD 0, stone pitching on                                             started
       outer and construction of 5 Nos.
       Pipe Inlets at: (i) RD 1; (ii) RD
       2; (iii) RD12; (iv) RD 20; and
       (v) RD 24.

 7.    Earthwork for IP of KPOD RD                13.73               11.94       Work nearing
       25 - 50, RD 60  85 and RD 98-                                             completion.
       108.

 8.    Earthwork for IP of KPOD RD                12.18               11.63       Work nearing
       115 - 129, RD 146  159 and                                                completion.
       stone pitching at RD 23
       opposite outfall bridge of
       Lowari Branch Drain.

                                              13


                                                                 Expenditure
                                          Contract Amount
No.    Description of Scheme                                      As of End      Status of
                                                (Rs. M)          March 2007      completion
                                                                   (Rs. M)

 9.    Earthwork for NIP of KPOD                 20.70                21.52      Work nearing
       RD 15  52 and RD 60  85.                                                completion.

10.    Earthwork for NIP of KPOD                 22.75                22.22      Work nearing
       RD 85  159.                                                              completion.

11.    Earthwork for IP of LBOD                  12.29                12.76      Work nearing
       Spinal, RD 159  204.                                                     completion.

12.    Earthwork for NIP of LBOD                 13.12                12.63      Work nearing
       Spinal, RD 159  204.                                                     completion.

13.    Repairs to 2 bridges at RD 109             1.83                 1.39      Work nearing
       and RD 122 of KPOD                                                        completion.

14.    Repairs to 2 bridges at RD 146             1.70                 1.39      Work nearing
       and RD 159 of KPOD                                                        completion.

15.    Construction of 5 Nos. New                 1.46                 1.21      Work
       Inlet Structures along KPOD                                               completed.

16.    Repairs of 15 Nos. Inlet                   4.45                 4.44      Work
       Structures along KPOD                                                     completed.

17.    Construction of 5 Nos. New                 1.46                 1.21      Work
       Inlet Structures along LBOD                                               completed.

18.    Repairs of 8 Nos. Inlet                    1.73                 1.68      Work
       Structures along KPOD                                                     completed.


84.   The Inspection Path (IP) of KPOD and LBOD in the reach RD (-) 15 to RD 204 has been
converted into berm by off-setting the IP by at least 20 feet and constructing the new IP 5 feet
above this berm. Similarly, the Non Inspection Path (NIP) of KPOD and LBOD in the reach
RD (-) 15 to RD 204 has been raised by converting the old NIP into berm by off-setting the
new NIP by at least 20 feet and constructing the IP 5 feet above this berm. In this manner the
flow carrying capacities of LBOD and KPOD have been increased to cater for unusual flows
similar to those that occurred in 2003 and 2006. But this has been done arbitrarily without
hydrological analysis and re-visiting operational criteria of drains in the LBOD system to
establish the credible maximum discharge, which should be subject of envisaged studies to be
carried out by the consultants being engaged by WAPDA. Nevertheless, the aforementioned
works which are substantially completed can stand in good stead in case of need to cope with
unusual flows. Since the earthwork has not been compacted using rollers but is
consolidated only by the tractor-trolley used to haul material, there is likelihood of
breaches in new IP and NIP embankment. Obviously the situation demands rigorous
vigilance during the monsoon season.

85.   PSDP schemes have also been prepared by the Left Bank Canals AWB for execution
during 2006-07 in order to re-section the prism and strengthen both banks of LBOD Spinal RD
204 to RD 305.5 and Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD) from RD 30 to RD 254. The particulars
of these schemes are given in Table 5.

                                                14


                   TABLE 5: PSDP Schemes in Left Bank Canals AWB

No.    Description of Scheme                             Estimated Cost
                                                         (Rs. M)            Remarks

1.     Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening IP             8.23         Work not yet
        &NIP of LBOD Spinal, RD 204-220.                                    awarded
2.     Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening IP             8.19         Work not yet
        &NIP of LBOD Spinal, RD 220 - 255.                                  awarded
3.     Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening IP             8.14         Work not yet
        &NIP of LBOD Spinal, RD 255-270.                                    awarded
4.     Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening IP             6.74         Work not yet
        &NIP of LBOD Spinal, RD 270-305.5.                                  awarded
5.     Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening both           8.53         Work not yet
        banks of MMD, RD 30-60.                                             awarded
6.     Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening both           8.58         Work not yet
        banks of MMD, RD 60-90.                                             awarded
7.     Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening both           8.04         Work not yet
        banks of MMD, RD 90 - 120.                                          awarded
8.     Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening both           8.50         Work not yet
        banks of MMD, RD 120-150.                                           awarded
9.     Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening both           8.85         Work not yet
        banks of MMD, RD 150-180.                                           awarded
10.    Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening both           8.58         Work not yet
        banks of MMD, RD 180 -200.                                          awarded
11.    Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening both           8.78         Work not yet
        banks of MMD, RD 200 - 225.                                         awarded
12.    Re-sectioning, raising and strengthening both           8.84         Work not yet
        banks of MMD, RD 225 -254.                                          awarded

Works Carried out/Being carried out by Nara Canal AWB

86.   After the event of April 2006 flooding in the area, PSDP schemes are understood to have
also been prepared and/or being prepared by Nara Canal AWB in order to re-section the prism
and strengthen banks of the drains in its jurisdiction; West Nawab Shah Main Drain (WNSMD)
and its sub-systems, East Nawab Shah Main Drain (ENSMD) and its sub-drains, Sanghar Main
Drain (SMD) and its sub- drains including Makhi Branch Drain and its two sub-drains, Sinjharo
Branch Drain and its sub-drains, Patoyun Branch Drain and its two sub-drains and Mirpurkhas
Main Drain (MMD) and its sub-drains from RD 254 to RD 365. The particulars and status of
implementation of these schemes were not available. Director, Nara Canal AWB, however,
informed that he intended to repair all drains and make them ready to carry their designed
discharges, which appeared to be a daunting task to be carried out during the remaining 2
months before the advent of the monsoon period.

87.   The Consultant visited the site of breach that occurred in MMD between RD 350 and RD
357, which had occurred due to heading up of water upstream of pipe culvert located at RD
350. It was noted that bed clearance and repairs to banks in the reach RD 350 - 357 was in
progress. Although an additional pipe had been added to the original single pipe after the event
of 2003 flooding but it did not prevent the breach. The Consultant suggested to the concerned
XEN and the AEN to provide further additions to the two existing pipes in order to prevent
breach again at upstream of this location during the impending monsoon season to save
Mirpurkhas city.

                                                15


                                 I.     PRESENT CONDITION OF LBOD

LBOD Spinal Drain

88.   The repair works between RD 159 to RD 204 of LBOD both on the IP side (Right Bank)
and NIP (Let Bank) are substantially completed. The Inspection Path (IP) has been converted
into berm by off-setting the IP by at least 20 feet and constructing the new IP 5 feet above this
berm. Similarly, the Non Inspection Path (NIP) in this reach has been raised, converting the old
NIP into berm by off-setting the new NIP by at least 20 feet, constructing the IP 5 feet above
this berm. In this manner the flow carrying capacity of LBOD in this reach (RD 159 to RD 204)
has been increased to about 9000 cusecs to cater for the flows similar to those reported to have
occurred in 2003 and 2006.

89.   Four (4) PSDP schemes have been framed to carry out the repairs in the reach RD 204 -
305.5 during the year 2006-07, similar to those carried out in the reach, RD 159 to RD 204.
There, however, had been breaches and overtopping in the reach RD 305 to RD 480 during the
flood event of April 2006. Thus, there is need to re-section and strengthen banks of Spinal
LBOD up to RD 480 and upstream.

Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD)

90.   As per details given in para 14, 15 and 16, the repair works on KPOD, both on the IP side
(Right Bank) and NIP (Let Bank) are in advanced stage of completion between RD (-) 5 to RD
204. The Inspection Path (IP) of KPOD in the reach RD (-) 5 to RD 159 has been converted
into berm by off-setting the IP by at least 20 feet and constructing the new IP 5 feet above this
berm. Similarly, the Non Inspection Path (NIP) has been raised/being raised by converting the
old NIP into berm by off-setting the new NIP by at least 20 feet and constructing new NIP 5
feet above this berm. In this manner the flow carrying capacity of KPOD in the reach between
RD (-) 5 to RD 159 has been increased to cater for unusual flows similar to those that occurred
in 2003 and 2006 (reportedly maximum of over 8,000 cusecs during 2003).

91.   With the completion of on-going repair works in KPOD that are expected to be
completed during 2006-07, the KPOD would be in a reasonably good condition to safely pass
flows similar to those occurred in 2003 and 2006. Thus, there will not be need to carry out
more works for KPOD itself until such time as the credible maximum discharge is
established by hydrological analysis and re-visiting operational criteria of drains in the
LBOD system, which studies are to be carried out by the consultants being engaged (by
WAPDA).

Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain (DPOD)

92.   After the 2003 flood event, the weir at RD 159 of KPOD was slashed to lower it by 2 ft
in order to pass more flow in DPOD to reduce the flow of the magnitude that passed in July
2003 through KPOD. No significant repair work has been carried out on DPOD itself, as none
was considered emergent after flood events in 2003 and 2006. There may be need to carry
out works on DPOD after the credible maximum discharge expected to flow through it is
established by hydrological analysis, re-visiting operational criteria of drains in the
LBOD system and the problem of back flows in certain conditions and other flow
retarding conditions in DPOD that do exist, which studies are to be carried out by the
consultants being engaged (by WAPDA).

                                                16


Other Main Drains, Branch Drains and Sub-Drains of LBOD System

93.    Except for closing breaches no special work is reported to have been carried out on other
Main Drains, Branch Drains and Sub-Drains of LBOD System after the flood event of 2003.
After the flood event of April 2006, the repairs and strengthening of banks of MMD is reported
to be in progress both by Nara Canal AWB and Left Bank Canals AWB in the reaches located
in their respective jurisdictions. Due to inadequate funds available for M&R, e.g. allocations of
only Rs. 4.55 million and Rs. 4.85 million were made during 2005-06 and 2006-07 respectively
for surface drains of Nawabshah Division, all drains in this division are expected to be in need
of major intervention to address the deferred maintenance to restore their design capacities. The
situation in other divisions is not expected to be different than that of Nawabshah Division for
the same reason of paucity of funds for carrying out routine maintenance.

                                   J.    FURTHER WORKS REQUIRED TO BE
                                         DONE FOR SURFACE DRAINS

General

94.    During the events of flooding in 2003 and 2006, the surface drains of the LBOD
Drainage System, for reasons stated in Para 11 above had to pass discharges much higher than
their respective safe carrying capacities. During the 2006 flood the banks of the drains were
overtopped due to heading up of water upstream of pipe culvert bridges having lesser capacity
than safe carrying capacity of the drain even at lower discharges e.g. at RD 350 of MMD. The
flooding caused breaches in the banks, water passed over berms etc. This required not only
closing of breaches but raising and strengthening of banks of the drains particularly the Spinal
LBOD, KPOD and MMD to cope with the discharges similar in magnitude that occurred in
2003 should those occurred again.

95.    Although there had been an investment of over 2,500 million Rupees under NDB but
most of it (70%) was incurred on the `Remodeling of Nara Canal' and Commissioning of
Jamrao Twin Canal, 19% on the rehabilitation of drains related to drainage systems all other
than those in LBOD System, 7% on lining of some 200 Water Courses and 3% on the
procurement of Electrical and Mechanical equipment for LBOD System. Out of the eight
performance contracts awarded for O&M of scavenger wells, interceptor drains, subsurface and
surface drains of the LBOD Project in Sindh for 5 years, only two performance contracts were
for surface drains of Sanghar and Nawabshah systems (total cost Rs. 82 million). Thus, the
money spent under NDB on procuring civil works (through Performance Contracts only) for
rehabilitation of surface drains in the LBOD System was only nominal. There is deferred
maintenance in the prisms of drains. Until such time as the condition surveys are carried out it
is not possible to identify the areas that would be more affected when the design parameters are
exceeded. It is therefore considered appropriate to restore capacities of all main drains, branch
drains and sub-drains as well as their banks to the designed parameters along their entire
lengths to insure safe functioning of the System.

96.    As was pointed out by the POE, it is emphasized that the monitoring program is essential
to have a final LBOD Drainage System and Outfall System that can work according to the
identified objectives. Due to complexity of the situation POE recommended an adaptive
approach in order to learn at the same time the structures are built. This approach needs to be
adopted to determine the nature and extent of long term works by hydrological analysis and re-
visiting operational criteria of drains in the LBOD system and the consensus of all stakeholders
after consultation. Pursuing this approach there is need to formulate an interim plan (keeping in

                                               17


view as to what has been done so far after 2003 flooding, and on-going works) to carry out the
works necessary to insure a safe function of the system, until such time as the nature and extent
of long term works is established by hydrological analysis and re-visiting operational criteria of
drains in the LBOD system and the consensus of all stakeholders after consultation, inventory
of the surface drains has been prepared.

97.    For preparing this interim plan, an inventory of LBOD surface drains was compiled
initially using the information contained in an Index Plan of LBOD provided by Director, Left
Bank Canals AWB and "Operation and Maintenance Manual, Volume 3, The Surface Drainage
System (December 1991)". The lengths of most of the drains given in the inventory were scaled
from the AWB map. Wherever available the design discharges of the drains were indicated but
substantial information had to be filled in this inventory relating to respective design
discharges. Nevertheless, the information on lengths of the drains was sufficient to prepare the
proposed plan of rehabilitation/restoration of LBOD Surface Drainage System, part of which
has been implemented and some parts are on-going with the funds provided to SIDA under
PSDP. Later, WAPDA's office at Hyderabad was contacted again during the month of May
2007. WAPDA provided the information that has been used to up-date the inventory.

98.    For estimating the cost of the works required to be implemented, unit rates per RD of
each of the three types of the drains have been established using the costs of the completed
works and on-going works. In the case of sub-drains it was assessed that those would require
50% of the unit cost for main drains while the branch drains would require 75% of the unit cost
of main drains. Due to narrowing of section of spinal LBOD upstream of RD 305, it was
assessed that the cost per unit length will be about 60% of the cost incurred on KPOD and
LBOD main drains in the downstream reaches. The units rates used are: (i) Rs. 305,400 per RD
of LBOD in reach RD 305-815; (ii) Rs. 306,700 per RD of other main drains such as MMD.
SMD etc.; (iii) Rs. 230,000 per RD of branch drains; and (iv) Rs. 153,350 per RD of sub-
drains. The summary of the proposed plan of rehabilitation/restoration of LBOD Surface
Drainage System is given in Table 6.

                                                                                          18




        TABLE 6: Summary of Proposed Plan of Rehabilitation/Restoration of LBOD Surface Drainage System

                                                               Total                                      Phasing of Work
                                                              Works
Sr.                                                                           FY           FY            FY            FY             FY             Total
                                                            Required
No.                  Description                                           2004- 05      2005-06       2006-07      2007-08        2008-09         FY 2004-09   Remarks
                                                               Cost          Cost          Cost         Cost          Cost           Cost
                                                              (M.Rs)        (M.Rs)       (M.Rs)        (M.Rs)        (M.Rs)        (M.Rs)         Cost (M.Rs)

1   East Nawab Shah Main Drain System                          154.117                                                154.117                          154.117

2   Gajrah Branch Drain Sub-System                               77.668                                                 77.668                          77.668

3   Amurji Branch Drain Sub-System                               94.306                                                 94.306                          94.306

4   West Nawab Shah Main Drain                                   80.509                                                 80.509                          80.509

5   Singhoro Branch Drain Sub-System                             64.787                                                              64.787             64.787

6   Makhi Branch Drain Sub-System                                30.822                                                              30.822             30.822

7   Sanghar Main Drain Sub-System                                73.223                                                              73.223             73.223

8   Patoyun Branch Drain Sub-System                              38.872                                                 38.872                          38.872

9   Mirpurkhas Main Drain System                               199.662                                  80.000        119.662                         199.662

10  Left Bank Outfall Branch Drain Sub-System                  124.677                                                124.677                          124.677

11  Left Bank Outfall Spinal Drain                             344.268                     54.391                     184.123       105.754            344.268

12  KPOD System                                                275.751        64.402       49.638       73.920          87.791                        275.751

13  DPOD System                                                  26.468                                                 26.468                          26.468

14  Outfall Structures10                                       224.221                                                100.000       124.221           224.221

         Total LBOD Surface System                           1,809.349        64.402      104.029      153.920      1,088.192       398.806          1,809.349



        10- The Outfall Structure to arrest effect of sea intrusion should be constructed only after comprehensive studies to properly locate it in KPOD.

                                                 19



Description of Civil Works needed to be carried out

99.    DPOD: No significant repair work has been carried out on DPOD itself, as none was
considered emergent after flood events in 2003 and 2006. In order to ensure safe functioning of
DPOD there is need to carry out detail condition survey of its banks and cross-sections to frame a
scheme for strengthening of banks and adequacy of the prism to carry 2,000 cusecs particularly
after the slashing of the weir at RD 159.

100. KPOD: Almost all of the works envisaged for ensuring safe passage of flows through
KPOD similar to those occurred in 2003 and 2006 have been either completed already or will be
completed by end of year 2006-07 with funds being provided under PSDP. For the nature of
works carried out see para 23. The scheme (s) for the remaining works that relate to its 4 branch
drains need to be prepared and completed by end of year 2007-08.

101. LBOD: The works in the reach RD 159  205 have been completed. For the nature of
works carried out see para 21. There is need to re-section and strengthen banks of Spinal LBOD
up to RD 480 and upstream. The accumulated maintenance in the 15 sub-drains and Shadi
Bahadur Branch Drain out falling directly in Spinal LBOD is also required to be addressed. The
proposed plan includes the works pertaining to these drains.

102. Other Drains: The proposed plan includes works for other main drains, branch drains and
sub-drains in order to re-section and strengthen banks of these drains.

103. Improving Outfall System: In order to formulate a strategy to address the wide range of
challenges of dynamic problems of LBOD Outfall System and achieve objective of
improving the functioning of Outfall System, POE has indicated several structural
alternatives in their report including: (i) "A" - Construction of a regulating structure at the
junction of KPOD and the Tidal Link; (ii) "B"&"C" - Construction of two control
structures at the bifurcation of the Spinal Drain, one in KPOD and the second in DPOD;
(iii) "D"&"E" - Measures to protect the Kotri Drains by diversion of the Kotri drains that
enter (or all of them as before) towards Pateji Dhand, and possibly Mehro Dhand; and
(iv) "E" - Control of Tidal Link access to the Dhands  the most important but complex
situation. Although the construction of outfall control structures to improve functioning of the
Outfall System is included in this plan11, as the construction of these structures is considered
necessary to arrest intrusion of sea water and have flexible control over flows into DPOD and
KPOD, but the location of the regulating structure at the junction of KPOD and the Tidal
Link should be determined after comprehensive and thorough studies.

104. The cost of total plan of rehabilitation/restoration is of the order of Rs. 1,809 million. An
amount of Rs. 64 million were provided by WAPDA (Rs. 50 million out of the remaining loan
amount available with them); and source of balance amount of Rs. 14 million is not known. The
Government of Sindh has committed Rs. 692 million under PSDP. Thus the total funds
committed so far are Rs. 756 million. The balance amount of Rs. 1,053 million has to be ear
marked from some other source. The information about availability of funds in GoSindh's future
budgets is not known. It is pertinent to mention that the amount required during the FY 2007-08
is Rs. 1,088 million. As of end of FY 2006-07, it is anticipated that a cumulative expenditure of
Rs. 322 million would have been incurred, with the maximum spending of about Rs. 154 million


11Item 14 in Table 6.

                                                 20


during FY 2006-07. The envisaged expenditure of Rs. 1,088 million during FY 2007-08 seems a
large target but can be met with proper spade work i.e. preparation of annual work plans,
immediate condition survey of the drains by respective Drainage Divisions of the two concerned
AWBs, preparation of schemes, timely award of contracts and allocation of required amount in
the budget.

                                  K. ACTIVITIES FOR SUSTAINABLE SOLUTION
                                        TO THE PROBLEM OF FLOODING

105. The activities that need to be carried out to determine sustainable solution to the problem of
flooding of surface drainage system of LBOD involve the following:

         Determine deficiencies in the existing LBOD Drainage System and find remedial
             measures;

         Carry out studies to determine the preferred revised design of the outfall system,
             considering the alternative proposals identified by the World Bank POE to reduce the
             flood risk problems and the impact of the discharge of saline effluent; and

         Establish an effective O&M program for the surface drains and outfall system of
             LBOD;

Studies Initiated

106. Government of Pakistan has approved a PC-II for an amount of Rs. 41 million for carrying
out the Feasibility Studies by retaining services of consultants to identify and mitigate the
problem in LBOD Outfall and Badin Area Drainage System. WAPDA has been given the
responsibility to procure and supervise these consulting services. Short-listing of consulting
services has already been completed.

107. TOR were prepared. IPD arranged a meeting on January 11, 2007, attended by the
following, to finalize these TOR:

        (i)    Rais Khair Muhammad Burgari (Chairman NC AWB Mirpurkhas);
        (ii)   Muhammad Hashim Dal (Chairman LBCAWB Badin);
        (iii) Mr. Khair Muhammad Junejo (Notable Agriculturist);
        (iv) Major (R) Omer Farooq Ahmed Khan (member LBC-AWB Badin);
        (v)    Muhammad Moosa Mehndhro (UC Nazim Bhugra Memon);
        (vi) Mr. Noor Ahmed Bhurgri, Taluka Nazim KGM;
        (vii) Syed Mumtaz Ali Shah, DCO Mirpurkhas;
        (viii) Mr. Allah Dito Shar, DCO Sanghar;
        (ix) Mr. Agha Aijaz Ahmed Khan, Managing Director SIDA Hyderabad;
        (x)    Mr. Atta Muhammad Soomro, Chief Engineer, Right Bank Sukkur; and
        (xi) Mr. Ghulam Mustafa Dahri, Director Nara Canal AWB Mipurkhas.

108. The scope of work included in approved TOR, also endorsed by participant of the above
meeting (para 42), is as follows:

        (viii) To undertake a comprehensive study, conforming to the international standards, of
               LBOD System, must cover the following aspects.

                                         21


   To examine the existing and required surface and subsurface water drainage
     capacity of the present system of LBOD outfall drains and its collector drains.

   The system needs to be enhanced in order to carry out taking saline and storm
     water in the event of maximum rains.

   Estimation for upcoming maximum saline effluent and storm water to be handled
     under worst scenario (historical rainfall intensity /over 300 mm rainfall) and
     evacuation of storm water should be possible within a maximum period of three to
     five/three days.

   To determine the deficiencies in the system in relation to the desired capacity of the
     system.

   The other options for disposal of the drainage effluent/ surface runoff through an
     outfall aligned in a North-south direction may also be considered, because one
     reason for failure of the tidal link is its alignment in an East-West direction.

   To suggest the appropriate structure at suitable place and related items of work
     necessitated to stop further scoring / intrusion of sea water in between RD.0 to
     RD.(-)22 of KPOD.

   Analysis of the present lines/ alignments of outfall drains and study of pre-
     inception of LBOD and natural drains/Dhoras and subject the best option to carry
     the storm/saline effluent smoothly into sea.

   Analytically determine parameters for redesigning of the entire LBOD Stage-I
     system and maximum permissible effluent and run-off recommended to be handled
     by the system.

   Analyse financial effects of various options highlighting the recommended option
     in relation to benefits.

(ix) Re-design entire LBOD System, including outfall drains, to provide for the
     following:

   Rainfall intensity of 75 mm with a return period of 50 years.

   Rainfall intensity of 150 mm with a return period of 50 years.

   Historical rainfall/ more than 300 mm.

(x)  Prepare the PC-1 Pro-forma [as modified by the Planning Commission]
     incorporating each one of the above mentioned options for approval and
     implementation.

(xi) Suggestions of stake holders may also be considered before finalizing the study for
     redesign of LBOD system.

                                                   22


        (xii) Assess the damages caused to the entire LBOD system and people of the area etc,
               due to alleged defective designing of LBOD system.

        (xiii) The environmental aspects of entire project may also be assessed and mitigation
               measures may be suggested.

        (xiv) The study of disposal of storm water into sea through Dhoro Puran Drain and
               activation of other natural drains as source of smooth transportation may also be
               conducted.

109. Request for Proposal was sent to the short-listed consulting firms and date for the
submission of proposals had been fixed as April 21, 2007. These studies are expected to
commence in June 2007.

Studies Envisaged in WSIP

110. The recently approved Project of Water Sector Improvement Program (WSIP), which
would be implemented with the World Bank's financial assistance, among other things, "[...]"
will support the preparation of a comprehensive flood management plan for the Left Bank of the
Indus River in Sindh including the Indus delta and coastal areas. This regional drainage master
plan, agreed with local stakeholders during preparation of the national Drainage Master Plan, will
encompass both surface drainage, sub-surface drainage, water logging and salinity control and
flood risk management, and will include appropriate structural and non-structural options (e.g.,
flood warning and communications, flood proofing and improved preparedness and response
systems). Planning and infrastructure management capacity will be built and the capacity of local
authorities will be strengthened. A modern, world-class knowledge base will be developed with
appropriate analytical tools and information management systems to support planning, operations
and management. The detailed design would be prepared and made ready for implementation of
the priority works identified under the master plan under a future investment project that Sindh
may undertake with the assistance of its development partners"[...]".

Need for Coordinating Studies

111. The SIDA would be the primary project implementing agency for WISP. As per PAD of
WSIP, "[...]"SIDA would also be responsible for preparation of the master plan for flood and
drainage management on the left bank of the Indus river and plans for delta area and costal zone
(Component C2) in coordination with other concerned provincial and federal agencies, and
collaborate in future project preparation (Component E2) and technical assistance, training and
strategic studies (component E3) "[...]". There is thus need to establish coordination between
WAPDA and SIDA to streamline the modality of undertaking required studies so that: (i) there is
no duplication of the activities among various agencies involved in studies; (ii) all studies are
coordinated at a proper level; and (iii) the solutions found are acceptable to all stake holders.

                                  L.      O&M OF LBOD

General

112. O&M of the surface drains in LBOD system has been below par mainly due to two reasons;
(i) inadequate funding; and (ii) un-smooth handing over of the system to GoSindh  handed over
by WAPDA in 1993-94, returned to WAPDA in 1994 and again handed over to Go Sindh in 2002
which accepted it with reservations. Immediately after the take-over by GoSindh, there was an

                                                23


unusual flooding event in 2003. From that time onwards instead of routine O&M activities repairs
and strengthening of drain embankments are being carried out with O&M funds as well as special
budgeting provided by Federal Government and GoSindh. There has been no standard operating
procedure (SOP) in vogue for carrying out O&M activities.

WAPDA Produced Manuals

113. The Consultants of WAPDA on LBOD Stage I Project produced procedures for O&M of
LBOD System in five (5) volumes of the document entitled "Operation and Maintenance
Manual", Volume 3 pertains to the Surface Drainage System, which gives organization, operation
procedures, maintenance needs, equipment provide by the Project for O&M activities
(presumably also handed over to IPD, Sindh) and reporting Forms. No annual budget estimate or
yardsticks have been included/suggested in this Manual. The list of equipment available for O&M
activities, was supposed to be located at designated places indicated in Volume 5 of the Manual
entitled "Equipment and Workshop". Most of this equipment is now reported to be out of order.

Criteria for O&M of Drains

114. The procedure contained in Volume 3 of WAPDA produced O&M Manual, however, is
different from the IPD procedure indicated by the criteria of the yardsticks for O&M of surface
drains prepared by IPD in November 1988, which is as described below.

    (i)      1" surgrassing of IP of main and branch drains in a year;

    (ii)     Excavation by Dragline considering that Branch Drain required bed clearance after
             every fifth year;

    (iii)    Excavation by Excavator considering that Sub Drains will require bed clearance in
             alternate year;

    (iv)     Weed clearance (branch & sub-drains) considering that all categories of drain require
             weed clearance every year as weed grows with flourish;

    (v)      Bankworks (all categories) manually by tractors considering wear and tear of 0.5 ft
             every fifth year;

    (vi)     Repair to structures @ Rs: 500/structures (VRB, DRB, VRC, RC, WCA, Siphon,
             SWI);

    (vii)    R&M of Vehicle considering 3 vehicles running 1500 KMS (1000 miles) per month
             at Rs. 3/- per KMS inclusive of major and minor repair; and

    (viii)   Rs. 30,000 for miscellaneous items of works.

115. Based on the above criteria the yardstick of Rs. 7,585/mile, Rs. 11,378/mile and Rs.
15,170/mile of main drain, branch drain and sub-drain respectively had been computed on the
basis of the then Schedule of Rates (1988). The mile in this context means 5 RDs (5000ft). It is
pertinent to note that this yardstick does not include the supervision charges i.e. salaries and
allowances of XENs, AENs, SENs and regular vigilance staff (Baildars, etc) required through out
the year. Also not included in this yardstick is the special additional temporary vigilance staff
required in Kharif (Monsoon) season. This is perhaps the reason for engaging `Abklani' labour

                                                  24


reported to be hired at the rate of Rs. 1,250 per month, which is below par the minimum wages of
Government for Grade 1 employees.

Current Budget Allocations

116. The annual budget allocations are made without regard to yardstick and inflation and are
grossly inadequate. These need to be made realistic based on the prevailing Schedule of Rates and
logical requirement for carrying out proper O&M activities.

Recommended Practice of O&M

117. There is need to develop improved and cost effective Standard Operating Procedures (SOP)
for O&M of surface drains of LBOD System in the interim period till such time as the LBOD
System is revamped after detailed studies. This should take in to account operating procedures so
as to keep the flows in drains to as low as possible.

118. In addition, the criteria for routine maintenance should be made realistic so as to keep the
drains in reasonably safe conditions to withstand effects of possible high flows.

119. Before the beginning of the fiscal year, in consultation with the beneficiaries (FOs, District
Governments, etc.) the annual work plans for M&R should be prepared by the XEN concerned of
the Drainage Division using the information provided by the concerned sub-engineer/AEN. These
should be based on the unit works assumed in the approved Yardsticks or any inspection made to
establish need for special/emergent repairs. The concerned Director, AWB should approve these
annual work plans. The work plans should not be only in the form of lists of works but should
have objective of carrying out M&R activities as envisaged by the unit works on which the
Yardsticks are based. This will avoid possibility of accumulation of M&R works in case the funds
are adequately provided.

120. For procurement of M&R works through contracting, there in need for timely preparation
of bidding documents and award of contracts.

121. The key player in supervising M&R works during execution by the contractors is the
concerned sub-engineer. In order to enable the sub-engineer to frequently supervise several M&R
works simultaneously on-going (normally the case) official transport to the sub-engineer
(motorcycle) to visit remotely located sites should be available. AENs and XENs should also
make codal checks on the implementation of M&R works.

Need for Updating O&M Yardsticks

122. Without changing the existing criteria for computing the O&M yardstick, as an interim step
to provide for effective O&M activities, it is necessary to immediately up-date the financial costs
of O&M works taking into account the inflation. At the rate of 10%/year, the up-dated yardstick
works out to be Rs. 42,170 /mile, Rs. 63,260 /mile and Rs. 84,340 /mile of main drain, branch
drain and sub-drain respectively. It is important to point out that administratively 6.5% inflation
per year is allowed but the realistic inflation works to be 10% to match the market prices. Based
on the aforementioned yardstick the annual budget requirement for each of the surface drain has
been computed.. There shall, however, be need to revise the criteria for computing the
yardstick to include the missing items such as the cost of routine vigilance through out the
year and special vigilance during the Kharif season, and also taking into consideration
prevailing market rates to make it realistic.

                                                25


                                 M. CONCLUSIONS

123. Following conclusions are made in respect of assessment of present condition of LBOD
and KPOD after recent repair works, further works needed and preparation of a detailed
maintenance plan.

   (i)     The emergent works to restore functioning of the outfall drains (KPOD and DPOD)
           were executed during the year 2004-05 in association with 5 Corps Engineers
           Pakistan Army.

   (ii)    The strengthening of both banks of LBOD from RD 204 to RD 159, and KPOD from
           RD (-) 22 to RD 159 were found to be at various stages of completion, and is
           expected to be completed, as envisaged by end of FY 2006-07.

   (iii)   Although after the event of 2006 flooding the schemes to carry out work on
           Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD) from RD 254 to RD 365 have been prepared and
           were noticed in progress in order to re-section the prism and strengthen its both
           banks. The requisite re-sectioning and strengthening of remaining length (RD 204 to
           RD 815) of LBOD Spinal and all other main drains, branch drains and sub-drains
           remains to be undertaken.

   (iv)    A total investment of the order of Rs. 1,809 million is needed for
           rehabilitation/restoration of surface drains of LBOD System. So far the total funds
           committed are Rs. 756 million consisting of an amount of Rs. 64 million provided for
           emergent works in year 2004-05 that included Rs. 50 million out of the remaining
           LBOD loan and Rs. 14 million, source unknown) and Rs. 692 under PSDP of
           GoSindh. The balance amount of Rs. 1,053 Million has to be ear marked from some
           source. As of end of FY 2006-07, it is anticipated that a cumulative expenditure of
           Rs. 322 million would have been incurred, with the maximum spending of about Rs.
           154 million during FY 2006-07. The envisaged expenditure of Rs. 1,088 million
           during FY 2007-08 seems a real large target but can be met with proper spade work.

   (v)     As the construction of an outfall control structure across KPOD is considered
           necessary to arrest intrusion of sea water, its construction is included in this plan. In
           view of the huge investment involved and experience of failure of Cholri Weir it is
           necessary to determine its location after comprehensive and thorough studies.

   (vi)    There is a need to find a sustainable solution to the flooding problem of surface
           drainage system of LBOD by determining deficiencies in the existing LBOD
           Drainage System and finding remedial measures.

   (vii)   No Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) are in vogue for carrying out proper O&M
           of the surface drains of LBOD System. As a result, there is damage to drains during
           monsoon season and ad hock allocation of meager budget for O&M activities
           compounds the problem. There is thus need to establish a professional O&M program
           for the surface drains and outfall system of LBOD that should be fully funded.

                                 N.    RECOMMENDATIONS

124. Following actions are recommended for: (i) ensuring safe functioning of the system; until
such time as the nature and extent of sustainable solution to flooding problem of surface drainage

                                                 26


system of LBOD is established, (ii) proper O&M of the surface drains of LBOD system; and (iii)
find the nature and extent of sustainable solution to flooding problem of surface drainage system
of LBOD.

    (viii)  Since the earthwork in the reach RD (-) 22 to RD 159 of KPOD and the reach RD
            204 to RD 159 of LBOD has not been compacted using rollers but is consolidated
            only by the tractor-trolley used to haul material, create special temporary vigilance
            teams to patrol the drains during the impending Kharif season (monsoon) to spot
            `gharas', heavy rain-cuts and other deformation in the strengthened banks so that
            timely emergent repairs could be carried out prior to any serious damage or breach.

    (ix)    In order to carry out re-sectioning and strengthening of remaining length (RD 204 to
            RD 815) of LBOD Spinal drain and all other main drains, branch drains and sub-
            drains, immediately commence spade work i.e. undertaking condition survey of the
            drains by respective Drainage Divisions of the two concerned AWBs, preparation of
            schemes and timely award of contracts,

    (x)     GoSindh needs to ensure that adequate funds are allocated in the budget during FY
            2007-08 and 2008-09 for implementing the schemes to re-section and strengthen
            remaining length (RD 204 to RD 815) of LBOD Spinal drain and all other main
            drains, branch drains and sub-drains.

    (xi)    The duplication between studies initiated by WAPDA to find a sustainable solution
            to the flooding problem of surface drainage system of LBOD by determining
            deficiencies in the existing LBOD Drainage System and finding remedial measures
            and those envisaged in WSIP should be sorted out. There should be clear delineation
            of responsibilities and coordination of WAPDA and SIDA.

    (xii)   SIDA in association with AWBs should prepare Standard Operating Procedures
            (SOP) for carrying out proper O&M of the surface drains of LBOD System. The
            O&M Manual (in 5 Volumes) prepared by WAPDA in 1991 and criteria used by IPD
            for computing M&R yardstick should provide the foundation to prepare the requisite
            SOP and corresponding realistic yardstick.

    (xiii)  As a result, there is damage to drains during monsoon season and adhoch allocation
            of meager budget for O&M activities compounds the problem. There is thus need to
            establish a professional O&M program for the surface drains and outfall system of
            LBOD that should be fully funded.

    (xiv)   It is necessary to immediately up-date the financial costs of O&M works taking into
            account the inflation. At the rate of 10%,/year, the up-dated yardstick works out to be
            Rs. 42,170 /mile, Rs. 63,260 /mile and Rs. 84,340 /mile of main drain, branch drain
            and sub-drain respectively as compared to the present yardsticks of Rs. 7,585/mile,
            Rs. 11,378/mile and Rs. 15,170/mile of main drain, branch drain and sub-drain
            respectively.

                                                                              ANNEX 1


                                       Persons Met

NDB Karachi

1. Dr. Salman Memon , NDP, Karachi         Tel: 0333 219 9419

SIDA

2. Mr. Hashim Leghari, MD SIDA, Hyderabad
3. Mr. Allah Bux Mirbahar, GM (Operations), SIDA, Hyderabad
4. Dr. Mumtaz Ahmad Sohag, GM (R&D), SIDA, Hyderabad          Tel: 0300 307 3736
5. Mr. Ali Asghar, Deputy Director

AWB, Left Bank

6. Mr. Jam Mithan Khan, Director, AWB Left Bank

WAPDA

7. Mr. Hazoor Bux Memon, Chief Engineer & PD Water South, Hyderabad
8. Mr. Muhammad Javaid, Director, CSD, Hyderabad
9. Mr. Shafqat Ali Samejo, Project Director, CDI
10. Mr. Akbar Ali Bajkani, Director PCC II
11. Mr. Irshad Ahmad Bohio, Senior Engineer (Civil)
12. Mr. Naeem Arif, Senior Engineer (Civil)

Nara Canal AWB

13. Mr. Ghulam Mustafa Dahri
14. Mr. Farid Ahmad Khokhar, XEN Drainage, Sanghar
15. Mr. M. Nawaz Soomro, XEN Drainage, Nawab Shah
16. Mr. Junaid Ahmad, Assistant Director, Mirpurkhas

District Government, Mirpurkhas

17. Ms. Sughra Juenejo, Distrct Nazim
18. Mr. Mumtaz Shah, DCO

District Government, Badin

19. Mr. Safdar Ali Agha, DCO

Representatives of NGOs

20. Mr. Khadim Talpur, Secretary, Save Coast Action Committee (SCAC)
21. Mr. Iqbal Haider, Secretary, LAAR Humanitarian and Development Program

                                                                                ANNEX 1


22. Mr. Ali Muhammad, Secretary, Badin Development Organization
23. Abdullah Turk, General Secretary, Badin Development & Research Organization (BRPO)

National Institute of Oceanography (NIO)

24. Dr. M. M. Rabbani, Director General
25. Mr. Syed Moazzam Ali, SRO
26. Dr. Tariq Masood Ali Khan, Physical Oceanographer

                                                                           ANNEX2


                           LIST OF DOCUMENTS CONSULTED

1.  World Bank, Review of the Performance of the Left Bank Outfall Drain, Stage I
    (KPOD, DPOD, Tidal Link and Cholri Weir) - Report of the International Panel of
    Experts, June 2005

2. World Bank, Management Report and Recommendation in response to the Inspection
    Panel Investigation Report - Pakistan: National Drainage Program Project (Credit No.
    2999-PK), July 2006

3. World Bank, Sindh Water Sector Improvement Project (WSIP). Diagnostic Survey and
    Preparation of Investment Component, Draft Final Report, 2005

4. World Bank, Project Appraisal Document for Sindh Water Sector Improvement Phase-I
    Project, March 31, 2007

5. FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, Implementation Completion Report, NDP,
    IDA Credit 2999  PK, June 2005
6. Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority, Left Bank Outfall Drain, Stage-I
    Project, Operation and Maintenance Manual, Volume 2, December 1991

7. Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority, Left Bank Outfall Drain, Stage-I
    Project, Operation and Maintenance Manual, Volume 3, December 1991

 8. Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority, Left Bank Outfall Drain, Stage-I
    Project, Operation and Maintenance Manual, Volume 5, December 1991

 9. Sindh Irrigation and Power Department, Operation and Maintenance Yardstick for
    Irrigation Infrastructure, November 1988

10. IMTA, Sindh Water Sector, Review of Drainage Issues, 2005

11. Left Bank Canals AWB's Presentation on Details of Rehabilitation Works Carried out
    on LBOD and KPOD, April 2007

12. I&P Department, Presentation to Chief Secretary GoSindh on LBOD, April 2007

13. Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority, Brief on LBOD Project, April 2007
14. Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority, Report on LBOD performance in
    2003 Rains, 2004

15. Sindh Irrigation & Drainage Authority (SIDA), Report on Rainfall 2003-Damages,
    Relief Operations by Government and Non Government Organizations, February 2006

