Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15310-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM PROJECT
September 25, 1997
Rural Development Sector Management Unit
South Asia Region



EXCHANGE RATE
US$1.00 = Pakistan Rupees (Rs.) 40.62 (September 1997)
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I meter (m)        =   3.280 feet                    I hectare (ha)     =   2.470 acres
I kilometer lkm)   =   0.620 miles                   I cubic meter (m3)   =   35.310 cubic feet
FISCAL YEAR (FY) OF GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
July I -June 30
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS USED
Abiana         -  Water t,uarges                                      Ma          -  Million Acres
ACS            -  Additional (hief Secretary                          M&E         -  Monitoring and Evaluation
ADB            -  Asian Dev lopment Bank                              M&R         -  Monitoring and Research
ADP            -  Annual Development Plan                             MIS         -  Management Information System
APR            -  Annual Pro ress Report                              MNVD        -  Main Nara Valley Drain
AWB            -  Area Water Board                                    MTR         -  Mid-term Review
Borrower       -  Government of Pakistan                              MW&P        -  Ministry of Water and Power
CAS            -  Country As istance Strategy                         NCB         -  National Competitive Bidding
CCC            -  Central Co  tacs Cell                               NCS         -  National Conservation Strategy
CE             -  Chief Engi eer                                      NDP         -  National Drainage Program
CIDA           -  Canadian I  ternational Development Agency          NGO         -  Non-Government Organization
D&C            -  Dams and Coordination                               NPV         -  Net Present Value
DBG            -  Drainage B neficiary Group                          NSDS        -  National Surface Drainage System
D-G            -  Director-General                                    NWFP        -  North West Frontier Province
DSEA           -  Drainage S ctor Environmental Assessment            O&M         -  Operation and Maintenance
EAD            -  Economic  .ffairs Division                          OFWM        -  On-Farm Water Management Directorate
EAP            -  Environme tal Action Plan                           OECF        -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
ECNEC          -  Executive Committee of National Economic Council    OED         -  Operations Evaluation Department
EDI            -  Economic I evelopment Institute                     P&D         -  Planning and Development
EIA            -  Environmer tal Impact Assessment                    PA          -  Participating Agency
EMES           -  Environme tal Monitoring and Evaluation System      PAD         -  Provincial Agriculture Department
EMP            -  Environme tal Management Plan                       PIDA        -  Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authority
EPA            -  Environmep tal Protection Agency                    PID         -  Provincial Irrigation Department
ERR            -  Economic Rate of Return                             PIM         -  Participatory Irrigation Management
FD             -  Finance Dtrtment                                    PIU         -  Produce Index Unit
FGW            -  Fresh Groundwater                                   POE         -  Panel of Experts
FIDC           -  Federal Irrigation and Drainage Cell                PPR         -  Portfolio Performance Review
FLAR           -  Framework or Land Acquisition and Resettlement      PPSC        -  Provincial Project Steering Committee
FMIS           -  Financial M nagement and Information Systems        PRI         -  Participating Research Institute
FO             -  Farmers' Or anization                               Provinces   -  Provincial Governments
FPCC           -  Federal Proj ct Coordination Committee              PSDP        -  Public Sector Development Program
FPSC           -  Federal Proj ct Steering Committee                  QPR         -  Quarterly Progress Report
GCA            -  Gross Com  anded Area                               RAC         -  Research Advisory Committee
GDP            -  Gross Dome tic Product                              RAP         -  Resettlement Action Plan
GIS            -  Geographical Information System                     RBM         -  River Basin Management
GM             -  General Marager                                     RBOD        -  Right Bank Outfall Drain
GOP            -  Government of Pakistan (the Borrower)               RMP         -  Resident Mission in Pakistan
Govemment    -  Federal or Provincial Government                      SA          -  Social Assessment
IBIS           -  Indus Basin Irrigation System                       SBD         -  Standard Bidding Document
IBRWP          -  Indus Basin Replacement Works Project               SCARP       -  Salinity Control and Reclamation Project
ICB            -  International! Competitive Bidding                  SE          -  Superintendent Engineer
ICR            -  Implementation Completion Report                    SGW         -  Saline Groundwater
IDA            -  Internationall Development Association              SIP         -  Sector Investment Project
IDC            -  Interest Durig Construction                         STW         -  SCARP Tubewell
IEC            -  Information, Education and Communication            ScW         -  Scavenger Tubewell
IES            -  Initial Envirpnmental Scoping                       UNDP        -  United Nations Development Program
IFAD           -  International Fund for Agriculture Development      WAPDA       -  Water and Power Development Authority
IFPRI          -  International Food Policy Research Institute        WMP         -  Wetlands Management Plan
IIMI           -  International Irrigation Management Institute       WSIPS       -  Water Sector Investment Planning Study
IWASRI         -  International Waterlogging & Salinity Research Institute   WSIS  -  Water Sector Information System
LBOD           -  Left Bank O itfall Drain                            WUA         -  Water Users' Association
Km             -  Kilometer
Vice President                                M. Nishimizu
Operations Director                  :        R.S. Drysdale
Country Director                     :        S. Ahmed
Sector Manaier                       :        R. Ali
Senior Finan0ial Analyst/Economist            M. J. Wambia



PAKISTAN
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM (NDP) PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries and       Pakistan  Water and  Power Development Authority  (WAPDA), Provincial
Implementing Agencies  Governments, Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authorities (PIDAs), Area Water
Boards (AWBs), Farmers' Organizations (FOs), On-farm Water Management
Directorates of Provincial Agriculture Departments (PAD-OFWMs), Provincial
Environmental Protection Agencies, and Research Institutes
Poverty                 Not Applicable
Amount                  SDR 198.6 million (US$285 million equivalent)
Terms                   Standard with 35 years maturity
Commitment Fee          Standard (a variable rate between 0 - 0.50% of the undisbursed credit balance set
annually by the Executive Directors of IDA)
Onlending Terms         The Borrower would make available funds from the Credit to WAPDA and the
Provinces on a first-come-first-served basis, and in accordance with its standard
budgetary procedures for development expenditures. Available funds from the
project would not be allocated to WAPDA or Provinces on the basis of pre-
determined shares, but on merit based on readiness of the pipeline of Investment
Projects and the demonstrated absorptive capacity of WAPDA or Provinces.
Provinces would make available funds from the Credit, together with their own
(counterpart) contributions, to eligible PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs, also on a first-come-
first-served basis taking into account the demonstrated absorptive capacity of each
entity, as a grant and on the terms stipulated in a Participation Agreement between
the Province and the entity.
Financing Plan          See para 3.2
Economic Rate of        15 percent minimum (for Investment Projects)
Return
Maps                    IBRD 27853 to 27857
Project Identification  PK-PA-10500
Number






PAKISTAN
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM (NDP) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
1. THE CRISIS IN IRRIGATED  AGRICULTURE ..........................................................1
A. THE INDUS BASIN IRRIGATION  SYSTEM  ..........................................................1
B. THE DRAINAGE CRISIS ..........................................................2
C. COUNTRY  AND  SECTOR ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ..........................................................5
D. THE BORROWER'S OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES .......................................................... 7
E. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO  THE SECTOR ..........................................................9
2. THE PROPOSED  PROJECT .........................................................                                           10
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, FRAMEWORK, AND  STRATEGY ............................................... 10
B. PROJECT SUMMARY .........................................................                                       12
C. SECTOR PLANNING AND RESEARCH .........................................................                          13
D. INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS .........................................................                                 14
E. INVESTMENTS .........................................................                                           17
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .........................................................                                     20
A. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN .........................................................                     20
B. LENDING  TERMS AND CONDITIONS .........................................................                        23
C. PROCUREMENT .........................................................                                          24
D. DISBURSEMENTS .........................................................                                        27
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .........................................................                                          30
A. THE PARTICIPATING AGENCIES (PAs) .........................................................                     30
B. ELIGIBILITY  CRITERIA AND APPROVAL OF PROGRAMS ............................................. 30
C. PROJECT COORDINATION AND  SUPERVISION .........................................................     31
D. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS .........................................................                     33
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION  AND RISKS .........................................................                              36
A. BENEFITS AND POVERTY IMPACTS .........................................................                         36
B. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .........................................................                      37
C. RISKS AND  SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS .........................................................                      40
D. KEY INDICATORS AND MONITORING AND EVALUATION .......................................... 43
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................................                                  44
A. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS .........................................................                          44
B. OTHER IMPORTANT CONDITIONS .........................................................                           44
C. RECOMMENDATION .........................................................                                       46



ANNEXES
1. Selection Criteria for Investment Projects
2. Summary Cost Tables
3. Participation Agreement
4. Procurement Arrangements
5. Disbursement Arrangements
6. Eligibility Criteria for Participating Agencies (PAs)
7. Agreed Action Plan
8. Organization Structure for NDP
9. Economic Analysis
10. Key Performance Indicators
11. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 27853    Status of Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects
IBRD 27854    Irrigated Area Provided With and In Need of Drainage In The Indus Basin
IBRD 27855    Agro-climatic Zones and Groundwater Quality
IBRD 27856    Surface Drain Network (Northern Zone)
IBRD 27857    Surface Drain Network (Southem Zone)



DETAILS IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
1. Sector Planning and Research Component
2. Institutional Reforms in WAPDA's Water Wing
3. Decentralization and Management Transfer Program in Provinces
4. Legal Framework
5. Investments Component
6. Project Logical Framework
7. Social Assessments
8. Farmer Participation Plan
9. Land Acquisition and Resettlement (including Agreed Framework for Land Acquisition and
Resettlement)
10. Environmental Management
11. Economic Analysis of Investment Projects
12. Cost Sharing and Recovery
13. Implementation Assistance and Supervision Arrangements
14. Financial Management and Information Systems
15. Monitoring and Evaluation
16. Social Design
17. Public Disclosure and Information
Vice President:       M. Nishiinizu
Operations Director:   R. Drysdale
Sr. Operations Adviser: M. Penalver
Country Director:     S. Ahmed
Sector Managers:      R. Ali and M. Baxter
Task Team Leader:    M. Wambia (Sr. Financial AnalystlEconomist)
Adviser/Peer Reviewers: H. Binswanger (Adviser), H. Plusquellec, W. Price, A. Dinar, K. Oblitas, E.
Lutz (Peer Reviewers)
Core Task Team:       U. Qamar (Sr. Irrigation Specialist), T. Balakrishnan (Financial Analyst),
M. Onishi (Projects Analyst), M. Bascon (Team Assistant)
Other Team Members: B. Ateng (Economist), R. Crooks (Enviromnental Specialist), A. Hamid
(Principal Legal Counsel), E. Jimenez (Procurement Specialist), A. Malik
(Projects Adviser - Disbursements), W. Ochs (Drainage Engineer), N. Okidegbe
(Principal Sector Investment Specialist), M. Percy (World Bank LBOD
Monitor), H. Phung (Sr. Disbursements Officer), I. Pswarayi-Riddihough
(Natural Resource Management Specialist), M. Shobayashi (Irrigation
Engineer), R. Robboy (Communications Specialist), N. Siddiqi (NGO
Specialist), L. Smedema (Drainage Engineer), S. Stem (NGO/Participation), M.
Virdy (Procurement Specialist), C. Zhang (Resettlement Specialist), V. Gitoho
(Financial and Management Specialist, Consultant), S. Gunn (Irrigation
Engineer, Consultant), G. F. Villarreal (Institutional Specialist, Consultant)



I



1
PAKISTAN
NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM (NDP) PROJECT
1. THE CRISIS IN IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
A. THE INDUS BASIN IRRIGATION SYSTEM
1.1    Overall Economic Performance: Pakistan's economy has grown rapidly in the last decade.
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth averaged 5.1% annually from 1986 to 1996. Strong agricultural
performance (annual growth: 4.1% from 1986 to 1996; 5.3% in 1996; 6.6% in 1995) and an enterprising
private sector have been the main factors in Pakistan's growth record. Pakistan is however still a relatively
poor country with per capita income of $490 in 1996. The Borrower's primary objectives in the medium-
term are to increase per-capita income and to alleviate poverty. Major challenges are improving social
services and improving management of natural resources and the environment inter alia by: (i) redefning
the roles of the public and private sectors to get the public sector out of tasks which can be more efficiently
performed by the private sector; (ii) restructuring public expenditures and key public sector institutions to
ensure that the restructured public sector is able to carry out its legitimate role in an efficient and cost-
effective manner; and (iii) building the capacities of key public sector institutions to equip them for newly
defined roles.
1.2    Role of Agriculture: Agriculture accounts for more than 25 percent of GDP, more than 50
percent of employment, and (directly or indirectly) 70 percent of export revenues. It has a central role in
alleviating poverty, given the concentration of the poor in rural areas; and in protecting the environment,
given that agriculture is the primary user of natural resources. Agriculture contributes significantly to all
other sectors and is the main engine of growth for the economy. Pakistan's agriculture depends heavily on
irrigation, which covers 79 percent of the total cropped area of 20.8 million hectares (51 million acres).
Irrigated agriculture in turn is by far the dominant user of available water supply, accounting for 98 percent
of direct flows and the bulk of re-flows.
1.3    The Indus Basin Irrigation System (IBIS): The irrigation system of Pakistan is the largest
integrated irrigation network in the world. The system is fed by the waters of the Indus River and its
tributaries. Since 1947, Pakistan implemented the Indus Basin Replacement Works Project (IBRWP) with
the Bank's help as the lead donor. Under the IBRWP, 39.54 million acres were brought under irrigation.
The salient features of the system are three major storage reservoirs, namely Tarbela and Chashma on
River Indus, and Mangla on River Jhelum; 19 barrages; 12 inter-river link canals; 43 independent irrigation
canal commands; and over 107,000 watercourses; which are complemented with a surface drainage system
comparable in size. The length of canals totals 61,000 kms, and in addition watercourses, farm channels,
and field ditches cover another 1.6 million kms. Typical watercourse commands range from 80 to 320
hectares. The flows to the Indus are from Himalayan glacier and snow melt, as well as from rainfall outside
the Indus Plain. Diversion of river waters into offtaking canals is made through barrages which are gated
diversion weirs. The main canals in turn deliver water to branch canals, distributaries, and minors. The
watercourses get their share of water through outlets in the irrigation channels. Distribution of water from
a watercourse is effected through a time-share (rotation system) which is locally referred to as
"warabandi" under which each farm gets water for a specified period. The time-share or "warn" is
proportionate to the farm area owned by a farmer under a command of the watercourse. The system draws
an average of 106 Million Acre Feet (MAF) of surface water each year for irrigation, supplemented by an
annual groundwater pumpage of some 43 MAF. The average depth of water available at the farm level is
3.07 feet per acre. Approximately 3 million individual farms with an average size of about 12 acres benefit
from this system. Average inflows and water use are summarized below:



2
AVERAGE INFLOWS AND WATER USE IN THE INDUS BASIN
Billion cubic meters
Inflows into the system from rivers and tributaries              181.37 (100 percent)
Diversions to canals                                        131.16 ( 72 percent)
Outflow to the sea                                           3,9.58 ( 22 percent)
System losses                                                10.63 ( 6 percent)
1.4    Most system losses are due to canal and watercourse seepage, since practically the entire network
is unlined. In addition to river diversions, 48 billion cubic meters are pumped annually from groundwater
by about 13,500 public and about 400,000 private tubewells. Much of this is recovery from system losses
due to seepage in areas underlain by fresh groundwater aquifers. Seepage in areas underlain by saline
groundwater aquifers is completely lost to irrigation. Although non-agriculture users extract 5.3 billion
cubic meters from the system annually, 80 percent of the extraction returns to the system, albeit with
degraded quality. The water requirement for non-agricultural uses is expected to increase from the
equivalent of 4% of the surface water diverted for irrigated agriculture at present to about 10-15% within
the next 25 years. Most of this water will return to the system, but with a degraded quality. This will in the
long term mean unacceptable water quality in the middle and lower reaches of the Indus River and the
areas that depend on these reaches for irrigation and domestic water supply. It will also eventually threaten
the water supply of Karachi, a city with more than 10 million inhabitants at the outfall of the Indus River,
and many of the 25 internationally recognized wetlands in the Indus Basin.
B. THE DRAINAGE CRISIS
1.5    The Need for Drainage: An effective and efficient drainage system is essential to sustain
environmentally-sound irrigated agriculture. The aquifer on which the IBIS is overlaid averages 3000 feet
deep and is completely unified. The Indus Basin has flat topography, porous soils, and semi-arid climate
with high evaporation. In such an enviromnent, irrigation without drainage leads inevitably to rising
watertables and eventual salinity. Yet even under these circumstances, it is possible, and economically
rational, to postpone the provision of drainage while expanding the irrigation network. This is what
Pakistan chose to do.
1.6    Results of Drainage Programs: Since 1960, Pakistan has been implementing an ambitious
program of Salinity Control and Reclamation Projects (SCARPs: 51 projects to date), the scope of which is
summarized in the table below.
EXISTING DRAINAGE FACILITIES
Province    Drainage   Surface                      Subsurface Drainage
Area      Drains          Tubewells (Number)           Tile    Intercepting
(Ma)       (Km)   _Drains                                         Drains
________   FGW*          SGW*| ScW*  _ (Ma)               (Km)
Punjab          7.79      7326        8065        1985                0.130
Sindh          4.29       5980        4161        365        376      0.045        561
NWFP            0.53       1990       491                             0.377
Balochistan     0.16       160
TOTAL          12.77      15456      12717       2350        376      0.552        561
NWFP stands for 'orth-WestFrontier Province'; FGW stands for 'Fresh Groundwater'; SGW stands :for 'Saline Groundwater'; ScW
stands for "Scavenger tubewells."
1.7    The Drainage Network: Unlike the irrigation network, which is contiguous, Pakistan's drainage
network is by sharp contrast not interconnected. Much of the drainage effluent is either retained in the
IBIS or disposed into the rivers and canals. The drainage solutions which Pakistan has so far applied to the
problem have been slow to stem the rising tide of waterlogging and salinity. Furtler, most of the drainage



3
effluent which is generated is retained or recycled within the basin, as noted above. The consequence of
operating a vast, inefficient, and interconnected irrigation system for decades first without drainage, and
then later interwoven with an inefficient, inadequate and discontinuous drainage system has been the
gradual rising of the watertable and associated salinity. The loss of agricultural land to waterlogging and
salinity substantially exceeds the amount of new land brought under irrigation expansion schemes during
the same period.
1.8     Magnitude of the Crisis: Waterlogging and salinity are the principal threats to the sustainability
of irrigated agriculture in Pakistan: 37.6 percent of the Gross Commanded Area (GCA) is waterlogged', of
which 15 percent is severely waterlogged2. 14 percent of the surface is saline3, of which 6 percent is
severely saline4. The watertable in the Indus Plain was deeper than 90 feet at the turn of the century. By
1961, it was shallower than 10 feet in 38 percent of the area; by 1981 it was shallower than 10 feet in 45
percent of the area; and by 1989 it was shallower than 5 feet in 15 percent of the area. While the
watertable is declining rapidly in most Fresh Groundwater (FGW) areas (the watertable declined from 11.7
feet in 1988 to 23.3 feet in 1995; and is declining by up to 5 feet p.a. in some areas, and 2.1 feet p.a. in
Punjab), it is still increasing in some Saline Groundwater (SGW) areas5. Between 1978 and 1989, the area
with watertable shallower than 5 feet (pre-Monsoon) increased from 4.8 million acres to 5.9 million acres.
The area provided with drainage in which the watertable rose also increased from 0.925 million acres in
1988 to 1.3 million acres in 19916. Salinity is also increasing: in SGW areas, salinity remains at the very
high level of 3,900-4,000 parts per million (PPM); and in FGW areas, salinity is estimated to have
increased from 900 PPM in 1988 to 940 PPM in 1995. The twin problems of waterlogging and salinity are
most severe in Sindh Province (Lower Indus Plain), where more than half of the waterlogged and salinity
affected areas are located.  There, the watertable is less than 8 feet deep in 37 percent of the areas, 56
percent of the area is moderately saline, and 32.5 percent is severely so. The area requiring drainage in the
near future, inclusive of completed and ongoing project areas, is estimated at 19.16 million acres, of which
5.84 million acres are covered under ongoing projects, 2.22 million acres are in areas with completed
projects requiring further rehabilitation, and 11.1 million acres have no drainage.
1.9    Impact of Waterlogging and Salinity: The rise of groundwater tables to near the surface in SGW
areas, and the consequent soil salinization became, and continue to be, serious environmental problems
associated with irrigation in the Indus Basin. The impact of salinity on agricultural productivity is severe: a
25 percent reduction in the production of Pakistan's major crops is attributed by many experts and the
Borrower to soil salinity alone7. In Sindh Province where the problem is much more severe, the Borrower
estimates that the impact may be closer to 40-60 percent in SGW areas. The critical threshold at which
salinity begins to affect the productivity of agricultural land varies by crop. Similarly, the impacts of
waterlogging on yields are startling. High groundwater tables inhibit root growth and therefore reduce crop
yields. As the depth to watertable decreases to within 5 feet, yields of all major crops begin to decline
rapidly. At 0 to 0.8 feet depth-to-watertable, yields are 2 percent for cotton, 9 percent for sugar, and 21
1       Defined as area with watertable shallower than 10 feet below the surface. The critical threshold at which the
watertable begins to affect the productivity of agricultural land is about 8 feet below the surface.
2       Defined as area with watertable shallower than 5 feet below the surface. Irrigated agriculture is only
marginally viable at this level of watertable, especially when combined with excessive salinity.
3       Defined as having electrical conductivity of 8-15 ECe.
4       Defined as having electrical conductivity of above 15 ECe.
5       Smedema, quoted in Dina Umali in Irrigation Induced Salinity, The World Bank Technical Paper No. 215,
Table 3.7; and Masood Ahmad and Gary Kutcher in Irrigation Planning with Environmental Considerations, The
World Bank Technical Paper No. 166, Table 5. 1, pp. 52-53.
6       More recent data is not available.
7       Report No. 1 1884-PAK: Pakistan Irrigation and Drainage: Issues and Options; The World Bank, March 25,
1994.



4
percent for wheat. In addition, there are serious environmental and poverty impacts associated with
waterlogging and salinity.
1.10    The Current Disposal Strategy: 24 million of the 33 million tons of salt which are brought into
the basin annually are retained and recycled within it: (i) 2.2 million tons are stored in evaporation ponds in
Cholistan Desert; (ii) 2.6 million tons are stored in Pakistan's largest inland freshwater lakes (Manchar and
Hammal) on the Right Bank Indus; (iii) 0.7 million tons are trapped in the Peshawar Valley; and (iv) 18.5
million tons are stored in the aquifer through direct seepage from canals, watercourses, and drains. The
rest is disposed into the Arabian Sea via the Lower Indus River itself. This means that salinity levels
increase rapidly as extraction of irrigation supplies increases in the Lower Indus. But in addition to
distributing river supplied salt, additional salts are mobilized directly onto the surface (and retained) in
FGW areas due to tubewell irrigation.
1.11    Drainage Options for Pakistan: Pakistan has three basic options for dealing with its drainage
problem. The first option is to dispose the drainage effluent outside the IBIS. The second option is to
minimize the drainage effluent by changing the chemistry of drain water, either through dilution and re-
use, or through concentration and separation of dissolved salts for subsequent disposal. The third option is
to prevent or reduce the volume of drainable surplus through source control. The options are not mutually
exclusive. Each of these options must meet the criteria of completeness (the extent to which they can be
implemented alone or they rely on other options), effectiveness (the extent to which they solve the drainage
problem), efficiency (the extent to which an option is cost-effective), and acceptability (the extent to which
an option is acceptable for whatever reasons).
1.12    Conclusion: There is now a widespread consensus between Pakistan and its principal donors that
the lack of an effective drainage system for the IBIS is by far the principal threat to the sustainability of
agriculture in the Indus Basin, and that it demands urgent solutions. Not only must the drainable surplus
be reduced dramatically and permanently at source, but internal drainage must be more adequate, and the
IBIS must be provided with a drainage outlet to the Arabian Sea; hence the urgency of constructing the
National Surface Drainage System (NSDS). The NSDS is intended to link the Spinal Drain of the Left
Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) to the upper reaches of the Indus Basin in Punjab through a trunk drain, and
possibly to the Main Nara Valley Drain (MNVD) on the Right Bank of the River Indus.
1.13    Origins of the Crisis: The principal causes of waterlogging and salinity are irrigation without
drainage, over-irrigation, and low delivery efficiency of the irrigation (35 to 40 percent from canal head to
root zone) and drainage system. These are in turn rooted in the lack of an appropriate National Water
Policy. The semiarid climatic conditions prevailing in Pakistan also lead to accumulation of salts in the root
zone. In addition, irrigation supplies add more than 1.2 metric tons of salt per hectare per year to the root
zone. Groundwater pumpage, which is unregulated, further aggravates the situation by mobilizing salts
dissolved in the groundwater aquifer, if the effluent cannot be safely disposed.
1.14    Policy and Institutional Issues8: The irrigation and drainage system suffers from a number of
fundamental problems, notably: (i) unsatisfactory planning and programming of public expenditure on
drainage; (ii) implementation delays; (iii) unsatisfactory planning, funding and execution of operation and
maintenance (O&M); (iv) deteriorating capabilities of key institutions; (v) lack of public participation; (vi)
inadequate investment in drainage; (vii) poor monitoring of drainage projects and infrastructure, and (viii)
inadequate investmnent in drainage research, and lack of application of research results to policy and
planning. O&M of drainage is inadequately financed. Between FY90 and FY92, Provinces allocated an
average of 26 percent less than was required for O&M each year. This translates to almost nil for non-
wage expenditures, although O&M for off-farm and sub-surface drainage is largely mechanical.
8       A detailed description of the background of the irrigation and drainage sector, ithe major problems, their
origins, diagnosis, and the new sector strategy are outlined in Report No. 11884-PAK: Pakistan Irrigation. and
Drainage: Issues and Options; The World Bank, March 25, 1994.



5
Moreover, cost recovery of O&M is grossly inadequate. Many users and polluters of drains do not even
pay for the use of drainage infrastructure. For example, urban centers and industries dispose of municipal
waste and toxic effluents in canals and drains without payment or regulation. Meanwhile, the capacity
(effectiveness) and efficiency of key drainage institutions has deteriorated significantly over the years.
Drainage Circles are reported to be over-staffed by as much as 50 percent in some Provinces. Capacity
utilization of drainage O&M machinery varies between 30 and 50 percent. The poor state of drainage
O&M is reflected in the periodic need for rehabilitation at roughly every five year intervals.
1.15   Financial Sustainability: After long delays, Abiana (water charges) were increased by 25 percent
in the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP), Punjab, and Sindh in 1993. Increases in Abiana ranging
between 10 percent to 25 percent were introduced in 1994, 1995 and again in 1996. Punjab is actively
disinvesting public tubewells in FGW areas under the ongoing SCARP Transition II Project (Cr. 2257-
PAK). This process will be extended to include all FGW tubewells in Sindh and NWFP under the
proposed NDP project; and in Punjab under the Punjab Private Sector Groundwater Development Project
(Cr. 2901-PAK). This disinvestment is expected to result in a substantial reduction in the overall O&M
cost. However, financial sustainability remains an elusive goal for the irrigation and drainage sector in
Pakistan. The gap between O&M expenditures and recoveries alone in Punjab was 62% in 1994-95 and
increased to 74% in 1995-96; and in Sindh was 89% in 1994-95 and 88% in 1995-96.
C. COUNTRY AND SECTOR ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
1.16   Country Assistance Strategy(CAS)9: The core of International Development Association's
(IDA's) CAS is to help Pakistan to reduce poverty through investing in people, raising productivity, and
promoting economic growth. The three main development challenges to achieve this are: (i) expanding
access to improved basic social services including education, health, and rural water supply; and slowing
population growth; (ii) supporting fiscal adjustment to maintain macroeconomic stability, and creating
fiscal space for development lending; and (iii) nurturing a more competitive environment for private
investment. In line with this, IDA's agriculture strategy is to limit the role of public sector, shift
management responsibility to the private sector, help remove policy distortions in factor and output
markets, improve the efficiency of public expenditures, strengthen institutions and build local capacity, and
assist natural resource management and environmental protection. This is also reflected in IDA's strategy
for irrigation and drainage which aims to redefine the roles of the public and private sectors by promoting
fundamental shifts towards more decentralized and participatory irrigation management systems. The
proposed project is in line with this strategy especially since it would initiate and promote major
institutional reforms in the irrigation and drainage sector, and address the critical issue of waterlogging and
salinity (among the major environmental problems in Pakistan). A key element embedded in every aspect
of the CAS is to help Pakistan address the core issue of governance. The CAS also calls for working with
the Government to involve communities, the private sector and Pakistan Non-Government Organizations
(NGO) more fully in all Bank Group services and in the Government's programs. These are reflected in
the design of all components of the project. The project would address the issue of governance through
decentralization, promoting more operational and financial transparency, and involving communities
substantially in the design, implementation and O&M of projects.
1.17   The Global and Domestic Sector Context: Recent advances in technologies which are readily
transferable to Pakistan (including telecommunications, satellite imaging, Geographical Information
Systems (GIS), canal lining, and computers) now make investments in modern communications, control,
monitoring, and management for irrigation and drainage in Pakistan not only feasible, but also highly
attractive financially. The opportunities for achieving high growth rates in Pakistan's irrigated agriculture
sector, with very substantial beneficial impacts for the economy, rural poverty, and the environment, are
9      Report No. 15115-PAK: Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan, The World Bank, November 22, 1995; and Board Paper R97-47 IDA/R97-28: Pakistan - Country Assistance
Strategy - Progress Report, The World Bank, March 20, 1997.



6
indeed unprecedented. Paradoxically, the ever expanding gap between the actual and potential technical
and economic performance in the sector are wider now than ever before, and is itself a measure of the
potential. To harness the enormous potential and opportunities for growth and inivestment requires that
Pakistan implement major reforms which will attract donor investment to the sector in the short run, and
private investment in the long run. These reforms should have the overall effect of granting farners,
domestic and foreign investors, and indeed the public investment program, adequate retums to their
investment. This enviromnent is lacking today in Pakistan; and its establishment in the irrigated sector of
Pakistan is the over-riding long-term challenge for the Borrower, its Provinces, and IDA. The reformn
agenda required to establish this environment includes: (i) encouragement of private domestic and foreign
investment; (ii) establishment of reliable and enforceable contracts for delivery of irrigation and drainage
services; (iii) establishment of marketable water property rights; and (iv) establishment of a market
economy for irrigation and drainage.
1.18    Formulation of a New Sector Strategy: The fundamental ailments of the irrigation and drainage
system outlined earlier, for the most part, defied all remedial efforts. An entire range of indicators
confirmed the failure of the past strategy in addressing the under-lying causes of the ills of the IBIS: the
portfolio under implementation was not closely tied to a coherent strategy or was marginal, and performed
badly; Completion Reports by Operations Evaluation Department (OED) decried the lack of sustainability;
the Borrower either sidestepped or only half-heatedly implemented difficult policy and institutional
refonms; and the performance and environmental indicators for the IBIS continued their deterioration.
Clearly, something had to change; a completely new approach was required. Tlerefore, in 1992, IDA
stopped all new lending to the sector pending the formulation and agreement with the Borrower on a new
strategy which represented a marked departure from previous strategies, in the sense that it addressed the
underlying causes of problems, rather than manifest symptoms. As part of the new aggressive change of
direction and strategy, the Borrower and IDA agreed to close eight projects between FY92 and FY94 and
restructured all the rest. The new strategy was formulated and agreed with the Bonrower in 1994.
1.19    The New Strategy: A new strategy for water resources development in Pakistan was formulated
and agreed between the Borrower and IDA"0. It takes a comprehensive approach to River Basin
Management (RBM); seeks to enhance the knowledge base to adopt sound technical solutions to drainage;
and seeks to reduce fiscal dependency especially for on-farm drainage. The strategy consists of the
following interlinked parts": (i) restructuring the Provincial Irrigation Departments (PIDs) to form Public
Utilities (PUs) around canal commands; (ii) actively promoting formation and development of Farmer
Organizations (FOs); (iii) strengthening federal agencies, notably the Water and Power Development
Authority's (WAPDA's) Water Wing, to better implement their federal responsibilities; and (iv)
formalizing water mnarkets and individual water property rights"2. The Borrower and IDA recognize that
the strategy would only be feasible if there is strong political commitment and the will to implement
real/genuine reform in the sector; under a properly defined division of roles between the public sector,
community groups, and the private sector, and within the public sector among the Federal, Provincial, and
local governments; and that it needs to be supported by a decentralized, efficient and participatory
institutional apparatus for planning, regulation, construction, financing, management and O&M'3.
10      The new sector strategy and its rationale is detailed in Report No. 11884-PAK: Pakistan Irrigation and
Drainage: Issues and Options; The World Bank, March 25, 1994.
11      See page 44 para 6.1 of the report cited above.
12      Trading of water would also require irrigation canal systems which could allow some flexibility in
distributing water; and would evolve over the medium and long-term. These would initially be implemented in pilot
FO areas.
13      Currently, the public sector has full responsibility for drainage, including for on-farm drainage. Drainage
systems are constructed by WAPDA. The drainage systems are operated and maintained by PIDs. The public sector
also has full responsibility for irrigation up to the outlets to watercourses. Large multipurpose reservoirs and inter-
provincial irrigation canals are constructed and maintained by WAPDA. Intra-provincial irrigation canals up to the



7
D. THE BORROWER'S OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
1.20    The Borrower's Priorities and Objectives: Regarding drainage, the Borrower's short-term
objectives and priorities articulated in the Eighth Five-Year Plan (FY93/94-97/98) are to accelerate the
pace of implementation of ongoing projects, protect borderline waterlogged areas through preventive
measures, limit public sector investment in subsurface drainage to SGW areas, and strengthen the linkages
between drainage research and development. Other short-term objectives and priorities held in common
with the irrigation subsector are to increase the role of the private sector in development and maintenance
of water sector infrastructure, pilot-test the concept of autonomous organizations for O&M, and intensify
post-completion monitoring and evaluation (M&E). In the long term, the Borrower's priorities for
drainage include measures to: (i) reduce the drainable surplus through improved water management,
reducing or intercepting seepage at source, and biological drainage"4; and (ii) exploit the residual potential
of adversely affected resources, by such means as saline agriculture. These objectives reflect the
recommendations of the National Conservation Strategy (NCS) adopted by the Borrower in 1992". To
control waterlogging and salinity, the strategy advocates an integrated drainage approach, i.e., a
combination of, among other things, intensive cropping and tree planting, promotion of salt-tolerant crops
and cropping systems, provision of gypsum for salt-affected areas (gypsum is a soil amendment that
facilitates the reclamation of certain salt-affected soils), installation of tubewells, construction of surface
drains by farmers, and provision of subsurface drainage for selected areas. The NCS also highlights the
urgency of implementing a Wetlands Management Plan.
1.21    The Policy Framework and Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment (DSEA)"6: The
Borrower and IDA commissioned the DSEA in response to the perceived deterioration of the drainage and
environmental status of the IBIS. The DSEA was financed by a grant from the United Nations
Development Program's (UNDP) Umbrella Trust Fund, managed by the Bank, and was completed and
published in June 1993. It makes strategy recommendations for the medium term that have been adopted
by the Borrower as its strategy. DSEA's strategy is based on the following principles: (i) no project that
mobilizes salts from deep groundwater aquifers should be undertaken unless such salts can be safely
disposed of in the sea; (ii) additional irrigation water, if available, should not be supplied to areas where
this could exacerbate the need for drainage; (iii) the Government should not provide structural drainage
interventions that can reasonably be carried out by the private sector; (iv) the Government should confine
its subsurface drainage interventions to SGW areas where there is an environmentally acceptable solution
for the disposal of drainage effluent; (v) the Government should concentrate its surface drainage
interventions in areas where it is justified by the risk of storm water damage or the irrigation process, or
where it is linked to private sector drainage or subsurface drainage in SGW areas; and (vi) the Government
should give special attention to beneficiary participation in structural and non-structural interventions.
1.22   Implementation: The Borrower is implementing most recommendations of the DSEA by: (i)
continuing the ongoing program to phase out government tubewells in FGW areas; (ii) replacing the
existing SCARP Tubewells (STWs) in SGW areas with tile drains wherever possible, with beneficiaries
assuming responsibility for O&M; (iii) installing tile drains where possible for new drainage development
in SGW areas. However, the facilities would be provided only where there are safe options for disposal of
the effluent, and only where the beneficiaries agree to be involved in the construction and O&M of the
outlets to watercourses are constructed and maintained by PIDs. Watercourses and field channels are operated and
maintained by farmers.
14     Certain tree species are able to draw down the water table in their immediate surroundings; they therefore
function as 'biological' pumps.
15     The Borrower prepared the National Conservation Strategy in 1991 with the assistance of the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA) and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
16     Government of Pakistan: Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment (DSEA), June 1993.



8
facilities; (iv) continuing support for controlling groundwater levels in SGW areas through sharing
investment and O&M costs with the beneficiaries at appropriate levels because of externalities; (v)
encouraging construction of tertiary (on-farm) drains by the beneficiaries; (vi) directing investments in
main and secondary surface drains to areas where crop damage as a result of storm runoff can be reduced,
groundwater tables are rising, and sufficient irrigation supplies are available to cultivate reclaimed land,
and where disposal drains are required for saline effluent of subsurface drainage facilities; and (vii)
undertaking major drainage schemes in conjunction with preventive measures at source, i.e., improvement
of irrigation management at main and secondary levels and reduction of water losses at watercourse and
field levels.
1.23    The Borrower's NDP (1995-2020): The Borrower has formulated a 25 year NDP (1995 to
2020), with an estimated cost of Rs. 90 billion (1993 prices) for 77 projects; of which Rs. 18 billion had
been spent by 1993. By the completion date of the program, the Borrower expects to provide the necessary
drainage facilities for the entire Indus Basin.
1.24    The National Surface Drainage System (NSDS): The planners of Pakistan's IBIS and its
principal donors led by IDA always knew that ultimately, the Indus Basin Irrigation System would require
an outlet to the sea. The consultants who carried out the DSEA were required inter alia to evaluate various
disposal options to deal with this alarming problem of salinity i.e., other than constructing the outlet to the
sea; they concluded that it was neither avoidable nor postponable. Sustainability can only be achieved in
the long run by building a NSDS. Given the long lead time required for detailed planning, feasibility
studies, and inter-provincial agreement on cost sharing and transportation of saline effluent from the Upper
Bank (and possibly Right Bank) Indus to the sea via Sindh Province, work on the NSDS is probably
already overdue.
1.25   Institutional Reforms: Within the framework of this project, a package of major reforms which
implement all significant aspects of the strategy has been agreed. Most of these reforms are reflected in the
Borrower's Sector Development Policy Letters submitted to IDA, dated August 21, 1995 and October 3,
1995. The reforms consist primarily of decentralization and management transfer of the irrigation and
drainage system from PIDs to a multi-tier system of autonomous institutions with clearly defined roles and
responsibilities within the system; and with a firm commitment to phase out subsidies for O&M in seven to
ten years. The hierarchy of institutions and their roles and responsibilities are sumsmarized below: (i) the
role of WAPDA's Water Wing would eventually be limited to inter-Provincial functions; (ii) PIDs would
be converted into autonomous Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authorities (PIDAs), with responsibility
for the intra-Provincial aspects of the system from barrages to canal headworks, and from main drains that
cross canal commands and major drainage basins to inter-Provincial drains operated and maintained by
WAPDA; (iii) self-accounting Area Water Boards (AWBs), initially set up as pilots, would be established
around selected canal commands to take over and manage the irrigation and drainage system from canal
headworks to distributaries/minors operated by FOs, and from the branch drains operated by FOs to main
drains operated by PIDAs; and (iv) FOs owned and controlled by farmers would also be encouraged
through a series of pilots in each AWB to take over and manage the irrigation and drainage system below
the distributaries/minors and subdrains feeding into branch drains operated by AWBs. Initially, the
existing FO pilots would be expanded gradually and modified to incorporate the lessons of experience or
research. The number would be expanded more rapidly on the basis of one or more successful models that
would emerge from the pilots. The legal framework for the institutional reforms has been established with
the enactment of the PIDA Acts in all Provinces. The Borrower also intends to implement other important
reforms. It intends to reorient the functions and organization of WAPDA's Water Wing towards
coordinated management and regulation of the Indus Basin; and  streamline W'APDA's organization,
internal policies and procedures to increase its overall efficiency. The Chairman of WAPDA outlined these
institutional reforms in a letter to IDA dated July 31, 1995.
1.26    Pilot Projects: Under LBOD, a pilot-oriented feasibility study for an AWB on Nara Canal
Command is being carried out, with funding from IDA's Institutional Development Fund (Grant No.
28879); and pilots of wholesale (distributary level) FOs are underway in Nawabshah, Sanghar, and



9
Mirpurkhas Districts with the International Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) as the principal
consultant. Feasibility studies have recently been completed for AWBs on Chashma Right Bank Canal in
NWFP17 and Lower Bari Doab Canal in Punjab (Bank-Managed UNDP Grant). Under On-Farm Water
Management III (Ln/Cr. 2245/3327-PAK), three pilots of minor/distributary level FOs are underway (two
on minors in NWFP, and one on a distributary in Punjab). Under SCARP Transition II (Cr. 2257-PAK),
there has been overwhelmingly positive response from farmers, and ownership from Provinces, to the new
approach of using Social Organizers to help farmers establish FOs (around FGW tubewells transferred to
farmers), which was introduced after the Mid-term Review (MTR) in 1994. Since then, over 500 village-
level FOs have been established in Punjab and 70 in Sindh around FGW tubewells which are being
"transitioned" (transferred) from PIDs to fanners, and about 100 more are planned. Building on this
beginning, over 6,300 such village-level FOs are due to be established under the proposed Punjab Private
Sector Groundwater Development Project. Under the recently approved Balochistan Community Irrigation
and Agriculture Project (Cr. 2780-PAK), between 45-50 FOs will be established around community
irrigation facilities. The village-level FOs will later be consolidated at the minor/distributary levels under
future projects, to benefit from economies of scale.
E. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE TO THE SECTOR
1.27   The Indus Basin Project: The Bank has a long history of collaboration and partnership with
Pakistan in irrigation and drainage development ever since Pakistan's independence in 1947. It remains
the principal donor to the sector. In 1960, the Bank helped negotiate the Indus Water Treaty between
Pakistan and India, with Pakistan acquiring rights to the Indus, Jhelum, and Chenab rivers. Shortly
thereafter, the Bank helped Pakistan establish the Indus Basin Development Fund, which financed the
Indus Basin Replacement Works Project (IBRWP). The IBRWP was completed to quality, under budget
and on schedule (within 10 years). IBRWP helped Pakistan build the world's largest contiguous surface
irrigation system. The IBRWP was instrumental in the creation and strengthening of the main institutions
currently dominating the water sector in Pakistan, notably WAPDA. In 1958, the Bank helped the
Borrower formulate the SCARPs program.
1.28   Planning Studies: In 1973, the Bank assisted Pakistan to formulate the Revised Action Plan,
which was the perspective plan for the sector's development in the 1970s. The physical targets of the
SCARPs and the Revised Action Plan programs have largely been achieved albeit behind schedule. In
1990, the Bank was again instrumental in the formulation of the Water Sector Investment Planning Study
(WSIPS), which served as a perspective plan for the Eighth Five Year Plan (1993-1998) that is currently
under implementation. The DSEA was the most recent sector-wide master planning study to be formulated
with the Bank's assistance. It will likely serve as the perspective plan for the Ninth Five Year Plan (1998-
2003).
1.29   External Assistance to the Sector: Since 1990, the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), Japan, and Germany have been the major sources of external assistance in the water sector in
Pakistan. Others who have provided assistance include Canada, France, the Netherlands, Sweden,
Switzerland, United Kingdom, European Union, the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD), and UNDP. The Bank has worked closely with the other external agencies in overcoming
many of the constraints affecting project implementation and operational performance identified earlier.
Since 1993, IDA has been collaborating very closely with other donors on the restructuring and supervision
turnaround of the $880 million LBOD (Cr. 1532-PAK); and actively assisting the Borrower in
strengthening public sector expenditure programming through the introduction of a three-year rolling
Public Sector Development Program (PSDP) for federally funded projects. This has already assisted in
accelerating the implementation of water sector projects by enhancing budget allocations and protecting
these projects against across-the-board budget cuts. The 1995/96 to 1997/98 PSDP provided a budget of
Rs 12.9 billion for irrigation and drainage projects for FY1995/96. Most external agencies see continued
17     For the proposed lift canal system, financed by Japan's International Cooperation Agency (JICA).



10
involvement in the water sector as important in protecting and enhancing the large investments that have
already been made, ensuring that their intended benefits are realized and improving the effective utilization
of the Indus river water resources.
1.30    The Lessons of Development Assistance Experience: The lessons of experience, reflected
frequently in reports published by IDA's OED on similar Bank/IDA-financed projects in Pakistan, Mexico,
Egypt, Indonesia, lndia, and Philippines, and from ongoing implementation of the LBOD Project (Cr.
1 532-PAK) are pertinent to the proposed project. They are: (i) irrigation development should be linked to a
proper drainage strategy and investment program; (ii) a long-term solution for disposal of drainage effluent
is essential for drainage; (iii) program or policy-based lending is preferred to project-based lending for
promoting reform and reducing the backlog/overhang of the portfolio of on-going projects; (iv)
Government/donor commitment to too many discrete projects can exacerbate the problem  of over-
commitment of resources; (v) a strong O&M program with reliable funding and cost recovery should be
instituted during implementation and sustained after completion; (vi) capabilities of key institutions to
implement projects in a timely fashion should be developed; (vii) farmer's involvement in design,
implementation, and O&M is essential for sustainability. The most effective way to achieve their
participation is to have beneficiaries bear and finance part of the construction costs, if necessary through
credit. Beneficiaries' assumption of part of the cost of the irrigation infrastructure, beginning at the outset
of the project, increases their commitment to use the infrastructure effectively, and to recover the money
invested in it; (viii) the only effective mechanism to increase cost recovery is to turn over parts of the
system to farmers; (jx) monitoring water use in irrigation projects is essential for the good management of
this scarce resource. Flow meters, a relatively low-cost item, should be provided as part of future projects;
(x) extension services should educate farmers about the importance of the meters and irrigation scheduling
to optimize crop production. In larger surface water schemes, measuring devices should be provided as a
matter of course at all distribution structures, including even the smallest farm outlets (as small as 50
hectares); (xi) beneficiaries organized in users' associations have demonstrated their responsiveness for
O&M of infrastructure transferred to them by Government; and (xii) lack of timely preparation of
feasibility studies and engineering designs has been a major constraint to the implementation of time-slice
projects. The design of the NDP project reflects the lessons of experience enumerated above.
1.31    Lessons from Research: The lessons from research on water rights in other countries are also of
interest"8: (i) there are very substantial welfare and income gains from permitting trade in water, at
whatever level; (ii) water rights should be separated from land; (iii) water rights should be allocated based
on historical usage, and surplus amounts to usage should be auctioned off; (iv) transaction costs for trading
in water are very low, and the availability of adjustable gates is helpful to facilitate such trading; (v)
environmental regulations need to be enforced; (vi) the Government has a role to play in resolving the
conflicts that could arise; and (vii) public subsidies for O&M of irrigation obstruct water market
development.
2. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, FRAMEWORK, AND STRATEGY
2.1     Project Objectives: The goal of the project is to implement the first phase of the Borrower's and
Provinces' 25-year NDP which is designed to minimize saline drainable surplus, and facilitate the eventual
evacuation of all saline drainable surplus from the Indus Basin to the Arabian Sea, and thereby restore
enviromnentally-sound irrigated agriculture in Pakistan. The objectives of the project are to improve the
efficiency of the irrigation and drainage system in Pakistan, and ensure its sustaeinability, through: (i)
establishing an appropriate policy environment and institutional framework, and strengthening capacity of
18     These results are summarized from Trading Water-Use Rights: What Can We Learn From Chile, by K.
William Easter and Robert Hearne, mimeo dated November 28, 1995.



11
sector institutions (i.e., carrying out the first phase of policy and institutional reforms in the water sector);
(ii) improving sector policies and planning; (iii) strengthening the technical foundations of and knowledge
base on irrigation and drainage; and (iv) improving the irrigation and drainage infrastructure network.
2.2    Project Framework: The project is the next logical step in a progressive evolution of Pakistan's
long-term effort to preserve and develop its most important physical resource -- namely the Indus River
Basin -- by strengthening the policy framework and institutional capacity for comprehensive management
of the Indus River Basin. The project does this by supporting and mainstreaming participatory approaches
to irrigation management which have been pilot-tested in Pakistan for over two decades; promoting
collaboration between key agencies of the Borrower and its Provinces inter alia through sharing of
information; strengthening real-time water management at basin and sub-basin levels; and  stimulating
national dialogue on the challenges and opportunities posed to the economy by the progressive
deterioration of its key institutions.
2.3    Institutional Appraisal and Sector Analysis:  The project has its origins in a multi-year
participatory process of analysis, identification, and preparation which was based on recommendations of
the Borrower's Water Sector Investment Planning Study (WSIPS, 1990); Eighth Five-Year Plan (1993-98);
and DSEA (1993); followed by IDA's sector strategy paper titled "Pakistan Irrigation and Drainage: Issues
and Options" (1994)'9. The DSEA, WSIPS, and IDA's sector report contain detailed functional and
strategic appraisals of Pakistan's key water sector institutions (i.e. WAPDA and PIDs), which are the
principal subjects of reform under NDP. "Steering Committees" with high-level representatives from the
Borrower, Provinces, WAPDA, and the PIDs directed and participated in the institutional appraisals
(including a series of seminars). In addition, a series of seminars and tours were organized by IDA's
Economic Development Institute (EDI) for opinion leaders in all concerned entities to countries which
have implemented (or are implementing) identical institutional reforms notably Turkey, Mexico, Chile,
United States, Argentina and Dominican Republic. Further appraisal or "assessments" of the institutions
was carried out during the preparation and appraisal of the project20. The appraisals confirmed that even
though the institutions retain substantial capacities to implement investment programs in the water sector,
they suffer from severe systemic deterioration of public sector agencies in Pakistan, especially in the
capacity and quality of services they provide. They all are in need of re-engineering to make them
adaptable to the sector's evolving requirements for basin-wide environmental management,
decentralization, and beneficiary participation. The two river basin master planning studies (WSIPS and
DSEA) demonstrated that a Sector Investment Project (SIP) or "program approach" with strong "river
basin orientation" would result in a shorter completion period and higher rates of return for investment
projects.
2.4    Reducing Saline Drainable Surplus: To reduce the drainable surplus, the project's strategy is to
improve water management through non-structural and structural interventions.   Non-structural
interventions would comprise: (i) institutional reforms to decentralize the irrigation and drainage system;
(ii) capacity building of key irrigation and drainage institutions (WAPDA , PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs); and
(iii) policies to improve the efficiency of water allocation. Structural interventions would include: (i)
modernization of canal system management; (ii) improvement of irrigation systems and watercourses (e.g.:
to reduce seepage); and (iii) ensuring proper O&M of canals and drains so that they function as designed.
2.5    Evacuating Saline Drainable Surplus: To evacuate the drainable surplus, the project's strategy
is to: (i) use environmentally sustainable methods for disposal of saline drainage effluent (including
diverting saline effluent away from freshwater lakes and rivers), and lay the groundwork for construction
of a permanent trunk drainage network connected to the sea via LBOD's Spinal Drain which would be
known as the NSDS; (ii) improve the planning and programming of irrigation and drainage projects inter
19     Report No. 11884-PAK: Pakistan Irrigation and Drainage: Issues and Options; The World Bank, March 25,
1994.
20     Government of Pakistan: Feasibility Study: National Drainage Program, May 1995.



12
alia to incorporate and entrench an RBM perspective in all aspects of water resources management by the
Borrower, Provinces, WAPDA, PIDAs, AWBs, and eventually FOs, and to provide the critical physical
linkages necessary to convert existing drainage systems into operating sub-basin systems; (iii) rehabilitate
and modernize drainage systems to remedy the effects of deferred O&M; and (iv) provide research
resources to Pakistan's main drainage research institutes to strengthen the technical foundations for
drainage, resolve important remaining technical issues in drainage, and develop locally-adapted design
criteria. Constructing drainage facilities is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for achieving
sustainable salt balance in the IBIS. All drainage facilities fnanced under the project must also be linked
within sub-basins, and then to outfalls which must ultimately connect to the Arabian Sea either through the
LBOD Spinal Drain or via the Indus River. "RBM Orientation" will be an important theme in the technical
design of physical interventions, particularly those involving rehabilitation or expansion of surface
drainage infrastructure.
2.6    Project Design: The project has the following design features which distinguish it from previous
investment projects such as those listed above: (a) a sector-wide scope: it covers a wide range of relevant
policies, programs and projects within the country's irrigated agriculture sector; (b) a coherent sector
policy framework, notably the Borrower's WSIPS, DSEA, and Eighth Five-Year Plan, as well as IDA's
Country Assistance Strategy, Water Sector Policy Paper, and sector strategy paper entitled "Pakistan
Irrigation and Drainage: Issues and Options." The expenditure program for the project has been and will
be assessed according to the criteria outlined in these policy framework documents and Country Portfolio
Performance Reviews (CPPRs) through annual reviews of the PSDP which are conducted jointly by the
Borrower, Provinces, ADB, Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF), and IDA. The
Borrower embraced the policy framework outlined in these reports in its Letters of Sector Development
Policy to IDA21; (c) strong stakeholder control is embedded in the design, preparation, and selection criteria
for Investment Projects and during implementation of Investment Projects; (d) participation of the three
main donors for Pakistan's irrigated agriculture sector (IDA, ADB, and C)ECF); (e) a common
implementation arrangement for the investment program shared by the three main donors; and (f) a strong
anchor in the rolling PSDP for the water sector, as well as a close linkage to the amnual CPPR process.
2.7    Linkage with Future Investments: The Borrower and IDA anticipate that if NDP is successfully
implemented, it would be followed by the proposed National Irrigation Prograrn (NIP) which is under
preparation22, and by a series of NDPs and other associated investments in the water sector. For that
reason, the project includes funds to prepare a pipeline of major drainage projects to be implemented from
the second half of this project, and for the preparation of NDP II. On the other hand, if the pace of reforms
is slow due to lack of government commitment, implementation constraints, or resistance/lack of
commitment by WAPDA, PIDAs or AWBs for real change, the Borrower and IDA have agreed and
understand that the incremental financing commitments for irrigation and drainage investments under NDP
would be scaled back or canceled altogether after the MTR or 2-3 years; and this factor would be taken
into account in determining IDA's financing for additional investments in the water sector notably NIP and
the proposed Fourth On-Farm Water Management IV Project.
B. PROJECT SUMMARY
2.8    Summary Description: As stated earlier, the project is designed as a SIP. It consists of three
complementary components, with estimated total costs of $785 million equivalent, namely: (i) sector
planning and research component ($25.7 million) aimed at facilitating long-term sector and project
planning (notably for the NSDS to carry saline effluent from the drainage network to the sea) and
enhancing the technical foundations of drainage; (ii) the institutional reforms component ($57.7 million)
which is the most important component and is aimed at decentralizing PIDs, and streamlining and building
21     Dated August 21, 1995 and October 3, 1995.
22     The principal focus of the proposed NIP is to strengthen AWBs (four have been selected), modernize
irrigation infrastructure of PIDAs and AWBs, and strengthen FOs within the commands of selected AWBs.



13
the capacity of WAPDA, PIDAs, AWBs, On-farm Water Management Directorates of Provincial
Agricultural Department (PAD-OFWMs), and FOs; and (iii) the investment component ($683.1 million)
which is designed to improve the drainage and water management infrastructure in about 5 million hectares
and protect inland wetlands. The investments component would finance completion of ongoing projects,
rehabilitation and remodeling of completed drainage projects, and new projects which conform to or
support the overall strategies of the project. In addition, the project would finance the costs of coordination
and supervision by the Borrower, WAPDA, the Provinces, and NDP donors ($18.5 million). The project's
components are described in further detail below.
C. SECTOR PLANNING AND RESEARCH
(COST ESTIMATE: $25.7 MILLION)
2.9    Introduction: This component would consist of two sub-components: (i) sector planning and
policy studies which would provide capacity building and technical assistance for policy formulation and
sector and project planning; and (ii) research.
2.10    Sector Planning and Policy Studies (Cost Estimate: $10.4 million): This sub-component would
provide capacity building and technical assistance for: (i) policy-oriented studies on the sector to improve
sector policies; (ii) sector planning studies. The project would support various initiatives to strengthen
sector planning specifically the Annual Three-Year Rolling PSDP and the Country Portfolio Performance
Review CPPR in so far as they relate to the water sector. The Borrower already collaborates closely with
IDA, ADB, and OECF in the annual formulation of the PSDP and in the donors' CPPR; and (iii) feasibility
studies to prepare a pipeline of high priority projects for the sector to be financed under NDP or other
projects. This would include a feasibility study for the NSDS which is central to the long-term drainage
strategy and RBM program for the Indus Basin, including the legal framework for cost sharing and
operation among Provinces, the Borrower and WAPDA, the financing plan, and environmental and
resettlement aspects. Each sector planning and policy study would be commenced sufficiently early as to
ensure that it would be completed by December 31, 2003. WAPDA and Provinces would appoint
consultants to carry out the policy, sector planning and feasibility studies. Assurances were obtained at
Negotiations that WAPDA would engage sector planning and studies consultants with qualifications and
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1998.
2.11    Pipeline of Sector Planning and Policy Studies: The pipeline of sector planning and policy
studies identified or for which proposals have been prepared includes: (i) Efficacy of Past Drainage
Investments; (ii) National Salinity Survey; (iii) Preparation of the Ninth Five Year Plan; (iv) National
Water Policy; (v) Water Rights; (vi) Gypsum Pricing, Marketing and Distribution; (vii) Promoting Private
Investment in Drainage; (viii) Exploitation and Regulation of FGW; (ix) Irrigation and Drainage Atlas of
Pakistan; (x) Long-Termn Financing Options for Irrigation and Drainage; (xi) Revenue Options and
Prospects for WAPDA's Water Wing; and (xii) Revenue Options for PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs. On the first
two studies, terms of reference have been finalized, and the procurement process has been initiated. These
studies are expected to commence in the first year of project implementation.
2.12   Research Programs (Cost Estimate: $15.3 million): The research sub-component would
support two broad initiatives: (i) Major Research Programs; and (ii) Small Grants Programs. The first
research initiative would support major research programs of the Borrower, through participating research
institutes (PRIs) and WAPDA. The second initiative would complement the major research programs by
providing the following types of grants to individuals and institutions (including PRIs): (a) Research
Preparation Grants to prepare proposals for major research programs, prioritize research programs, and
prepare research work programs; and (b) Research Dissemination Grants to prepare dissemination plans,
establish external collaboration arrangements, and/or disseminate research findings including workshops
and seminars to foster linkages between research institutes and sector-related agencies, farmers, and the
private sector. The sub-component would also help strengthen linkages between Pakistan and intemational
research institutions through training, seminars, twining arrangements, and other forms of collaboration.



14
2.13    Pipeline of Research Programs: A pipeline of potential major research programs has been
identified. Proposals for these programs have been received from research institutes. These include: (i)
Design and Management of Evaporation Ponds; (ii) Use of Brackish Drainage Water Effluent for
Agriculture and Forestry; (iii) Root Zone Salinity Management using Fractional Skimming Wells with
Pressurized Irrigation; (iv) Maintenance of Surface Drains; (v) Development of Design Criteria for Surface
Drainage System; (vi) Collaborative (Community) Pilot Tile Drainage; (vii) Institutional Framework for
Improved Sustainability and Productivity of Irrigated Agriculture in Pakistan; (viii) Impact of Pipe
Drainage Systems on Land and Water; (ix) Hydraulic and Water Quality Monitoring and Modeling of
Chenab, Jhelum and Indus Rivers; (x) Impact of Pipe Drainage Systems on Land and Water; (xi)
Networking System at Country and Global Level; and (xii) Protection of Drainage Water Quality from
Pollution by Municipal Effluent.
2.14    Implementation Plan: Procurement process for the following three major research programs
estimated to cost $3.3 million have been completed: (i) Design and Management of Evaporation Ponds; (ii)
Use of Brackish Drainage Water Effluent for Agriculture and Forestry; and (iii) Root Zone Salinity
Management using Fractional Skimming Wells with Pressurized Irrigation. Contracts for these research
programs are ready for signature, and are expected to be signed shortly after Board Approval.
Implementation would start shortly thereafter. The majority of the other identified research programs are
expected to commence in the second and third year of project implementation. Preparatory work on the
research contracts including all procurement actions would be carried out as to ensure that the research is
fully completed by December 31, 2003.
D. INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS
(COST ESTIMATE: $57.7 MILLION)
2.15    Introduction and Summary: This component would consist of two major sub-components:
(i) Institutional Reforms for WAPDA's Water Wing; and (ii) Institutional Reforms for PIDs. Both sub-
components, although not having the largest financial allocation, are by far thie most important sub-
components of the project. The objectives of the component are to improve the performance of WAPDA
and PIDs, by introducing institutional reforms. The essential elements of the institutional reforms are: (a)
redefining roles and functions; (b) decentralizing roles and responsibilities; (c) streamlining; (d)
transferring management responsibility for those functions which should be managed by other (lower tier)
entities which will succeed PIDs i.e. PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs, or by the private sector; and (e) capacity
building for WAPDA and the new public and private institutions. Training, gender and poverty focus, and
public participation are important themes in the capacity building and strategic recirientation programs for
all institutions to assist the Borrower and its Provinces to implement institutional reforms.
2.16    Critical Factors for Success: In order to increase the probability of the institutional reform
programs being successful and effective, key lessons from global experience in institutional change
management have and would be reflected in the design and implementation of the institutional reforms.
These include working with the Borrower and other stakeholders for: (a) establishing a shared sense of
urgency among the stakeholders; (b) articulating and envisioning the compelling short-, medium-, and
long-term vision for the institutions within the framework of evolving competitive environments; (c)
establishing effective guiding coalitions with key stakeholders, entities, and strategic partners inside and
outside Pakistan; (d) ensuring strong leadership by senior management and officials of the Borrower,
Provinces and WAPDA; (e) seeking, consolidating, and using extensively the programs of two-way and
multi-dimensional information, education, and communication with agency staff, the media and other
stakeholders; (f) rnaintaining full-time teams dedicated to the change effort at WAPDA and Provincial
levels; (g) using positive demonstrative effects of early successes; (h) engaging large numbers of staff in
the change effort; (i) embedding institutional change in the evolving cultures of the changed institutions; ()
intensively monitoring the change process including through staff and client surveys; (k) using outside
consulting assistance wherever necessary; and (1) maintaining and demonstrating a strategic, dynamic/



15
flexible, client-centered and pragmatic orientation towards the change process itself, with emphasis on the
process variables of change (as contrasted with a blue-print approach).
Institutional Reforms for WAPDA's Water Wing (Cost Estimate: $31.4 million)
2.17    Summary: The Chairman of WAPDA outlined the institutional reforms which the Senior
Management of WAPDA have envisaged for the Water Wing in a letter to IDA dated July 31, 1995. The
sub-component will help WAPDA to implement the program outlined in this letter. It would consist of
initiatives to assist WAPDA's Water Wing to implement its institutional program consisting of: (a)
strategic and RBM reorientation to focus on inter-Provincial (i.e. federal) roles, mandates, and functions;
(b) streamlining to improve capacity utilization, operational efficiency and effectiveness; (c) capacity
building, including public participation, financial management, and information systems; and (d) training.
The sub-component would provide consulting services to help WAPDA establish effective strategic
partnerships with similarly oriented institutions in Pakistan and elsewhere, training for staff and important
categories of clients such as contractors, field observation equipment, laboratory equipment, and computer
equipment and software, to support the initiatives outlined by WAPDA's Senior Management. WAPDA
would prepare, and agree with IDA on, a detailed Action Plan with a schedule for its Institutional Program;
and subsequently implement the Action Plan.
2.18   Strategic Reorientation & RBM: The strategic reorientation work program would support
reorientation of WAPDA's Water Wing to strengthen its role towards more strategically important and
federally oriented responsibilities, in particular those related to integrated development, management and
regulation of surface and ground water resources at the river basin level; monitoring of land and water
quality and environmental change; and planning, construction and O&M of inter-Provincial irrigation and
drainage infrastructure. WAPDA would shift its focus away from construction of infrastructure which can
be undertaken by Provincial agencies (i.e., intra-Provincial infrastructure) or which should be the
responsibility of the farmers or the private sector (notably on-farm drainage). The aim would be to reorient
the functions and organization of WAPDA's Water Wing towards coordinated management and regulation
of the Indus Basin (i.e. "RBM Orientation"). The role of WAPDA's Water Wing would gradually be
reoriented to inter-Provincial functions; and to undertake any work contracted to it by the Borrower,
Provinces, PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs. In addition, the project would assist WAPDA's Water Wing to enter
the Information Age in the 21st century by turning it from a construction agency to a "knowledge water
resources agency"; establishing more effective mutual dependencies, partnerships and collaborative
arrangements with Provincial entities (Environmental Protection Agencies - EPAs, PIDAs, PAD-OFWMs,
AWBs and FOs), and national, international, non-governmental, and private sector entities.
2.19   Streamlining: The streamlining work program would support efforts of WAPDA's Senior
Management to streamline its organization, intemal processes, and procedures to improve institution's
operating efficiency and its capacity to manage the Indus Basin as a unified hydrological entity. This
would involve a process of identifying and removing obstacles to the utilization of existing and potential
institutional capacity, and streamlining its operations and management.
2.20    Capacity Building: Capacity building is the largest initiative in the sub-component. It would
finance initiatives aimed at creating or strengthening institutional capabilities in WAPDA's Water Wing for
RBM through specific interventions in aspects of its operations such as environmental management, M&E,
public participation, financial management, information systems, procurement and contract administration,
planning, and succession planning. The component would also fund training programs which would be
formulated in consultation with OECF, ADB, and concerned agencies in Provinces. OECF has proposed
that UNDP (Pakistan) would manage, coordinate and supervise the training component financed by
OECF. Collaborative arrangements would also be established to ensure synergies between EDI's
Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) Program and the priorities of WAPDA's Academies and
Colleges, notably on decentralization and irrigation management transfer. The expected retirement of a
substantial number of senior managers in WAPDA poses major challenges, but also presents unique
opportunities for renewal and reorientation of the institution. This project component would provide the



16
resources and framework to help the Borrower and WAPDA address the issue during the pivotal transition
phase for WAPDA.
Institutional Program for PIDs (Cost Estimate: $26.3 million)
2.21    Summary: This sub-component would include the costs of consultants (including financial and
management consultants, social organizers, service contracts with NGOs, and external auditors), vehicles,
computer equipment and software, staff training, alternative skills development and redundancy packages,
and incremental staff and operating costs to assist in the planning and implementation of the
decentralization of PIDs and management transfer of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure process. The
sub-component would support the following initiatives: (a) establishment of PIDAs, pilot AWBs and FOs
on pilot basis in each Province; (b) transitioning irrigation systems from the PIDAs to AWBs and FOs; and
(c) streamlining and cost reduction among the decentralized PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs to enable them to
carry out their functions; and (d) capacity building of the PIDAs, AWBs, FOs and PAD-OFWMs.
2.22    The Policy Framework:  In August 1995, the Borrower decided in consultation with its
Provinces and IDA and ADB that it would implement the strategy/vision agreed with IDA and ADB by
adopting institutional arrangements that were appropriate for Pakistan's socio-economic conditions. The
strategy and institutional reforms are outlined in the Borrower's Sector Development Policy Letters to
IDA. The reforms include a firm commitment and plan to phase out subsidies for O&M in seven to ten
years.
2.23    The Institutional Reforms: The Borrower and its Provinces intend to: (i) convert their PIDs into
autonomous PIDAs; (ii) transition fmancially self-accounting AWBs on a pilot basis from existing
"Circles" of PIDs in selected canal commands; and (iii) promote the formation of FOs on a pilot basis.
Pilot FOs owned and controlled by farmers would take over and manage the irrigation and drainage system
below the distributaries/minors, sub-drains feeding into branch drains operated by pilot AWBs, tubewells
and tile drains. While the Borrower, its Provinces and IDA agree on the direction of reform, the pace at
which the decentralization and management transfer process can or should be implemented is as yet
unclear. The likely trajectory of institutional reforms in each Province will depend on a number of factors
whose evolution is difficult to predict, but include: (i) first and most important, the commitment and
political will of the Borrower and its Provinces to exercise leadership in implementing the decentralization
and management transfer process; (ii) second, the implementation capacity of each Province and its
consultants to implement the decentralization process; (iii) third, the willingness and cooperation of the
affected farming population (notably the more influential feudal landlords); and (iv) fourth, the willingness
of PIDs (notably their staff) to embrace the reforms.
2.24   Legal Framework and Enabling Legislation: The Canal and Drainage Act of 1873 is the over-
riding legal framework for the irrigation and drainage sector. During project preparation, the NDP
Feasibility Study Consultants investigated the possibility of implementing the institutional reforms
envisaged under the project without enacting new legislation or amending existing legislation, and
concluded that at the minimum, amendments would be required. The PIDA Acts provide the legal
framework for establishment of PIDAs, AWBs, FOs, and regulation of the decentralized water sector. The
PIDA Ordinances were promulgated by all the Provinces in January 1997, in the absence of Provincial
Assemblies. Following the general election in February 1997, all the Provincial Assemblies have approved
the PIDA Acts, and all provinces have reenacted the PIDA Acts. Assurances were obtained at
Negotiations that the Provinces would establish at least one A WB in a canal command in each Province,
selected in consultation with IDA, within one year of the establishment of the PIDA.
2.25    Adequacy of the Enabling Legislation: Our review of the PIDA Acts has confirmed earlier
indications from dialogue with the Borrower and Provinces, that the Acts are adequate to implement the
institutional reforms envisaged under the project. However, there is still scope for improvement in the
following areas: (a) providing for more autonomy for PIDAs and AWBs; (b) clearly describing the roles
and responsibilities of AWBs, and in case of some Provinces of FOs; (c) describing the organization of the



17
AWBs; (d) providing for the establishment of a separate or quasi-autonomous agency to regulate and
adjudicate the decentralized irrigation and drainage institutions and infrastructure; (e) providing for fuller
and faster financial self-sustainability of PIDAs and AWBs (rather than partial self-sustainability - of
operation and maintenance costs only - over a 7-10 year time frame provided for in the Acts); and (t)
providing for faster financial self-sustainability of Farmer Organizations (rather than 7 years provided for
in the Acts). Nevertheless, the PIDA Acts are adequate in their present form. Subsequent refinements and
improvements are expected during implementation.  The above issues will be addressed during
implementation through dialogue, and as the political environment becomes more favorable. The
Borrower and the Provinces have agreed that they would annually review the PIDA Acts based on the
experience of implementation, and would agree with the NDP donors on any amendments and
improvements to the statute. This is reflected in the agreed Action Plan for the project (Annex 7).
2.26   Agreements and Safeguards: The strong commitment of the Borrower to implement the reforms
as indicated in the Sector Development Policy Letter and WAPDA's Institutional Program Letter,
promulgation of the PIDA Ordinances in all Provinces, their subsequent approval by Provincial
Assemblies, and reenactment by the Provinces have provided IDA with satisfactory basis for the financing
of the project. There however remains a risk that the Provinces may modify important provisions of the
PIDA Acts for whatever reason to the detriment of the project. Sufficient safeguards have been built into
the design of the project. The Borrower and IDA have agreed and understand that the incremental
financing commitments for irrigation and drainage investments under NDP would be scaled back or
canceled altogether after the MTR if the pace of reforms is slow due to lack of government commitment,
implementation constraints, or resistance/lack of commitment by WAPDA, PIDAs or AWBs for real
change.  This factor would be taken into account in determining annual incremental financing
commitments to participating agencies (PA) under the project, and in determining IDA's financing for
additional investments in the water sector. In addition, only PIDAs, AWBs and FOs which are established
and meet the eligibility criteria would be eligible to participate in the project23. The General Conditions
(Section 6), Development Credit Agreement (Section 5.01 e which specifies remedies of the Association in
the event of repeal or material modification of the PIDA Ordinance), and Project Agreement (Section 2.04
which specifies eligibility criteria for annual incremental fnancing commitments to PIDAs, AWBs and
FOs, and the Action Plan for the Project referred to in Section 2.01b) afford the necessary safeguards and
remedies to IDA.
2.27   Streamlining and Cost Reduction in Operations of Decentralized Irrigation Institutions: The
project would finance the costs of conducting more thorough and participatory institutional assessments;
redefining the mandates, and developing business plans; and introducing organizational adjustments,
structuring, and realigning levels' and composition of staff of PIDAs, pilot AWBs, and pilot FOs. To help
the new entities achieve significant cost reductions and improve their productivity, Provinces would
impose hiring freezes on all PIDAs and AWBs, reassign redundant staff to other organizations, and offer
them incentives for early retirement. The project would also provide assistance to PIDAs and AWBs to
"transition" (i.e. transfer) FGW tubewells, on-farm tile drains, and sub-drains to farmers through FOs. This
process is expected to generate significant cost savings. To this end, the project would finance the costs of
PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs to conduct "Diagnostic Reviews" and prepare Business or Operational Plans of
their irrigation and drainage operations.
E. INVESTMENTS
(COST ESTIMATE: $683.1 MILLION)
2.28   Introduction and Summary: This component would include construction and improvement of
drainage and irrigation facilities including: (a) rehabilitation, construction and improvement of off-farm
drainage; (b) on-farm drainage; (c) rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation systems; and (d)
operation and maintenance through performance-based contracts awarded to the private sector. The
23     Eligibility criteria for PAs are given in Annex 6.



18
component would finance a time slice of irrigation and drainage investments using a SIP approach
including: (i) civil works; (ii) equipment; (iii) cost of social organization, communication, information, and
education strategies, gender initiatives, and resettlement and rehabilitation associated with the construction
of drains; and (iv) consulting services to assist executing agencies to prepare Investment Projects, prepare
detailed designs and tender documents, evaluate bids and award contracts, and supervise construction.
This component would include: (i) completion of on-going projects; (ii) rehabilitation and remodeling of
completed projects; and (iii) new projects which meet the agreed selection criteria for Investment Projects.
2.29    Selection Criteria for Investment Projects: Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that
Investment Projects financed under the project would satisfy the Selection Criteria. Annex I describes the
selection criteria for Investment Projects, and the environmental evaluation procedures which will be
observed for all Investment Projects. The selection criteria, inter alia: (i) direct project interventions for the
investment component to those which would benefit the lowest third of the income strata of the farning
community; and (ii) provide for the project's investments to be implemented by Participating Agencies
(PAs) in areas under their legally recognized and clearly demarcated operational jurisdiction or for which
they are engaged (by the PA having operational jurisdiction) to implement an Investment Project under the
terms of a "Standard Construction Partnership and Hand-over Agreement", satisfactory to IDA.
Agreement was reached at Negotiations that the operating jurisdiction of the various PAs would be:
(a)    FO: (i) on-farm drainage; and (ii) on-farm irrigation upto minor/distributary level;
(b)    AWB  intra-provincial irrigation and drainage within its canal command (other than on-
farm drainage and irrigation);
(c)    PIDA: (i) intra-provincial irrigation and drainage outside canal commands; and (ii) intra-
provincial irrigation and drainage within canal commands in which AWBs have not been
egtablished (other than on-farm drainage and irrigation). This would be an interim
arrangement until AWBs have been established in all canal commands; and
(d)    WAPDA: inter-provincial irrigation and drainage.
2.30    Off-Farm Drainago (Cost Estimate: $426.6 million): The sub-component would include: (i)
rehabilitation, remodeling, improvement, and extension of existing surface drainage systems and
construction of new surface drains. This would include cross-drainage facilities (e.g., where roads, canals,
and railway lines block natural drainage); modification of existing systems and construction of new
interceptor systems for selected reaches of main canals; and facilities to keep storm water out of, and its
disposal from, drainage areas; (ii) rehabilitation of existing, and/or installation of new, SGW tubewells in
Punjab and Sindh, in areas unsuitable for tile drainage, and after ensuring that this is environmentally
acceptable and after the beneficiaries have organized themselves into FOs and have agreed to take over
responsibility for O&M.
2.31    On-Farm  Drainage (Cost Estimate: $92.6 million): This sub-component would include: (i)
construction of new, and rehabilitation of existing, sub-drains and on-farm surface drains and transfer of
these to beneficiaries; (ii) installation of new, and rehabilitation of existing, tile drains; (iii) improvement of
watercourses in SGW areas24; and (iv) transfer of existing FGW tubewells to, and where necessary, their
replacement by, the private sector, and expansion of the network of FGW tubewells through installation of
new tubewells by the private sector. Under all initiatives, beneficiary groups will be encouraged to adopt
biological drainage measures, where feasible, to reduce the drainable surplus. All on-farm investments
would only be undertaken where FOs have been established and are willing to share the investment costs
and to assume responsibility for a substantial proportion of O&M costs. Thus, the scope of this sub-
24     To ensure balance among the various initiatives in this component, improvement of watercourses would be
limited to a maximum of 2000 watercourses.



19
component will depend critically on the ability of the concerned PIDAs/AWBs to promote the
establishment of effective FOs; and the willingness of those FOs to undertake the investments on the
proposed terms. The sub-component will be accompanied by programs of education, communication,
gender focus, and social mobilization which will be designed and executed in close collaboration with
NGOs and community organizations.
2.32    Rehabilitation and Modernization of Irrigation Systems (Cost Estimate: $91.8 million): This
sub-component would include: (a) modernizing canal system management through installation of improved
communication and control systems and training of personnel; and (b) rehabilitation, improvement and
remodeling of irrigation systems, where the management of the system is constrained by the systems'
physical condition, after actual review of the irrigation supplies and demand and water allocation and
management practices. This is a sequel to the Second Irrigation System Rehabilitation Project (ISRP II,
Cr. 1888-PAK), which was closed on December 31, 1995; and has been included at the specific request of
the Borrower's highest authorities. In conformity with the project's objective of reducing the drainable
surplus in SGW areas, the rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation systems would focus on SGW areas
where FOs have been established.
2.33    O&M through Performance Contracts (Cost Estimate: $72.1 million): This sub-component
would support the carrying out of O&M of selected drainage facilities and maintenance of selected
irrigation facilities through multi-year (three to five years) contracts awarded to the private sector. This
initiative is intended to promote the role of the private sector in drainage and irrigation O&M, and thereby:
(a) ensure that adequate O&M of irrigation and drainage facilities is carried out under the framework of
fully-funded performance-based contracts, and thereby that the facilities function as designed; and (b)
reduce the cost of O&M through efficiency gains from competition and private sector involvement25. The
initial experience from the O&M Performance Contracts, awarded by WAPDA on a pilot basis for the
LBOD drainage facilities, was extremely positive26. The Performance Contracts which would be fimded
under the project would substantially be for O&M of projects/schemes which have been recently
completed or which would be completed shortly, and of newly constructed or rehabilitated facilities under
the project2". The O&M costs which would be funded under the project would therefore not substitute
existing funding of O&M by the Government or beneficiaries. The O&M costs which would funded under
the project would constitute only a small portion (about 7%) of the total O&M costs of the irrigation and
drainage system2". Recovery of all O&M costs29 would be carried out under the framework agreed for
eligibility of PAs to participate in the project. Under this framework, PIDAs and AWBs shall be
financially self-sustainable for O&M costs within ten years of their establishment; and FOs shall be
financially self-sustainable within seven years of their establishment.
2.34    Pipeline of Investment Projects:  A pipeline of potential Investment Projects has been
identified30. These Investment Projects would be included subject to their conforming with the agreed
25      Currently O&M is substantially carried out by the Provincial Irrigation Departments through force-account.
Substantial portion of O&M spending is on establishment, salaries and administrative costs, as contrasted with works.
26      WAPDA awarded 12 quasi-performance O&M contracts (estimated value: Rs. 150 million) for the LBOD
drainage facilities to private contractors in 1996/97 as test runs for larger Performance Contracts to be issued under
NDP.
27      The first batch of O&M Performance Contracts which have been identified are under LBOD, Pat Feeder,
Fourth Drainage, and SCARP Mardan Projects.
28      Current spending on O&M of the irrigation and drainage system is about Rs. 7000 million annually. In
contrast, the costs of O&M contracts which would be funded under the project over six-and-half years is about Rs.
3,300 million i.e., about Rs. 470 million annually.
29     Irrespective of whether these are initially funded by donor Loans/Credits.
30      The identified pipeline is however not exclusive. Other Investment Projects which meet the selection criteria
would also be included.



20
selection criteria. The pipeline includes: (i) completion of on-going projects inc]Luding the LBOD Project
(donor-funded including IDA and ADB) and the Right Bank Outfall Drain (RBOD)3' Project (currently
fully Govermment-funded); (ii) new schemes including the Dera Ghazi Khan Integrated Irrigation and
Drainage Project, Kafur Dheri Surface Drainage Project, and Lasbela Drainage Project; (iii) construction,
rehabilitation and improvement of surface drains in 5 drainage circles in Punjab (Lahore, Sargodha,
Faisalabad, Muzzafargarh and Bahawalpur), 2 drainage circles in Sindh (KPOD, Kotri), in NWFP
(Peshawar Valley, Kurram-Gambila, Swabi, Kohat, Mardan, and Doaba Daudzai), and in Balochistan
(Khaudar, Kachi, Loralia, and KK Baund Command); (iv) modernization of 5 canal commands (Nara,
Lower Jhelum, Pat Feeder, Upper Swat, and Chashma Right Bank); (v) O&M Performance Contracts for 5
projects which are recently completed or to be completed shortly (Drainage IV, East Khairpur, Chashma
Right Bank, Mardan SCARP, and LBOD); (vi) programs for rehabilitation of SGW Tubewells in Punjab
and Sindh; (vii) programs for transitioning of FGW Tubewells in Sindh (North Rohri, South Rohri,
Khairpur and Right Bank) and NWFP; (viii) improvement of watercourses in SG W areas in all Provinces;
and (ix) programs for rehabilitation and transitioning of on-farm drainage to FOs in all Provinces.
2.35   Implementation Plan: Procurement for activities which would be carried out in the first year of
project implementation have been substantially completed. Contracts with estimated cost of US$66.1
million equivalent to be fnanced from the IDA Credit have already been signed. These include contracts
with the NDP Engineering Design and Supervision Consultants (US$42 million) and works on the LBOD
Project ($24.1 million). In addition, bid evaluations for contracts with estimated cost of US$9.8 million
equivalent to be financed from the IDA Credit have been completed. These contracts are expected to be
signed before or shortly after Board approval. During the first two years of implementation, the focus
would be on preparation of Investment Projects which conform to the selection criteria. A major
prerequisite for this viz., the engagement of the NDP Engineering, Design and Supervision Consultants
(who would assist in preparation and implementation of Investment Projects) has been completed; and this
is expected to provide substantial momentum to the preparation of Investment Projects. The Investment
Projects which would be commenced in the first two years of project implementation would substantially
comprise completion of the on-going LBOD project (estimated cost: US$166 million), O&M of recently
completed projects (notably LBOD - estimated cost US$46 million), and small surface drainage schemes
with short preparation period. Preparation, appraisal, design, and procurement actions for Investment
projects would be carried out as to ensure that the Investment Project is fully completed before the
projected completion date of the Project. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that WAPDA and
Provinces would complete all detailed designs and award contracts for Investment Projects so as to ensure
that all such contracts, including the maintenance period specified in such contracts, will be completed not
later than December 31, 2003.
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
3.1    Project Costs: Project costs are tentatively estimated at $785 million, comprising $712.9 million
of investment costs and $72.1 million of recurrent costs. Recurrent costs comprise mainly of costs of
O&M through Performance Contracts awarded to the private sector ($67.7 million). Project costs include
$103.3 million of taxes and duties.  Base costs are estimated at about $729 million; while price
contingencies are estimated at $56 million. About $218.3 million of costs (28 percent of total costs) are
expected to be foreign exchange. The costs are only indicative, would be revised yearly during the
Borrower's annual budget cycle, and confirmed only after the MTR, by which time the scope of the project
in general, and investment component in particular, would have become more definitive. Project costs are
summarized in the Table below. More details are given in Annex 2.
31     Formally called Lower Indus Right Bank Irrigation and Drainage Project.



21
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Rs. Million                          US$ Million
Component                                               %                                  %
Local     Foreign    Total   Foreign   Local  Foreign   Total  Foreign
A. SECTOR PLANNING &
RESEARCH
Sector Planning and Policy Studies  333.8    41.9      375.7  11        8.3      1.0      9.3    11
Research Programs                 516.4      37.6      554.0    7      12.8      1.0    13.8       7
Subtotal                          850.2      79.5     929.7    9       21.1      2.0    23.1      9
B. INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS
Institutional Program for WAPDA  1,025.3    115.1    1,140.4  10       25.4      2.9    28.3      10
Water Wing
Institutional Program for PIDs    687.4     271.6      959.0  28       17.1      6.7    23.8    28
Subtotal                         1,712.7    386.7    2,099.4  18       42.5      9.6    52.1      18
C. INVESTMENTS
Off-farn Drainage               11,335.2    4,922.1   16,257.3  30    281.4   122.2   403.6    30
On-farn Drainage                2,196.1    1,151.8    3,347.9  34      54.5    28.6    83.1    34
Irrigation Systems               1,972.7    1,464.9    3,437.6  43     49.0    36.3    85.3    43
Operation and Maintenance       2,607.6      26.4    2,634.0    1      64.7      0.7    65.4       1
Subtotal                        18,111.6    7,565.2   25,676.8  29    449.6   187.8   637.4    29
D. PROGRAM COORDINATION             631.1       27.6     658.7    4       15.7      0.7    16.4      4
& SUPERVISION
Total BASELINE COSTS              21,305.6    8,059.0   29,364.6  27     528.9   200.1   729.0    27
Price Contingencies                7,092.0    2,849.3    9,941.3  29      37.8    18.2    56.0    32
Total PROJECT COSTS               28,397.6   10,908.3   39,305.9  28     566.7   218.3   785.0    28
3.2     Financing Plan: The financing plan for the project is given in the Table below:
FINANCING PLAN
($ Million)
FINANCIER                     TYPE OF                     TOTAL
EXPENDITURE
Local        Foreign       Amount         %
Borrower and Provinces          208.132         19.8         227.9          29.0
Farmers through FOs              19.5           12.6           32.1          4.1
ADB                              84.5           55.5          140.0         17.9
OECF                             56.6          43.4           100.0         12.7
IDA                             198.0          87.0           285.0         36.3
Total                        566.7         218.3           785.0        100.0
3.3     IDA Financing: IDA would finance 42 percent of the project costs net of taxes, or 36 percent of
total costs including taxes with a Credit of SDR 198.6 million (equivalent of $285 million). IDA would
finance 40 percent ($87 million) of the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs, and 35 percent ($198
million) of local costs. IDA would finance about 32% of the Investment component ($219.1 million
equivalent); about 100% of the Sector Planning and Research component ($25.7 million equivalent); about
48% of the Institutional Reform component ($27.5 million equivalent); and about 69% of the program
coordination and supervision costs ($12.7 million equivalent). IDA would approve incremental financing
commitments during the annual NDP PSDP reviews, which would be held in Spring of each year. After
the project's MTR in Spring 2000, IDA may cancel a portion of the undisbursed commitments if it
32      Includes taxes and duties ($103.3 million).



22
concludes that progress is insufficient to justify continuation of the level of undisbursed financing
commitments or if there is insufficient movement on the institutional reforms.
3.4    Retroactive Financing: Eligible expenditures incurred after April 30, l99633 upto a limit of 10
percent of the Credit amount i.e., SDR 19.85 million ($28.5 million equivalent) would be eligible for
retroactive financing. These would include funds for start-up activities which are essential for timely
project implementation (such as feasibility studies, and detailed designs and engineering), and civil works
on Investment Projects for which construction has begun before Effectiveness, provided that procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA were followed, and in case of Investment Projects that the projects meet the
selection criteria. This is justified since the project is financing a time-slice of eligible Investment Projects
included in the Government's program; and one of the project components includes completion of on-
going projects.
3.5    Cofinancing Arrangements: The ADB has approved a loan of $140 million equivalent (SDR
93.674 million) from its Asian Development Fund (ADF) in December 1995; while Japan's OECF has
approved a loan of about $100 million equivalent (Yen 10,832 million)34. Both these donors would
participate in the project on the basis of parallel financing. Fulfillment of Conditions of Effectiveness of the
ADB Loan and the OECF Loan are Conditions of Effectiveness. By informal understanding reached among
cofinanciers, ADB would finance most Investment Project costs and program coordination and supervision
costs in Balochistan and NWFP, the costs of remaining contracts from its components under the ongoing
LBOD Project, some components of the RBOD Project, and some technical assistance costs for
environmental management and monitoring and evaluation. OECF would finance most Investment Project
costs in Punjab Province, some components of the RBOD Project; and most training costs. IDA would
finance the rest of the donors' share of project costs. This would include all Investment Project costs in
Sindh Province, costs of remaining works under the ongoing LBOD Project, some components of the
RBOD Project, and all remaining technical assistance and program coordination and supervision costs.
IDA would retain the option to reduce the undisbursed balance from its Credit by canceling an amount
equivalent to any additional cofnancing mobilized, after taking into account the revised cost estimates and
financing requirements. IDA, ADB, and OECF would enter into an agreement for cooperation,
coordination and exchange of information, which would inter alia define the roles and responsibilities of
the cofinanciers.
3.6    Counterpart Financing from the Borrower and its Provinces: The financial contributions of
the Borrower and Provinces for the project is estimated at $227.9 million equivalent (29 percent of project
costs) including for duties and taxes. The contributions from the Borrower and Provinces are projected to
increase from $5.6 million equivalent in FY97/98 (1st year) to a peak requirement of $42.5 million
equivalent in FY01/02 (5th year). The average annual contributions from the Borrower and Provinces
would amount to approximately $32.6 million equivalent over the seven years of disbursements.
3.7    Contributions from Beneficiaries: The contribution from beneficiaries' (mainly through FOs) is
estimated at $32.1 million (4 percent of project costs). Beneficiaries, through FOs, would contribute
between 10-40 percent of direct cash costs of on-farm Investment Projects upfront, in addition to
contributions of land and labor. This would replace in most cases the current practice of back-end cost
recovery which has been shown to have high administrative costs, and is prone to defaults and frequent
politically motivated rescheduling and/or waivers of payment obligations of farme:rs to Provinces.
33     The cut-off date for retroactive financing was agreed at Negotiations, and was based on the estimate at
Negotiations that the date of signing of the Credit would be April 30, 1997.
34     Loan Agreements with ADB and OECF were signed on December 6, 1996 and March 31, 1997,
respectively.



23
B. LENDING TERMS AND CONDITIONS
3.8    Terms of the IDA Credit: The IDA Credit to the Borrower would be on standard IDA terms with
a maturity of 35 years. With an implementation period of six and half years, the project would be
completed by June 30, 2004 and the Closing Date for the Credit would be December 31, 2004.
3.9    On-lending Terms and Provincial Allocations: The Borrower would retain part of the funds
from the Credit for the purposes of its activities under the project; and also would make funds available to
WAPDA and the Provinces on a first-come-first-served basis, in accordance with its standard budgetary
procedures for development expenditures. Available funds from the project would not be allocated to
WAPDA or Provinces on the basis of pre-determined shares, but on merit based on readiness of the
pipeline of Investment Projects and the demonstrated absorptive capacity of WAPDA or Provinces.
3.10   Provision of Funds by Provinces to PIDAs, AWBs and FOs: Provinces would make available
IDA funds, together with their own counterpart contributions, to eligible PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs, on a
first-come-first-served basis taking into account the demonstrated absorptive capacity of each entity, as a
grant and on the terms stipulated in a Participation Agreement between the Provinces and the entity.
Agreement was reached at Negotiations that Provinces would enter into Participation Agreements,
satisfactory to IDA, with each PIDA, A WB and FO proposing to participate in the Project. Aspects which
would be covered in Participation Agreements are given in Annex 3.
3.11   Incremental Financing Commitments: IDA would make incremental fmancing commitments
annually for new programs of activities to be commenced in each Fiscal Year based on the "Consolidated
NDP Three-Year Rolling Business Plan" (the Business Plan). The Borrower would submit the draft
Business Plan for the project to IDA by March 31 of each year, and agree the Plan with IDA by April 30 of
each year. The Plan would include procurement, staffing, operations, and fmnancing plans and encompass
all components and PAs of the project. Agreement was reached at Negotiations that the Borrower would,
not later than April 30 of each Fiscal Year ofproject implementation, or such later date as IDA may agree,
beginning Fiscal Year 96-97, furnish to IDA for its approval, proposals for amounts to be allocated out of
the proceeds of the Credit for financing any new program of activities to be commenced under the project
in the next following Fiscal Year of project implementation. IDA would not approve any proposals or
awards of contracts for Investment Projectsfurnished to it unless and until:
(a)    the Borrower has, with the participation of WAPDA and the Provinces, prepared and
furnished to IDA:
(i)    a consolidated Annual Progress Report (APR) on the carrying out of the
programs of activities previously commenced under the Project;
(ii)    a Three-Year Rolling PSDP for the project for the next three following Fiscal
Years ofproject implementation;
(iii)    a Portfolio Action Plan for the project for the next following Fiscal Year of
project implementation; and
(iv)    a Three-Year Rolling Business Plan for the project, which would also include
procurement and disbursement targets, for the next three following Fiscal Years
ofproject implementation; and
(b)    IDA is satisfied with the progress made in the carrying out of:
(i)    the programs of activities previously commenced under the Project; and
(ii)   the current Portfolio Action Plan and Three-Year Rolling Business Plan for the
Project.



24
C. PROCUREMENT
3.12    Procurement Assessment and Management: A formal Country Procurement Assessment (CPA)
was completed for Pakistan, and the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) is expected to be
published soon. Work that is nearly complete will result in country-specific Standard Bidding Documents
(SBDs) which are agreed between IDA and the Borrower. WAPDA, the key implementing agency for
NDP, has been the central partner with IDA in this review process, and (together with the Pakistan
Engineering Council, PEC) is helping IDA develop SBDs for Pakistan. Notvithstanding the recently
observed deterioration of institutional capacities of WAPDA and PIDs in procurement and contract
administration, the Borrower, Provinces, and WAPDA in particular, have extensive and generally
satisfactory records of compliance with IDA procurement procedures. Two comprehensive reviews of
WAPDA's procurement and contract administration procedures were undertaken by consultants appointed
by WAPDA following the recommendations of the MTR and 1993 Joint Review Mission for LBOD, and
as part of the Feasibility Study for NDP in 1994. The reviews identified areas of weakness (mostly having
to do with delays in decision making) and made recommendations for improvement which are incorporated
as part of the Institutional Program for WAPDA, specifically engagement of consultant procurement
specialists to overcome institutional shortcomings, and mandatory assignment of NDP Design and
Engineering Consultants as the Engineer on all civil works contracts fmanced under the project.
3.13    The Borrower's Procurement Arrangements: Taking these factors into account, the Appraisal
Mission concluded that the Borrower, WAPDA, prospective PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs would be capable of
handling procurement, supervising contract administration, and engaging and supervising consultants
envisaged under NDP with the help of procurement consultants and establishment of an NDP Procurement
Unit. WAPDA would also appoint one or more consultants with internationally recognized professional
qualifications in procurement administration, from NDP Engineering Design and Supervision Consultants
or other consultants, as NDP Procurement Advisers to provide technical assistance and training to staff of
WAPDA, PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs on procurement.
3.14   Procurement Elements and Plan: Under the proposed project, IDA will finance civil works for
construction (including rehabilitation and improvement of drains, canals, watercourses, and tubewells, and
performance-based contracts for O&M of irrigation and drainage infrastructure); equipment and vehicles;
and consultant services (including Research Contracts). WAPDA, PIDAs, AWBs and FOs will prepare
detailed Three-Year Rolling Procurement Plans as part of their Three-Year Rolling Business Plans. The
NDP Coordination Cell in WAPDA will consolidate the procurement plans of PAs, and submit the
combined Three-Year Rolling Procurement Plan for IDA's review and approval by March 31, together
with the project's Combined Business Plan. Contracts for civil works will be considered only as part of
complete Investment Projects and be awarded only after the Investment Project has been approved by IDA.
IDA's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits would be ifollowed for procurement
of all works and goods financed from the Credit. Consultants financed from the Credit would be selected
following IDA's Guidelines for Selection and Use of Consultants. Procurement arrangements are detailed
in Annex 4, and summarized in the following paragraphs.



25
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(Figures in Parentheses are amounts financed by the IDA Credit)
(US$ Million Equivalent)35
PROCUREMENT ELEMENT    PROCUREMENT METHOD                                  NBF36  TOTAL
ICB          NCB    OTHER                          COST
Civil Works                        123.1 (97.4)    66.6 (47.5)    17.3 (8.4)"   323.7 (0.0)  530.7 (153.3)
Equipment and Vehicles            15.9 (12.7)     2.4 (1.9)     0.4 (0.3)    16.7 (0.0)  35.4  (14.9)
Consultants38                                                 78.6 (78.6)    8.2 (0.0)   86.8 (78.6)
Research                                                      14.2 (14.2)               14.2 (14.2)
Training                                                                    12.9 (0.0)    12.9  (0.0)
Incremental Staff and Operating Costs                         26.6 (24.0)    10.2 (0.0)   36.8 (24.0)
Others"                                                                     68.2 (0.0)   68.2  (0.0)
TOTAL                             139.0 (110.1)    69.0 (49.4)   137.1 (125.5)   439.9 (0.0)   785.0 (285.0)
3.15    Works - Procurement Method:  All IDA-financed contracts for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5 million or more would be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures (estimated cost: $123.1 million). IDA-financed contracts for civil works estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $5 million each would be awarded using: (a) National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
procedures (estimated cost: $66.6 million); and (b) direct contracting, using project beneficiary labor
mobilized by PAD-OFWMs and FOs, with progress payments based on unit prices agreed with IDA
(estimated cost: $17.3 million). Civil works contracts may be bid on a slice-and-package basis, with the
contractors bidding for individual or combined contracts up to their pre-qualified limit.
3.16    Works - Prior Review: The following IDA-financed contracts would be subject to IDA's prior
review: (a) contracts for civil works estimated to cost more than $5 million equivalent; (b) the first NCB
contract by each PA; (c) O&M Performance Contracts, turnkey or supply-and-erect contracts (e.g. for
dredging equipment); and (d) contracts for borderline services such as GIS, aerial and satellite mapping.
All IDA-financed contracts not subject to IDA's prior review would be subject to post review on a sample
basis.
3.17    Works - Procurement Documents: Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) for Pakistan would be
used after these are finalized by the Borrower, WAPDA and IDA. Until these are fnalized, IDA's SBDs
for Procurement of Works would be used for ICB contracts; and IDA's SBDs for Procurement of Works
(Smaller Contracts) with modifications agreed with IDA would be used for NCB contracts. Pre-
qualification would be undertaken for all contracts (or groups of contracts awarded on slice-and-package
basis) estimated to cost $15 million or more. Pre-qualification would be updated annually. Pre-
35      Includes taxes and duties, and contingencies.
36      Not Bank-Group financed.
37      Direct Contracting through Community Groups.
38      Of which $11.4 million would be for institutional development (streamlining and capacity building) for
WAPDA's Water Wing and PIDAs; $10.2 million would be for policy support (sector planning and policy studies);
and $65.2 million would be for project preparation and implementation support consisting of engineering design and
supervision consultants ($51 million), social design and mobilization consultants ($9 million), and M&E Consultants
($5.2 million).
39      Land Acquisition & Interest During Construction (IDC).



26
qualification would be done using IDA's Standard Pre-qualification Document for Works. All pre-
qualification documents and proposals would be subject to IDA's prior review regardless of threshold.
3.18    Goods: All IDA-financed contracts for goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more
would be procured using ICB procedures (estimated cost: $15.9 million). The remaining IDA-financed
contracts for goods would be procured using NCB procedures (estimated cost: $2.4 million), except those
contracts costing less than the equivalent of $50,000 which will be procured following National Shopping
procedures (estimnated cost: $0.4 million) by obtaining quotations from at least three reputable suppliers.
The following IDA-financed contracts would be subject to IDA's prior review: (a) contracts for goods and
equipment estimated to cost $300,000 or more; (b) the first NCB contract by each PA; and (c) contracts for
borderline services such as GIS, aerial and satellite mapping. All IDA-financed contracts not subject to
IDA's prior review would be subject to post review on a sample basis. SBDs for Pakistan would be used
after these are finalized by the Borrower, WAPDA and IDA. Until these are finalized, IDA's SBDs for
Procurement of Goods would be used for contracts awarded using ICB procedures.
3.19   Documents To be Reviewed Under Prior Review: In case of contracts for goods and works
subject to prior review, each of the following stages and related documentation in the procurement process
would be reviewed and commented upon by IDA before they are implemented by the Borrower or PA: (a)
advertising procedures; (b) pre-qualification invitation documents, and subsequent evaluation; (c) bidding
documents and addenda; (d) bid evaluation and the proposal for contract award; (e) contract documents, to
identify any differences from the proforma contract included in the bidding documents and to verify
consistency with bid evaluation; and (f) material modifications to the contract during execution. Since the
project involves numerous procurements of similar goods, works, and services by all PAs, most
commercial documents would be common to similar items of procurement, and hence would be reviewed
once and then used repetitively. Only modifications to the standard document to suit specific procurement,
if any, would be submitted to IDA each time for prior review.
3.20   Consultancy Services: All consultants whose services are financed by IDA will be selected by
PAs in accordance with procedures outlined in IDA's "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981)". [DA's Standard Letter of
Invitation and Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services will be used for consultancy services.
The following IDA-financed contracts would be subject to IDA's prior review: (a) consultancy contracts
with firms with estimated cost of $100,000 or more, and with individuals with estimated cost of $50,000 or
more; (b) the first contract for appointment of consultants for each PA; (c) contracts with finns awarded on
single-source basis; and (d) consultancy contracts for assignments of a critical nature (e.g., because of
environmental, safety, or public health considerations, Panels of Experts, Consultants for the Enhanced
Supervision Arrangements, Sector Planning and Research, Monitoring and Evaluation including
Environmental Monitoring and Audit, Social Assessments, Resettlement, Environmental Assessments,
Information Systems, and Financial Management/Accounting and Auditing), regardless of value. Terms of
reference for all IDA-financed consultancy contracts would be subject to prior review, regardless of value.
In case of consultancy contracts which are subject to IDA's prior review, the Borrower would submit for
IDA's review relevant documents at each stage of the process by which the Borrower selects consulting
firms including: (a) preparation of terms of reference and budget; (b) choice of selection procedure; (c)
preparation of the shortlist; (d) Letter of Invitation; (e) submission of the winning proposal or the
evaluation report; and (f) negotiation of the draft contract. All IDA-financed contracts not subject to prior
review would be subject to post review on sample basis.
3.21   In addition to the above provisions, the following would be reviewed by IDA (for goods, works,
and consultancy contracts): (i) any case in which the procedures used are not transparent or award
recommendation is irregular; (ii) any case in which a complaint has been raised; (iii) any request for re-
bidding; (iv) standard procurement documents to be used under the project; (v) proposals for extension of
bid validity, or delays in contract award; (vi) all advance procurement action, advance contracting, and
procurement relating to retroactive financing for ICB and NCB contracts; (viii) all contracts which are



27
proposed to be awarded to entities, companies, or agencies which are part of, owned or controlled by, the
Borrower, its Provinces, WAPDA, or any other PA; and (viii) sole-source procurement contracts.
3.22    Since the pipeline of Investment Projects is as yet not known with any degree of firmness, the
number of contracts which are likely to fall under the prior review threshold cannot be determined at this
stage, but is estimated to be about $123.1 million for works (60% of IDA-financed contracts), $15.9
million for goods (85% of IDA-financed contracts), $76.9 million for consultancy services (98% of IDA-
financed contracts), and $14.2 million for research contracts (100% of IDA-financed contracts). About
67% of all IDA-financed contracts would be covered by prior review, which is below the desirable level of
80%, but is acceptable because it has been selected to strike a balance between the work load for IDA on
prior review and an acceptable coverage for IDA-financed contracts in number and value, given the
potentially large number of PAs (several Regions and Divisions of WAPDA, 4 PIDAs, 4 PAD-OFWMs, at
least 4 AWBs, and many more FOs) and the likelihood that the project will consist of a large number of
small contracts or packages (especially for Investment Projects sponsored by FOs). Moreover, it is
justified by the following circumstances: (i) the Borrower, WAPDA, and Provinces have demonstrated
experience and capacity in procurement matters on similar Bank/IDA-financed projects; (ii) technical
assistance would be provided under the project to support their organizations and conduct prior review of
procurement decisions of PAs; (iii) each agency would execute a large number of similar repetitive
contracts; (iv) IDA and other NDP donors would conduct more intensive post reviews of procurement
decisions based on documentation prepared by the project's supervisory consultants; and (v) the
Borrower's ability, and indicated willingness to accept responsibility for the risk of misprocurement,
resulting in cancellation of Credit proceeds.
3.23    Post Review: The prior review will be complemented by post review of a random sample of
awarded contracts and procurement-related documentation below the prior review thresholds; in the
following proportions: (i) for works, 1 in 20 of an estimated 883 such contracts; (ii) for goods, 1 in 15 of
an estimated 125 such contracts; and (iii) for consultancy services, 1 in 5 of an estimated 100 such
contracts. The post review would cover the final contract and any evaluation of proposals and award
recommendations. In case misprocurement is detected during post review, IDA will immediately institute
a more intensive review of past and future contract documentation for procurement undertaken by the
concerned PA. Contracts financed under parallel financing arrangements (e.g. by OECF and ADB) would
also be subject to post review by IDA on a sample basis to ensure their compatibility with the balance of
the project, satisfactory quality, timely delivery or completion, and acceptable pricing.
D. DISBURSEMENTS
3.24   Summary: The Borrower's Ministry of Finance will allocate funds from the IDA Credit to the
Borrower's Ministry of Water and Power (MW&P), its Planning Commission, Provinces and WAPDA as
part of their Annual Development Plan (ADP) funds. The Project would be completed on June 30, 2004
and the Closing Date of the Credit would be December 31, 2004. The estimated'disbursement period is
seven years, which is only about one year shorter than the latest subsector disbursement profile for
irrigation and drainage projects in Pakistan. The shorter disbursement period is projected on account of the
demonstrated experience of program-type (time-slice) operations disbursing faster than traditional types of
project operations in Pakistan (by 2-3 years). Disbursement arrangements including use of Statements of
Expenditures and Special Accounts are detailed in Annex 5.
3.25    Special Accounts:  To facilitate disbursements, Special Accounts in US Dollars would be
established in the National Bank of Pakistan, as follows:
(a)    MW&P: the Secretary, MW&P, Islamabad, with an initial deposit of up to $100,000, to
finance the costs of Federal Coordination and Supervision. The initial deposit would be
$50,000 until the aggregate deposits into this Special Account equal $200,000;



28
(b)    WAPDA:
(i)    the General Manager (Finance) in Lahore, with an initial deposit of up to $2
million, to finance the costs of WAPDA Coordination, Institutional Reforms for
WAPDA's Water Wing and the Sector Planning and Research Component. The
initial deposit would be $1 million until the aggregate deposits into this Special
Account equal $4 million;
(ii)   the General Manager (Water-South), in Hyderabad, with an initial deposit of up
to $5 million, to finance the costs of the Investment Component in Sindh
executed by WAPDA. The initial deposit would be $2.5 million until the
aggregate deposits into this Special Account equal $10 million;
(c)    Province of Sindh: the NDP Provincial Coordinator, Sindh Province, in Karachi or
Hyderabad, with an initial deposit of up to $5 million, to finance the costs of Provincial
Coordination, Institutional Reforms for PIDs, and Investment Component in Sindh
executed by the Province of Sindh. The initial deposit would be $2.5 million until the
aggregate deposits into this Special Account equal $10 million;
(d)    Province of Punjab: the NDP Provincial Coordinator, Punjab Province, in Lahore, with
an initial deposit of up to $2 million, to finance the costs of Provincial Coordination,
Institutional Reforms for PIDs, and the costs of the Investment Component in Punjab
Province executed by the Province of Punjab. The initial deposit would be $1 million
until the aggregate deposits into this Special Account equal $4 million;
(e)    NWFP: the NDP Provincial Coordinator, NWFP, in Peshawar, with an initial deposit of
up to $1 million, to finance the costs of Provincial Coordination and Institutional
Reforms for PIDs in NWFP executed by the NWFP. The initial deposit would be $0.5
million until the aggregate deposits into this Special Account equal $2 million; and
(f)    Province of Balochistan: the NDP Provincial Coordinator, Balochistan, in Quetta, with
an initial deposit of up to $0.5 million, to finance the costs of Provincial Coordination
and Institutional Reforms for PIDs in Balochistan Province executed by the Province of
Balochistan. The initial deposit would be $0.25 million until the aggregate deposits into
this Special Account equal $1 million.
3.26   These deposits are based on estimates of the project's financing needs and projected
disbursements from the Special Accounts, including retroactive financing. W/As for replenishment of
Special Accounts would be submitted on a monthly basis, or when 20% of the authorized limit of the
Special Account has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier.
3.27    Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): IDA would disburse against Certified SOEs for the
following types of expenditures: (i) on contracts for works of less than $5,000,000 equivalent; (ii) on
contracts for equipments and vehicles of less than $300,000 equivalent; (iii) on contracts for consultants
services of less than $100,000 in the case of firms, and less than $50,000 in the case of individuals; (iv) for
training expenditure; and (v) for incremental staff and operating costs. All other expenditures would be
supported by full documentation.
3.28   Allocation of Credit Proceeds: All amounts of IDA financing would remain unallocated between
the Provinces or WAPDA, and would be utilized according to implementation capacities of each PA or
Province. IDA would not finance any costs relating to duties and taxes. Amotnts would be reallocated
annually to the various categories (from the unallocated category) based on IDA's incremental financing
commitments for that year (see para 3.11 above). The allocation among categories (given in the table



29
below) therefore relate to IDA's financing commitments for the activities which would be commenced in
the first year of project implementation (FY97/98).
CATEGORY              AMOUNT               SHARE OF EXPENDITURES TO BE
ALLOCATED                         FINANCED
(1) Institutional Reforms
(a) Equipment and          $0.5 million    100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
Vehicles                               expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 70% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
(b) Consultants' Services  $1.0 million    100%
and Training
(c) Incremental staff and  $0.5 million    90%
operating costs40
(2)  Sector Planning and
Research
(a) Equipment and          $0.2 million    100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
Vehicles                               expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 70% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
(b) Consultants' Services  $3.0 million    100%
and Training
(c) Incremental staff and  $0.5 million    90%
operating costs
(3)  Investment Projects
(a) Civil Works           $40.0 million    90%/'
(b) Equipment and          $0.8 million    100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
Vehicles                               expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 70% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
(c) Consultants' Services    $20.0 million    100%
and Training
(d) Incremental staff and  $1.0 million    90%
operating costs
(4)  Project Coordination and
Supervision
(a) Equipment and          $0.5 million    100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
Vehicles                               expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 70% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
(b) Consultants' Services  $1.0 million    100%
and Training
(c) Incremental staff and  $1.0 million    90%
operating costs
(5)  Refunding of Advance       $3.0 million    Amount advanced under PPF to date of Effectiveness
from the Project
Preparation Facility
(PPF)
(6)  Unallocated               $212.0 million
TOTAL             $285.0 million
40     Incremental staff and operating costs means the salaries and allowances of staff appointed to positions
created in departments and agencies of the Borrower and the Provinces and in the Participating Agencies on or after
October 1, 1995 and engaged on a full-time basis for the purposes of implementation of the Project, and the operating
costs of equipment and vehicles procured under, and office buildings leased for purposes of the Project.
41     Of cost of civil works net of upfront beneficiary contributions.



30
3.29    The estimated disbursements for the IDA Credit by year are given below:
Estimated Disbursements ($ Millions)
FY97/98  FY98/99  FY99/00  FYOO/O1   FY01/02   FY02/03   FY03/04   FY04/05
(1/2 year)                                                           (1/2 year)
Annual              22        51       57        52        41         34        22         6
Cumulative          22        73      130       182       223        257       279       285
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. THE PARTICIPATING AGENCIES (PAS)
4.1    Responsibilities of PAs: The Borrower would have overall responsibility for coordinating and
monitoring project implementation. The Sector Planning sub-component would be implemented by the
Borrower, WAPDA's Water Wing and Provinces depending on the nature of the studies. The Drainage
Research sub-component would be implemented by Research Institutes, under a contract with WAPDA's
Water Wing. The Institutional Reforms for WAPDA's Water Wing would be implemented by WAPDA's
Water Wing; while that for PIDs would be implemented by Provinces through PIDAs, AWBs, PAD-
OFWMs, and FOs. Investment Projects would be carried out by the various PAs which have operational
jurisdiction over the Investment Project. FOs would carry out on-farm drainage, and on-farm irrigation
upto minor/distributary level, both with assistance from PAD-OFWMs. AWBs would carry out intra-
provincial irrigation and drainage (other than on-farm drainage and irrigation) within their respective canal
commands. PIDAs would carry out intra-provincial irrigation and drainage (ot]her than on-farm drainage
and irrigation) outside canal commands and within canal commands in which AWBs have not been
established. WAPDA's Water Wing would carry out inter-provincial irrigation and drainage. WAPDA's
Environmental Cell and Provincial EPAs would have the lead role in preparation, review, approval, and
implementation of environmental aspects of the project including Environmental Impact Assessments
(EIA), Environmental Management Plans (EMP), environmental audits, and Information, Education, and
Communication (IEC) campaigns for the activities to be carried out by WAPDA and Provinces
respectively.
B. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA AND APPROVAL OF PROGRAMS
4.2    Eligibility Criteria for PAs: The PAs are indicated in para 4.1 above. Additional PAs may be
added on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that each
PA would satisfy the specified eligibility criteria to be eligible for incremental annual financing
commitments from the IDA Credit for new programs of activities to be commenced under the Project, and
any new contracts to be awarded by it for on-going Investment Projects. The agreed eligibility criteria are
detailed in Annex 6. Eligibility criteria for PIDAs, AWBs and FOs inter alia include that they: (i) are
established and operated as autonomous entities; (ii) have prepared and agreed with the NDP Coordination
Cell a Three Year Rolling Business Plan including demonstrating progress towards financial self-
sustainability of O&M costs for PIDAs and AWBs within ten years of establishment, and financial self-
sustainability for FOs within seven years of establishment; and (iii) have achieved satisfactory progress in
implementation of their Business Plan for the previous Fiscal Year including achieving targets for cost
reduction, O&M expenditure and collecting Abiana and cost-sharing (beneficiary contribution) amounts.
Eligibility criteria for PAD-OFWMs inter alia include that they have achieved satisfactory progress in
implementation of their Business Plan for the previous Fiscal Year including collecting cost-sharing
(beneficiary contribution) amounts. Eligibility criteria for WAPDA inter alia include that it has achieved



31
satisfactory progress in implementation of its institutional reform program and its Business Plan for the
previous Fiscal Year.
4.3    Approval of Programs and Investment Projects: Agreement was reached at Negotiations that
institutional reform programs, research and sector planning programs, Investment Projects, and program
coordination and supervision activities financed from the IDA Credit would be approved by IDA. As
indicated earlier, Investment projects financed under the project would satisfy the Selection Criteria for
Investment Projects.
C. PROJECT COORDINATION AND SUPERVISION
4.4    Action Plan: Annex 7 presents the agreed action plan for the project, which provides a summary
of the main actions which the Borrower and PAs would take in order to implement the project on schedule.
4.5    Overall Program Coordination & Monitoring: Overall program coordination and monitoring
would be the responsibility of the Federal Project Steering Committee (FPSC), which would be chaired by
the Secretary of the MW&P of the Borrower. Members of the FPSC include the Federal Secretaries for
Finance, Planning and Development, Economic Affairs; Additional Chief Secretaries (ACS)-Development
of Provinces; and the Chairman of WAPDA. The Borrower has established the Federal Irrigation and
Drainage Cell (FIDC) in MW&P, which will be the Federal Secretariat for the project with responsibility to
the Borrower and cofinanciers for policy and institutional reforms under the project and for the functioning
of the FPSC. Working level coordination would be provided through an NDP Working Group which
would include representatives of WAPDA and Provinces. A table showing the organization structure for
the project is given in Annex 8.
4.6    WAPDA and Provincial Coordination: Implementation guidance, supervision and monitoring
of WAPDA's activities would be the responsibility of the Member and Managing Director (Water). At the
Provincial level, implementation guidance, supervision, and monitoring would be provided through
Provincial Project Steering Committees (PPSCs) chaired by the ACS-Development of the Planning and
Development (P&D) Department or Chairman of the P&D Board, of the Province. Day-to-day project
coordination, including on preparation and submission of appropriate documentation and follow-up to
agreed actions with the Borrower, Provinces, donors, and PAs, would be through the NDP Coordination
Cell headed by an NDP Program Coordinator, which has been established and is functioning. The NDP
Coordination Cell is currently located in WAPDA. Additional provincial coordination would be provided
through four Provincial NDP Coordination Cells, each of which is headed by a Provincial NDP
Coordinator appointed by the ACS-Development/Chairman of the P&D Departnent/Board, with
responsibility for day-to-day coordination and supervision of the project in the Province. The coordination
arrangements would be reviewed in the light of implementation experience and would be modified as
necessary. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that: (i) WAPDA would maintain for the duration of
the project an NDP Coordination Cell in WAPDA 's Water Wing with organization, terms of reference and
staff satisfactory to IDA; (ii) Each Province would maintain for the duration of the project, a Provincial
NDP Coordination Cell, with organization, terms of reference and staff satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) the
NDP Coordination Cells in WAPDA and Provinces would be headed by an NDP Program Coordinator
and Provincial NDP Coordinators respectively whose rank, qualifications, authority, and responsibilities
would be satisfactory to IDA.
4.7    Enhanced Supervision by the Borrower: In line with the decision taken during the 1995
Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR), the project would provide resources to support enhanced
project supervision by the Borrower, WAPDA, and Provinces. WAPDA has appointed a consortium of
firms as the NDP engineering, design and supervision consultants for the project to assist in project
implementation. The Borrower, WAPDA, or Provinces would, in addition, hire the services of specialists
in various fields and Panels of Experts (POEs) on their behalf from time to time to independently supervise



32
the project. Consultants, selected in consultation with IDA, appointed by the Borrower, WAPDA, or
Provinces to conduct independent supervision missions, would submit their deta[iled Supervision Reports
(or in the case of POEs, Reports of the POE) to the Borrower, WAPDA, or Province as the case may be,
with copies to IDA.
4.8    Financial Management, Accounts and Audit: The Borrower's and PAs' compliance with audit
covenants on on-going Bank-financed projects has been satisfactory, although there is still scope for
improvement particularly on the quality and timeliness of financial statements and audits. An 'Accounting
and Financial Management Handbook' developed during project preparation with assistance from a leading
national firm of Chartered Accountants would be the framework for the maintenance of accounting
records, preparation of financial statements, and financial management for the project. The Borrower,
WAPDA and Provinces would establish an NDP Financial Management and Information Systems (FMIS)
Unit with professionally qualified accountants (i.e. Chartered Accountants), management specialists, and
information systems professionals with responsibility for project accounting and financial management
including development and implementation of the necessary information systems. WAPDA would engage
a firm of Chartered Accountants/Management Consultants as FMIS Consultants to develop, implement and
maintain a uniform (standard) accounting, payment and financial information system for the project; and to
assist PAs improve their financial management, accounting, budgeting, cost control systems, and
management information systems (MIS) in all functional areas. Annual audits of expenditures and
Financial Statements42 for the project and for each PA would be performed by one or more nationally
reputed firm(s) of Chartered Accountants. The NDP Coordination Cell, in consultation with the Auditor
General of Pakistan and IDA, would appoint the independent auditor for the project. Since the services of
the audit firm would be financed from the proceeds of the Credit, IDA's procedures for appointment of
consultants will apply. Eligibility criteria for PAs includes appointment of a firm of Chartered Accountants
as Auditors and submission of unqualified audited financial statements. Each PA would, in consultation
with the Auditor General or the respective Accountants General and IDA, appoint a firm of Chartered
Accountants as Auditors. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that: (i) WAPDA would engage FMIS
consultants with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1998; (ii) adequate
records and accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the project would be maintained; and (iii) the NDP Coordination Cell would
submit the audit reports for the consolidatedfinancial statements of the project to IDA not later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year.
4.9    The New Portfolio Management Strategy: The proposed project woulcl be supervised under the
overall framework of the water sector portfolio management strategy; and would eventually become the
centerpiece of IDA's portfolio management program for projects in the water sector in Pakistan. IDA's
project design and portfolio management strategy emphasizes: (i) restructuring of problem projects; (ii)
MTRs for all projects, and linking disbursements thereafter to performance against previously agreed
targets, and agreement on subsequent performance targets; (iii) improving construction management
practices; (iv) annual CPPRs; (v) joint reviews/supervision with borrowers; (vil firmer management of
Loan/Credit Closing Dates; (vii) ensuring quality at entry through accelerated project start-up, project
launch workshops, and increased beneficiary participation; (viii) curtailing the role of the public sector and
expanding that of the private sector and NGOs in Bank-supported projects; (ix) eliminating policy
distortions; (x) improving the efficiency and productivity of irrigation and drainiage public expenditures;
(xi) streamlining and capacity building for key public institutions; (xii) using independent design and
supervision consultants to improve technical quality; (xiii) the use of Standard Bidding Documents
(SBDs); (xiv) strengthening sectoral linkages; (xv) requiring actions on key policy and institutional reforms
before projects are approved rather than relying on dated covenants; (xvi) requiring the borrower to take
up-front actions such as appointment of key staff, appointment of consultants, preparation of procurement
42     Maintained by the NDP FMIS unit in WAPDA, and including the Management Letters, Special Accounts
and SOEs.



33
plans and bidding documents, approval of planning documents, preparation of detailed designs etc. before
Negotiations/Board approval; and (xvii) thematic focus on supervision.
4.10    Supervision Plan: In accordance with the project's conceptual approach and IDA's strategy, IDA
would decentralize an increasing proportion of its responsibility for supervision of the project to its
Resident Mission in Pakistan (RMP) and a Resident World Bank Project Monitor43, beginning with
procurement review and routine supervision. The donors and the Borrower would jointly supervise the
project. IDA Supervision Missions would be held twice yearly in April and November. The April Mission
would focus on reaching agreement with the Borrower on the size and composition of the NDP PSDP, and
an Action Plan to improve the performance of the NDP project portfolio. The November Mission would
focus on field visits and implementation issues. The Borrower would appoint independent firms or
individual consultants, and POEs, in consultation with IDA, to supervise the project, including to appraise
and supervise individual Investment Projects, particularly complex or large Investment Projects (e.g.
RBOD, DG Khan, O&M Performance Contracts, or Evaporation Ponds) which are proposed to be financed
under the project. The Borrower would: (i) submit the Quarterly Progress Report of the Project within one
month of the end of each Quarter; (ii) prepare a MTR Report for the project, and review it with IDA not
later than December 31, 2000. The MTR would cover the first three years of project implementation and
include review of the functioning of the PIDAs, AWBs and FOs. The NDP donors would review their
financing commitment to the project based on the results of the performance of the project as reflected in
the MTR and its recommendations, and agreement with the Borrower on follow-up actions. In view of the
nature and scope of the project, its estimated annual supervision budget from IDA's regular budget (i.e.
excluding consultants funded from Trust Funds and the Credit) would be in the order of sixty (60) staff-
weeks per annum.
4.11    Project Launch Workshops: To facilitate project start-up, WAPDA (in collaboration with its
respective Divisions, Regions, and PRIs), and each PIDA (in collaboration with its prospective PAs such as
AWBs, FOs, PAD-OFWM, and NGOs) would hold a project launch workshop shortly after Credit signing.
The workshop would familiarize staff and officials of the PAs with the objectives and strategies of the
project in general, and the project components, implementation schedules, and institutional arrangement,
the project's approach to gender and poverty alleviation issues, procurement and disbursements
procedures, M&E aspects, eligibility criteria, Investment Project selection criteria, and requirements for
preparation and submission of Business Plans and financial statements and reporting.
4.12    Training Workshops: The FIDC in MW&P of the Borrower, the NDP Coordination Cell,
Provincial NDP Cells and each PIDA would organize training workshops for staff and managers of
prospective PAs on the project's requirements and procedures for procurement, disbursements, preparation
of Investment Projects, annual work programming, beneficiary participation, land acquisition and
resettlement planning, social assessments, and environmental assessments.
D. SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
4.13    Social Design and Gender Issues: PAs would conduct Social Assessments (SAs) for all
Investment Projects and for FOs established under the project. SAs would be used to provide frameworks
for incorporating participation, gender, poverty focus, and social analysis into the design and delivery of
project interventions to beneficiaries particularly poor and women beneficiaries, and project-affected
persons (PAPs).  SAs would include: (a) identification of key stakeholders; (b) establishment of
frameworks for participation of stakeholders in project interventions; (c) ensuring that the project's design
and implementation strategies pay particular attention to gender and poverty alleviation considerations; (d)
ensuring that project objectives and incentives for change are acceptable to the range of people intended to
43     This assumes that Consultant Trust Funds would continue to be available to finance the costs of such
intensive supervisory services.



34
be benefited; (e) assessment of social impacts of interventions; (f) identification of methods of mitigation
of adverse impacts; (g) assessment of social risks; (h) identification of institutional arrangements for
participation and delivery of the intervention; and (i) formulation of plans to build institutional capacity.
4.14   Information, Education and Communication (IEC):  The NDP "oordination Cell would
prepare and update annually, in coordination with the Borrower and the Provinces, and implement, an IEC
Strategy for the project. A high standard in favor of information disclosure would be applied for all project
activities, including procurement, disbursements, EIAs, resettlement plans, Investment Project reports, and
main covenants. All PAs, working with NGOs and other community groups, would subscribe to the
project's policy and standards in favor of a high degree of public participation and disclosure of project
information to the public and the stakeholders in particular. This Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Credit
and Project Agreements, ELAs, and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) would be available to the public
through IDA's Public Information Center (PIC) and through WAPDA's NDP Coordination Cell shortly
after Board Approval. However, PAs would be entitled to levy reasonable cost recovery charges on the
recipients of the information.
4.15    Land Acquisition and Resettlement: Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that WAPDA
and Provinces would ensure that all land acquisition and involuntary displacement, and the subsequent
resettlement and rehabilitation associated with interventions of the project, are implemented in accordance
with the Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement (FLAR) which has already been agreed among
the Borrower, Provinces and IDA. The FLAR, inter alia, provides that: (i) involuntary resettlement would
be avoided or minimized wherever feasible through viable alternative designs; (ii) land acquisition and
resettlement activities, including compensation and/or rehabilitation, would be completed before
commencement of associated civil works; and would be a condition for award of civil works contracts
requiring land acquisition and resettlement; (iii) all Project Affected Persons (PAPs) would be compensated
and rehabilitated to improve or at least maintain their living standards and income earning capacity, and to
share in the project's benefits; (iv) entitlement packages would include compensation to improve standard
of living of PAPs and training, work opportunities for landless and poorer groups of PAPs; (v) an
Independent Monitor for Land Acquisition and Resettlement would supervise the implementation of the
FLAR. Submission of a land acquisition plan and RAP, and the allocation of a budget would be required
for all Investment Projects which involve land acquisition and resettlement and for works related to all
Investment Projects in the pipeline, including the RBOD. The Feasibility Report Consultants estimated
that about 3 acres of land would be acquired for each kilometer of off-farm surface drains rehabilitated or
built. The FLAR has estimated that about 9,500 acres of land would be required for the Investment Projects
to be implemented under the project. Current information indicates that except for a portion of the Right
Bank Outfall Drain (MNVD-Indus Link), there would be no displacement due to construction works. In
addition, all farmers whose lands may be acquired for the projects would benefit many times over through
the reclamation of their lands. By contrast to their land acquisition requirements, the Investment Projects
(ongoing and planned new) would reclaim an estimated 22,430 acres of currently abandoned land,
rehabilitate another estimated 162,850 acres of land, and provide drainage relief' over 5 million hectares.
The fielding of Social Organizers and the involvement of NGOs would also assist in providing fair and
timely compensation for the affected families and resettlement sites that are at least comparable with the
original sites.
4.16   Environmental Assessment: The Borrower formally submitted, and IDA has accepted, the
DSEA as the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the project in January 1996. Based on the
DSEA, the project has been assigned Environmental Category B. All Investment Projects would conform
to strict environmental criteria, especially those dealing with effluent disposal; and no Investment Project
would be included unless there is a disposal strategy for the drainage effluent. Assurances were obtained
at Negotiations that WAPDA and Provinces would ensure that: (i) an Initial Environmental Scoping (IES)
is carried out for all Investment Projects; and (ii) full EIAs are prepared, to the satisfaction of IDA, for all
Investment Projects whose IES indicate that they would have significant environmental impacts. Such
projects would only be approved for funding under the project if their EIA indicate that the adverse
environmental impacts would be substantially mitigated or avoided. Environmnental Action Plans (EAPs)



35
pursuant to the EIA would be agreed with IDA before such Investment Projects are approved for funding
under the project. The RBOD Project and some of the other expected Investment Project proposals would
require an EIA. WAPDA's Environmental Cell and Provincial EPAs would have the lead role in
preparation, review, approval, and implementation of environmental aspects of the project including EIAs,
EMPs, environmental audits, and IEC campaigns for the activities to be carried out by WAPDA and
Provinces respectively.
4.17   Environmental Management Plan (EMP): The project's EMP includes the following activities:
(a) environmental coordination; (b) establishment of an enviromnental baseline based on a sound spatial
framework identifying agro-ecological zones; (c) environmental assessments; (d) identification of
ameliorative measures; (e) design and implementation of those measures and of an Environmental
Monitoring and Evaluation System (EMES); (f) design and implementation of the project's Environmental
Awareness Program; (g) design and implementation of the project's Wetlands Management Plan (WMP);
and (h) expansion, upgrading and operation of the Environmental Data Management System (EDMIS).
Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that WAPDA and Provinces would implement the EMPfor the
project as a whole dealing with the cumulative basin-wide environmental aspects and implications; and
environmental mitigation or enhancement measures indicated in the EIAs for individual Investment
Projects, to the satisfaction of IDA.
4.18    Environmental Monitoring and Audit: Independent enviromnental audits will be carried out
during project implementation to review and evaluate its environmental performance. All environmental
reports related to the project will be made available to interested organizations and persons in Pakistan and
abroad on the basis of full cost recovery. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that WAPDA and
Provinces would: (i) appoint, by December 31, 1997, WAPDA's Environmental Cell and the Provincial
EPA respectively, or an internationally recognized environmental specialist acceptable to IDA, as the
Environmental Auditor for their activities under the project during the period of implementation; (iH) cause
the Environmental Auditors to issue their independent "Annual Environmental Audit Report" no later than
six months after the close of each fiscal year beginning from FY97/984; (iii) publish a summary of
important audit findings and recommendations in the project's progress reports; and (iv) implement the
recommendations of the Environmental Audit Reports.
4.19   Wetlands Management Plan (WMP): The WMP will focus on critical wetland areas affected by
the IBIS. It will include mitigating measures (where applicable), specifications and recommendations on
irrigation and drainage planning, and measures to improve wetlands protection. To avoid the risk that
some wetlands may be reclaimed through drainage (especially in the riverine areas), assurances were
obtained at Negotiations that WAPDA and Provinces would: (a) take measures to ensure that in
constructing field drains, wetlands are adequately protected"; and (b) provide maps and information on
reclaimed areas, including the land use pattern for reclaimed lands and the date of reclamation. Any
proposal to drain Sindh Riverine areas, areas between the main drains and the coast, flood plains, or lake
shores, would be subject to ElAs, in accordance with Pakistan's environmental protection laws and Bank
policy, prior to seeking IDA's approval for the Investment Project.
4.20    Environment &  Social Design Consultants: Pre-implementation experience to date has
demonstrated the critical need for up-front preparation of proper EIAs, EMPs, beneficiary participation,
land acquisition and compensation, RAPs, information, education and communication strategies, and SAs
(including involvement of NGOs and incorporating gender in design and implementation). Consultants
would be engaged to assist a diverse set of clients including WAPDA's Regional Offices, Environment
and Social Cells, Provincial NDP Cells, EPAs, PIDAs, AWBs, FOs and Community Organizations; and to
build the institutional capacities of the PAs on these issues (including through establishment or
44     Year ending June 30, 1998.
45     For examnple, by restricting field drains to existing cultivated areas which do not pose serious threats to
wetlands.



36
strengthening of the relevant Cell in the PA, training and deputation of staff). The Consultants would
actively collaborate with Provincial agencies (e.g. Provincial EPAs, Divisional &. District Administration),
NGOs, community groups, the media, and other outside agencies. The Consultants' contracts would make
provisions for the primary consultants to sub-contract specific aspects of their terms of reference to NGOs,
Community Organizations, and other collaborating entities.  The consultants' teams would include
specialists in environment, gender, NGOs, resettlement, IEC, and social development. Assurances were
obtained at Negotiations that WAPDA would engage environment and social design consultants with
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1998.
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS AND POVERTY IMPACTS
5.1    Summary: The project's most significant direct benefit would be to tenant farmers, smallholders,
and tail-enders in the form of increased efficiency of service delivery, improved availability of irrigation
and drainage supplies, and reduced cost. The project's principal short term benefits will come from the
physical drainage and irrigation improvements and better O&M resulting in more effective drainage, which
in turn will result in an improved environment and increased output of agricultural produce. This will have
a direct and positive impact on poorly drained land that falls within the command of each Investment
Project, regardless of the socioeconomic characteristics of farmers cultivating these lands. Estimates
indicate that farmers benefiting from the drainage improvements can expect to increase their income by up
to 30 percent, depending on the original condition of waterlogging and salinity and on the agro-ecological
conditions. The project's principal medium- and long-term benefits (particularly from the institutional
reforms in Provinces) will come from  improved drainage and irrigation-related policies, improved
efficiency of public expenditures on drainage O&M, improved capability in the public sector to plan and
implement water sector projects and in the private sector to undertake drainage-related investments,
improved and more equitable availability of irrigation supplies and drainage facilities, improved efficiency,
and (potentially) lower cost of delivery of irrigation and drainage services as a iresult of decentralization
and participation by beneficiaries. These benefits will potentially be far greater than those from the
physical investments. All of these will benefit the smallholder farmers and tenants in particular, and
environment and the agriculture sector as a whole; and enhance sustainability of the land and water
resource base. A detailed analysis of project benefits and costs is given in Annex 9).
5.2    Production Benefits: The project would have two important impacts. Drainage installation
would lower the groundwater table and reduce soil salinity, thereby leading to significant improvements in
yields. The project also addresses a long-term issue: without the project, future yie-lds would progressively
decline from their current levels. Therefore, the project would have two additional benefits: (a) avoidance
of further yield (production) losses, which would result if the groundwater and salinity problems were to
persist; and (b) productivity increases resulting from reduced waterlogging/salinity problems.  The
"without" project scenario is one of a continuing trend of substantial losses in agricultural production, and
ultimately further environmental deterioration and increased rural poverty for farmers. The increasing
levels of salinity and waterlogging would reduce yields to almost zero. Large areas of crop land would
completely go out of production in the "without" project scenario. Productivity increase is, by far, the
most important of the two benefit subsets. Insofar as improved drainage may have positive effects on
agricultural technologies or cultural practices which are not included in the above estimate, the benefits are
understated. Based on the identified and projected pipeline of Investment Projects, the project is expected
to benefit many farmers directly, and the entire irrigated agriculture sector indirectly, by reclaiming
abandoned land, rehabilitating existing lands, and potentially improving drainag;e in about 13.5 million
acres. Productivity is estimated to improve over a period of about five years by about 2 percent for the
entire IBIS command areas, and by about 20 percent for tail-end farmers. Tail-end farmers would also
realize additional benefits from a reduction in costs of production and improved availability of water
through the activities of FOs. Specific interventions of the project such as lining watercourses and



37
rehabilitation of canals would also increase the amount of fresh water that reaches the tail-end of
watercourses in SGW areas.
5.3    Positive Poverty Impacts: Areas which are affected by high levels of waterlogging and salinity
tend to have the lowest incomes, high unemployment, and lawlessness in Pakistan. Hence waterlogging
and salinity problems have a poverty and equity dimension too. They affect the rural poor (especially
those at tail-ends of watercourses and minors) and landless tenants most severely. By helping to raise
agricultural output, farm incomes, providing additional employment opportunities in those areas, the
project will help alleviate rural poverty and improve the socio-economic prerequisites for law and order.
The selection criteria for Investment Projects are designed to skew the benefits in favor of tenant farmers,
smallholders, and tail-enders. Specifically, Investment Projects would, to the extent possible, be designed
to benefit small farmers, women, and poorest one-third of the income strata of the members of the farming
community. This would be demonstrated through a Social Assessment for the Investment Project. The
institutional reforms, particularly the formation of FOs, are expected to increase the transparency and
equity of water allocation and use.
5.4    Other Positive Impacts: The project's interventions would reduce the O&M expenditures for
social infrastructure such as roads, power distribution, public housing, etc. The project would also provide
appropriate spill-over effects on non-farm growth through backward and forward linkages, including
increasing employment opportunities in the non-farm sector Estimates from research findings indicate that
every one percent increase in per capita farm growth would provide a 1.5 percent increase in per capita
non-farm growth.
B. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.5    Relation to the Economy (Macroeconomic Impact): An assessment of the macroeconomic
sustainability of the proposed project indicates that the planned public investment (with the project) in the
sector as a share of projected GDP remains very close to historical trends. The share of the drainage sector
investment, including the project, in the PSDP would also remain close to historical levels, partly because
many of the Investment Projects to be funded under the project are ongoing Investment Projects that are
already in the PSDP, and the beneficiaries also share in investment costs. An illustrative analysis is
presented in Annex 9, Table IA. This analysis was done by comparing key macroeconomic indicators on a
set of macroeconomic projections with and without the project, using data on GDP, PSDP, investment
costs, and the financing plan for the project.  This analysis assumed a somewhat slow pace of
macroeconomic and structural reforms, but no backtracking, (as assumed in the CAS for Pakistan) as the
macroeconomic framework (Base Case) for the project; and therefore used projections of the GDP growth,
inflation rate, exchange rate of the rupee to major currencies, and level of budgetary PSDP indicated in the
"muddle through" scenario in the CAS. The project's requirement of counterpart funds is within the
capacity of the Borrower and its Provinces for financing and implementation. Its ADP counterpart
requirements will be highest (at Rs. 2171 million or about US$42.5 million) in the fifth year of
implementation (FYOI/02)4.
5.6    Fiscal Savings: The project's most significant direct benefit to the Provinces is expected to be in
the form of fiscal savings, if Provinces implement the project's institutional reform program as envisaged.
The savings would come from transfer of responsibility for O&M from Provinces to farmers. Annual
savings to Provinces is estimated at Rs. 2,519 million ($62 million) per year, representing about 16% of
O&M budget, by the year of completion. These savings are based on the following conservative estimates
and assumptions: (i) transition of 1,500 FGW tubewells from the public sector to farmers' groups and FOs
46     The ADP counterpart funding requirement for each year are: FY97198: Rs. 245 million (US$5.6 million);
FY98/99: Rs. 924 million (US$20.4 million); FY99100: Rs. 1637 million (US$34.7 million); FYOO/OI: Rs. 2121
million (US$43.1 million); FY01/02: Rs. 2171 million (US$42.5 million); FY02103: Rs. 2120 million (US$39.8
million); and FY03/04: Rs. 1719 million (US$31.2 million); and FY04/05: Rs. 606 million (US$10.7 million).



38
would save the Provincial Governments operating expenses of Rs. 616 million per year; (ii) transfer of
responsibility for O&M of on-farmn surface drains of less than 15 cusecs to FOs would save the Provincial
Governments Rs. 14 million per year in operating expenses and salaries of beldars (daily rated temporary
workers); (iii) replacing public sector SGW tubewells with private sector (farner-managed) tile drains
would save the Provinces Rs. 124 million per year; and (iv) transfer of responsibility from Provinces to
FOs for O&M of irrigation and drainage operations at the minor/distributary level could potentially save
Provinces Rs. 1765 million per year47. The detailed analysis of the project's impact on the recurrent budget
is given in Annex 9, Table lB. The above estimates are in addition to projected savings of Rs. 883 million
in annual subsidies by the Province of Punjab under the parallel Punjab Privfate Sector Groundwater
Development Project (Cr. 2901 - PAK), in which 4,233 SCARP tubewells would be transitioned. In
addition, other savings (not quantified) would include reduced maintenance costs for housing, roads and
other social infrastructure, and public health. Efficiency gains from the improved efficiency, autonomy
and hard budget constraint of PIDAs and AWBs (which are both expected to achieve full financial self-
sustainability of O&M costs in 10 years) would provide additional fiscal savings.
5.7     Tax Revenues: The available evidence from recently completed drainage interventions under
LBOD (notably Nawabshah component) have demonstrated that the tax revenue and overall level of
economic activities generated by drainage investments can be very substantial. The tax revenue potential
from the project is based on the cropped area which is expected to benefit from the project, and assumes no
change in the existing composite tax structure for major crops. The area affected by the project would
depend on the intervention assumed. The Feasibility Study has estimated that the area which is likely to
benefit from the project's interventions could be as high as 13.5 million acres. If this estimate is realized,
the potential (not projected) yield from tax revenues to Provinces would vary from a low of Rs. 1,200
million to as much as Rs. 3,000 million" per annum.
5.8     Financial Returns to the Borrower and its Provinces: Based on the above analysis of Fiscal
Savings and Tax Revenues, the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) to the Borrower and Provinces (considering
the Borrower's and Provinces' investments in the project, and the financial returns in the form of fiscal
savings and tax revenues) is estimated at about 11.4% (nominal terms). This reflects, in large part, the
impact of subsidies for capital works. The payback to the Borrower and its Provinces from the project is
about 5.5 years after project completion.
5.9     Balance of Payments: The project's direct benefit to the Borrower and the economy at large is
likely to be felt in its impact on the country's balance of payments (BOP) position in terms of foreign
exchange saved or earned. To the extent that the projected incremental net earnings from Investment
Projects49 strengthen the country's BOP position, they would contribute to the Borrower's capacity to
service the debt associated with the project.
47      This estimate is based on the following conservative assumptions: (a) the jurisdictions which will be
transferred to FOs from Provinces are roughly coincident with the Subdivisional Officer (SDO) or Junior EXEN level
of operations under the existing system; and (b) approximately one FO will be established in each of the 43 canal
commands per annum for five years; for a total of about 200 FOs by year 5 of project implementation.
48      This illustrative analysis has been done based on applicable tax rates from the LBOD Command, on which
data is most readily available from a recent study (Government of Sindh: Operations and Maintenance and Cost
Recovery with Special Reference to Farmer Participation in Drainage Activities of LBOD, ]February 1995 prepared by
Sindh Development Studies Center - Table 6.5). Not counting Abiana, the most recent combined rates for Land
Revenue, Ushr Rates (Productivity Tax), and Local Fund (County Tax) per acre in the LBOD Command are Rs. 132
for wheat, Rs. 140 for cotton, Rs. 87 for rice, Rs. 227 for sugarcane, Rs. 137 for oilseeds, and Rs. 90 for vegetables.
Agricultural Income Tax was also recently introduced.
49      The analysis of incremental net economic earnings on six Investment Project districts in Sindh Province, for
which illustrative farm budget analysis was done, may be used to demonstrate the BOP impact. The analysis indicates
that incremental net earnings would turn positive from year 2001 at about Rs. 2.6 billion ($65 million), and increase
gradually thereafter (assuming no switching in cropping patterns and no market limits).



39
5.10    Investment Project Analysis: The selection criteria requires that Investment Projects should have
a minimum economic rate of return (ERR), excluding non-quantifiable benefits, of 15 percent. The various
types of Investment Projects which would be supported under the project have had historically (in
Pakistan) high ERRs (20%-50%)5. Studies of completed projects in Pakistan also show that higher ERRs
are achieved under program rather than project approach for the same type of investments. Drainage
projects in other countries also show high rates of return5'. The economic analysis for the potential
Investment Projects in the pipeline indicate that substantial number of these projects, covering various
types of interventions, would meet the ERR selection criteria. These are detailed in Annex 9. The ERRs
of the various types of Investment Projects also span a wide range. These reflect variations in cropping
patterns and yield levels, the degree of surface flooding and its frequency, the extent of waterlogging, and
the available irrigation supplies.
5.11    Farm  Incomes: Illustrative farm budget analysis, conducted for sample farms and for various
types of Investment Projects, shows that the project would increase farm incomes by 6% to 128%
depending on the agro-climatic zone and the current situation; and that beneficiaries would be able to pay
their share of capital and O&M costs associated with the project's investments and institutional reforms,
while still continuing to realize substantial increases in their net incomes.
5.12    Cost Sharing: Arrangements for cost sharing are an integral part of the project's design. They
aim to increase the contribution of farmers for capital costs, and to progressively ensure that all O&M costs
are recovered52. The project's design for farmners' contributions to capital costs is based on the principle of
substantial up-front cost sharing, which has been demonstrated through experience to be superior to back-
end cost recovery. Past history has shown that back-end cost recovery for capital costs tends not to work
in reality, and moreover unduly involves non-financial institutions (notably PAD-OFWMs) into credit
activities for which they are not equipped or organized; and that that farmers' contributions are higher, and
administrative costs lower, under up-front cost sharing. Unlike in previous projects where the Borrower or
Provinces constructed and maintained irrigation and drainage projects without prior approval of farrners,
the farners will largely be the sponsors of on-farm drainage and irrigation projects under NDP. They will
also be responsible for post-construction O&M costs of this infrastructure. The Borrower and all Provinces
have recently introduced an agricultural wealth tax and agricultural income taxes to tax agricultural
incomes. The Borrower has also agreed that it would formulate proposals to ensure that recovery of capital
costs is linked to benefits derived from the project especially for large landholders e.g.: by updating
Produce Index Units (PIUs) in the Investment Project areas based on baseline and post-completion
cadastral surveys. The cost sharing arrangements for various types of Investment Projects would be
stipulated in the Participation Agreements between Provinces and PIDAs, AWBs and FOs; and would be as
detailed in the table below:
50      For example, the completion ERRs for similarly designed sector Investment Projects (i.e. designed on a
program approach) in Pakistan were 23 percent for Command Water Management (Cr. 1487-PAK), 32 percent for
SCARP Transition Pilot (Cr. 1693-PAK), 22 percent for On-farm Water Management II (Cr. 1603-PAK), over 50
percent for Irrigation System Rehabilitation Project I (Ln. 2210-PAK), and 45 percent for On-farm Water Management
I (Cr. 1163-PAK). Completion ERRs for Specific Investment Projects were lower e.g., 7.6 percent for Khairpur Tile
Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development (Cr. 0648-PAK), 13 percent for SCARP Mardan (Ln. 1733-PAK), 14.5
percent for Fourth Drainage (Cr. 1375-PAK), and 23 percent for SCARP VI.
51      A study in Kailanakhas (India) showed that even farms neighboring the project area benefited significantly
as a consequence of their land improvement. The yield of wheat increased from 600 to 1600 kg per hectare in a period
of four years. Similar results were observed for mustard, bajra, and other crops.
52      PIDAs and AWBs would become financially self-sustainable for O&M costs in 10 years; and FOs would
become financially self-sustainable in 7 years.



40
Type of Investment Project               Contribution (Up-front) by Beneficiaries
Improvement of watercourses in saline         40% of cost of civil works materials (plus skilled
groundwater areas                             and unskilled labor)
Construction of new, and rehabilitation of     10% of cost of civil works (plus skilled and
existing, sub-drains and on-farm surface drains   unskilled labor and land)
(capacity less than 15 cu. ft / sec)
Installation of new, and rehabilitation of     10% of costs of civil works (plus any land
existing, (on-farm) tile drains               required)
Transfer of existing, replacement of, and
installation of fresh groundwater tubewells
(a) Transfer of existing tubewells           Rs. 10,000
(b) Transfer of existing tubewells with      Balance cost of civil works if any after
modification                             considering grant of Rs. 20,000 from Province
(c) Installation of new tubewells            Balance cost of civil works if any after
considering grant of Rs. 30,000 from Province
Rehabilitation, improvement and remodeling of
irrigation systems
(a) if carried out by a FO                     10% of cost of civil works
(b) if carried out by a PIDA or an AWB        20% of cost of civil works
C. RISKS AND SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
5.13    Project Risks: The project is a 'high reward-high risk' venture. The project in general and the
institutional reforms in particular if implemented, would provide enormous benefits as outlined earlier.
These reforms represent the only solution to ensure the long-term sustainability of the irrigation and
drainage system and the agriculture sector of Pakistan. However, the project also has very significant risks.
These risks, as well as the risk-mitigation and risk-management factors/strategies53, are discussed below
under the following headings: (i) derailment of the institutional reform program; (ii) slow or imperfect
formation of FOs; and (iii) sustainability of investments in irrigation and drainage infrastructure.
5.14    Derailment of the Institutional Reform Program: As is inherent in any major reform program,
the institutional reforms supported by the project carry very significant risks. The proposed institutional
reforms would significantly affect the existing power relationships and alliances in rural Pakistan. While
the reforms largely seek 'win-win' situations, the perceived (and in part, real) threat of loss of control over
the system, particularly by feudal landlords who are unaccustomed to sharing water and power, and by
irrigation bureaucrats with financial ties to these interests, who stand to benefit from the continuation of the
institutional status quo, could provoke strong adverse reactions. Large and povverful landlords view the
proposed transformation of PIDs into autonomous PIDAs and AWBs, the formation of FOs and the
transfer of management responsibilities of the tertiary system to these FOs, and the establishment of water
rights as potential threats to their traditional control over the irrigation and drainage system in particular,
and the social structure (feudal system) in general. Some sections of the PIDs, which when transformed
would be faced with a hard budget constraint, more accountability, financial transparency and scrutiny, and
possibly reduced costs and staffng, view the reforms as threats to their power, authority and rent-seeking
opportunities. Similarly, the proposed strategic reorientation of WAPDA which seeks to transform
WAPDA's role from large-scale construction to knowledge-based RBM, and the progressive transfer of its
construction activities in intra-provincial and on-farm infrastructure to PIDAs, AWBs and FOs, is viewed
53      Risk-mitigation factors/measures are factors/measures to reduce the probability of risk; while risk-
management strategies are measures which would be taken to minimize loss if the risk materializes.



41
by some officials as a diminution in WAPDA's role in management of the irrigation and drainage system.
There is a risk that these vested interests (who have very significant political and financial clout) would
slow, or even stop, reform. The proposed reforms have already provoked strong adverse reactions from
these opponents in the form of spreading misinformation, organizing political opposition, and bureaucratic
delays and stalling tactics including continuous whittling down of reform proposals at various stages.
5.15    Risk-mitigation: Demonstration of strong political commitment and leadership by the Borrower,
Provinces, and WAPDA to follow through with the institutional reforms, especially regarding
decentralization and management transfer of the irrigation and drainage system is crucial to mitigating this
risk. So far, this has been forthcoming. The ownership for the reforms at the highest levels is strong
especially since the institutional reform strategy was formulated by the Borrower based on its assessment
of the reforms' likely ownership by the people of Pakistan and chances of success in Pakistan's
environment. The reform program was first endorsed at the highest political levels on August 19, 199554;
and has been repeatedly re-endorsed at similar levels on several occasions by three successive
Governments (Federal and Provincial) since then, sometimes in the face of mounting opposition from
organized groups (notably large landholders, feudal landlords, and some officials of PIDs). The Borrower
and Provinces engaged in extensive consultations with the various stakeholders (including politicians,
organized farmer groups, Chambers of Agriculture, Provincial Departments, etc.) to build consensus and
win acceptance of the reform program, including on the PIDA Acts. The political and wide-ranging
support for the reform program was most recently demonstrated in the approval of the PIDA Acts by all the
four Provincial Assemblies and the reenactment of the PIDA Acts55. The extensive debate on the reform
strategy, wide-ranging consultations, and the resulting education about the reforms have lowered the
perceived threats of the reforms to some degree. The project's risk mitigation strategy is: (i) to continue to
encourage political debate about irrigation policy in Pakistan, and thereby help build both conscious top-
level political ownership and widespread support among the various stakeholders for the reform program;
(ii) strengthen the constituency for reforms through extensive technical assistance, communication and
beneficiary participation programs; and (iii) establish institutional focal points in the Federal Government
(e.g.: the FIDC), WAPDA (e.g.: NDP Coordination Cell, and possible Institutional Change Department),
and Provinces (e.g.: NDP Cells, transition wings in PIDAs and AWBs, and FOs) and provide technical
assistance to create the necessary incentives and mandates, and equip them with resources/capacity to
function as agents for institutional change. In spite of these measures, real institutional reform is by no
means assured. There is the danger that the PIDAs and AWBs could be captured by corrupt and
incompetent officials, and that the PIDAs and AWBs would lack the operational and financial autonomy to
function as effective institutions".
5.16    Risk-management Strategy: The project's risk management strategy (in the event that all or part
of the risk materializes) is two-fold: (i) IDA would only finance those PAs and Investment Projects which
conform to the institutional reform strategy. Specifically, the eligibility criteria for PAs provide for each
PIDA, AWB and FO to be eligible for incremental financing commitments only if it is established and
operated as an autonomous entity; and the selection criteria for Investment Projects provide for Investment
Projects to be financed only if they are carried out by PAs which have operational jurisdiction over the
Investment Project; (ii) the Borrower and IDA have agreed and understand that IDA's incremental
financing commitments for irrigation and drainage investments under NDP would be scaled back or
canceled altogether after the MTR if the pace of reforms is slow due to lack of government commitment,
implementation constraints, or resistance/lack of commitment by WAPDA, PIDAs or AWBs for real
change.
54     At a meeting involving the President, Prime Minister, the four Provincial Chief Ministers, Cabinet officials,
and Secretaries from the Borrower and all the four Provinces.
55     In the absence of Provincial Assemblies, the PIDA Statutes were originally promulgated as Ordinances in all
the four Provinces; and reenacted by the Provincial Assemblies after the general elections in February 1997.
56     Although the PIDA Acts have several provisions to ensure autonomy of PIDAs and AWBs.



42
5.17    Slow  or Imperfect Formation and Functioning of FOs: Effective FOs will ultimately be
essential for the financial sustainability of the irrigation and drainage system. FOs are crucial not only for
assuming responsibilities for O&M of the tertiary system (i.e., on-farm drainage and irrigation upto the
minor/distributary level), but more importantly to ensure that that the AWBs and PIDAs are held
accountable for service delivery, maintenance of physical structures, and assessment of charges, and to
bring user discipline to water distribution. However, there is a risk that formation of FOs may be very slow
especially since the proposed FOs are to be established in a highly differentiated environment with respect
to land ownership, water rights and economic needs, and with a mixed record from Water Users
Associations and farmers' cooperatives. Feudal landlords could use their existing social power-hold to
frustrate social mobilization efforts and prevent formation of FOs. There is also a risk that the proposed
FOs could be dominated by feudal landlords, and thereby ineffective. Finally, there is a risk of legal
impediments that prevent the FOs from taking over management responsibilities for the tertiary system.
The loss in terms of equity, cost recovery, and ensuring accountability would be significant, and their
impacts on O&M of the system (through losses on service quality and cost :recovery) would also be
significant. In addition, slow formation of FOs would also disrupt the strategy to improve O&M of the
tertiary system by transferring responsibility to user groups. This would directly affect the fiscal savings
expected to be achieved through the project (estimated to be about Rs. 2.5 billion or US$62 million at
completion).
5.18    Risk-mitigation and Risk-management: The risk-mitigation factors are detailed below: (i) the
most important factor mitigating this risk is the expected encouragement from positive results of on-going
pilots of FOs. These pilots would also help to reduce the perceived threats to the i nterests of the opponents
of reforms in the sector. The early results from these pilot projects indicate that FOs are socially viable i.e.,
with appropriate social engineering techniques, it is possible to form user groups in the prevailing socio-
cultural and political environment. The pilots have also identified a need for these user groups to be
empowered and authorized to carry out economic activities i.e., to manage the tertiary level system57. The
project's farmer participation plan includes a special effort to replicate lessons from current pilots, and to
implement early action plans to build FOs; (ii) the selection criteria for Investment Projects provides an in-
built incentive for formnation of FOs (since the selection criteria specifies that on-farm drainage and
irrigation upto the minor/ distributary level would be carried out by FOs); (iii) the project's social
mobilization activities and awareness initiatives, the front-end cost-sharing arrangements for investments
(which would necessarily require consultation with beneficiaries), and assistance to the private sector for
providing contracting services for on-farm subsurface drainage facilities, would facilitate formation of
FOs; and (iv) the PIDA Acts clearly define the roles and responsibilities of FOs which include the
management of the tertiary system. The risk management strategy is the same as that indicated in para 5.16
above.
5.19    Quantitative Assessment of Political-Economy Risk:  A quantitative risk assessment of the
major institutional reforms was conducted58. This consisted of: (i) an evaluation of the potential winners
and losers from the reforms; (ii) identification of the various reform performance levels; (iii) identification
of means by which the various parties could influence the level of achievement of various reforms; and
(iv) identification of costs to (i.e., effort required by) each party to influence the achievement levels; and
thereafter using the Delphi approach to estimate probabilities of level of achievement of each reform. This
analysis indicated that the reform performance levels are likely to vary across reforms. The most likely
scenario is a medium level of (partial) achievement on reforms relating to: (i) institutional reforms in PIDs;
(ii) transfer of management responsibilities of the tertiary system to FOs; (iii) redefining the operational
jurisdictions of various PAs; and (iv) carrying out O&M through Performance Contracts awarded to the
private sector; and a low level of achievement on establishment of water rights.
57      These lessons are drawn from the pilot project for farmer-managed irrigated agriculture under the LBOD
Project with technical assistance from IIMI (Moving Towards Participatory Irrigation Management - Phase II Report,
January 1997, IIMI).
58      Institutional Reforms in the Water Sector in Pakistan - Political Economy and Political Risk, Working Paper
for the National Drainage Program, May 1997.



43
5.20   Sustainability of Investments in Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure: Experience has
demonstrated that the key requirement for sustainability of irrigation and drainage projects in Pakistan is a
steady-state post-completion O&M regime, with a reliable source of funding. As indicated earlier, the
proposed policy and institutional reforms are the most significant assurance for sustainability of
investments. There is however a risk that given that the institutional reforns may take many years to be
fully effective, the gains of the investments made in the interim period may not be sustainable, if real
institutional reform does not take place. To mitigate this risk, the project's design provides for institutional
reforms to precede investments in irrigation and drainage infrastructure.  Each Investment Project
(designed on a basin or sub-basin approach with a proper outfall) would virtually be a 'stand-alone'
investment. A reduction in the overall level of investments would not affect the economic viability of the
entire project. A related issue for sustainability of the system is a long-term solution for disposal of
drainage effluent outside the Indus Basin. The project would support the preparation of feasibility studies
and detailed design for the Borrower's proposed NSDS which is intended to create a permanent disposal
channel for drainage effluent via the LBOD into the Arabian Sea.
5.21   Implementation Delays: The other main risk to the project during its implementation phase is
slow implementation due to factors such as poor coordination, weak supervision, delays in preparation of
Investrnent Projects, delays in approval of contracts and investment projects, and failure of PAs to meet
eligibility criteria on schedule. To reduce these risks, authority and responsibility have been decentralized
significantly to PAs. The project is embedded in broad-based capacity building efforts for WAPDA,
PIDAs, AWBs, FOs, and PAD-OFWMs; and its design provides for extensive supervision and
implementation assistance. Finally, there are built-in mechanisms to ensure that there is a high degree of
client participation in the formulation and implementation of all the studies and research contracts. To
reduce the risks of delay, the contract with the NDP Engineering Design and Supervision Consultants (who
would assist substantially in the preparation of Investment Projects) has been signed. Contracts for civil
works which would be carried out in the first year have been signed or are in an advanced stage (post bid-
evaluation) of procurement processing. Several research contracts are also in an advanced stage of
procurement processing and are expected to be signed before Effectiveness.
5.22   Sensitivity Analysis for Investment Projects: The illustrative economic analysis carried out for
a sample of the project's interventions demonstrated that the economic viability of the Investment Projects
is fairly robust. Sensitivity analyses were undertaken to determine the effects on economic viability of: (i)
delays in project benefits resulting from slow implementation; (ii) increases in project costs resulting from
inefficient management and other factors; (iii) lower than predicted yields for major crops; and (iv) lower
prices for major commodity outputs; and (v) a shorter duration of project benefits. The analysis indicated
that the economic viability would be affected only with large adverse changes in these variables.
D. KEY INDICATORS AND MONITORING AND EVALUATION
5.23    Key Performance Indicators: Key Performance Indicators are presented in Annex 10. These
include input and process indicators, output indicators, and outcome and impact indicators for all
components of the project. The Borrower would maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an on-going basis, in accordance with these indicators, the carrying out of the
Project and achievement of its objectives.
5.24   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The M&E program would: (i) focus on key performance
indicators; (ii) cover the entire Indus Basin; and (iii) adopt an unified approach encompassing physical,
socio-economic, and environmental parameters. A number of baseline surveys and compilation of data
from recent surveys on salinity, agro-ecological conditions, and socio-economic conditions would be
conducted in the initial period of project implementation. The monitoring program would include
continuous assessment of project implementation in relation to agreed schedules; use of inputs,
infrastructure, and services by project beneficiaries; physical parameters such as depth-to-watertable and



44
soil salinity; client assessment of the institutional programs; and socio-economic benefits to the farming
community from project interventions. It would be an integral part of the project's management. Its main
objectives would be to provide continuous feedback on implementation, and to identify actual or potential
successes and problems as early as possible to facilitate timely adjustments to project operation. The
purpose of the evaluation program would be to provide periodic assessment of the relevance, performance,
efficiency, and impact (both expected and unexpected) of the project in relation to its stated objectives. The
M&E Program would include the Annual Review, MTR, ICR and Impact Evaluation. The MTR of the
project (including the functioning of the PIDAs, AWBs and FOs) would be completed not later than
December 31, 2000. The MTR would review progress of the first three years of project implementation
and provide a diagnosis of the likely effects of the project. It would identify project design and
implementation problems, re-evaluate the objectives, strategies, and targets, and propose solutions. The
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be completed not later than six months after the Closing
Date of the Project. Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that the Borrower would prepare the
Impact Evaluation Report for the project within three years of the project's Closing Date.
5.25    WAPDA, through its proposed Monitoring and Research Division, will coordinate M&E
arrangements. WAPDA would establish and maintain an effective M&E organization and system for the
project as a whole. In order to take advantage of the experience and capacities of various institutions
which have undertaken or have capability for monitoring, evaluation, and research in irrigation, drainage,
and socio-economic impact, WAPDA would establish collaborative arrangements with various institutions
such as provincial institutes, universities, and research institutes and NGOs (e.g. Applied Economic
Research Center, Sindh Development Studies Center, Punjab Economic Research Institute, Punjab
Irrigation Institute, Sindh Agricultural Research Institute, Pakistan Institute of Development Economics,
Faisalabad University, and selected PRIs). WAPDA would engage consultants as needed to assist in the
M&E program including design of the M&E program, capacity building and training for the M&E units of
the PAs (notably provincial institutes, WAPDA's Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate,
WAPDA's SCARPs Monitoring Organization, etc.). Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that
WAPDA would engage M&E Consultants with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by
June 30, 1998.
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
6.1    Cofinancing: Fulfillment of Conditions of Effectiveness of the ADB Loan and the OECF Loan
(para 3.5).
B. OTHER IMPORTANT CONDITIONS
6.2    Conditions of Incremental Financing Commitments: The Borrower would, not later than April
30 of each Fiscal Year of project implementation, or such later date as IDA may agree, beginning Fiscal
Year 96-97, furnish to IDA for its approval, proposals for amounts to be allocated out of the proceeds of
the Credit for financing any new program of activities to be commenced under the project in the next
following year of project implementation. IDA would not approve any proposals furnished to it unless and
until:
(a)    the Borrower has, with the participation of WAPDA and the Provinces, prepared and
furnished to IDA:
(i)    a consolidated APR on the carrying out of the programs of activities previously
commenced under the Project;



45
(ii)    a Three-Year Rolling PSDP for the project for the next three following Fiscal
Years of project implementation;
(iii)    a Portfolio Action Plan for the project for the next following Fiscal Year of
project implementation; and
(iv)    a Three-Year Rolling Business Plan for the project, which would also include
procurement and disbursement targets, for the next three following Fiscal Years
of project implementation; and
(b)    IDA is satisfied with the progress made in the carrying out of:
(i)    the programs of activities previously commenced under the project; and
(ii)   the current Portfolio Action Plan and Three-Year Rolling Business Plan for the
project (para 3.11).
6.3    Sector Planning and Studies Consultants: WAPDA would engage sector planning and studies
consultants with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1998 (para 2.10).
6.4    Establishment of AWBs: Provinces would establish at least one AWB in a canal command in
each Province, selected in consultation with IDA, within one year of the establishment of the PIDA (para
2.24).
6.5    Selection Criteria for Investment Projects: Investment Projects financed under the project
would meet Selection Criteria (para 2.29 and Annex 1).
6.6    Detailed Designs and Award of Contracts for Investment Projects: WAPDA and Provinces
would complete all detailed designs and award contracts for Investment Projects so as to ensure that all
such contracts, including the maintenance period specified in such contracts, will be completed not later
than December 31, 2003 (para 2.35).
6.7    Participation Agreements: Provinces would enter into Participation Agreements, satisfactory to
IDA, with each PIDA, AWB and FO proposing to participate in the Project (para 3.10 and Annex 3).
6.8    Eligibility Criteria for PAs: Each PA would satisfy the specified eligibility criteria to be eligible
for incremental annual financing commitments from IDA Credit for new programs of activities to be
commenced under the Project, and any new contracts to be awarded by it for on-going Investment Projects
(para 4.2 and Annex 6).
6.9    Approval of Programs and Investment Projects: Institutional reform programs, research and
sector planning programs, Investment Projects, and program coordination and supervision activities
fnanced from the IDA Credit would be approved by IDA (para 4.3).
6.10   WAPDA and Provincial Coordination: (i) WAPDA would maintain for the duration of the
project an NDP Coordination Cell in WAPDA's Water Wing with organization, terms of reference and
staff satisfactory to IDA; (ii) Each Province would maintain for the duration of the project, a Provincial
NDP Coordination Cell, with organization, terms of reference and staff satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) the
NDP Cells in WAPDA and Provinces would be headed by an NDP Program Coordinator and Provincial,
NDP Coordinators respectively whose rank, qualifications, authority, and responsibilities would be
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.6).
6.11    Financial Management, Accounts and Audit: (i) WAPDA would engage FMIS consultants with
qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1998; (ii) adequate records and
accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the project would be maintained; and (iii) the NDP Coordination Cell would



46
submit the audit reports for the consolidated fnancial statements of the project to IDA not later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year (para 4.8).
6.12   Supervision Plan: The Borrower would: (i) submit the Quarterly Progress Report of the Project
within one month of the end of each Quarter; and (ii) prepare a MTR Report for the project and review it
with IDA not later than December 31, 2000 (para 4.10).
6.13    Land Acquisition and Resettlement: WAPDA and Provinces would ensure that all land
acquisition and involuntary displacement, and the subsequent resettlement and rehabilitation associated
with interventions of the project, are implemented in accordance with the FLAR. which has already been
agreed among the Borrower, Provinces and IDA (para 4.15).
6.14   Environmental Assessment: WAPDA  and Provinces would ensure that: (i) an Initial
Environmental Scoping (IES) is carried out for all Investment Projects; and (ii) full ElAs are prepared, to
the satisfaction of IDA, for all Investment Projects whose IES indicate that they would have significant
environmental impacts (para 4.16).
6.15   Environmental Management Plan (EMP): WAPDA and Provinces would implement the EMP
for the project as a whole dealing with the cumulative basin-wide environmental aspects and implications;
and environmental mitigation or enhancement measures indicated in the EIAs for individual Investment
Projects, to the satisfaction of IDA (para 4.17).
6.16   Environmental Monitoring and Audit:  WAPDA and Provinces would: (i) appoint, by
December 31, 1997, WAPDA's Environmental Cell and the Provincial EPA respectively, or an
internationally recognized environmental specialist acceptable to IDA, as the Environmental Auditor for
their activities under the project during the period of implementation; (ii) cause the Environmental
Auditors to issue their independent "Annual Environmental Audit Report" no later than six months after
the close of each fiscal year beginning from FY97/98; (iii) publish a summary of important audit findings
and recommendations in the project's progress reports; and (iv) implement the recommendations of the
Environmental Audit Report (para 4.18).
6.17   Wetlands Management Plan: WAPDA and Provinces would: (a) take measures to ensure that in
constructing field drains, wetlands are adequately protected; and (b) provide maps and infornation on
reclaimed areas, including the land use pattern for reclaimed lands and the date of reclamation (para 4.19).
6.18   Environment and Social Design Consultants: WAPDA would engage environment and social
design consultants with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1998 (para
4.20).
6.19   Impact Evaluation Report: The Borrower would prepare the Impact Evaluation Report for the
project within three years of the project's Closing Date (para 5.24).
6.20   M&E Consultants: WAPDA would engage M&E Consultants with qualifications and terTns of
reference satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1998 (para 5.25).
C. RECOMMENDATION
6.21    With the above assurances and agreements, the Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of
SDR 198.6 million (US$285 million equivalent) on standard terms with 35 years maturity.



47                                       ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 9
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR INVESTMENT PROJECTS
1.     Introduction: This annex outlines the criteria for selection of Investment Projects. It provides: (i)
selection criteria for Investment Projects; (ii) sponsoring agencies; (iii) the Investment Project approval cycle; and
(iv) guidelines for screening Investment Projects - general guidelines, and guidelines at formulation, feasibility, and
selection stage.
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR INVESTMENT PROJECTS
2.     Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, all Investment Projects financed under the project would meet the
following selection criteria:
(a)    the Investment Project is included in the Three Year Rolling PSDP for the project agreed with
IDA for the three next following Fiscal Years of project implementation;
(b)    in case of main off-farm drains, the Investment Project is located in an area that has lost at least 30
percent of its installed drainage capacity, or does not have drainage facilities at all;
(c)    the Investment Project supports a 'basin concept' for providing drainage to the area and is or
would be connected to an outfall;
(d)    the ERR of the Investment Project is not less than 15 percent;
(e)    a social assessment has been carried out for the Investment Project, demonstrating that, to the
extent possible the Investment Project benefits small farmers, women, and poorest one-third of the
income strata of the members of the farming community, and demonstrates that beneficiaries are
willing to make the level of contributions for the Investment Project specified in the Participation
Agreement for that category of projects;
(f)    an Initial Environmental Scoping has been carried out for the Investment Project; and an
"Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)" for the Investment Project has been prepared,
wherever necessary;
(g)    a "Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)" which is in line with the 'Framework for Land Acquisition
and Resettlement' for the project satisfactory to IDA has been prepared for the Investment Project,
wherever necessary;
(h)    the Investment Project does not involve draining of an area in which highly sodic soils cover more
than 15 percent of such area;
(i)    the Investment Project does not involve draining wetlands;
(j)    a plan demonstrating that irrigation supplies from groundwater and surface water for irrigation to
the Investment Project area are (or would be) adequate to generate the expected benefits, and the
operation of channels would be modified to follow crop water requirements as closely as possible
and to distribute the available water equitably, has been prepared;
(k)    the Investment Project would have a net positive environmental impact on rural areas, and, in
particular, it would not be located in an area where excess irrigation water supplies have caused
waterlogging, unless a plan has been prepared demonstrating that measures would be taken to
reduce excess irrigation water supplies;



48
ANNEX l.
Page 2 of 9
(I)    the total cost of the Investment Project is less than $30 million, or such amount as IDA may agree
in given case, on an exceptional basis'; and a financing plan has been prepared for the Investment
Project setting forth, inter alia, the terms and conditions of financing to be provided for it out of
the proceeds of the IDA Credit;
(m)    the Investment Project is ready for implementation with detailed designs and tender documents
already prepared;
(n)    satisfactory supervisory arrangements including appointment of independent consultants2, have
been made for the Investment Project;
(o)    the implementation period of the Investment Project is not more than three years;
(p)    the projected completion date of the Investment Project is no later than December 31, 2003;
(q)    a post-completion O&M  Plan has been prepared for the Investment Project, including
demonstrating that the O&M would be carried out through perfonnance contracts awarded to
private sector contractors;
(r)    a procurement plan including contract packaging, applicable procedures, and the scheduling of the
procurement process has been prepared for the Investment Project;
(s)    the Investment Project would be carried out by an Implementing Agency which is eligible for
funding under the project, and whose statute provides the implementing agency with jurisdiction
over the Investment Project. The operating jurisdiction of the various Participating Agencies
would be:
(i)    Farmer Organization (FO): (i) on-farm  drainage; and (ii) on-farm  irrigation upto
minor/distributary level;
(ii)    Area Water Board (AWB):  intra-provincial irrigation and drainage within its canal
command (other than on-farm drainage and irrigation);
(iii)    Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authority (PIDA): (i) intra-provincial irrigation and
drainage outside canal commands; and (ii) intra-provincial irrigation and drainage within
canal commands in which AWBs have not been established (other than on-farm drainage
and irrigation). This would be an interim arrangement until AWBs have been established
in all canal commands; and
(iv)    WAPDA: Inter-provincial irrigation and drainage.
(t)    in case of Investment Projects estimated to cost more than the equivalent of US$5 million, the
Investment Project has been appraised by a independent Panell of Experts appointed in
consultation with IDA.
It is expected that the cost would exceed $30 million in the case of the following three proposed projects: Lower Indus
Right Bank Irrigation and Drainage Project, Dera Ghazi Khan Drainage and Irrigation Project, and Left Bank Outfall Drain
(Completion) Project
2      Commensurate with the size of the project.



49                                       ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 9
SPONSORING AGENCIES
3.     As indicated in para 2(s) above, Investment Projects would be eligible for financing under the project only
if they are carried out/sponsored by PAs which have the jurisdiction over the category of Investment Projects. PAs
would also carry out Investment Projects for which they have been contracted by any other PA (with operational
jurisdiction over the Investment Project) under the terms of a 'Construction, Partnership and Handover Agreement'
satisfactory to IDA. In particular:
(a)    WAPDA's Water Wing would ideally sponsor Investment Projects that are:
(i)    of an inter-Provincial nature;
(ii)    an integral part of LBOD or RBOD;
(iii)   contracted under a "Construction, Partnership and Handover Agreement" with a client on
terms satisfactory to IDA; and
(iv)    estimated to cost no less than $5 million equivalent.
(b)    PIDAs would ideally sponsor Investment Projects that are:
(i)    for the purpose of improving the PIDAs' ability to obtain or receive water from barrages
for delivery to AWBs at canal headworks;
(ii)   for the purpose of improving the PIDAs' ability to obtain or receive drainage effluent
from AWBs at outfalls for delivery to inter-Provincial drains or outfalls maintained and
operated by WAPDA's Water Wing;
(iii)   part of the PIDAs' paid responsibility on behalf of the Province for flood control or flood
damage rehabilitation;
(iv)    contracted under a "Construction, Partnership and Handover Agreement" with a client on
terms satisfactory to IDA; and
(v)    estimated to cost no less than $3 million equivalent.
(c)    AWBs would ideally sponsor Investment Projects that are:
(i)    for the purpose of improving the AWBs' ability to obtain or receive water from canal
headworks operated by PIDAs for delivery to FOs at distributaries or minors;
(ii)    for the purpose of improving the AWBs' ability to obtain or receive drainage effluent
from FOs at outfalls operated by AWBs for delivery by the AWBs to inter-Provincial
drains or outfalls maintained and operated by PIDAs;
(iii)   part of the AWBs' paid responsibility on behalf of the PIDA for flood control or flood
damage rehabilitation;
(iv)    contracted under a "Construction, Partnership and Handover Agreement" with that client
on terms satisfactory to IDA; and
(v)    estimated to cost no less than $1.0 million equivalent.
(d)    FOs would ideally sponsor Investment Projects that are:
(i)    for the purpose of improving FOs' ability to obtain or receive water from distributaries or
minors for delivery to Water Users Associations (WUAs) at minors or watercourses;
(ii)    for the purpose of improving the FOs' ability to obtain or receive drainage effluent from
WUAs or Drainage Beneficiary Groups (DBGs) at outfalls for delivery to drains or
outfalls maintained and operated by AWBs;
(iii)   part of the FOs' paid responsibility on behalf of the AWBs for flood control or flood
damage rehabilitation;
(iv)    contracted under a "Construction, Partnership and Handover Agreement" with clients on
terms satisfactory to IDA;
(v)    for replacement of saline SCARP tubewells with tile drains;



50                                      ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 9
(vi)   for replacement of FGW SCARP tubewells with community tubewells;
(vii)  for improvements of watercourses in saline groundwater areas; and
(viii)  estimated to cost no less than $0.1 million equivalent.
THE INVESTMENT PROJECT APPROVAL CYCLE
4.     A feasibility report would be prepared for each Investment Project and endorsed by NDP Engineering
Design and Supervision Consultants. The Feasibility Reports would confirm and document that the Investment
Projects meet the selection criteria outlined in paragraphs 2 and 3 above.
5.     IDA would formally approve all Investment Projects that have estimated costs of $5 million or more,
regardless of the source of financing, subsequent to their appraisal by an Independent Panel of Experts. All other
Investment Projects would be approved by the NDP Coordination Cell or Provincial NDP Cell, and reviewed by
IDA retroactively. Investment Projects so reviewed which do not meet eligibility criteria would be ineligible for
financing.
6.     To ensure that IDA is consulted at early stages of the preparation process, rather than at a late stage, for
large projects or for projects with long preparation lead time, PAs would be encouraged to obtain IDA's approval on
a progressive basis, i.e., after each stage of the preparation process has been completed, for example:
formulation/identification; preparation of detailed Feasibility Study Report; appraisal by the NDP Engineering
Design and Supervision Consultants;); receipt of "no objection" of other interested parties (i.e. stakeholders)
including cofinanciers; signature of "Construction, Partnership and Handover Agreernent" between the PA and the
contracted agency (if any); preparation of detailed designs and tender documents of the designs; completion of land
acquisition, RAP, EIA, Social Assessment and other requirements; and completion of procurement procedures
including tender awards.
GUIDELINES FOR SCREENING INVESTMENT PROJECTS
7.     General Guidelines: All Investment Projects funded under NDP would meet criteria to ensure that
drainage schemes are sustainable, have positive returns to the national economy, have no significant negative
environmental impacts, have minimum financial burden on the Government, and involve beneficiary participation
and consultation during the entire Investment Project cycle. Detailed technical criteria for identification, ranking,
and selection are given in Annexes D and N of the Feasibility Report. As a general rule, before any Investment
Project is submitted for screening and selection for funding, in addition to traditional technical and economic
Investment Project feasibility considerations, the following eligibility criteria would ideally be met:
(a)    beneficiary participation and consultation plan in case of tertiary drainage or private tile drainage
Investment Projects;
(b)    Environmental Assessment with mitigation measures incorporated into Investment Project design;
(c)    Resettlement Action Plan with social rehabilitation dimensions;
(d)    adequate provision and budget for post-completion operations and maintenance;
(e)    community ownership and cost-sharing arrangements;
(f)    basin strategy;
(g)    hand-over arrangements, where applicable; and
(h)    awareness campaign directed at beneficiaries.
8.     Guidelines for Screening at Formulation Stage: The Investment Projects would be formulated by any
interested party or sponsor such as the Federal, Provincial or Local government bodies, farmers or other beneficiary
groups, or NGOs. The Investment Projects would be consistent with NDP objectives and be located in areas where
there are significant adverse conditions resulting from stormwater runoff, high watertable or soil salinity. In
addition, preference would be given to Investment Projects located in those areas where there are sufficient
resources, including irrigated water, an established Area Water Board, and organizations of farmers, that would
allow the benefits from drainage to be realized. At the Investment Project formulation stage, priority would ideally
be given to drainage requiring drainage with the following characteristics:



51
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 9
(a)    located in highly developed irrigated zones with potentially high "gross margins," i.e., zones with
high cropping intensity, high yields, and cash crops; and
(b)    where over a 3-5 year period, the yields have been static or decreasing, the total cropped area is
falling, and farmers are shifting to cropping patterns that have lower returns.
9.     At the formulation stage, every effort would ideally be made to exclude any Investment Projects:
(a)    that do not have effective outfall to the main drainage system;
(b)    that require reclamation of highly sodic soils;
(c)    in abandoned areas, especially when cropping intensity in other areas not as severely affected can
be increased and irrigation water is scarce;
(d)    where salts would be mobilized from groundwater without adequate drainage outlet for safe
disposal;
(e)    that would have serious environmental impacts or problems which cannot easily be mitigated by
measures included within the project definition; and
(f)    that do not have a plan and budget for an awareness campaign concerning the benefits of drainage
and improved water management directed at beneficiaries.
10.    Guidelines for Screening at Feasibility Stage: In a situation where the number of candidate Investment
Projects is too large to allow all of them to be taken forward to the feasibility analysis stage, the following criteria
would be used for prioritizing Investment Project candidates:
(a)    Main off-farm drains: Only those that have lost at least 30 percent of their carrying capacity
would be included. Priority would normally be given based on the following criteria in
descending order:
(i)    where farmers are willing to rehabilitate subdrains on self-help basis and undertake
subsequent O&M;
(ii)    waterlogged area in a highly developed irrigated zone;
(iii)   stormwater drains in cotton-wheat zone; and
(iv)    other irrigated areas.
(b)    On-farm drains: All existing and new tributary drains with outfalls discharge less than 15 cusecs
would be given priority if they are to be rehabilitated or constructed under a community tertiary
drainage scheme or private tile drainage scheme. In this subcategory, priority would ideally be
given to (in descending order):
(i)    those Investment Projects with existing environmentally acceptable outfalls;
(ii)    areas underlain by saline groundwater (SGW) (for subsurface drainage); and
(iii)    Fresh groundwater (FGW) areas with poor aquifer.
(c)    Drainage tubewells (SGW): Reduction in discharge and specific capacity should ideally be
taken into account. SGW tubewell replacement and rehabilitation would only be considered if tile
drainage is not technically feasible; and if there is an environmental acceptable disposal
arrangement.
11.    Economic Analysis: All Investment Projects that pass feasibility stage would be subject to a detailed
economic analysis before consideration for funding under NDP. The analysis would closely follow the Planning
Commission's revised Guidelines dated October 1995 for preparing projects in the water sector (which include
social, environmental, hand-over, land acquisition and resettlement, and post-completion O&M aspects). To be
considered for funding under NDP, an Investment Project should have an economic rate of return (ERR) of at least
15%3 and a positive benefit/investment ratio.
3      The Opportunity Cost of Capital in Pakistan is estimated to lie somewhere between 12-15 %.



52
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 9
12.    The guidelines are summarized in Table 1. A drainage technology selection flowchart is given in Figure 1.
The environmental evaluation procedures are given in Figure 2.
13.    The NDP Information System would be used to support analysis of the Investment Projects. In particular
Cost Tables, Indus Basin Model Revised (IBMR)4, and the geographical information system would be used to check
the validity and consistency of cost and benefit estimates, descriptions of the project area and affected lands, and
identification and assessment of environmental impacts. The Plan Generator component of the NDP Informaticn
System would also be used to simulate an objective comparison of the worth of altermative Investment Projects to
derive plans which are optimal within the assumed budgetary constraints.
14.    Least-Cost Slice-and-Package Investment Projects: To ease the administrative burden and expedite
approval, Investment Projects whose costs are estimated by the sponsors and confirmed by the NDP Coordination
Cell or Provincial NDP Cell to cost below $10 million would be implemented on the basis of least-cost slice-and-
package procedures under which standard costs and other uniformly applicable criteria would be applied to the
evaluation, financing, and implementation of the Investment Projects. Such procedures would be developed for all
categories of Investment Projects, but are expected to be applied most frequently for on-farm drainage; lining of
watercourses in SGW areas; transition of FGW tubewells; transfer, rehabilitation or construction of subdrains;
installation of standard measurement, gauging and control equipment; O&M Performance Contracts; repetitive
consultancy packages for identical services or clients; repetitive equipment and machinery for identical clients or
purposes; training; and for eligible procurement and expenditures of AWBs, FOs, NGOs, WUAs, DBGs, and
community organizations. The NDP Coordination Cell, working in coordination with Provincial NDP Cells, wou].d
submit and agree with IDA annually: (i) the package of Investment Projects; and (ii) standard guidelines and unit
rates for implementation of projects under the Least-Cost Slice-and-Package approach.
4       To support the economic analysis, IBMR would be used in a revised form to simulate the direct and indirect impacts of
the investment project on the cropping pattem, resource use, farmers' income, and labor requirements vis-a-vis changes in
salinity and watertable. The revised version of IBMR would include upgrading and validation of the IBMR at the micro
(project) level to represent the impacts of individual investment projects within an agro-climatic zone, including more accurate
agricultural production data, yield-salinity and yield-watertable coefficients, and land use and cropping decisions. The model
would also be further refined to model lateral flows and evaporation.



53
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 9
TABLE 1: GUIDELINES FOR SCHEME FORMULATION
Physical Characteristics:
Stormwater and Rice Drainage:
*  Work on existing:
(a) main/branch drains & their structures, to prevent frequent damage to crops and/or
infrastructure;
(b) structures on tributary drains if beneficiaries do earthworks and subsequent maintenance.
*  New Drains to:
(a) remove excess irrigation water for timely sowing of rabi crop after rice;
(b) reduce identifiable production losses due to rainstorms in Cotton-Wheat Zones;
(c) reduce frequent quantifiable rainstorm damage to crops and infrastructure in highly
developed areas;
(d) on-farm drains in small waterlogged pockets of irrigated areas provided an outfall is
available, beneficiaries are small landowners, share cost of construction and undertake
responsibility of O&M.
Subsurface drainage:
* augmentation, rehabilitation or replacement of existing or develop new subsurface drainage facility
in non-rice areas with Depth to Watertable (DWT) < 0.9m all year for several years; surface drains
and water management actions have failed to provide relief provided;
(a) areas in the SGW zone; or FGW zone where aquifer characteristics are not conducive to
private tubewell development;
(b) environmentally acceptable outfall is available;
(c) on-farm drainage of small waterlogged pockets of irrigated areas provided an outfall is
available, beneficiaries are small land owner, share cost of construction and undertake
responsibility of O&M.
Environmental Mitigation:
* improve environmental performance of existing surface and subsurface drainage projects in SGW
pockets by providing:
(a) environmentally acceptable outfall;
(b) altemate mode of subsurface drainage when the replacement of existing facilities become
due.
Agricultural Characteristics:
* drainage-deficient areas where, over at least 3 to 5 years, yields have been static or falling, cropped
areas have been falling, and/or farmers have been changing to lower-return crops.



54                                        ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 9
FIGURE 1: DRAINAGE TECHNOLOGY SELECTION FLOW CHART
|Danag,e Area|
<   1~~~~~rp =    HL               itt                ~lite Rice|
Flooding of Low Land                                       Pesitntly Waterlogged
Consider Surface Drainage                                       High Rainfall Area
Consider Surface Drainage &     Apply Water Conservation
Water Conservation Measures             Measures
E   Waterlogging P   T             abterlogge
Dpersists               epin      n     ersists
|[Area is Highly Produc7tive|
|Adjust Cropping Pattern|                                                          s Consider SubsurfaceSc
|TDrainage                            a
|Aciuifer Available   |                                   ipoa  utlet Available  |
I                                        I  Acquifer Availal                Consider Intercepting
Encourage Private      Tiles/Intercepting           .                  .drains & lining or reducing
Tubewells               Drains                                    N                    water Input.
Development                                                     E es  ,Io
| onsider Tubewells      Consider Tiles/     Draiange Need Stil
| Drainage     | |Intercepting DrailK        |     Persists L
| onsider Selectiiig
|Tile Drainage 



55                                             ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 9
FIGURE 2: ENVIRONMENTAL EVALUATION PROCEDURES
Screening - need for environmental assessment & at what level
Scoping - identification of key issues for environmental assessment
IEE - Initial Environmental Examination
EIA - Environmental Impact Assessment
z
Project                                          Environmental
Identification
Preproject ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ roec
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Preproj'ect                                         
Categorization    C
Significant
-  -    -  --  -    -  --  -Impacts                      
Prelimfninary                      ALij
Screening
                       ~~~~~~~~Sc oping                                       > 
EH                                 Mi~~~~~~~~~Ntigation           Al ternative
i                      fl r      ~~~~~~~~Enhancement                 Options
| EIA       |          -r 
Monitoring
_. g          & Audit






56
ANNEX 2
Page I of 7
SUMMARY COST TABLES



Pakistan
National Drainage Program (NDP)
Project Cost Summary
(P Rs Million)                                   (US$ Million)
%     % Total                                    %      % Total
Foreign    Base                                  Foreign    Base
Loc.al _F_oreign_ Total   Excha nq   Costs    Local   Foreign_  Total   Exchange  Costs
A. SECTOR PLANNING AND RESEARCH COMPONENT
1. Sector Planning                                                 333.8      41.9    375.7         11         1       8.3       1.0       9.3        11         1
2. Research                                                        516.4      37.6    554.0          7         2      12.8       0.9      13.8         7         2
Subtotal SECTOR PLANNING AND RESEARCH COMPONENT                       850.2      79.5    929.7          9         3      21.1       2.0      23.1         9         3
B. INSTITUTIONAL REFORM COMPONENT
1. Institutional Program for WAPDA - Water Wing                  1,025.3    115.1  1,140.3          10         4      25.5       2.9      28.3        10         4
2. Institutional Program for PIDs                                  687.4    271.6    959.0          28         3      17.1       6.7      23.8        28         3
Subtotal INSTITUTIONAL REFORM COMPONENT                             1,712.7    386.7  2,099.3          18         7      42.5       9.6      52.1        18         7
C. INVESTMENT COMPONENT
1. Off-farm Drainage                                            11,335.2  4,922.1 16,257.3          30        55    281.4      122.2    403.6         30        55  La
2. On-farm Drainage                                              2,196.1  1,151.9  3,347.9          34        11      54.5      28.6      83.1        34        11   4
3. Rehabilitation and Modernization of Irrigation Systems  1,972.7  1,464.9  3,437.6                43        12      49.0      36.4      85.3        43        12
4. Operation and Maintenance                                     2,607.6      26.4  2,634.0          1         9      64.7       0.7      65.4         1         9
Subtotal INVESTMENT COMPONENT                                      18,111.6  7,565.2 25,676.8          29        87    449.6      187.8    637.5         29        87
D. PROGRAM CO-ORDINATION AND SUPERVISION                              631.1      27.6    658.7          4         2      15.7       0.7      16.4         4         2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                21,305.6  8,059.0 29,364.6          27       100    528.9    200.1    729.0           27       100
Physical Contingencies                                                    -         -        -         -              -         -         -         -        _
Price Contingencies                                                7,092.0  2,849.3  9,941.3          29        34      37.8      18.2      56.0        32         8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                 28,397.6 10,908.3 39,305.9          28       134    566.7    218.2    785.0           28       108
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
tSs
 



Pakistan
National Drainage Program (NDP)
Project Cost Summary
(P Rs Million)                                    (US$ Million)
Foreign                                           Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange                Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works: Off-farm Surtace Drains                                  6,537.2  3,787.3 10,324.4          37               162.3      94.0    256.3          37
B. Civil Works: Saline Groundwater Tubewells                               434.8    251.9    686.7          37                10.8       6.3       17.0        37
C. Civil Works: Watercourses in SGW Areas                                1,145.3    663.5  1,808.8          37                28.4      16.5       44.9        37
D. Civil Works: Tile Drains                                                372.1    215.6    587.7          37                 9.2       5.4       14.6        37
E. Civil Works: Sub-drains and On-farm Surface Drains                      277.8    160.9    438.7          37                 6.9       4.0       10.9        37
F. Civil Works: Transfer of Fresh Groundwater Tubewells                     45.4      26.3      71.7        37                 1.1       0.7        1.8        37
G. Civil Works: Modernization of Canal Commands                            127.6      73.9    201.5         37                 3.2        1.8       5.0        37
i1. Civil Works: Irrigation Systems                                      1,660.0    961.7  2,621.8          37                41.2      23.9       65.1        37
I. Equipment                                                               202.1    808.5  1,010.6          80                 5.0      20.1      25.1         80
J. Vehicles                                                                 53.2    213.0    266.2          80                 1.3        5.3       6.6        80
K. Office Equipment                                                         40.8      18.8      59.6        32                 1.0       0.5        1.5        32
L. Consultants: Design and Supervision                                  '1,066.6    642.5  1,709.1          38                26.5      15.9       42.4        38
M. Consultants: Planning and StUdies                                       325.0      40.3    365.2         11                 8.1        1.0       9.1        11
N. Consultants: Streamlining and Capacity Building                         411.0       6.0    416.9          1                10.2        0.1      10.4         1
0. Consultants: Social Design and Mobilization                             316.8       8.5    325.3          3                 7.9        0.2       8.1         3   X
P. Consultants: Monitoring and Evaluation                                  186.5         -    186.5          -                 4.6          -       4.6         _
Q. Research Contracts                                                      510.7         -    510.7          -                12.7          -      12.7         -
R. Training                                                                314.1    154.4    468.5          33                 7.8        3.8      11.6        33
S. Incremental Staff, Adminstrative and Operating Costs                  1,309.5         -  1,309.5          -                32.5          -      32.5         -
T. Land Acquisition                                                        426.8         -    426.8          -                10.6          -      10.6         -
U. Interest During Construction                                          2,934.6         -  2,934.6          -                72.9          -      72.9         -
Total Investment Costs                                                      18,697.8  8,033.1 26,730.9           30               464.2     199.4     663.6         30
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Civil Works: Operation and Maintenance Performance Contracts  2,473.0                 -- 2,473.0           -               61.4          -      61.4         -
B. Consultants: Design and Supervision                                     128.1      25.9    154.0         17                 3.2        0.6       3.8        17
C. Incremental Administrative and Operating Costs                            6.7         -       6.7         -                  0.2         -       0.2         -
Total Recurrent Costs                                                        2,607.7      25.9  2,633.7           1                64.7       0.6      65.4          1
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                         21,305.6  8,059.0 29,364.6           27               528.9    200.1    729.0           27
Physical Contingencies                                                             -         -         -         -                   -          -         -         -
Price Contingencies                                                         7,092.0  2,849.3  9,941.3          29                 37.8      18.2      56.0         32
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                          28,397.6 10,908.3 39,305.9           28               566.7    218.2    785.0           28
r.Q
X:;Z
 X4



Pakistan
National Drainage Program (NDP)
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM                              INVESTMENT
SECTOR PLANNING              COMPONENT
AND RESEARCti   Institutional
COMPONENT        Program for  Institutional
Sector                WAPDA -       Program for       Off-farm          On-farm
Planning Research  Water Wing           PIDs           Drainage          Drainage
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works: Off-farm Surface Drains                                          -         -               -               -            286.8
B. Civil Works: Saline Groundwater Tubewells                                     -         -               -               -             18.3                 -
C. Civil Works: Watercourses in SGW Areas                                        -         -               -               -                -             50.6
D. Civil Works: Tile Drains                                                      -         -               -               -                -             15.7
E. Civil Works: Sub-drains and On-farm Surface Drains                            -         -               -             4.5                -              7.7
F. Civil Works: Transfer of Fresh Groundwater Tubewells                          -         -               -               -                -              2.0
G. Civil Works: Modernization of Canal Commands                                               -            -                -                                 -
H. Civil Works: Irrigation Systems
I. Equipment                                                                  0.0          -             1.2             2.3             11.3
J. Vehicles                                                                      -       0.2             0.8             0.8              3.6              1.1
K. Office Equipment                                                            0.0         -             1.2               -                -              0.0
L. Consultants: Design and Supervision                                           -       0.9               -               -             32.9              8.4
M. Consultants: Planning and Studies                                          10.2         -               -               -                -                 -
N. Consultants: Streamlining and Capacity Building                               -         -             6.8             4.6                                  -
0. Consultants: Social Design and Mobilization                                   -         -               -             3.9                -              5.0
P. Consultants: Monitoring and Evaluation                                        -         -             5.2                        -                         -
Q. Research Contracts                                                            -      14.2               -               -
R. Training                                                                      -         -             3.1             9.9                -                 -
S. Incremental Staff, Adminstrative and Operating Costs                        0.2       0.1            13.0             0.3              3.5              2.2
T. Land Acquisition                                                              -         -               -               -             11.8                 -
U. Interest During Construction                                                  -         -               -               -             56.5                 -
Total Investment Costs                                                            10.4      15.3            31.2             26.3            426.6             92.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Civil Works: Operation and Maintenance Performance Contriacts
B. Consultants: Design and Supervisionl                                                                    -
C. Incremental Administrative and Operating Costs                                -         -             0.2
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                 -         -            0.2
Total PRODECT COSTS                                                                 n         1A                              26.3            426.3             92.16
Taxes                                                                             0.0       0.0             1.9             1.6              64.8             15.6
Foreign Exchange                                                                  1.1       1.0             3.1             7.3            134.3              31.3
J X



Pakistan
National Drainage Program (NDP)
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
COMPONENT
Rehabilitation
and                          PROGRAM
Modernization                  CO-ORDINATION
of Irrigation  Operation and        AND
Systems      Maintenance    SUPERVISION  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works: Off-farm Surface Drains                                          -               -              - 288.8
B. Civil Works: Saline Groundwater Tubewells                                     -               --  18.3
C. Civil Works: Watercourses in SGW Areas                                        -               -                 50.6
D. Civil Works: Tile Drains                                                      -                              -  15.7
E. Civil Works: Sub-drains and On-farm Surface Drains                            -               -              -  12.2
F. Civil Works: Transfer of Fresh Groundwater Tubewells                          -               -              -   2.0
G. Civil Works: Modernization of Canal Commands                                5.5               -              -   5.5
H. Civil Works: Irrigation Systems                                            69.9               -              -  69.9
I. Equipment                                                                  11.7               -            0.1  26.7
J. Vehicles                                                                      -             0.0            0.7   7.1
K. office Equipment                                                              -               -            0.3   1.6
L. Consultants: Design and Supervision                                         4.7               -              -  46.9
M. Consultants: Planning and Studies                                             -               -              -  10.2                                   0
N. Consultants: Streamlining and Capacity Building                               -               -              -  11.4
0. Consultants: Social Design and Mobilization                                   -             0.1              -   9.0
P. Consultants: Monitoring and Evaluation                                        -               -              -   5.2
Q. Research Contracts                                                             -                             -  14.2
R. Training                                                                      -               -              -  12.9
S. Incremental Staff, Adminstrative and Operating Costs                          -             0.0           17.3  36.6
T. Land Acquisition                                                               -              -              -  11.8
U. Interest During Construction                                                  -               -              -  56.5
Total Investment Costs                                                             91.8             0.2           18.5 712.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Civil Works: Operation and Maintenance Performance Contracts                   -           67.7              -  67.7
B. Consultants: Design and Supervision                                            -            4.2              -   4.2
C. Incremental Administrative and Operating Costs                                 -              -              -   0.2
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                 -            71.9              -  72.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                 91.8            72.1           18.5 785.0
Taxes                                                                             17.4            0.0            2.0 103.3
Foreign Exchange                                                                 38.7             0.7            0.7 218.2
-X



Pakistan
National Drainage Program (NDP)
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(P Rs Million)
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM           ___               INVESTMENT
SECTOR PLANNING              COMPONENT
AND RESEARCtl   Institutional
COMPONENT       Program for  Institutional
Sector                WAPDA -      Program for       Off-farm         On-farm
Planning Research  Water Wing           PIDs           Drainage         Drainaqe
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works: Off-farm Surface Drains                                         -         -              -               -        14,851.8
B. Civil Works: Saline Groundwater Tubewells                                    -         -              -               -            865.0                -
C. Civil Works: Watercourses in SGW Areas                                       -         -              -               -                -          2,595.3
0. Civil Works: Tile Drains                                                     -         -              -               -                -            746.4
E. Civil Works: Sub-drains and On-farm Surface Drains                           -         -              -           227.2                -            394.4
F. Civil Works: Transfer of Fresh Groundwater Tubewells                         -         -              -               -                -            100.2
G. Civil Works: Modernization of Canal Commands
H. Civil Works: Irrigation Systems                                              -         -              -               -                -
I. Equipment                                                                 1.9          -           56.8           117.2            525.0                -
J. Vehicles                                                                     -      9.2            36.7            35.0            178.2             53.2
K. Office Equipment                                                          1.0          -           55.9               -                -              1.6
L. Consultants: Design and Supervision                                          -     41.7               -               -          1,630.8            419.4
M. Consultants: Planning and Studies                                       508.1          -              -               -                -
N. Consultants: Streamlining and Capacity Building                              -         -          330.1           216.3                -                -
0. Consultants: Social Design and Mobilization                                  -         -              -           186.9                -            246.9
P. Consultants: Monitoring and Evaluation                                      -          -          262.3                        -                        -
Q. Research Contracts                                                           -    700.1               -               -
R. Training                                                                     -         -          150.6           493.5                -                -
S. Incremental Staff, Adminstrative and Operating Costs                     10.1        3.3          639.1            14.6            179.7            106.3
T. Land Acquisition                                                             -         -              -               -            574.0                -
U. Interest During Construction                                                 -         -              -                         2,934.6 _
Total Investment Costs                                                          521.1    754.3         1,531.5         1,290.6         21,739.1          4,663.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Civil Works: Operation and Maintenance Performance Contracts                 -                 -              -                -                -
B. Consultants: Design and Supervisioru
C. Incremental Administrative and Operating Costs                               -         -            9.4               -                -                -
Total Recurrent Costs                                                               --                      9A                -                -                -
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                              521.1    754.3         1,540.9         1,290.6         21,739.1          4,663.7
Taxes                                                                            1.6       2.2           93.8            77.3          3,302.0            788.9
Foreign Exchange                                                               56.0       47.0          147.2           364.9          6,805.4          1,577.4
-4 kZ



Pakistan
Ndtional Drainage Program (NDP)
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(P Rs Million)
COMPONENT
Rehabilitation
and                           PROGRAM
Modernization                   CO-ORDINATION
of Irrigation  Operation and          AND
Systems      Maintenance    SUPERVISION   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works: Off-farm Surface Drains                                             -               -               - 14,851.8
B. Civil Works: Saline Groundwater Tubewells                                        -               -               -    865.0
C. Civil Works: Watercourses in SGW Areas                                           -               -               -  2,595.3
D. Civil Works: Tile Drains                                                         -               -               -    746.4
E. Civil Works: Sub-drains and On-farm Surface Drains                               -               -               -    621.6
F. Civil Works: Transfer of Fresh Groundwater Tubewells                             -               -               -    100.2
G. Civil Works: Modernization of Canal Commands                                 265.1               -               -    265.1
1i. Civil Works: Irrigation Systems                                           3,303.4               -               -  3,303.4
I. Equipment                                                                    565.5               -            2.4  1,268.7
J. Veoicles                                                                         -             0.6           35.5    348.4
K. Office Equipment                                                                 -               -           15.0      73.6
L. Consultants: Design and Supervision                                          226.9               -               -  2,318.9
M. Consultants: Planning and Studies                                                -               -               -    508.1
N. Consultants: Streamlining and Capacity Building                                  -               -               -    546.4
0. Consultants: Social Design and Mobilization                                      -             6.7               -    440.5
P. Consultants: Monitoring and Evaluation                                           -               -               -    262.3
Q. Research Contracts                                                               -               -               -    700.1
R. Training                                                                         -               -               -    644.1
S. Incremental Staff, Adminstrative and Operating Costs                             -             1.8          880.5  1,835.4
T. Land Acquisition                                                                 -               -               -    574.0
U. Interest During Construction                                                     -                -              -  2,934.6
Total Investment Costs                                                            4,360.9              9.1          933.4 35,803.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Civil Works: Operation and Maintenance Performiance Contracts                    -         3,289.1               -  3,289.1
B. Consultants: Design and Supervision                                              -           203.6               -    203.6
C. lncremental Administrative and Operating Costs                                   -                -              -       9.4
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                    -         3,492.7               -  3,502.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                                4,360.9          3,501.8          933.4 39,305.9
Taxes                                                                              826.8              0.3           98.6  5,191.4
Foreign Exchange                                                                 1,840.0             35.5           35.0 10,908.3
o M






63                                      ANNEX3
Page I of 7
PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT
ASPECTS TO BE COVERED IN PARTICIPATION AGREEMENTS
1. Introduction: This Annex sets out the aspects which would be covered in Participation Agreements
between Provinces and PIDAs, AWBs and FOs participating in the Project. The Participation Agreements
would be between the concemed Province and the PIDA, AWB or FO to which funds from the Project are
being provided by the Province concerned. A separate Participation Agreement would be signed with each
PIDA, AWB or FO. Legal Counsel financed under the Project, or NDP Consultants would provide
assistance required by the Provinces, PIDAs, AWBs, or FOs in preparing and negotiating the Participation
Agreement on request by the Province/PIDA, AWB or FO.
2. Effectiveness: The Participation Agreement would become effective upon the date of its signature or
on the Effective Date of the Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement for NDP, whichever is
later.
3. Compliance with Other Agreements: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would comply with the
provisions of all relevant sections of the Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement for the
project signed with IDA, and with similar agreements with ADB and OECF for the project.
4. Eligibility for Incremental Financing Commitments: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned shall
furnish with respect to each Fiscal Year of Project implementation, evidence to IDA, showing that they are,
and shall continue during such Fiscal Year to be, in compliance with the eligibility criteria set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement (these eligibility criteria are outlined in Annex 6 of the SAR). The
PIDA, AWB or FO would be eligible for incremental financing commitments from the IDA Credit for new
programs of activities to be commenced under the Project, and any new contracts to be awarded by it for
on-going Investment Projects only after it has furnished this evidence.
5. Organization and Functions: The PIDA, AWBs or FO would: (i) maintain organizational structure,
functions, staffing, and regulatory framework, all satisfactory to IDA, for the period of project
implementation and post-completion monitoring; and (ii) promptly inform IDA of any proposed change in
the organizational structures, functions, staffing, or regulatory framework.
6. Autonomy, Accountability, and Efficiency: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would be: (i)
established and run as an autonomous entity; (ii) established and run in accordance with generally accepted
business practice, under which Owners (whether Provinces or farmers), Board of Directors, and
Management would be completely separate; and (iii) audited by Chartered Accountants appointed in
consultation with IDA.
7. Recruitment of Managing Directors and Senior Officers of PIDAs, AWBs and FOs: The PIDA or
AWB concerned would recruit Managing Directors and Senior Officers from PIDs and/or the market
through transparent processes (i.e., including by advertising in the press, and the use of specialized
professional management recruitment firms). Managing Directors and Senior Officers would be acceptable
to IDA.
8. Staffing Levels: The PIDA or AWB concerned would prepare and implement a "Staffng,
Operational and Financial Plan"; impose a hiring freeze; reassign staff; and encourage voluntary retirement
until it achieves the desired staffing levels.
9. Regulatory and Corporate Oversight: The PIDA concerned would: (i) establish a Policy &
Regulation Wing; and (ii) assign responsibility for establishing policy and regulating the operations of
entities to the Wing.



64                                    ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
10. Legal Cell: The PIDA concerned would establish a Legal Cell with Tenns of Reference and staff,
including Chief Legal Counsel/Officer, agreed with IDA, to advise on regulatory and legal matters relating
to the decentralized irrigation and drainage system.
Operations
11. Management Transfer: The management of the irrigation and drainage system in the operating
jurisdiction of the PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would be legally transferred to it through leases or other
contractually enforceable mechanism which shall have been established by the Province in consultation
with IDA. The operating jurisdiction of the PIDA, AWB or FO would be as given below:
(a)    FO: (i) on-farm drainage; and (ii) on-farn irrigation upto minor/distributary level;
(b)    AWB: intra-provincial irrigation and drainage within its canal command (other than on-
farm drainage and irrigation); and
(c)    PIDA: (i) intra-provincial irrigation and drainage outside canal commands; and (ii) intra-
provincial irrigation and drainage within canal commands in which AWBs have not been
established (other than on-farm drainage and irrigation). This would be an interim
arrangement until AWBs have been established in all canal comamands.
12. Service Standards: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would adhere to a clear set of service
standards which shall have been agreed with its clients, and which shall be monitorable and contractually
enforceable.
13. Streamlining and Cost Reduction in Operations of Decentralized Irrigation Institutions: The
PIDA, AWB, or FO concerned would implement measures aimed at reducing O&M costs, and thereby
reduce the cost recovery base including: (a) formulating new service regulations and personnel policies; (b)
streamlining machine operations; (c) updating and revising service and technical manuals; (d) improving
accounting and financial management systems; (e) conducting specific diagnostic analyses and
implementing subsequent action plans to streamline operations of selected drainage circles; (f) streamlining
fmancing and utilization of the O&M budget - inter alia by linking O&M financing with collection of
Abiana (the financing aspect of streamlining) and increasing the share of works in the budget (the
utilization aspect of streamlining) in selected pilot areas; (g) streamlining implementation of off-farm
drainage O&M through Performance Contracts (PCs) or Rehabilitate and Operate Contracts (ROCs) or
other scheme awarded to the private sector on competitive basis, and designating Drainage Circles for PCs;
(h) initiating pilots to test decentralization of Abiana assessment and collection during implementation of
NDP, and designating Circles where pilots to test decentralization of Abiana assessment and
implementation would be implemented; (i) rationalizing "Abiana" schedule; (j) building their capacities for
delivery of services under the new framework; (k) transferring on-farm drains and tertiary drains to FOs
and WUAs; and (I) transitioning as many FGW tubewells as possible.
14. Delivery and Pricing for Wholesale Irrigation and Drainage Services: The PIDA, AWB, or FO
concerned would design, test/pilot, and if successful, implement a system of demand, delivery, and
payment of wholesale irrigation and drainage services all based on advance planning prior to the
agricultural seasons. Under such a system, PIDAs would eventually deliver services to AWBs based on the
aggregate demand from them, while AWBs would do likewise based on aggregate demand from FOs, who
would base theirs on the demand from WUAs. Payment would be determined through negotiations at these
aggregate levels as well; and losses (arising from operational inefficiencies arising from mismanagement
and/or overstaffing, non-recovery of charges, leakages due to corruption, or system losses due to excessive
seepage or poor maintenance) would be absorbed by the responsible parties, and not transmitted system-
wide. PIDAs would have the power to set water charges to AWBs only; aind would sell wholesale
irrigation and drainage services to them on a full cost-recovery basis. PIDAs' receivables from individual
AWBs would be independent of AWBs' receipts from FOs; and losses would not be transferred from one



65                                             ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
AWB to another. PIDAs would compensate AWBs for services for which AWBs are not expected to
recover costs; or which they carry out at the behest or direction of PIDAs. AWBs would similarly set
wholesale charges and deliver services to, and obtain payment from, individual FOs; and FOs would do so
likewise with WUAs.
15. Operating Regulations: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would prepare, jointly with all the other
PAs, Operating Regulations and Manual of Procedures for the Project. The Operating Regulations and
Manual of Procedures would specify the general principles, terms and conditions for financing under the
project, roles and responsibilities of each PA, procedures for Investment Project preparation and selection,
eligibility criteria for PAs, eligible expenditures for financing, and a glossary of terms.
16. Operational Manuals and Procedures: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would develop detailed
Operational Manuals and Procedures in consultation with the NDP Design and Engineering Supervision
Consultants for each Investment Project; and submit them to IDA no later than one year prior to
completion of the Investment Project.
17. O&M Performance Contracts: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would award at least one multi-
year O&M Performance Contract in each year for maintenance of O&M facilities. Small AWBs and FOs
may be exempted from the requirement to award more than one such contract.
18. Capacity Utilization: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would achieve average annual capacity
utilization rates for irrigation and drainage machinery and equipment of at least 60 percent in the first year
of operation, 70 percent in the second year, and 80 percent in the third year and beyond of its participation
in the project as separate entities.
19. Collection Ratio: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would achieve a minimum collection ratio on all
receivables (including Abiana and Drainage Cess) of not less than 60 percent in the first year of operation,
75 percent in the second year, and 90 percent in the third year and thereafter.
20. Budget: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would allocate not less than 60 percent of its non-
recurrent budget to non-staff expenses in the first year of operation, 70 percent in the second year, and 80
percent in the third year and thereafter.
21. Water Allocation Committees: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would establish, a "Water
Allocation Committee, or WAC" for each point of off-take (i.e., from barrages to canal headworks, from
headworks to distributaries, and from distributaries to watercourses) to improve the transparency of
allocation of irrigation supplies. The WACs would publish annually or more regularly in the local press
and in the Provinces' or Districts' official gazette the allocations of irrigation supplies, with comparisons of
rated/authorized versus actual allocations.
22. Public Participation: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would establish Community Advisory
Committees (CACs) on various issues which require the local knowledge, advisory inputs and active
participation of NGOs, farmers' associations, local community leaders and other stakeholders to help them
manage better the interface of the project with impacted communities including, but not limited to, land
acquisition, environment, protection of local wetland resources and similar interventions which may be
important to the livelihoods of local communities. The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would hold at least
one consultative and informative public meeting in March before the formulation of the year's work
program and budget; and during the middle of the fiscal year to brief the stakeholders about the progress in
implementing the year's work program and budget.
23. Procurement: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would follow the World Bank's procurement
guidelines and standard bidding documents for procurement of all works, goods and services which would
be funded by IDA under the Project; and the ADB's and OECF's procurement guidelines for procurement



66                                      ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 7
of all works, goods and services which would be funded by the ADB and OECF respectively under the
Project.
Institutional Program
24. The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would submit a work program and specific proposals for various
aspects of its institutional program which would be funded under the project. These would be submitted as
part of the Business Plan (see para 30 below).
Investment Projects
25. The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would use the funds provided under the project for Investment
Projects to implement Investment Projects which are approved under the selection procedures agreed under
the project and which meet selection criteria specified in the Project Agreement.
26. A PIDA would ideally sponsor Investment Projects that are:
(a)    for the purpose of improving the PIDA's ability to obtain or receive water from barrages
for delivery to AWBs at canal headworks;
(b)    for the purpose of improving the PIDA's ability to obtain or receive drainage effluent
from AWBs at outfalls for delivery to inter-Provincial drains or outfalls maintained and
operated by WAPDA's Water Wing;
(c)    part of the PIDA's paid responsibility on behalf of the Province for flood control or flood
damage rehabilitation;
(d)    contracted under a "Construction Partnership and Handover Agreement" with a client on
terms satisfactory to IDA; and
(e)    estimated to cost no less than $3 million equivalent.
27. An AWB would ideally sponsor Investment Projects that are:
(a)    for the purpose of improving the AWB's ability to obtain or receive water from canal
headworks operated by a PIDA for delivery to FOs at distributaries or minors;
(b)    for the purpose of improving the AWB's ability to obtain or receive drainage effluent
from FOs at outfalls operated by the AWB for delivery by the AWB to inter-Provincial
drains or outfalls maintained and operated by a PIDA;                  I
(c)    part of the AWB's paid responsibility on behalf of a PIDA ior flood control or flood
damage rehabilitation;
(d)    contracted under a "Construction Partnership and Handover Agreement" with a client on
terms satisfactory to IDA; and
(e)    estimated to cost no less than $1.0 million equivalent.
28. A FO would ideally sponsor Investment Projects that are:
(a)    for the purpose of improving the FO's ability to obtain or receive water from
distributaries or minors for delivery to WUAs at minors or watercourses;
(b)    for the purpose of improving the FO's ability to obtain or rece:ive drainage effluent from
WUAs at outfalls for delivery to drains or outfalls maintained and operated by an AWB;
(c)    part of the FOs' paid responsibility on behalf of an AWB for flood control or flood
damage rehabilitation;
(d)    contracted under a "Construction Partnership and Handover Agreement' with clients on
terms satisfactory to IDA;
(e)    replacement of saline SCARP tubewells with tile drains;
(f)    replacement of FGW SCARP tubewells with community tubewells;



67                                       ANNEX3
Page 5 of 7
(g)     improvements of watercourses; and
(h)     estimated to cost no less than $0.1 million equivalent.
29. Construction Partnership and Hand-Over Agreement: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned may
engage WAPDA, another PIDA, AWB or FO or firm to construct irrigation and drainage facilities on its
behalf. This would be based on a 'Construction Partnership and Hand-Over Agreements', which would be
for specific works, and would ideally specify: (i) terms and conditions; (ii) roles and responsibilities of
each party to the contract; (iii) detailed procedures for hand-over of completed works from these agencies
to the PIDA, AWB or FO concerned; and (iv) financial obligations, sureties, guarantees, penalties and
default clauses. Such agreements would contain provisions for enforceable performance bonds of value
equal to at least 10 percent of the value of the contract to be issued by each contracting party to the other at
the time of signature.
Business Plans, Finances and Budgets
30.    Business Plans: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would prepare, revise and agree annually a
Three Year Rolling Business Plan with the Province on or before March 31 of each year, which would
include procurement, staffing, operations, and financing plans/projections. The Plan shall demonstrate
that: (a) in case of a PIDA and an AWB, that the PIDA and AWB shall be financially self-sustainable for
O&M costs', within ten years of its establishment; and (b) in case of an FO, that the FO shall be financially
self-sustainable2 within seven years of its establishment.
31. General Manager-Finance: The PIDA or AWB concerned would appoint a professionally qualified
accountant (i.e., Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant) as General Manager-Finance.
32. Accounts and Audit: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would prepare financial statements in
accordance with Accounting Standards of the Pakistan Institute of Chartered Accountants, would follow
the Fiscal Year (July to June) as its accounting year, and would maintain books of accounting on
commercially-oriented basis (as opposed to government accounting). The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned
would appoint a firm/firm(s) of Chartered Accountants as auditors before it becomes eligible to participate
in the project. The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would not be eligible for funds from all project sources
(i.e. the Borrower, Provinces, IDA and other donors) if it fails to submit its audited accounts for the
previous Fiscal Year by December 31.
Social and Environmental Aspects
33. Land Acquisition and Resettlement: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would implement all land
acquisition and involuntary displacement, and the subsequent resettlement and rehabilitation associated
with interventions of the project, in accordance with the Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement
which has been agreed among the Borrower, Provinces and IDA.
34. Environmental Impact Assessments: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would ensure that: (a) an
Initial Environmental Scoping (IES) is conducted for all Investment Projects; and (b) all Investment
I      Generation of sufficient income from all sources and beneficiaries to meet O&M costs, operating costs, de-
preciation of assets, and payments for irrigation and drainage services (to upper-tier organizations, e.g.: in case of an
AWB, the upper-tier entity would be a PIDA).
2       Financial self-sustainability shall be defined as generation of: (i) sufficient income from all sources and
beneficiaries to meet its O&M costs, operating costs, depreciation of assets, and payments for irrigation and drainage
services (to upper-tier organizations, e.g.: in case of an FO, the upper-tier entity would be an AWB), and debt service
payments; and (ii) sufficient funds from its own resources and/or from borrowings to meet capital expenditure re-
quirements.



68                                    ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
Projects whose IES indicate that they would have significant environmental impacts would undergo
complete Environmental Impact Assessments (ELAs).
35. Field Draihs: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would: (a) take measures to ensure that in
constructing field drains, wetlands are adequately protected; and (b) provide maps and information on
reclaimed areas, including the land use pattern for reclaimed lands and the date of reclamation.
36. Draining of Riverine Areas: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would ensure that any proposal to
drain the Sindh Riverine areas, areas between the main drains and the coast, flood plains, or lake shores,
would be subject to full EIAs, in accordance with Pakistan's environmental protection laws and Bank
policy, prior to approval.
Other Aspects
37. Evaluation Reports: Consultants from the NDP Cell in WAPDA would provide technical assistance
to the PIDA, AWB or FO concerned as required on request by the PIDA, AWB or FO on the basis of a
Service Contract. The Chief Executive of the PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would complete one or more
Evaluation Reports (based on standardized formats) during and after the completion of each such Service
Contract.
38. Information Disclosure: The PIDA, AWB or FO concerned would subscribe to the project's policy
and standards in favor of a high degree of public participation and disclosure of project information to the
public and the stakeholders in particular i.e., a general requirement would exist in favor of public
disclosure and widespread dissemination of all of the project's formal/official reports, through publication
of summary leaflets and paid advertisements in local newspapers with translations in the local languages.
The only exception would be for project-related correspondence and for those documents which are
formally designated as being restricted in circulation, by agreement between the Borrower, the Provinces
and the IDA, OECF, and ADB.
39. Notices: Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under the Agreement would
be in writing and would be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered to the
Province. Any action required or permitted, or any documents required or permitted, to be executed under
the Agreement on behalf of the PIDA, AWB or FO would be taken or executed by its duly authorized
representatives or such persons as it shall designate in writing.
Provision of Funds by Provinces
40. The Province would provide funds as a grant to the PIDA, AWB or FO concerned equal to the cost of
the Investment Project/institutional program minus the share of cost to be shared by the beneficiaries as an
upfront contribution, as detailed in the table below. These funds which the Provinces would provide would
comprise funds provided by Donors and the Province's counterpart funds.



69                                       ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
Type of Investment Project            PA        Upfront Cost Sharing by PA (to be
recovered upfront from
beneficiaries)
Off-farm Surface Drains: Construction of  PIDA/AWB/  0%
new, and rehabilitation, remodeling and/or  FO
modernization of existing surface drains,
excluding sub-drains and on-farm drains with
capacity less than 15 cu.ft/sec.
SGW Tubewells: Rehabilitation of existing,   FO        0%
and/or installation of new, saline groundwater
tubewells
Watercourses: Improvement of watercourses   FO         40% of cost of civil works materials
in saline groundwater areas                            (plus all the skilled and unskilled
labor)
Tile Drains: Installation of new, and     FO           10% (plus any land required)
rehabilitation of existing, tile drains
On-farm Surface Drains: Construction of   FO           10% (plus skilled and unskilled labor,
new, and rehabilitation of existing sub-drains         and any land required)
and on-farm surface drains with capacity less
than 15 cu.ft/sec
FGW Tubewells: Transfer of existing,
replacement of, and installation of fresh
groundwater tubewells
(a) Transfer of existing tubewells      FO            Rs. 10,000
(b) Transfer of existing tubewells with  FO           Balance cost of civil works if any,
modification3                                     after considering grant of Rs. 20,000
from Provinces.
(c) Installation of new tubewells (with  FO           Balance cost of civil works if any,
centrifugal pumps operated by diesel               after considering grant of Rs. 30,000
engine)                                            from Provinces.
Modernization of canal commands through   AWB          0%
installation of communication and control
systems
Irrigation Systems: Rehabilitation,       PIDA/AWB/
improvement and remodeling of irrigation  FO
systems
(a) if carried out by an FO                            10% of cost of civil works
(b) if carried out by a PIDA or an AWB                 20% of cost of civil works
Institutional Program                     PIDA/AWB/  0%
FO
3      Replacement of turbine pump with centrifugal pump of lower capacity (average 1.5 cusecs) and replacement
of electrical motor with a diesel engine.






70                                      ANNEX4
Page 1 of 6
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
INTRODUCTION
1.     Procurement Assessment: The Borrower and IDA have carried out a "Country Procurement
Assessment for Pakistan" in 1995; and the Report is expected to be published soon. The Assessment
Mission concluded that the procurement policies and practices of all the major Executing Agencies for the
project (including WAPDA and Provinces) need to be brought into compliance with IDA procurement
policies; but that the Borrower and WAPDA in particular had the potential to implement these policies
satisfactorily. A number of changes have been agreed to be made to the procurement documentation of the
Borrower and WAPDA, which would bring them in compliance with IDA's requirements.
2.     The NDP Procurement Unit: WAPDA would establish an NDP Procurement Unit with terms of
reference, staffing from WAPDA and procurement consultants, and budgets satisfactory to IDA. WAPDA
would appoint one or more consultants with internationally recognized professional qualifications in
procurement administration, from NDP Engineering Design and Supervision Consultants or other
consultants, as NDP Procurement Advisers to provide technical assistance and training to staff of WAPDA,
PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs on procurement. An NDP Procurement Manager (PM) will head the NDP
Procurement Unit which will be established by the NDP Cell. The PM will be the Deputy Chief Resident
Engineer (Contracts) of the NDP Engineering Design and Supervision Consultants. The PM will develop
policies and procedures for the Procurement Unit, train the staff and promote effective use of the Credit
for project expenditures by Participating Agencies (PAs). To ensure consistency and quality in the
application of agreed procurement standards and procedures, the PM will prepare or endorse all
procurement documents by PAs before they are submitted to IDA. The overall responsibility for
procurement under the project will be with the NDP PM and his Regional Deputy PMs (DPMs). The PM
will manage procurement and other aspects of the project in a highly decentralized manner. The NDP
Procurement Unit, through its Regional Offices, would endorse procurement recommendations of PA line
managers to IDA for its no objection, before contracts are awarded.
3.     The Borrower's Procurement Review Arrangements: The Appraisal Mission concluded that
the Borrower, WAPDA, prospective PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs would be capable of handling procurement,
supervising contract administration, and engaging and supervising consultants envisaged under NDP with
the help of procurement consultants and establishment of the NDP Procurement Unit. WAPDA, Provinces,
and PAs would significantly delegate and decentralize the responsibility and authority for approval of
procurement decisions. For example, the representatives of the PA concerned with procurement (e.g.
Central Contracts Cell in the case of WAPDA), of the PAs' line manager (e.g. concerned General Manager
in the case of WAPDA or Chief Engineer in the case of PIDAs and AWBs), and a representative of the
NDP Coordinator, would be represented at the decision meeting at which the Procurement Committee
would make the recommendation for award, prior to its submission to IDA. The Procurement Committee
would be required to convey its decisions regarding procurement brought to it within a specific period.
Since approval of contracts by the WAPDA Authority (equivalent of Board) is the primary cause of delays
in procurement in projects implemented by WAPDA, WAPDA would: (i) delegate final approval authority
for all procurement for civil works contracts below $20 million, goods contracts below $10 million, and
consultancy contracts below $10 million which are frnanced under the project and implemented by
WAPDA to a "NDP Procurement Review Sub-committee" of the Authority established under the
respective General Manager, and with representation from the NDP Procurement Unit. The Central
Contracts Cell (CCC) of WAPDA would be represented on the subcommittee. All contracts above these
thresholds which will be implemented by WAPDA would be referred to the WAPDA Authority (equivalent
of Board); and (ii) delegate powers to the NDP Program Coordinator to approve up to 80 percent of the
procurement values which are expected to require WAPDA's approval under the project'. Authority for
I      Since Negotiations, WAPDA has proposed the following alternative arrangement: "WAPDA in consultation
with IDA, would: (i) establish an NDP Procurement Unit with staffing from WAPDA, Procurement Consultants and
Finance; (ii) appoint a Consultant with internationally recognized professional qualification in procurement



71                                       ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
approving procurement decisions for contracts implemented by PIDAs and AWBs would rest with the
Engineer. IDA's Guidelines for Procurement under IDA Credits would be followed for procurement of all
works and goods financed from the Credit. Consultants financed from the Credit would be selected
following IDA's Guidelines for Selection and Use of Consultants.
4.     Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs): Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) jointly prepared by
IDA, the Borrower, and WAPDA for Pakistan will be completed and approved by both IDA and the
Borrower by the time this project becomes ready for implementation. IDA and the Borrower have agreed
that the SBDs would be used for all procurement of works, goods and consultants financed by the IDA
Credit. Pending the issuance of SBDs, all procurement which is processed prior to that date would be on
the basis of existing IDA SBDs.
WORKS
5.     Procurement Method: All IDA-financed contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $5 million
or more would be procured using ICB procedures. Based on the currently identified and/or agreed package
of prospective civil works expenditures under various Investment Projects, it is expected that IDA-financed
civil works contracts amounting to $123.1 million equivalent will be procured using ICB procedures.
These works comprise individually lumpy contracts including: (a) rehabilitation and remodeling of the
LBOD Spinal Drain ($30.6 million); (b) remedial works on the Tidal Link ($11.7 million); (c) installation
of electrical lines, in Sanghar and Mirpurkhas districts ($1.8 million); (d) construction of the Chotiari
Reservoir ($26.6 million); (e) remodeling of the Nara Canal (23.7 million; 3 contracts); (f) works on the
Jamrao Canal ($6.3 million); (g) installation of control and telecommunicatio:n equipment in the Nara
Canal Command Area ($4.2 million); (h) installation of tile drains in Mirpurkhas ($9.1 million); and (i)
construction and rehabilitation of drainage infrastructure ($9.1 million, 3 contracts). Qualified domestic
bidders competing under ICB will be eligible for a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation, in accordance
with IDA guidelines on procurement. IDA-financed contracts costing less than $5 million each would be
awarded under NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. The total estimated cost of such contracts is $66.6
million. These civil works comprise numerous packages of rehabilitation, small structures, earthworks and
operation and maintenance spread throughout the Indus Basin, and may be of limited interest to foreign
contractors. NCB has been used extensively for small civil works under all recent and ongoing irrigation
and drainage projects in Pakistan, and found to work satisfactorily under the right operating environment in
implementing agencies. However, there is much room for improvement in the procurement processing and
contract management practices and capacities of WAPDA and the PIDs (future PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs).
TIhe remaining IDA-financed civil works, mainly earthwork, masonry work, and[ small structures, will be
carried out by direct contracting, using project beneficiary labor (and/or materials) mobilized by FOs, with
progress payments based on unit prices agreed with IDA. While accurate estimates are currently not
available, these contracts are expected to aggregate $17.3 million equivalent.
6.     Procurement Review Thresholds: All pre-qualification documents and proposals would be
subject to IDA's prior review regardless of threshold. The following IDA-financed contracts would be
subject to IDA's prior review:
(a)    contracts for civil works estimated to cost more than $5 million equivalent;
(b)    the first NCB contract by each PA;
(c)    O&M Performance Contracts, turnkey and supply-and-erect contracts (e.g. for dredging
equipment); and
(d)    contracts for borderline services such as GIS, aerial and satellite mapping.
administration as NDP Procurement Adviser; and (iii) constitute an NDP Procurement Review Committee headed by
the Regional General Manager comprising the Project Consultants and the NDP Project M[anager or his representative
to carry out one step evaluation of procurement contracts including works, goods and consultancy, where applicable.
The report of this Committee will be reviewed by CCC before approval from Managing Director (Water) or the
Authority as the case may be".



72                                      ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
All IDA-financed contracts not subject to IDA's prior review would be subject to post review on a sample
basis.
7.     Procurement Documents: SBDs for Pakistan would be used after these are finalized by the
Borrower, WAPDA and IDA. Until these are finalized, IDA's SBDs for Procurement of Works would be
used for ICB contracts; and IDA's SBDs for Procurement of Works (Smaller Contracts) with modifications
agreed with IDA would be used for NCB contracts. Pre-qualification would be done using IDA's Standard
Pre-qualification Document for Works.
8.     Prequalification of Bidders for Works: Prequalification would be undertaken for all contracts
(or groups of contracts awarded on slice-and-package basis) estimated to cost $15 million or more.
Prequalification would be updated annually. Prequalification would be done using the IDA's Standard
Prequalification Documents for Works. Prequalification criteria would include financial strength, past
performance, availability of equipment and staff, and quality of the "method statement". The prequalified
contractor and supplier lists would be subject to IDA's "no objection", and only those prequalified would
be eligible to participate in the bidding. Where post-qualification is considered unavoidable, the same
criteria would be applied retrospectively in bid evaluation. All pre-qualification documents and proposals
would be subject to IDA's prior review regardless of threshold. The procurement process and
prequalification process have been initiated with the General Procurement Notice which was published in
April 1995.
GOODS
9.     Procurement Method: All IDA-financed contracts for goods costing $300,000 equivalent or
more would be procured using ICB procedures. These contracts would include steel, pumps, transformers,
generators, construction and O&M equipment and machinery, communication and monitoring equipment
with an estimated total cost of $15.9 million. Qualified domestic bidders competing under ICB would be
eligible for a 15 percent preference in bid evaluation, or custom duties and import taxes payable by a non-
exempt importer, whichever is less. The remainder, mostly vehicles, would be procured through NCB
(estimated total cost: $2.4 million), except those contracts costing less than $50,000 (mostly office
equipment) which would be procured using National Shopping procedures (estimated total cost: $0.4
million).
10.    Procurement Review Thresholds for Goods: The following IDA-financed contracts would be
subject to IDA's prior review:
(a)    contracts for goods and equipment estimated to cost $300,000 or more;
(b)    the first NCB contract by each PA; and
(c)    contracts for borderline services such as GIS, aerial and satellite mapping.
All IDA-financed contracts not subject to IDA's prior review would be subject to post review on sample
basis.
11.    Procurement Documents: SBDs for Pakistan would be used after these are finalized by the
Borrower, WAPDA and IDA. Until these are finalized, IDA's SBDs for Procurement of Goods would be
used for contracts awarded using ICB procedures.
12.    Documents To be Reviewed Under Prior Review: In case of contracts for goods and works
subject to prior review, each of the following stages and related documentation in the procurement process
would be reviewed and commented upon by IDA before they are implemented by the Borrower or PA: (a)
advertising procedures; (b) pre-qualification invitation documents, and subsequent evaluation; (c) bidding
documents and addenda; (d) bid evaluation and the proposal for contract award; (e) contract documents, to
identify any differences from the proforma contract included in the bidding documents and to verify



73                                      ANNEX4
Page 4 of 6
consistency with bid evaluation; and (f) material modifications to the contract during execution. Since the
project involves numerous procurements of similar goods, works, and services by all participating
agencies, most commercial documents would be common to similar items of procurement, and hence will
be reviewed once and then used repetitively. Only modifications to the standard document to suit specific
procurement, if any, would need to be submitted to IDA each time for prior review.
CONSULTANCY SERVICES
13.    The Services: IDA would finance the following consulting services: (i) NDP Design and
Engineering Supervision Consultants (about 8596 man-months); (ii) sector planning and policy studies
consultants; and (iii) financial management and information systems consultants; (iv) social design and
environmental consultants; (v) monitoring and evaluation consultants; and (vi) other individual long- and
short-term consultants e.g. for training, development communications, editorial specialists, panels of
experts, accounting and auditing, etc.
14.    Selection of Consultants: All consultants whose services are financed from the IDA Credit will
be selected by PAs in accordance with procedures outlined in "Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981) ". IDA's Standard Letter of
Invitation and Standard Form of Contract for Consultants' Services will be used for consultancy services.
15.    Prior Review: The following IDA-financed contracts would be subject to IDA's prior review:
(a)    consultancy contracts with firms with estimated cost of $100,000 or more, and with
individuals with estimated cost of $50,000 or more;
(b)    the first contract for appointment of consultants for each PA;
(c)    contracts with firms awarded on single-source basis; and
(d)    consultancy contracts for assignments of a critical nature (e.g., because of environmental,
safety, or public health considerations, Panels of Experts, Consultants for the Enhanced
Supervision Arrangements, Sector Planning and Research, Monitoring and Evaluation
including Environmental Monitoring and Audit, Social Assessments, Resettlement,
Environmental    Assessments,   Information     Systems,    and    Financial
Management/Accounting and Auditing), regardless of value.
Terms of reference for all IDA-financed consultancy contracts would also be subject to prior review,
regardless of value. All IDA-fnanced contracts which are not subject to prior review would be subject to
post review on sample basis.
16.    In case of consultancy contracts which are subject to IDA's prior review, the Borrower would
submit for IDA's review relevant documents at each stage of the process by which the Borrower selects
consulting fimns including: (a) preparation of terms of reference and budget; (b) choice of selection
procedure; (c) preparation of the shortlist; (d) Letter of Invitation; (e) submission of the winning proposal
or the evaluation report; and (f) negotiation of the draft contract.
17.    In view of their specialized capabilities, technology transfer and institutional/capacity building
experience, and good results from previous and ongoing technical cooperation services, WAPDA may
contract directly the services of agencies of some member countries to support its "Institutional Program
for WAPDA's Water Wing" subcornponent and to support its "Research Program" subcomponent. In
order to increase accountability of the research institutes carrying out the drainage research programs,
participating drainage research institutes would enter into contracts with WAPDA to carry out their
research programs with payments linked to defined outputs and maintenance of agreed standards and
criteria. It is expected that WAPDA would award about 13 such contracts ($12.9 million).
18.    In addition to the above provisions, the following would be reviewed by IDA (for goods, works,
and consultancy contracts):



74                                       ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
(a)    any case in which the procedures used are not transparent or award recommendation is
irregular;
(b)    any case in which a complaint has been raised;
(c)    any request for re-bidding;
(d)    standard procurement documents to be used under the project;
(e)    proposals for extension of bid validity, or delays in contract award;
(f)    all advance procurement action, advance contracting, and procurement relating to
retroactive financing for ICB and NCB contracts;
(g)    all contracts which are proposed to be awarded to entities, companies, or agencies which
are part of, owned or controlled by, the Borrower, its Provinces, WAPDA, or any other
PA; and
(h)    sole-source procurement contracts.
19.    Contracts Under Prior Review Threshold: Since only the indicative pipeline of Investment
Projects is known with any degree of firmness, the number of contracts which are likely to fall under the
prior review threshold cannot be determined at this stage, but is estimated to be about $123.1 million for
works (about 60% of IDA-financed contracts), $15.9 million for goods (85% of IDA-fmanced contracts),
$76.9 million for consultancy services (98% of IDA-fnanced contracts), and $14.2 million for research
contracts (100% of IDA-financed contracts). About 67% of all IDA-financed contracts would be covered
by prior review, which is below the desirable level of 80%, but is acceptable because it has been selected to
strike a balance between the work load for IDA on prior review and an acceptable coverage for IDA-
financed contracts in number and value, given the potentially large number of PAs (several Regions and
Divisions of WAPDA, 4 PIDAs, 4 PAD-OFWMs and many more AWBs and FOs) and the likelihood that
the project will consist of a large number of small contracts or packages (especially for Investment Projects
sponsored by FOs). Moreover, it is justified by the following circumstances: (i) the Borrower, WAPDA,
and Provinces have demonstrated experience and capacity in procurement matters on similar Bank-
financed projects; (ii) technical assistance would be provided under the project to support their
organizations and conduct prior review of procurement decisions of participating agencies; (iii) each
agency would execute a large number of similar repetitive contracts; (iv) IDA and other NDP donors
would conduct more intensive post reviews of procurement decisions based on documentation prepared by
the project's supervisory consultants; and (v) the Borrower's ability, and indicated willingness to accept
responsibility for the risk of misprocurement, resulting in cancellation of Credit proceeds.
20.    Post Review: The prior review will be complemented by post review of a random sample of
awarded contracts and procurement-related documentation below the prior review thresholds; in the
following proportions: (i) for works, I in 20 of an estimated 883 such contracts; (ii) for goods, I in 15 of
an estimated 125 such contracts; and (iii) for consultancy services, I in 5 of an estimated 100 such
contracts. The post review would cover the final contract and any evaluation of proposals and award
recommendations. In case misprocurement is detected during post review, IDA will immediately institute
a more intensive review of past and future contract documentation for procurement undertaken by the
concerned PA. Contracts financed under parallel financing arrangements (e.g., by OECF and ADB) would
also be subject to post review by IDA on a sample basis to ensure their compatibility with the balance of
the project, satisfactory quality, timely delivery or completion, and acceptable pricing.
21.    Review of Procurement Documents/Decisions in IDA: In most instances, IDA's review would
be carried out in the IDA's Resident Mission in Pakistan for completeness and adherence to IDA
procurement policies and guidelines. In cases where mandatory review is required by the IDA's Regional
Procurement Adviser or higher authority, an initial review would be carried out in the IDA's Resident
Mission in Pakistan for completeness and adherence to IDA procurement policies and guidelines, and
subsequently will be reviewed by the appropriate authority.



75                                     ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLD
PROJECTED CONTRACT PROFILE BY VALUE/NUMBER
Range of Contract    Estimated Value (#) of   Cumulative Value (#)    Percentage of Total
Values (including   Contracts Within Each    Above Threshold        Value (#) Above
contingencies) $'000    Range $ Million           $ Million             Threshold
(1)                   (2)                    (3)                   (4)
Works
5,000 and above       123.1  (13)             162.3 (13)            60 (2)
1,000 to 4,999         66.6  (33)             189.7 (46)            92 (5)
0 to 999                17.3 (850)            207.0 (896)           100 (100)
Goods
300 and above          15.9 (35)             15.9 (35)               85 (22)
50 to 299               2.4 (25)             18.3 (60)               98 (38)
0to49                   0.4 (100)            18.7 (160)             100 (100)
Consultancy Services
5,000 and above        60.3 (3)              60.3  (3)               77 (2)
500 to 4,999            6.3 (5)              66.6  (8)               85 (5)
100 to 499             10.3 (41)             76.9  (49)             98 (33)
0 to99                  1.7 (100)            78.6  (149)            100(100)
Selected Prior Review Thresholds:
For Works: $5 million, with 60 percent value coverage
For Goods: $300,000, with 85 percent value coverage
For Consultancy Services: $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals with 98 percent value
coverage (100 percent for review of terms of reference)
Sample Post Review of Contracts Below Thresholds:
For Works: 1 in 20 of remaining 883 contracts
For Goods: 1 in 15 of remaining 125 contracts
For Consultancy Services: I in 5 of remaining 100 contracts



76                                     ANNEX 5
Page I of 2
DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
1.     Disbursement Against SOEs: IDA would disburse against Certified SOEs for the following types
of expenditures:
(a)    on contracts for works of less than $5,000,000 equivalent;
(b)    on contracts for equipments and vehicles of less than $300,000 equivalent;
(c)    on contracts for consultants services of less than $100,000 in the case of firms, and less
than $50,000 in the case of individuals;
(d)    for training expenditure; and
(e)    for incremental staff and operating costs.
All other expenditures would be supported by full documentation.
2.     SOE Documentation: Supporting documents for SOEs would not be submitted to IDA, but
would be retained by the PAs and be available to IDA during supervision. Each SOE would be supported
by a financial statement, separating investment and recurrent costs by expenditure category (such as civil
works, goods, and operating costs). Documentation for SOEs would include sufficient information to
enable IDA Supervision Missions to: (a) ensure an effective ex-post field review of documentation; (b)
verify and compare work performed, goods delivered, services provided, and payments made; (c) prepare
summary reports on detailed Investment Project information; and (d) meet IDA's requirements for
reporting source-of-supply information. If during implementation, IDA determines that the administrative
capacity of any PA is inadequate for complying with IDA's requirements for SOE documentation and
procedures, the NDP FMIS Unit would prepare and implement a plan for improvements.
3.     Annual Field Review of SOEs: Not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year of
project implementation, the NDP FMIS Unit would prepare for IDA's review, a report titled "Field Review
of SOE Documents" covering the entire the project. The objectives of the Review would be to: (a) verify
that expenditures are eligible for IDA financing; (b) establish the sufficiency and accuracy of supporting
documents maintained by the PAs for SOE disbursements; (c) assess, through discussions with independent
auditors, the continuing adequacy of procedures, systems, and controls used to monitor expenditures; (d)
ensure that the procurement procedures outlined in the Credit Agreement are being followed; and (e)
ensure that the required arrangements for timely independent audit of SOEs have been made.
Special Accounts
4.     Special Accounts:  To facilitate disbursements, Special Accounts in US Dollars would be
established in the National Bank of Pakistan, as follows:
(a)    Ministry of Water & Power: the Secretary, MW&P, Islamabad, with an initial deposit of
up to $100,000, to finance the costs of Federal Coordination and Supervision. The initial
deposit would be $50,000 until the aggregate deposits into this Special Account equal
$200,000;
(b)    WAPDA:
(i)    the General Manager (Finance) in Lahore, with an initial deposit of up to $2
million, to finance the costs of WAPDA Coordination, Institutional Reforms for
WAPDA's Water Wing and the Sector Planning and Research Component. The
initial deposit would be $1 million until the aggregate deposits into this Special
Account equal $4 million;



77                                    ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
(ii)   the General Manager (Water-South), in Hyderabad, with an initial deposit of up
to $5 million, to finance the costs of the Investment Component in Sindh
executed by WAPDA. The initial deposit would be $2.5 million until the
aggregate deposits into this Special Account equal $10 million;
(c)    Province of Sindh: the NDP Provincial Coordinator, Sindh Province, in Karachi or
Hyderabad, with an initial deposit of up to $5 million, to finance the costs of Provincial
Coordination, Institutional Reforms for PIDs, and Investment Component in Sindh
executed by the Province of Sindh. The initial deposit would be $2.5 million until the
aggregate deposits into this Special Account equal $10 million;
(d)    Province of Punjab: the NDP Provincial Coordinator, Punjab Province, in Lahore, with
an initial deposit of up to $2 million, to finance the costs of Provincial Coordination,
Institutional Reforns for PIDs, and the costs of the Investment Component in Punjab
Province executed by the Province of Punjab. The initial deposit would be $1 million
until the aggregate deposits into this Special Account equal $4 million;
(e)    NWFP: the NDP Provincial Coordinator, NWFP, in Peshawar, with an initial deposit of
up to $1 million, to finance the costs of Provincial Coordination and Institutional
Reforms for PIDs in NWFP executed by the NWFP. The initial deposit would be $0.5
million until the aggregate deposits into this Special Account equal $2 million; and
(f)    Province of Balochistan: the NDP Provincial Coordinator, Balochistan, in Quetta, with
an initial deposit of up to $0.5 million, to finance the costs of Provincial Coordination
and Institutional Reforms for PIDs in Balochistan Province executed by the Province of
Balochistan. The initial deposit would be $0.25 million until the aggregate deposits into
this Special Account equal $1 million.
5.     Expenditures to be Financed from the Special Account: The Special Account would be used to
finance all expenditures eligible for financing from the IDA Credit; and would not be used to finance
ineligible expenditure (such as duties and taxes, land acquisition, interest during construction, etc.).
6.     Replenishment: Withdrawal Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted on a monthly basis, or when 20 percent of the Special Account has been utilized, whichever
occurs earlier.



78                                     ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR PARTICIPATING AGENCIES (PAs)
1.     Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, each Participating Agency (PA) would satisfy the relevant
eligibility criteria to be eligible for incremental financing commitments from the IDA Credit for new
programs of activities to be commenced under the Project, and any new contracts to be awarded by it for
on-going Investment Projects. The eligibility criteria are outlined below.
2.     PIDAs, AWBs and FOs: Each PIDA, AWB and FO would satisfy the criteria indicated below to
be eligible for incremental financing commitments from the IDA Credit for new programs of activities to
be commenced under the Project, and any new contracts to be awarded by it for on-going Investment
Projects:
(a)    it has been established and is being operated as an autonomous entity;
(b)    it has signed a Participation Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, with the Province;
(c)    it has prepared and agreed with the NDP Coordination Cell a "Three Year Rolling
Business Plan for the PA's activities under the Project for the Fiscal Year and the two
next following Fiscal Years. The Plan shall demonstrate:
(i)    in case of a PIDA and an AWB, that the PIDA and AWB shall be financially
self-sustainable, so as to generate sufficient income (from all sources and
beneficiaries) to meet its O&M costs, operating costs, depreciation of assets, and
payments for irrigation and drainage services obtained by it', within a period not
exceeding ten years from date of establishment; and
(ii)    in case of an FO, that the FO shall be financially self-sustainable, so as to
generate: (aa) sufficient income (from all sources and beneficiaries) to meet its
O&M costs, operating costs, depreciation of assets, payments for irrigation and
drainage services obtained by it', and debt service payments; and (bb) sufficient
funds from its own resources and/or borrowings to meet its capital expenditures,
within a period not exceeding seven years from date of establishment.
(d)    it has achieved satisfactory progress in implementation of its Business Plan for the
previous Fiscal Year including:
(i)    achieving the projected (target) level of O&M expenditure; and
(ii)    achieving the projected (target) level of cost reduction, Abiana collection, and
cost sharing (beneficiary contributions).
(e)    it has appointed a firm/firm(s) of Chartered Accountants as independent auditors. The
firn of Chartered Accountants would be selected from the short-list of firms approved by
the Provincial NDP Cell; and
(f)    it has submitted to the NDP Coordination Cell unqualified Audited Financial Statements
for all completed fiscal years.
payment for irrigation and drainage services obtained would be made to upper-tier organizations,
e.g.: in case of an AWB, the upper-tier entity would be a PIDA.



79                                      ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
3.     PAD-OFWMs: Each PAD-OFWM would satisfy the criteria indicated below to be eligible for
incremental financing commitments from the IDA Credit for new programs of activities to be commenced
under the Project, and any new contracts to be awarded by it for on-going Investment Projects:
(a)    it has prepared and agreed with the NDP Coordination Cell a "Three Year Rolling
Business Plan for its activities under the Project for the Fiscal Year and the two next
following Fiscal Years;
(b)    it has achieved satisfactory progress in implementation of ils Business Plan for the
previous Fiscal Year including achieving the projected (target) level of cost sharing
(beneficiary contributions);
(c)    it has appointed a firm/firm(s) of Chartered Accountants as independent auditors. The
firm of Chartered Accountants would be selected from the short-list of firms approved by
the Provincial NDP Cell; and
(d)    it has submitted to the NDP Coordination Cell unqualified Audited Financial Statements
for all completed fiscal years.
4.     WAPDA: WAPDA's Water Wing would satisfy the criteria indicated below to be eligible for
incremental financing commitments from the IDA Credit for new programs of activities to be commenced
under the Project, and any new contracts to be awarded by it for on-going Investment Projects:
(a)    it has achieved progress, satisfactory to IDA, in the carrying out of its institutional reform
activities as agreed with IDA for the last preceding Fiscal Year of project implementation
(particularly on the strategic re-orientation and commitment to withdraw gradually from
construction of intra-Provincial drainage);
(b)    it has prepared and agreed with the NDP Coordination Cell on a "Three Year Rolling
Business Plan" for its activities under the Project for the Fiscal Year and the two next
following Fiscal Years;
(c)    it has achieved satisfactory progress in implementation of its Business Plan for the
previous Fiscal Year including:
(i)    meeting the projected (target) level of O&M expenditure; and
(ii)    meeting the projected (target) level for Abiana collection and cost sharing
(beneficiary contributions).
(d)    it has appointed a firm/firm(s) of Chartered Accountants as auditors for the project
beginning with FY96/97; and
(e)    it has submitted to the NDP Coordination Cell unqualified Auclited Financial Statements
for all completed fiscal years.
5.     The NDP Coordination Cell would verify and submit the necessary evidence (in structured tabular
format) to IDA regarding each PA, not later than March 31 of each year as part of the Consolidated
Business Plan for the project.



80                                      ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 12
AGREED ACTION PLAN
PREAMBLE
I.     This Agreed Action Plan sets out the actions which would be taken by the Borrower, Provinces
and the PAs during the implementation of the project. The Action Plan would be implemented during the
course of the project. The actions to be implemented each year would be discussed and fnalized during
annual discussions on the Business Plans and the NDP Portfolio Performance Review.
GENERAL
2.     Policy Actions: Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the Borrower and all Participating Agencies
(PAs), in consultation with IDA, would implement the actions committed to IDA by the Government of
Pakistan (GOP) in the Borrower's Sector Development Policy Letter dated August 20, 1995 and in the
Supplementary Sector Development Policy Letter dated October 3, 1995.
SECTOR PLANNING AND RESEARCH
Sector Planning
3.     Planning Studies: The Borrower, WAPDA, in consultation with IDA, would carry out the
following sector planning studies: (i) Irrigation and Drainage Atlas of Pakistan; (ii) Revenue Options for
WAPDA's Water Wing; (iii) Three Year Rolling NDP Public Sector Development Programs; (iv) Annual
NDP Portfolio Performance Reviews; (v) Efficacy of Past Drainage Investments; and (vi) Ninth Five Year
Plan.
4.     Feasibility Studies: The Borrower, Provinces, and WAPDA, in consultation with IDA, would
carry out the following feasibility studies: (i) for Investment projects which would be implemented under
the Investments Component; (ii) LBOD Stage II; and (iii) the follow-up project to NDP. WAPDA would,
in consultation with IDA also carry out the pre-feasibility study for the National Surface Drainage System
(NSDS); and if the pre-feasibility study confrms the NSDS's viability, carry out the full feasibility study
(including an Environmental Assessment and Resettlement Plan), financing plan, and legal framework for
its operation.
5.     National Water Policy: The Borrower, in consultation with IDA, would: (i) issue a broad Water
Policy Statement, which would provide an interim framework prior to the formulation of a comprehensive
policy; and (ii) prepare and issue a comprehensive "National Water Policy" to provide an appropriate
framework for water resources management.
6.     Regulation of Fresh Groundwater Exploitation: The Borrower, WAPDA and Provinces would,
in consultation with IDA: (i) introduce legislation to regulate fresh groundwater exploitation; and (ii)
strengthen regulatory capacity and enforcement during implementation of NDP.
7.     The Borrower, WAPDA and Provinces would undertake, in consultation with IDA, all the major
sector planning and policy studies which the Borrower has committed to IDA in its Sector Policy
Development Letter, including: (i) a National Salinity Survey; (ii) a study on pricing and distribution
policy on gypsum; and (iii) a study on water rights. WAPDA and Provinces would implement the
recommendations of the study on water rights in the pilot FO areas.
8.     Capital Cost Recovery: The Borrower and Provinces would formulate, in consultation with
IDA, proposals to ensure that recovery of capital costs is linked to benefits derived from the project
especially for large landholders.



81                                      ANNEX 7
Page2of 12
9.     NDP Sector Planning and Studies Consultants: The Borrower and WAPDA would engage the
NDP Sector Planning and Studies Consultants with qualifications, Terms of Reference, and staffing
satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1998.
Research
10.    Major Research Programs: WAPDA would undertake the research programs which are
proposed to be financed under the project, in consultation with IDA, including the following (the
sponsoring institutions are indicated in brackets): (a) Design and Maintenance of Surface Drains (ISRIP);
(b) Hydrologic Design of Surface Drains (IWASRI and CEWRRE); (c) Collaborative (Community) Pilot
Tile Drainage (DRIP); (d) Institutional Framework for Improved Sustainability and Productivity of
Irrigated Agriculture in Pakistan (IIMI and IFPRI); (e) A Sectoral Approach to Resource Monitoring using
GIS (WAPDA's Drainage Monitoring and Evaluation Organization); (f) Reuse and Disposal of Drainage
Water (IWASRI); (g) Impact of Pipe Drainage Systems on Land and Water (IWASRI); and (h) Hydraulic
and Salinity model of the Indus River System (CEWRE). Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Research
Institutes would also be eligible to participate in the research program.
11.    Funding for Participating Research Institutes: The Borrower would maintain its financing for
Participating Research Institutes (PRIs) at a level at least equal to the FY93/94-95/96 average in real terns.
INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS
Institutional Reforms for WAPDA's Water Wing
12.    Institutional Reforms: WAPDA would implement its Institutional Reforms Program for its
Water Wing laid out in its letter to IDA dated July 30, 1995, in consultation with IDA. WAPDA would: (i)
submit to, and agree with IDA, a detailed Action Plan with a schedule for its Institutional Reforms Prograrn
to IDA; and (ii) implement the Action Plan.
13.    Streamlining: WAPDA, in consultation with IDA, would carry out the following actions:
a)     one or more comprehensive assessments of its own institutional capacity and the
utilization and development of that capacity;
b)     prepare plans to address identified constraints;
c)     implement actions to increase the degree of decentralization of authority and
responsibility to line managers and field offices, shorten the procurement review and
approval cycle, streamline operations of field offices, and improve the coordination and
organization of its research effort;
d)     formulate new  service regulations and personnel policies to improve operational
efficiency including staffing and recruitment policies;
e)     streamline  key  operations,  including  procurement  procedures  and  contract
administration, accounting and financial management, and operations and maintenance
of federal irrigation and drainage infrastructure;
f)     if necessary, design and implement a manpower transition. program to address the
concems of staff and labor of WAPDA's Water Wing which may arise in the course of
implementing the Water Wing's Institutional Reforms Program, and to assist their
transition into other aspects of WAPDA's operations or elsewhere outside the
organization, in order to ease the burden which this institutional program may impose on
the staff and managers;



82                                     ANNEX 7
Page3of 12
g)     restructure its Planning Division, starting with the various Departments/Cells concerned
with monitoring and research by reorganizing them in order to provide a more coherent
arrangement and avoid duplication, by implementing the recommendation of the NDP
Feasibility Study Consultants' Report, for example by: (a) locating all M&E, research,
and studies units under a newly established Senior Manager - the General Manager
(Monitoring and Research) - who would also control the SCARPs Monitoring
Organization (SMO), Watercourse Monitoring and Evaluation Directorate (WMED), the
International Waterlogging and Salinity Research Institute (IWASRI), Mona Research
Station, and the Lower Indus Water Management and Reclamation Research Institute
(LIM); (b) discontinuing benefit monitoring by SMO, reassigning the function to
WMED, and reconstituting WMED as the Directorate General of Benefit Evaluation; and
(c) merging the Soil Reclamation Directorate (SRD) into the Soil Survey Unit of SMO;
h)     carry out O&M of inter-Provincial infrastructure, and  other infrastructure which is
intended to be maintained by the O&M Directorate of WAPDA's Water Wing, on the
basis of multi-year O&M Performance Contracts. This would be subject to identification
of financing mechanisms; and
i)     make special efforts to employ women in as many professional and leadership positions
as possible, particularly where this facilitates interaction with and participation of women
beneficiaries.
14.    Capacity Building: WAPDA's Water Wing, in consultation with IDA, would:
a)     engage specialists and other consultants as needed to assist WAPDA to:
i)     formulate, codify, and publish its operational policies;
ii)    implement the project's Environmental Management Plan (EMP), Wetlands
Management Plan (WMP);
iii)    prepare Environmental Impact Assessments (ElAs), Environmental Action
Plans (EAPs) for Investment Projects implemented by WAPDA or other
agencies, and strengthen its Environmental Cell (WEC);
iv)    strengthen its monitoring and evaluation (M&E) functions;
v)     conduct physical, performance, portfolio, socioeconomic, and environmental
monitoring of drainage projects throughout the Indus Basin;
vi)    design and implement a multimedia public awareness and communication
campaign to encourage behavioral change among opinion leaders and policy
makers by raising public awareness about the causes, dangers, and remedies of
waterlogging and salinity, and the consequences of over-irrigation;
vii)   encourage public participation in projects implemented by its Water Wing;
viii)   promote effective demand for drainage services offered by the project; and raise
public awareness at the national level of the environmental implications of
drainage partly by integration of waterlogging and salinity in the environmental
education curriculum;
ix)    review and improve its procurement and contract administration systems;



33                                       ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 12
x)     strengthen financial management in its Finance Division;
xi)    strengthen information systems management, including by establishment of a
NDP Project Information System (NDPIS), Water Sector Information System
(WSIS) and Water Sector Portfolio Information System. (WSPIS);
xii)    strengthen its Planning Division;
xiii)   encourage the private sector to participate in irrigation amd drainage; and
xiv)    strengthen its training functions.
b)      establish':
i)     an Operations Policy Cell to strengthen its capaciity for formulating and
implementing a dynamic operational culture and decenlralization policy;
ii)    an autonomous Evaluation Cell which would report to lthe Authority through the
Member (Water) to establish an institutional capacity to learn from its
operations and policies, and to conduct independent evaluation of such
operations and policies;
iii)   a Social, Gender, and Public Participation Cell to strengthen its capacity for
public participation and manage social dimensions of water resources
development, including land acquisition, resettlement, social assessments,
empowerment of beneficiaries, cost recovery, gender participation and
sensitivity, and partnership with NGOs. WAPDA would agree the Terms of
Reference of the Cell with IDA; and staff it with social scientists whose
qualifications and experience would be agreed withl IDA. WAPDA would
appoint a Senior Adviser, Gender and Participation to provide momentum to
and coordinate participation and gender initiatives under the Project. WAPDA
would also appoint a Senior Adviser, NGO Coordination to provide momentum
to and coordinate partnerships with NGOs under the Project;
iv)    a Public Information Center and Library to establish an. institutional capacity for
collecting, storing, retrieving and sharing with the public, information and data
pertaining to Pakistan's water resources;
v)     a Publications Cell to strengthen its capacity to produce quality publications and
reports, including production and editing for project-related and operational
reports, technical and professional publications; and
vi)    a Private Sector Partnership Cell to strengthen partnerships with the private
sector, on planning, selection and design of projects; and on Operation and
Maintenance. WAPDA would appoint a Senior Adviser, Private Sector
Partnership to provide momentum to and coordinate private sector partnership
aspects under the Project.
The objectives of establishing the Cells listed above may also be achieved by other alternative organizational
arrangements to be made by WAPDA in consultation with the Borrower and IDA.



84                                     ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 12
Institutional Reforms for PIDs
15.    Decentralization and Management Transfer: Provinces would implement the Institutional
Reforms Program for Provinces (decentralization and management transfer) in accordance with the
principles laid out in GOP's Sector Development Policy Letter to IDA dated August 20, 1995, the
Supplementary Policy Letter dated October 3, 1995.
16.    Review of PIDA Statute: The Borrower and Provinces would annually review the PIDA
Ordinance based on the experience of implementation, and would agree with IDA, ADB and OECF on any
amendments and improvements to the Statute.
17.    Functions of AWBs: The Borrower and Provinces would agree on the functions and powers of
the AWBs with IDA by June 30, 1997. The functions and powers of the AWB would be consistent with
the provisions of the PIDA Ordinance, and would inter alia include: (i) to receive irrigation water supplies
from the PIDA at the canal headworks and deliver the same to the various FOs falling within its territorial
jurisdiction on distributary/minor basis or to any other entity; (ii) to receive the drainage effluent from the
various FOs or any other entities located within its territorial jurisdiction and convey the same through
relevant drains constructed for this purpose; (iii) to establish the rate at which it will supply irrigation water at
its disposal to the various FOs located within its territorial jurisdiction after due consultation with the
Provincial Government and FOs concerned; (iv) to formulate and implement policies with a view to achieve
and continuously improve effective, economical and efficient utilization of irrigation water at its disposal on a
financially and environmentally sustainable basis; (v) to operate and maintain the irrigation and drainage,
storage reservoirs and flood control infrastructure located within its territorial jurisdiction and to plan, design,
construct and/or improve the same to ensure supply of irrigation water to water users within its jurisdiction
and conveyance and/or disposal of drainage effluent on reasonable and efficient basis; (vi) to execute,
implement and maintain, after prior written agreement as to the relevant terms and conditions and the extent
and mode of payment for the same, such scheme(s) as may be entrusted to it by the PIDA or by any agency or
entity of the Government; (vii) to establish criteria and procedures for granting, modifyring, reassigning,
renewing, suspending or revoking any concessions, licenses or subleases granted by it to any FO or other
person as well as for the management of the infrastructure in the event of suspension or revocation of a
concession, license or sublease; (viii) to formulate and implement policies with a view to ensuring that within
a period not exceeding ten years from the date of its constitution it becomes fully operative as a self supporting
and financially self sustaining entity for O&M costs; and (ix) in close cooperation with the Transition Wing of
the PIDA, adopt and implement policies aimed at promoting formation, growth and development of FOs.
18.    Coordinating Agency: Provinces would designate their Planning and Development Departments
or Planning and Development Boards (P&DDs), as the Provincial NDP Cells, to coordinate and oversee the
decentralization and management transfer process.
19.    Decentralization and Management Transfer Process:  Each Province would prepare and
implement the decentralization and management transfer (MT) process including: (a) delineating the
physical boundaries of the proposed PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs taking into account hydraulic features of the
irrigation schemes, social aspects, and economies of scale which apply; (b) outlining the rights and
obligations of PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs and drafting applicable Statutes including the necessary rules and
regulations, constituting PIDAs, AWBs and FOs; (c) formally registering those PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs
that are formed under the project with the appropriate authority; (d) facilitating the involvement of users
and the farming community at large in formulating the transfer program, its objectives, and process; (e)
organizing farmers into FOs, and conducting or overseeing elections of office bearers; (f) formalizing
"Titles of Leasehold" for the infrastructure to FOs, AWBs and PIDAs; (g) carrying out inventories of
machinery and equipment, including lists of assets to be transferred and assessments of the need for
additional equipment and/or repair of existing equipment; (h) preparing instruction manuals and
operational handbooks for PIDAs, AWBs and FOs, and master plans for rehabilitating or modernizing the
infrastructure, the related financial plans and policies to ensure financial viability, and detailed
programs/schedules for the transfer; (i) preparing and implementing training programs in which PIDAs,



85                                      ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 12
AWBs, and FOs jointly determine their technical and training needs; (j) carrying out the physical and legal
transfer of the system, infrastructure, machinery and equipment to the PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs; and (k)
implementing a Staffing, Operational and Financial Plan designed to address the concerns of staff and
labor of PIDAs which may arise, and where necessary, to assist their transition into other aspects of the
new entities' operations or elsewhere in order to ease the burden which the Institutional Program may
impose on the staff.
20.    Depending on technical and other considerations for viability, Provinces would establish AWBs
on each of Pakistan's canal commands, or on a combination thereof, beginning with pilots. Provinces
would also establish village-level FOs under the transition of FGW tubewells Investment Projects and
distributary level FOs. The overriding criteria for design of the distributary level FOs would be to establish
them at such sizes that would enable them to employ modern management skills, equipment, and
technology, optimize economic efficiency and financial viability, and equip/enable them to negotiate and
fulfill contract terms with AWBs and banks, subject to appropriate hydraulic and sociological limitations.
21.    Organization and Functions: Provinces would: (i) maintain PIDAs, AWBs and FOs under
organizational structures, functions, statutes, staffing, regulatory framework, all satisfactory to IDA, for the
period of project implementation and post-completion monitoring; and (ii) promptly inform IDA of any
proposed change in the organizational structures, functions, statutes, staffing, or regulatory framework.
22.    Streamlining and Cost Reduction in Operations of Decentralized Irrigation Institutions:
PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs would implement measures aimed at reducing O&M costs, and thereby reduce the
cost recovery base including: (a) formulating new service regulations and personnel policies; (b)
streamlining machine operations; (c) updating and revising service and technical manuals; (d) improving
accounting and financial management systems; (e) conducting specific diagnostic analyses and implement
subsequent action plans to streamline operations of selected drainage circles; (f) streamlining financing and
utilization of the O&M budget - inter alia by linking O&M financing with collection of Abiana (the
financing aspect of streamlining) and increasing the share of works in the budget (the utilization aspect of
streamlining) in selected pilot areas; (g) streamlining implementation of off-farm drainage O&M through
Performance Contracts (PCs) or Rehabilitate and Operate Contracts (ROCs) or other scheme awarded to
the private sector on competitive basis, and designating Drainage Circles for PCs; (h) initiating pilots to
test decentralization of Abiana assessment and collection during implementation of NDP, and designate
Circles where pilots to test decentralization of Abiana assessment and implementation would be
implemented; (i) rationalizing "Abiana" schedule; 0) building their capacities for delivery of services
under the new framework; transferring on-farm drains and tertiary drains to FOs and WUAs; and (k)
transitioning as many FGW tubewells as possible.
23.    Manuals: Provinces would: (i) prepare a "Manual of Operations" that would be specific to the
requirements of each Province, PIDA, AWB or FO; (ii) prepare a "Manual of Regulations for Autonomous
Bodies" in consultation with PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs; and (iii) prepare a "Manual of Regulations for FGW
Exploitation" in consultation with FOs that would be specific to the requirements of each Province.
24.    Study on Procedure for Pricing for Irrigation and Drainage Services: The Borrower and
Provinces would conduct a study on procedures for pricing of irrigation and drainage services in the
decentralized irrigation and drainage system. The study would, inter alia, examine mechanisms for
consultations and negotiations between the parties concerned (i.e., PIDA and AWB, or AWBs and FOs).
The study would be completed by June 30, 1998 and be implemented in the pilot AWB and FO areas by
December 31, 1998.
25.    Delivery and Pricing for Wholesale Irrigation and Drainage Services: PIDAs, AWBs, and
FOs would design, testlpilot, and if successful, implement a system of demand, delivery, and payment of
wholesale irrigation and drainage services all based on advance planning prior to the agricultural seasons.
Under such a system, PIDAs would eventually deliver services to AWBs baseid on the aggregate demand
from them, while AWBs would do likewise based on aggregate demand from FOs, who would base theirs



86                                      ANNEX 7
Page 7 of 12
on the demand from WUAs. Payment would be determined through negotiations at these aggregate levels
as well; and losses (arising from operational inefficiencies arising from mismanagement and/or
overstaffing, non-recovery of charges; leakages due to corruption; or system losses due to excessive
seepage or poor maintenance) would be absorbed by the responsible parties, and not transmitted system-
wide. PIDAs would have the power to set water charges to AWBs only; and would sell wholesale
irrigation and drainage services to them on a full cost-recovery basis. PIDAs' receivables from individual
AWBs would be independent of AWBs' receipts. from FOs; and losses would not be transferred from one
AWB to another. PIDAs would compensate AWBs for services for which AWBs are not expected to
recover costs; or which they carry out at the behest or direction of PIDAs. AWBs would similarly set
wholesale charges and deliver services to, and obtain payment from, individual FOs; and FOs would do so
likewise with WUAs.
26.    Recruitment of Managing Directors and Senior Officers of PIDAs, AWBs and FOs: PIDAs
and AWBs would recruit Managing Directors and Senior Officers from PIDs and/or the market through
transparent processes (i.e., including by advertising in the press, and the use of specialized professional
management recruitment firms). Managing Directors and Senior Officers would be acceptable to IDA.
27.    Accountability, Efficiency, and Autonomy: PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs established as part of the
project's Institutional Reform Program would be: (i) audited by Chartered Accountants appointed in
consultation with IDA; and (ii) established and run in accordance with generally accepted business
practice, under which Owners (whether Provinces or farmers), Board of Directors, and Management would
be completely separate.
28.    Regulatory and Corporate Oversight: Provinces would (i) establish a Policy & Regulation
Wing of PIDAs when existing PIDs are decentralized into PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs; (ii) assign
responsibility for establishing policy and regulating the operations of entities in the sector to the Wing; and
(iii) prepare and agree with IDA the regulatory and corporate oversight mechanism for the decentralized
irrigation and drainage system by December 31, 1997.
29.    Legal Cell: Each PIDA would establish a Legal Cell with Terms of Reference and staff,
including Chief Legal Counsel/Officer, agreed with IDA, by December 31, 1997, to advise on regulatory
and legal matters relating to the decentralized irrigation and drainage system.
30.    Water Allocation Committees: To improve the transparency of allocation of irrigation supplies,
each PIDA, AWB, and FO would establish, a "Water Allocation Committee, or WAC" for each point of
off-take (i.e. from barrages to canal headworks, from headworks to distributaries, and from distributaries to
watercourses). The WACs would publish annually or more regularly in the local press and in the
Provinces' or Districts' official gazette the allocations of irrigation supplies, with comparisons of
rated/authorized versus actual allocations.
31.    Construction Partnership and Handover Agreements:  WAPDA would sign framework
"Construction Partnership and Handover Agreements" with PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs for which it intends to
construct facilities and which would later be handed over to them.



87                                       ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 12
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
32.    Business Plan: All PAs would prepare and implement "Three Year Rolling Business Plans". The
Plan would include procurement, staffing, operations, and financing plans.
33.    Project Preparation Guidelines: The Borrower's Planning Commission (Water Wing) would
update guidelines for selection, preparation, and evaluation of irrigation and drainage investment projects
to include "basin orientation", and to explicitly integrate social, environment, resettlement, handover, and
post-completion O&M aspects.
34.    Provincial NDP Cells: Provinces would establish Provincial NDP Cells, each of which would be
headed by Provincial NDP Coordinators appointed by the ACS Development/Chairman of the P&DD
Board with responsibility for day-to-day coordination and supervision of the project in the Province on
behalf of the ACS (Development)/Chairman P&D Board. Provinces would re:locate the Provincial NDP
Cells to P&DDs in order to reflect more closely the multi-agency design of the project.
35.    Procurement Management2: WAPDA, in consultation with IDA, would: (i) establish an NDP
Procurement Unit with terms of reference, staffing from WAPDA and procurement consultants and budget;
(ii) appoint one or more consultants with internationally recognized professional qualifications in
procurement administration as NDP Procurement Advisers; (iii) delegate final approval authority for all
procurement for civil works contracts below $20 million, goods contracts below $10 million, and
consultancy contracts below $10 million which are financed under the project and implemented by
WAPDA to a "NDP Procurement Review Sub-committee" of the Authoriity established under the
respective General Manager, and with representation from the NDP Procurement Unit; and (iv) delegate
powers to the NDP Program Coordinator to approve up to 80 percent of the procurement values which are
expected to require WAPDA's approval under the project.
36.    Procurement Plans: (i) WAPDA and Provinces will prepare detailed Three-Year Rolling
Procurement Plans as part of their Three-Year Rolling Business Plans; (ii) the NDP Coordination Cell in
WAPDA will consolidate the procurement plans of participating agencies, and submit the combined Three-
Year Rolling Procurement Plan for IDA's review and approval annually by March 31, together with the
project's Combined Business Plan; and (iii) Contracts for civil works will be considered only as part or
parts of complete Investment Projects and be awarded only after the Investment Projects have been
approved by IDA.
37.    Disbursements: The NDP FMIS Unit (an organizational arm of the NDP Coordination Cell and
NDP Provincial Cells) would prepare and submit Withdrawal Applications for eligible expenditures
financed by PAs to IDA within 180 days of the date of incurring the expenditure. Eligibility for such
expenditures for financing under the Credit would be limited to the cut-off date of 180 days. Where Special
Accounts are established or used, the Replenishment Applications would be subnmitted on a monthly basis.
38.    Community Supervision: All PAs would establish Community Advisory Committees (CACs)
on various issues which require the local knowledge, advisory inputs and active participation of NGOs,
farmers' associations, local community leaders and other stakeholders to help them manage better the
interface of the project with impacted communities including, but not limited to, land acquisition,
2      Since Negotiations, WAPDA has proposed the following alternative arrangement: "WAPDA in consultation
with IDA, would: (i) establish an NDP Procurement Unit with staffing from WAPDA, Procurement Consultants and
Finance; (ii) appoint a Consultant with internationally recognized professional qualification in procurement
administration as NDP Procurement Adviser; and (iii) constitute an NDP Procurement Rleview Committee headed by
the Regional General Manager comprising the Project Consultants and the NDP Project Manager or his representative
to carry out one step evaluation of procurement contracts including works, goods and consultancy, where applicable.
The report of this Committee will be reviewed by CCC before approval from Managing Director (Water) or the
Authority as the case may be".



88
ANNEX 7
Page 9 of 12
environment, protection of local wetland resources and similar interventions which may be important to the
livelihoods of local communities.
39.    NDP Consultants: WAPDA would appoint one or more firms as NDP Consultants (including,
but not limited to, NDP Engineering Design and Supervision Consultants; and NDP Sector Planning and
Studies Consultants collectively referred to as NDP Consultants) to provide direct supervision of, and
implementation assistance to the PAs. WAPDA would cause NDP Consultants to establish a collective
Board of Management (BOM) consisting of the representatives of the organizations represented in the
NDP Consultants for coordination and supervision, and which would meet quarterly to review
implementation progress and deal with issues that may arise. WAPDA's General Manager (Planning)
would be an ex-officio member of the Board of Management. WAPDA would cause the Team Leaders of
the NDP Consultants to establish an Executing Committee, to which the BOM would delegate its
responsibilities and which would meet monthly.
40.    NDP Client Service Teams: WAPDA would ensure that staff of the NDP Units in WAPDA
Divisions (e.g. NDP Coordination Cell, FMIS Unit, NDP Procurement Unit/Cell, Social Cell), and of NDP
Consultants are deployed to assist or serve PAs only at the written request of the Chief Executive or
authorized representative of the PA. WAPDA would cause NDP Consultants, the PA's representative, and
counterpart staff of WAPDA Divisions' NDP Units to form "NDP Client Service Teams", whose task
would be to assist and supervise PAs on the basis of clear objectives, specific Terms of Reference, budgets,
schedules, and service indicators agreed between the NDP Coordination Cell and the PA's representative;
and which would be led by the representative of the PA (or failing, the nominee of the NDP Program
Coordinator).
41.    Evaluation Reports: The Chief Executives of PAs would complete one or more Evaluation
Reports using standardized formats, prepared by the NDP Coordination Cell (WAPDA) in consultation
with IDA, during and after the completion of each NDP Service Contract by the Client Service Team.
These evaluation reports would be compiled by the NDP Working Party with the assistance of NDP Sector
Planning and Studies Consultants.
42.    Operating Regulations: WAPDA's NDP Cell would formulate the Operating Regulations and
Manual of Procedures for the Project in close consultations with other PAs, and issue them to all PAs after
the endorsement of the Federal Program Steering Committee (FPSC) and IDA. The Operating
Regulations and Manual of Procedures would specify the general principles, terms and conditions for
financing under the project, roles and responsibilities of each PA, procedures for Investment Project
preparation and selection, eligibility criteria for PAs, eligible expenditures for financing, and a glossary of
terms. These Operating Regulations would be an integral part of the "Participation Agreement" to be
entered into between Provinces and PAs. WAPDA's NDP Cell would update the Operations Regulations
and Manual of Procedures periodically (at least annually).
43.    Participation Agreements: WAPDA (NDP Coordination Cell) and Provinces (Provincial NDP
Cells) would enter into "Participation Agreements" with PAs which are being financed by the project.
44.    Operational Manuals and Procedures: Each PA would develop detailed Operational Manuals
and Procedures in consultation with the NDP Design and Engineering Supervision Consultants for each
Investment Project; and submit them to IDA no later than one year prior to completion of the Investment
Project.
45.    Interest During Construction (IDC): The Borrower's Planning Commission would examine
and make modifications in the necessary procedures to ensure that IDC is capitalized and not deducted
during implementation; but is calculated at completion of Investment Projects and included in the final
project cost.



89                                      ANNEX 7
Page IO of 12
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS
46.    The NDP FMIS Unit: WAPDA would establish in its NDP Coordination Cell, or in its Finance
Division, a NDP Financial Management and Information Systems (FMIS) Unit headed by a Financial
Controller reporting to the General Manager (Finance) of WAPDA, which would have overall
responsibility for the Project Account(s). WAPDA would staff the NDP FMIS Unit with professionally
qualified accountants (i.e. Chartered Accountants), management specialists, and information systems
professionals.
47.    Financial Management and Information Systems (FMIS) Consultants: The General Manager
(Finance) of WAPDA would engage a firm of Chartered Accountants/Manageiment Consultants to assist
WAPDA and PAs improve their financial management, accounting, budgeting, and cost control systems;
and management information systems in all functional areas by June 30, 1998.
48.    General Manager-Finance of PIDAs and AWBs: Each PIDA and AWB would appoint a
professionally qualified accountant (i.e., Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant) as General Manager-
Finance.
49.    Technical Assistance: WAPDA would, through the NDP FMIS Unit and the FMIS Consultants,
provide technical assistance to PAs in the preparation of their Financial Statements, verify and consolidate
them as part of their implementation assistance role on behalf of the Borrower, Provinces, and IDA. The
NDP FMIS Unit would prepare, maintain, and update "Consolidated Project Costs, Financing Plan, and
Accounts" for the entire project monthly, quarterly, annually, and cumulatively.
50.    Audit Arrangements: The Borrower, Provinces, and WAPDA would appoint a firm(s) of
Chartered Accountants to audit the Financial Statements for the project. PAs which fail to submit their
audited accounts within six months to the NDP FMIS Unit in WAPDA wouldL not be eligible for funds
from all project sources (i.e. Bank, the Borrower, Provinces, and other donors).
51.    Project Information Systems: The NDP FMIS Unit would develop a unified: (i) "Project
Financial Accounting and Management System"; (ii) "Project Information System (NDPIS)" which would
link the financial information system to all the project's activities and organization; and (iii) "Water Sector
Information System (WSIS)" linking the NDPIS to the socioeconomic, environrnental, infrastructural, and
hydrologic database of the project and the rest of the IBIS.
INFORMATION DISCLOSURE
52.    Project Policy: The Borrower, WAPDA, and Provinces would subscribe to the project's policy
and standards in favor of a high degree of public participation and disclosure of project information to the
public and the stakeholders in particular, inter alia, by endorsing a suitably worded generic statement
prepared by the NDP Coordination Cell to that effect. They would hold at Least one consultative and
informative public meeting in March before the formulation of the year's work program and budget; and
during the middle of the fiscal year to brief the stakeholders about the PA's progress in implementing the
year's work program and budget. The Participation Agreements with PAs would reflect the information
disclosure policy of the project i.e., a general presumption would exist in favor of public disclosure and
widespread dissemination of all of the project's formal/official reports, through publication of summary
leaflets and paid advertisements in local newspapers with translations in the local languages.
53.    Release of Documents of Public Interest: The Borrower, Provinces, and WAPDA would
translate the Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment (DSEA) and other project related documents of
public interest into local languages; summarize these documents and release them to the public before the
Mid-term Review through the media and Public Information Center and Library to be established by
WAPDA under the project. WAPDA would translate all "Three Year Rolling Business Plans" for PAs, all
RAPs, EIAs, and Investment Project Feasibility Study Reports into the local languages and disseminate



90                                       ANNEX 7
Page 11 of 12
them widely to stakeholders, including through the local press in English and Urdu. WAPDA would
arrange for the full ElAs and RAPs to be available in the local language on demand from affected
populations and NGOs.
54.    Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements: WAPDA would publish the Annual Report
and Audited Financial Statements, the Annual Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Report, and the
Environmental and Resettlement Report of the project as a whole, or substantive excerpts thereof, in the
local press; and hold at least one public hearing meeting with stakeholders (including farmers, staff and
contractors) in its Headquarters and Regional Offices to discuss the Annual Report and Audited Financial
Statements. Each PA would publish its Annual Reports in the local press, and hold at least one public
briefing meeting with its stakeholders to discuss its Annual Reports and Audited Financial Statements.
55.    Quarterly Bulletin/Newsletter:  The NDP Cells would publish and distribute nationally a
quarterly bulletin or newsletter to educate and inform the public and project-affected persons about the
project's objectives, activities, policies, programs, and achievements. The magazine or bulletin would
recognize and highlight significant achievements of individuals, PAs and other agencies in support of the
project's objectives.
56.    Radio and Television Programs: The GOP's MW&P, WAPDA and Provinces would sponsor or
facilitate radio and television programs to communicate the project's objectives to the public in such
regularity as they may deem appropriate.
57.    Public Information Center and Library (PICL): WAPDA's Water Wing would establish and
maintain a Public Information Center and Library (PICL) in Lahore, Regional Offices and other publicly
accessible offices of WAPDA, PIDAs, and AWBs, which would be used as collection, storage, and
dissemination centers for public information regarding the project, water resources development issues in
Pakistan in general, and participatory irrigation and drainage management (PIM). All PICLs would be
accessible/open to the public, particularly the academic community, PAs, NGOs, students, and the press.
The PICLs would contain up-to-date copies of project information, which would be prominently displayed
with the intention of attracting the interest of the reading public.
58.    Action Plan for Information, Public Communication, Education, and Participation: WAPDA
will submit and agree with IDA, and implement, a comprehensive Three Year Rolling Action Plan for
Information, Public Communication, Education, and Participation, prepared in collaboration with the
Borrower, Provinces and IDA, and with the assistance of development communication and media
professionals recruited under the project; and implement the program.
SOCIAL ASPECTS
59.    Private Sector Partnership, Participation and Gender Aspects: The Borrower, WAPDA, and
Provinces would: (i) pay particular attention to and promote partnerships with the private sector in the
selection, design, planning, implementation, and supervision of NDP; (ii) introduce public participation in
planning investment schemes and O&M during implementation of NDP; (iii) expand NGO role in
irrigation and drainage during implementation of NDP; (iv) pay particular attention to and promote
participation of women in the selection, design, implementation, and supervision of NDP; and (v) make
special efforts to employ women in as many professional and leadership positions as possible, particularly
where this would facilitate interaction with/participation of women beneficiaries.
60.    Social Assessments: WAPDA and Provinces would conduct Social Assessments (SAs) for all
Investment Projects and for FOs established under the project.
61.    Stakeholders Surveys:  WAPDA's Planning Division would conduct a formal survey of
stakeholders annually. Each survey would be presented to collective groups of PAs and to the public at



91                                     ANNEX 7
Page 12 of 12
public meetings within six months after the completion of every fiscal year. The reports would be
presented/packaged in dosages which have information that is likely to be of local interest.
62.    Resettlement: The Borrower would cause WAPDA and Provinces Ito adopt and publish the
Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement (FLAR) agreed with IDA for NDP as the policy for
land acquisition and resettlement under the project
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
63.    Environmental Impact Assessment: WAPDA  and Provinces would prepare ELAs for
environmentally-sensitive Investment Projects, which will include Environmental Action Plans (EAPs).
The EIAs will be submitted by the NDP Cells for approval by the respective Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA), and thereafter submitted to IDA and the directly concerned cofmancier for review and
approval, before a Investment Project is approved for funding. For identified Investment Projects,
Provincial EPAs, in collaboration with WAPDA's Environmental Cell and Provincial NDP Cells would
arrange for public consultations in coordination with EPAs, NGOs, and other relevant organizations.
Environmental Management Committees (EMCs) would be established for those Investment Projects
which require mitigating measures.
64.    Basin-wide Environmental Monitoring and Management:  The Borrower would cause
WAPDA and Provinces to prepare in consultation with the Provinces, and agree with IDA on the
following: (i) a program of policies and actions to strengthen environmental management; (ii) policy and
regulatory framework to monitor extraction of fresh groundwater aquifers and control intrusion of saline
groundwater into fresh groundwater aquifers, and disposal of industrial effluents into waterways; (iii) a
National Wetland Management Plan; and (iv) a program of studies, research, and capacity building under
NDP.
65.    Wetlands Management Plan (WMP):  (i) WAPDA and Provinces would implement the
project's WMP with due diligence; and (ii) any proposal to drain the Sindh Riverine areas, areas between
the main drains and the coast, flood plains, or lake shores, would be subject to full ELAs, in accordance
with Pakistan's Environmental Protection Laws and Bank policy, prior to seeking IDA's approval for the
Investment Project. WAPDA would take a lead role in the project's WMP.
66.    Effluent Disposal: WAPDA and Provinces would prepare and agree with IDA on: (i) a national
strategy for effluent disposal from the Indus Basin; and (ii) initiate the shift from drainage tubewells to sub-
surface tile drains systems during implementation of NDP.
67.    NDP Environment and Social Design Consultants:  WAPDA would engage the NDP
Environment and Social Design Consultants with qualifications, Terms of Reference, and staffing
satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1998.
68.    Monitoring and Evaluation: WAPDA would establish and maintain an effective M&E
organization and system for the project as a whole; and to this end will collaborate with the Provinces.
69.    NDP M&E Consultants: WAPDA would engage the NDP M&E Consultants with qualifications,
Terms of Reference, and staffing satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1998.



92                         ANNEX 8
Page l of4
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE FOR NDP



STAKE-            BORROWER                 WAPDA (Water Wing)                   PROVINCES                CONSULTANTS &              FARMERS &              DONORS
IIOLDERS                                                                                                   CONTRACTORS                   NCOs
PIRINCIIPAI.     * Secretary, F,AD       * Authorily                         * ACS/Chainman, P&DD        * Engineerinig Design &    * Individual          * IDA
IPARTNIERS       * Secretary, MW&P       * Member (Waler)                    * I'rovincial NDP              Supervision Consultants    Farmers            * ADB
* Spe-cial Secretary,  * (NM (Planning)                      Coordinator, P&DD            (The Engineers)          * Farmers' Groups    * OECF
MW&P                 * ND)l Program Coordiniator         * Clidi Water, P&DD)         * Sector Pl'anning &       * P'articipating     * World Bank
* Deputy Cliairmanl      (WAPDA)                            * Secretary, I'I)             Studies Consultanits       Colimliilimuity      Monilor
CDWI'                * GM (Finance)                       * Secretary, I'D            * FMIS Consultanits          Developmeiit
* Secretary, IFD       * GM (Monitoring & Research)         * Secretary, Implementation   * Advisors for             Groups
* Secretary, P&D)D)    * GMs (4 Regions)                    * Secretary, Agriculture      Institutional Relorms    * FOs
* Secretary,           * GM (Central Contracts Cell)       * I)-G, OFWM                   and Rescarch             * WllAs
AgricLulture         * GM (Training)                     * D-G, Provincial EPA        * External Auditors
* Chief (Water),       * Director-Generals of lParticipating    * Managing Director, I'IDA   * Environmental Auditors
P&DD                   Research Institutions             * Managing Directors,        * Civil Works Contractors
* Federal NDP                                                AWBs                         Pakistan Engineering
Coordinator, FIDC                                        * CE, Development, PID         Council, Law Society,
* CE, Circles, PID            Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Pakistan
& Other Professional
Socictics.
t e



STAKE-            BORROWER                 WAPDA (Water Wing)                   PROVINCES                CONSULTANTS &              FARMERS &              DONORS
HOLDERS                                                                                                    CONTRACT ORS                  NGOs
PRIMARY          * Credit & PIroject     * Project Agreement                 * Project Agreement         * The Engineer             * Establishmein of    * Donor
ROLL OR            Agreement             * WAI'DA Coordination               * P'rovincial Coordination &   * Policy Studies          FOs                   Coordination
Rl.SP'ONSIBILI   * Federal               * Overall lProject Coordinationi      Supervision               * Sector Planning Studies   * Cost Sharing       * Supervision
TY UNDER           Coordination &        * Institutional Relorms Ior WAI'DA    * Institutional Reforms for  for GOP and Provinces   * Implementation of  * Exchange of
TIlE PROJECT        Supervision          * Drainage Research & Sector          Provinces                  * Feasibility Studies        On-Farm              International
* P'olicy Framuework     I'lanning                         * tnvestmeit Component       * Supervision of Research    Investments          Experience
* Relations with       * Investment Comp: Specialized      * Relations with Donors,       Contracts                * FOs:               * Approval of Sub-
Donors & Provinces     Works, Inter-Provincial Drains &    GOP, WAPDA, &             * FMIS for PAs               Owner/Employer        Projects
* Approve PSDIP/ADP    Major Integrated Works (e.g.          Consultants                * Advise on Institutional    of Civil Works     * Appraisal of Sub-
* Approve PC-is &        RBOD, LBOD)                       * Approving PSDP/ADP           Reforms                    Contracts            Projects Above
PC-Ils               * Member (Water): Employer ol       * Approving P'C-Is & PC-    * ElAs, RAPs, SAs          * FOs, WUAs:            Threshold
* Organize PSDI'         most NDl' Consultants               [ls                        * l3usiness Planning for     Execution of       * Procurement
Reviews              * GM (IPlanning): EImployer's       * Provincial Review ol         all l'As                  Force Account         Review
* Organize ClI'PRs       rcpresentative on Sector lPlanning  I'Sl)l's, I'l'Rs and M I R  * IFinancial Management     Civil Works on
* Organize Missions      and Studies Consultants           * Recruitinig Consultants Ior    and Audit of PAs         Sub-l)rains,
* Organize M IXR.      * (;M(M&R): Employer's                 Studies, Institutional    * M&l                        Watercoturses, &
representative on Monitoring anid   Reoimis & Investments     * Colitractors: Civil         I ubewells                              41
Research contracts, and M&l       * Ill)As & AWBs: Owner         Works
Consultants                         of Civil Works Coontracts   * l'rotessional Societies:
* GM (Finance): Employer's          * Provincial I.l'As:           F orum for Exchange of
represeiltatives on F'MIS           Environeintal aspects ol    Ideas & Butilding
Consultants                         the project including        Consenisus
* Respective Line (M: P'rincipail     I.As, EMPs, anid
Client & Supervisor olf most NDI'   awareness, inf'ormation
Consultants & Works                 and education
* NDI' Program Coordinator:
Coordination and facilitation.
._
4h Z



STAKE-           BORROWER                  WAPDA (Water Wing)                  PROVINCES               CONSULTANTS &              FARMERS &              DONORS
HIOLDERS                                                                                                 CONTRACTORS                   NCOs
COMMITT-EES   * Federal Program         * Federal l'rogram Coordination     * Provincial Program        * NDP Engineering         * NGO Forum           * NDP PSDP
& OTI IER          Steering Committee     Committee                           Steering Committee          Design and Supervision   * NGO Committees    Review Missions
'I'EMPORARY                             * NDP Coorination Cell              * Provincial NDP              Consultants Boards of    * Provincial         * NOP PPR
ENTITIES                                * NDP Working Party (NDP Cell)        Coordination Cell           Management, Executive     Committee of         Missions
CREATED TO                              * Research Advisory Committee       * PIDA (Transition Wing):     Committee                 Chairmen of NDP   * MTR Mission
SUPPORT THE                               (RAC)                               for AWB, FGW              * NDP Central               FOs
PROJECT                                 * FMIS Unit (Finance Division)        Tubewell, & On-Farm         Coordination Group      * Community
* Procuremenit Unit                  Drainage.                 * NDI' Consultants           Advisory
* OrganizationsIAssoc. of     P'rovincial 1'eams        Com mitlees
AWBs                     * NDI' Consultants         * Other Ad-I loe
Service'reams             Committees of
* OFWM Consultants          NGOs and F'Os
appointed by PAD-
OI WMs & FOs.
* IPanels of Experts
%o
ENTITIES         * Federal Irrigation   * Monitoring and Research Division   * PIDAs                                              * FOs
CREIA'I'I.D        and Drainage Cell,   * Evaluation Cell (Member Water)    * AW13s
UNI)ER             MW&P                 * Public Information. Center &
INSTI'I'IT ION                            Library lPlanninig Division
AL REFORMS                              * Social Cell (Planning Division)
COMI'ONEN'I'                            * IPortfolio Mantagement Ceil (D)&C)
* Operations Policy Cell (D&C)
* Publications Cell (IPlanning)                                                                      . .
4iM |



96                                      ANNEX 9
Page I of 18
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.     Introduction: The framework for   economic analysis links the project's interventions
(institutional reforms, institutional, research and sector planning, and drainage investments) to anticipated
impacts and benefits. The analysis establishes linkages between the project and country and sector
strategies and includes quantitative and qualitative analyses of fiscal impacts, portfolio management,
poverty, environmental impacts, institutional analysis, and Investment Projects.
A.     SECTOR ANALYSIS AND RATIONALE FOR PUBLIC SECTOR ROLE
2.     Sectoral Analysis/Reviews: Research and IDA experience suggests that next to sound economic
policy framework, the basis for sound investment decisions and implementation performance is a sound
sectoral analysis, particularly public expenditure reviews (PERs). The project is based on a number of
sectoral analyses, three of which are most important: (i) the Borrower's Water Sector Investment Planning
Study (WSIPS, 1993); (ii) the Borrower's Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment (DSEA, 1993); and
(iii) the Bank's Irrigation and Drainage Issues and Options paper (1994).
3.     Public Expenditure Reviews: IDA, jointly with ADB and OECF has conducted an Annual
Review of the Public Sector Development Program (PSDP) since 1992. IDA has conducted an Annual
Country Poryfolio Performance Review (CPPR) with the Borrower, WAPDA, and Provinces since 1992.
The water sector has featured prominently in the annual reviews of the PSDP and CPPRs. The Feasibility
Study for the project included a detailed review of the Public Expenditure Program for Drainage. The
results of the Bank's study of "Fiscal Decentralization in Pakistan" were incorporated in the design of the
project during Appraisal. By recalculating the ERRs of projects which were originally contained in the
PSDPs of the Borrower and Provinces, the NDP Feasibility Study Consultants were able to recommend a
different mix of projects in the PSDPs, saving the Government millions of dollars from the combined
PSDP of the Borrower and Provinces. It is expected that the project will provide the basis, mechanism, and
resources around which the continuous evaluation of the PSDP for irrigation and drainage would be
evaluated annually, and high priority public sector investments financed.
4.     Private Sector Counterfactual: The public expenditure programs which would be financed
under the project have been identified after several rigorous reviews of the aspects of drainage and
irrigation capital and recurrent expenditures which the private sector can or should provide. The reviews
and sector analysis cited above concluded that the private sector should be responsible for substantial
investment costs, and almost all recurrent costs of on-farm drainage, lining of watercourses in SGW areas,
FGW tubewells, and tertiary drainage (subdrains). Off-farm drainage, however, is largely a public good
and regarded to be within the public sector domain, because the costs of inadequate drainage, costs of
providing remedy in the form of drainage relief, and benefits of drainage are borne largely by the public
(though mostly the farming community) at large. The cost recovery and sharing proposals also take into
account incidence of public investment and private or public gains. The project is designed to make the
transition to the public-private roles described above.
5.     The Policy Environment: Economic theory indicates that rates of return to investments such as
the project would be higher if they are implemented in a policy environment which has fewer distortions.
Pakistan has implemented many policy reforms in the past decade which have helped to improve the policy
environment for successful implementation of irrigation and drainage projects.
6.     Water Rights: Water rights exist in Pakistan on an informal basis. There is a growing concern in
Pakistan about increased and inefficient allocation and use of water resources. Attention is therefore being
focused on the use of water rights in water allocation. Water rights (through price signals) could better
allocate water and provide incentives for more efficient water use in agriculture, industry, and urban areas.
Tradable water-use rights that are separate from land may be established. Past use of water could be a
basis for allocation. Once established, water rights can be officially registered. Since a major objective of



97                                        ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 18
NDP is to reduce the drainable surplus inter alia through improving efficiency in water use and improving
canal delivery systems, a study of water rights would be inplemented under the project.
7.     Experience of countries such as Chile that have encouraged and practiced water markets in water
management has important implications for countries facing water scarcity and are considering introducing
water markets: there are significant gains from trade which can realized by fostering water markets;
transferable water-use rights or water rights, separate from land, are essential for water markets (these
rights can be stipulated by volume or by percentage of river or canal flow); great care should be exercised
in the initial allocation of water-use rights among users in order to make sure that most of the rights are not
captured by a few individuals; technology, such as adjustable gates, and institutional arrangements that
encourage the formation of active water users' associations can substantially redluce transaction costs and
facilitate market trading; the presence of privately held water rights does not necessarily make it more
difficult to reach environmental water quality objectives (water quality regulations need to be established
and enforced irrespective of the water allocation system); within a decentralized system of water resource
management, there is a continuing role for water management authorities in enforcing water rights and
resolving conflicts; and where irrigation systems have been built with public funds, there is an important
question concerning how much, if any, of the economic surplus generated by water trades should
governments try to capture. For a country like Pakistan with long rivers and extensive return flows, the
issue of water rights for users of return flows would have to be addressed in their water code.
B. EXPECTED BENEFITS
8.     Introduction: The project is an integral part of Pakistan's National Drainage Program (NDP),
which is anchored within the country's medium-term public expenditure plan. It focuses on the core
priority drainage investments. Its principal short term benefits will come from improvements in the
physical drainage and more effective operating drainage, which would leadl to increased output of
agricultural produce. It would also have a direct and positive impact on drained farm lands, regardless of
the socioeconomic characteristics of farmers cultivating these lands. It is estimated that farmers benefiting
from the drainage improvements can expect an increase in their net farm income of up to 30 percent,
depending on the local drainage and the agro-ecological conditions.
9.     The principal medium- and long-term  benefits will be improved drainage  and irrigation-
related policies, improved efficiency of public expenditures on drainage O&M, iimproved capability in the
public sector to plan and implement water sector projects and in the private sector to undertake drainage-
related investments, all of which will benefit the environment and the agricultural sector as a whole. These
benefits will potentially be far greater than those from the physical drainage investments.
Fiscal Impacts
10.    The project's fiscal impacts will be reflected in the capital and recurTent budgets at both the
Federal and Provincial levels. The project is also expected to have an impact on investment portfolio
management. These impacts are discussed below.
II.    Development Budget Impacts: Analysis was conducted to address the issue of fiscal impact of
the project, in part because concern has been expressed regarding the project's size. Given the fungibility
of money, IDA could in effect be financing, at the margin, a different project than the one appraised.
Accordingly, it was also important to be satisfied that the sectoral and overall investment program was
appropriate. The fiscal analysis draws on results of recent public expenditure reviews.
12.    The Borrower's efforts to reduce its fiscal deficit has resulted in a progressively tightening
squeeze on the PSDP. At the same time, improving disbursement performance and higher lending by some
of the major donors imply rising budgetary requirements to provide for the needs of foreign assistance
program. There is an emerging inconsistency between the tightening budget and the growing foreign
assistance program. Adverse effects of this inconsistency are likely to be maniiested in under-budgeting



98                                       ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 18
the requirements of donor assisted projects and programs; and a tendency for the foreign aided component
of the PSDP to exceed the budget target (since some disbursements are independent of counterpart funds or
budget restrictions), weakening fiscal programming.
13.    Macroeconomic Impact (Relation to the Economy): An assessment of the macroeconomic
sustainability of the proposed project was done by comparing key macroeconomic indicators on a set of
macroeconomic projections with and without NDP, using data on GDP, PSDP, investment costs, and the
financing plan for the project. A somewhat slower pace of macroeconomic and structural reforms (but no
backtracking) as assumed in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Pakistan, is used as the
macroeconomic framework for the NDP. Thus, the GDP growth, inflation rate, exchange rate of the rupee
to major currencies, and level of PSDP are determined by the "muddle through" scenario in the CAS. The
illustrative analysis is presented in Table IA (given at the end of this Annex)'. The share of the drainage
sector investment, including NDP, in the PSDP would remain close to historical levels, because many of
the projects to be funded under NDP are ongoing projects that are already in the PSDP and the
beneficiaries also share in investment costs. Planned public investment (with NDP) in the sector as a share
of projected GDP also remains very close to historical trends.
14.    The 1995/96 PSDP review found that allocations for a large number of high priority donor
assisted projects fell short of their funding requirements (both in terms of projected foreign aid and local
counterpart funding). Measures are being taken to alleviate the problem. The Borrower has agreed to
continue to formulate a core development program and a three-year rolling investment plan in consultation
with IDA and other donors; protect the allocations of the core projects/programs from possible cuts
necessitated by fiscal considerations; continue to review the pace of implementation during the year of the
projects for which the PSDP allocations of counterpart funds fall short of requirements and, if needed,
provide additional funds from the savings of slow moving projects; and regularly review the project
portfolio in consultation with IDA and other donors, and close or restructure under-perforrning and/or low
priority projects.
15.    The proposed project is consistent with the PSDP framework agreed between the Borrower and
IDA. Both parties agree that there is a need to increase investment in drainage to deal with accelerating
waterlogging and salinity. IDA has agreed with GOP on the size and composition of a three-year rolling
PSDP for the water sector for 1996-97 to 1998-99. Drainage is accorded high priority in the current rolling
program in which NDP is included. Under the project, IDA will agree with the Borrower (Planning
Commission) on the size and composition of the rolling prograrn for the project by April of each year.
16.    Counterpart Funding Requirements: The project's requirement of counterpart funds is within
the bounds of the Government's capacity for financing and implementation. Its Annual Development Plan
(ADP) counterpart requirements will be highest (at Rs. 2171 million or about US$42.5 million) in the fifth
year of implementation (FYO1/02)2. Participation by beneficiaries in capital investment costs of the project
would also reduce pressure on government counterpart funding. For example, for tile, surface and
subsurface drainage investments, and improvement of watercourses and irrigation systems, the private
sector would contribute about $31.1 million through labor and land.
17.    Recurrent Budget Impacts: The project's expected impact on the recurrent budgets of the
Provinces is presented in Table IB (given at the end of this Annex). The table represents the "base case"
The illustrative analysis was done using macroeconomic projections given in the latest CAS document. It is
expected that the results of the analysis would not change with updates of macroeconomic projections and NDP
financing plan.
2      The ADP counterpart funding requirement for each year are: FY97/98: Rs. 245 million (US$5.6 million);
FY98/99: Rs. 924 million (US$20.4 million); FY99/00: Rs. 1637 million (US$34.7 million); FY00/Ol: Rs. 2121
million (US$43.1 million); FY01/02: Rs. 2171 million (US$42.5 million); FY02/03: Rs. 2120 million (US$39.8
million); and FY03/04: Rs. 1719 million (US$31.2 million); and FY04/05: Rs. 606 million (US$10.7 million).



99                                         ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 18
scenario which assumes that the institutional reform program is implemented according to plan. The
project's most significant direct benefit to the Provinces is expected to be in the iform of fiscal savings. The
savings would come from transfer of responsibility for O&M from Provincial Governments to farmers.
Annual savings to Provinces is estimated at Rs. 2,519 million ($62 million), representing about 16% of
O&M budget, by the year of completion. These savings are based on the following conservative estimates
and assumptions: (i) transition of 1,500 FGW Tubewells from the public sector to farmers' groups and
FOs would save the Provinces between Rs. 616 million per year in operating expenses; (ii) transfer of
responsibility for O&M of on-farm surface drains of less than 15 cusecs to FOs would save the Provinces
Rs. 14 million per year in operating expenses and salaries of beldars (daily rated temporary workers); (iii)
replacing public sector SGW Tubewells with private sector (farner-managed) tile drains would save the
Provinces Rs. 124 million per year; and (iv) transfer of responsibility from Provinces to FOs for O&M of
irrigation and drainage operations at the minor/distributary level could potentially save the Provinces Rs.
1765 million per year3. The above estimates are in addition to projected savings of Rs. 883 million in
annual subsidies by the Province of Punjab under the parallel Punjab Private Sector Groundwater
Development Project, in which 4,233 SCARP tubewells would be transitioned. In addition, other savings
(not quantified) would include reduced maintenance costs for housing, roads and other social
infrastructure, and public health. Efficiency gains from the improved efficiency, autonomy and hard
budget constraint of PIDAs and AWBs (which are both expected to achieve full financial self-sustainability
of O&M costs in 10 years) would provide additional fiscal savings.
18.    Revenue Impacts: Another source of fiscal benefits from the project is tax revenue. The tax
revenue potential from the project is based on the expected benefiting cropped area, and assumes no
change in the existing composite tax structure for major crops. The applicable tax rates from the Left Bank
Outfall Drain (LBOD) Command, for which data is most readily available from a recent study4, are used as
the basis for the illustrative analysis. Not counting Abiana, the most recent combined rates for Land
Revenue, Ushr Rates (Productivity Tax), and Local Fund (County Tax) per acre in the LBOD Command
are Rs. 132 for wheat, Rs. 140 for cotton, Rs. 87 for rice, Rs. 227 for sugarcane, Rs. 137 for oilseeds, and
Rs. 90 for vegetables5. The area affected by the project would depend on the intervention assumed. The
area which is likely to benefit from the project's interventions could be as high as 13.5 million acres. If this
estimate is realized, the potential ( not projected) yield from tax revenues to Provinces would vary from a
low of Rs. 1200 million (assuming combined rates of Rs. 87 per acre) to as much as Rs. 3000 million
(assuming combined rates of Rs. 227 per acre).
19.    The above analysis assumes that everything goes according to plan. However, in the course of
implementation it is likely that the project would encounter problems in some of its fiscally important
components. For example, the progress in transferring O&M responsibility from Provincial Governments
to farmers may be slower than anticipated and tax revenues from benefiting cropped areas may be smaller.
This would constitute a "low case" scenario under which the fiscal savings and tax revenues would be less
than anticipated.
20.     Balance of Payments: The project's direct benefit to the Borrower and the economy at large is
likely to be felt in its impact on the country's balance of payments (BOP) position in ternns of foreign
exchange saved or earned. To the extent that the projected incremental net earnings from Investment
3       This estimate is based on the following conservative assumptions: (a) the jurisdictions which will be
transferred to FOs from Provinces are roughly coincident with the Subdivisional Officer (SDO) or Junior EXEN level
of operations under the existing system; and (b) the amount of savings assumes that approximately one FO will be
established in each of the 43 AWBs per annum for five years; for a total of about 200 FOs by year 5 of project
implementation.
4       Government of Sindh: Operation and Maintenance and Cost Recovery with Special Reference to Farmer
Participation in Drainage Activities of LBOD, February 1995 a study by Sindh Development Studies Center for
GOSindh. Table 6.5 of that study is the source of the composite tax rates used in this analysis.
5       All are 1991 rates, which have since been increased by at least 100 percent.



100                                          ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 18
Projects6 strengthen the country's BOP position, they would contribute to the Borrower's capacity to
service the debt associated with the project.
21.     Financial Returns to the Borrower and its Provinces: Based on the above analysis of Fiscal
Savings and Tax Revenues, the IRR to the Borrower and Provinces (considering the Borrower's and
Provinces' investments in the project, and the financial returns in the form of fiscal savings and tax
revenues) is estimated at about 11.4% (nominal terms). This reflects, in large part, the impact of subsidies
for capital works. The payback to the Borrower and its Provinces from the project is about 5.5 years after
project completion.
22.     Portfolio Management: Drainage projects in Pakistan have typically been inadequately prepared,
programmed, implemented, and not well integrated with Five Year or the Annual Development Programs
(ADP). Moreover, the selection of projects has not always been rational or transparent. Allocation of
development funds is on the basis of fixed provincial shares and not according to drainage needs. The
result is that the portfolio of drainage projects is characterized by implementation delays, too many
incomplete projects, inadequate financing (especially of counterpart funds), poor quality of construction,
low rates of return at entry, and cost overruns. The Feasibility Study for the project showed that the
"throwforward," a term used by the Planning Commission to describe the value of projects which are
carried from one Five Year or Annual Development Plan into the next, from the Seventh Five Year Plan
(1989-93) into the Eighth Five Year Plan (1993-98) rose to a record of Rs. 54.7 billion. Current estimate
of the "throwforward" into the Ninth Five Year Plan (1998-2003) indicate that without considering any
new investments, it would be Rs. 15.7 billion. However, considering new projects and the project's
financing for the last three years of the Eighth Plan, the Feasibility Study estimated that the
"throwforward" would be reduced to only Rs. 5.2 billion, mainly due to availability of funding as a result
of NDP.
23.     Successful implementation of the project should result in a substantial increase in public
investment and aid flows into major irrigation and drainage infrastructure during the Ninth Five Year Plan
period, notably for the proposed National Surface Drainage System (NSDS). This increase in public
investment is critical for the future viability of irrigated agriculture in the Indus Basin Irrigation System. It
would reduce the size of "throwforward", enable timely completion of projects due to increased availability
of funds, and improve project quality due to better project preparation made possible by adoption of more
stringent selection criteria set up in the context of the project. Moreover, the project and future projects
such as NSDS would link the portfolio of drainage projects to a coherent long-term strategy for disposal of
effluent outside the basin.
Economic Efficiency Impacts
24.     Potential Efficiency Gains: The various interventions supported by the project are expected to
lead to efficiency gains. Drainage research and sector planning would lead to efficiency gains by
enhancing the technical foundations of drainage, and facilitating long-term sector and project planning.
Institutional reforms would bring about efficiency gains by strengthening the capacity and improving the
efficiency of key drainage institutions, and ensuring that the project design is within the implementation
capacity of existing institutions. Reforms in WAPDA (Water Wing), establishment of PIDAs, AWBs, and
FOs should enhance the effectiveness of their service delivery. Investments under the project would
generate efficiency gains in water delivery and drainage. Abiana collection would be expected to improve
under the proposed assessment and collection system.
6       The illustrative analysis of incremental net economic earnings on six Investment Project districts in Sindh
Province for which detailed farm budget analysis was done may be to demonstrate of the BOP impact. The analysis
indicates that incremental net earnings would turn positive from year 2001 at about Rs. 2.6 billion ($65 million), and
increase gradually thereafter (assuming no switching in cropping patterns and no market limits).



101                                       ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 18
Employment Impacts
25.    Direct Impacts: The project is expected to generate many direct emrployment benefits to the
economy. Effective implementation of the Project Coordination and Supervision Component would
provide opportunities for redeployment of surplus staff in MW&P, WAPDA's W7ater Wing, PIDs (in their
new form as PIDAs, AWBs and FOs), and PAD-OFWMs to gainful employment in the implementation of
a sector-wide project, the first of its kind and scope since the IBRWP. Without the project, many of these
staff would be effectively redundant (i.e. technically unemployed) in their present employment.
Considering the direct financial costs, and indirect efficiency costs to the institutions and the economy of
carrying these redundant staff, the economic benefits accruing from their gainful employment under the
project are substantial, though no attempt has been made to quantify them. Of course, many of these
employees would again become redundant when the implementation of the project is completed, unless the
levels of investment and employment are maintained through follow-up projects. To protect against the risk
of over-manning which is associated with the project's direct incremental staff requirements, WAPDA's
Water Wing, PIDAs, AWBs and FOs will not employ additional staff on account of the project or any
other project for the duration of the project, without the prior agreement of the Borrower or the Provinces,
as the case may be, and only on the basis of sound financing plans.
26.    When fully implemented i.e. after project completion, the Institutional Reforms Component could
likely result in a net reduction of the number of employees in WAPDA and PIDs. The phased withdrawal
of WAPDA's Water Wing from construction of on-farm drainage such as surface drains, tile drains and
SGW tubewells, would provide an opportunity or the needed flexibility for WAPDA to reduce its low-
skilled casual (i.e. daily rated) workers in the Regional Offices. Reorganization, automation, process
improvement, and mechanization of some of WAPDA's functions which are currently over-manned or
managed using outdated methods (specifically accounting, monitoring, planning and investigation) could
result in substantial reduction of surplus staff and costs. On the other hand, expansion of the Water Wing's
other functions (e.g. O&M of inter-Provincial drainage; vigorous pursuit of the construction of inter-
Provincial drainage, establishment of a vibrant WSIS, establishment of the Social Cell and other capacity
building initiatives, and active management of the IBIS water resources) should[ compensate for much of
the expected redundancies from the retrenchments alluded above. Some of the staff can be redeployed to
the new functions. PIDAs, AWBs and FOs may eventually be compelled by new financial self-sufficiency
requirements to mechanize many of the functions which are carried out by beldars and chaukidars. The use
of private contractors for O&M (e.g. through O&M Performance Contracts) would also likely result in
reduction of disguised unemployment. The most significant redundancy effects though are expected to
occur with the turnover of distributaries and minors to FOs i.e. at the EXEN level; because it is at this level
that PIDs employ the majority of their low-skilled staff (notably, clerks, beldars and chaukidars); many of
whom would no longer be required if farmers take over their functions.
27.    The most significant employment impacts of the project are expected to arise from the Investment
Component, after completion. Short term direct employment impacts would accrue from construction
activities. After completion, the investment component would reclaim or preserve abandoned agricultural
farmlands, and rehabilitate existing land, which would otherwise ultimately go out of production due to
waterlogging and salinity. Based on the average land holding by Province, the estimated benefit is
employment for about 16,660 farmers; in addition to reducing disguised unemployment for thousands
more farmers whose lands are currently marginally productive, and would be restored through the project's
investment activities.
Poverty Impacts
28.    Positive Poverty Impacts: Areas which are affected by high levels of waterlogging and salinity
tend to have the lowest incomes, high unemployment, and lawlessness in Pakistan. Hence these problems
have a poverty and equity dimension too. They affect the rural poor (especially those at tail-ends of
watercourses and minors) and landless tenants most severely. The project would sassist in poverty reduction
by increasing agricultural output (food and cash crops). Since agriculture is among the most effective tools



102                                         ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 18
for poverty alleviation, by helping to raise agricultural output, farm incomes, and providing additional
employment opportunities in those areas, the project will help alleviate rural poverty and improve the
socio-economic prerequisites for law and order. The selection criteria for Investment Projects are designed
to skew the benefits in favor of tenant farmers, smallholders, and tail-enders. Specifically, Investment
Projects would, to the extent possible, be designed to benefit small farmers, women, and poorest one-third
of the income strata of the members of the farming community. This would be demonstrated through a
Social Assessment for the Investment Project. The institutional reforms, particularly the formation of FOs,
are expected to increase the transparency and equity of water allocation and use. The poor would also
benefit from flood protection provided by the project.
29.     The project is designed to facilitate reduction and evacuation of the drainable surplus so as to
increase agricultural production that is broadly based and provide appropriate spillover effects on non-farm
growth through backward and forward linkages. Thus, the project would address the multifaceted problem
of poverty alleviation by increasing employment opportunities in the non-farm sector and increasing
productivity of marginal farmers and landless tenants. For every I percent increase in per capita farm
growth, it is estimated that the project would provide a 1.5 percent increase in per capita non-farm growth
in the year 200 1'.
30.    Income Distribution Impacts:  While the project's water management investmnents would
improve water resource allocation efficiencies between owners of land at the head and tail of canals, it is
likely that agricultural production benefits would still be skewed towards large land owners. However,
benefits to large land owners would likely encourage domestic resource mobilization in rural areas, which
would lead to benefits to the poor in terms of additional farm and non-farm employment opportunities.
There is a reasonable probability that the drainage investments would benefit the rural elite and landlords
to a greater extent than the rural poor, thus exacerbating rural income inequality. To address this risk,
Investment Project selection criteria would favor areas and beneficiaries who are in the bottom one-third
income strata of the farming community. In addition, the requirement that beneficiaries contribute to the
cost of installing drains in their areas through labor would likely select-out the rural elite. However, the
rural elite may simply hire day laborers to do the job. The project's actual and potential impacts on rural
income, poverty, and income distribution would be monitored closely during the first phase of
implementation, and necessary adjustments would be made, based on the results of the MTR.
Environmental Impacts
31.    The project's adverse environmental impacts are expected to result from disposal of subsurface
drainage effluent, leaching of salts from agricultural lands, habitat changes in waterlogged and saline lands,
and resettlement. However, these adverse impacts are expected to be very narrowly focused and would be
completely offset by broad-based positive impacts. The positive effects of the environment would include
improvements on waterlogged lands, soil salinity, groundwater quality, flood protection, and afforestation.
The project's expected social and environmental impacts are summarized in the Table below.
7       John Mellor (1976) finds a I percent increase in per capita agricultural growth in 1.5 percent increase in per
capita non-agricultural growth; other estimates are provided by Cheong (1988) and others suggesting 2 percent
increase in per capita non-farrn production growth from a I percent in per capita farm production growth.



103                                        ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 18
SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS
Environmental Impact      Surface Drains    Reh./Rep.      Kafur Dheri       Lasbela
Reh./New       SGW T/W
Physical Issues
1. Drainage Effluent Quality        0               0               0               0
2. Drainage Effluent Quantity       -1              -1              - I             -1
3. Irrigation Water Quality          0              -1              0               0
4. Irrigation Water Quantity         0              0               0               0
5. Groundwater Quality               0              0               0               0
6. Waterlogging                     +1              +2              0               +1
7. Soil Salinity                    +1              +1              +1              0
8. Land Capability                  +1              +1              +1              +1
9. Land Availability                -1              0               -I              -1
10. Flooding                        +1              0               +1              0
Biological Issues
1. Birds Communities/Habitats       0               0               0               0
2. Fish Communities/Habitats         0              0               0               0
3. Aquatic Vegetation                0              0               0               0
4. Riverine Forests                  0              0               0               0
Social Issues
1. Agric-development                +1              +2              +1             +1
2. Livestock Development            +1              +1              +1              0
3. Fisheries Development             0              0               0               0
4. Education & Health               +1              +1              +1              +1
5. Socio-economic Condition         +1              +2              +1              +1
6. Quality of Life                  +1              +1              +1              +1
Positive Impact                  9              11               8               6
Negative Impact                 -2              -2              -2              -2
Net                              7               9               6               4
Notes:
Impact Scales     Positive    Negative
Negligible/not relevant  0           0
Minor                  +1           - I
Moderate               +2           -2
Major                  +3           -3
Expected Beneflts from the Research and Sector Planning Component
32.    The Research Subcomponent: The research subcomponent is designed to improve effectiveness
of irrigation and drainage systems in the country. The research programs will test: various new technologies
under Pakistani conditions. The principal benefits expected from the identified drainage research program
are expected to be the following: (i) improved technologies and reduced costs of investment and O&M of
drainage, arising from design and maintenance procedures for surface drains; (ii) improved hydraulic
designs for surface drains; (iii) reduced cost and improved efficacy of collaborative (community) tile
drainage; (iv) recommendations for institutional frameworks to improve sustainability and productivity of
irrigated agriculture in Pakistan; (v) designs and recommendations for resource rnonitoring using GIS on a
sectoral approach; (vi) breakthroughs in reuse and disposal of drainage water, which would substantially
reduce the drainable surplus and increase the supply of irrigation supplies available; (vii) information for
planning and policy regarding the impact of tile drainage on land and water management; and (viii) designs



104                                       ANNEX 9
Page 9 of 18
of hydraulic and salinity models to assist AWBs and FOs to manage their hydraulic systems more
efficiently.
33.    The table below provides a summary of the anticipated environmental, sustainability, productivity,
and risk reducing impacts of drainage research program.
Expected Benefits from the Drainage Research Program
Research      Environmental Sustainability  Productivity    Risk Reduction
a.                    3              5              4              4
b.                    4              5              5              2
c.                    5              5              5              4
d.                    4              4              4              4
e.                    4              4              4              3
f.                    5              5              3              3
g.                    5              5              4              3
h.                    3              5              5              3
i.                    3              4              5              5
j.                    4              5              4              3
k.                    4              5              4              3
Key to Research Study Topics
a.=Maintenance of Surface Drains; b.=Collaborative Pilot Pipe (Tile) Drainage;
c.=Reuse and Disposal of Drainage Water; d.=Surface Drainage Design;
e.=Impact of Drainage on Land and Water; f.=Hydraulic and Water Quality Model of the IBIS;
g.=Sediment Research Studies; h.=Institutional Framework for Improved Sustainability and
Productivity of Irrigated Agriculture in Pakistan.;
i.=Networking System for Drainage and Salinity Control Technology;
j.=Integrated Approach to Watertable Control and Soil Reclamation at the Micro Level;
k.=Surface Drainage System Development at the On-Farm Level
Key to Research Benefits
1=Very low; 2=Low; 3=Moderate; 4=High; 5=Very high
34.    Historical benefits from drainage research by IWASRI (one of the PRIs) in Pakistan illustrate the
up-side potential benefits which can be expected from the proposed drainage research subcomponent. The
benefits of improved drainage design can be gleaned from the Fourth Drainage Project. During the design
and construction of the Fourth Drainage Project, important reductions in cost, compared with first designs,
were realized as a result of integrating the findings of concurrent research which was undertaken on one of
the project sites (sump). The length of subsurface drains was reduced from 1,600 miles to 500 miles, and
the number of sumps from 250 to 79; with a reduction in project nominal costs from Rs. 700 million to Rs.
300 million despite the effects of inflation associated with an implementation period of 11 years.
Application of groundwater models to drainage design enabled the identification of spatially varying
drainage needs, which led to the abandonment of the uniform spacing of subsurface drains that had
previously been planned/assumed for the design of the component.
35.    The benefits of research on design criteria for drainage can be inferred from the recent work of
IWASRI; which shows that the drainage coefficient for tile drainage projects which were designed before
1990 was overly conservative; and has therefore been reduced in more recent projects. The reduction in
the drainage coefficient has not only greatly reduced the capital cost of drainage projects, but also the
recurrent costs and the quantity of drainage effluent for disposal, thereby reducing the adverse
environmental impact associated with disposal requirements of drainage effluent on the downstream users,
and other effects of tile drainage. As a result of these research findings, the drainage coefficient has been
reduced from 2.7 mm/d under Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (in 1990), to 1.8 mm/d in planning for Khushab
SCARP; and the drainage coefficient for Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia has recently been reduced to 1.5 mm/d



105                                        ANNEX 9
Page 10 of 18
following the discussions which emanated from IWASRI's research. This shows that designers of drainage
projects in Pakistan have now gained confidence that a design with a lower drainage coefficient can
concurrently meet the objectives of watertable control, reducing project caipital and recurrent costs
substantially. The proposed subcomponent on drainage research under the project will support further
research to better determine the drainage coefficient.
36.    The benefits of Pakistan's recent research on interceptor drains are equally significant. Seepage
from canals is one of the major contributors to waterlogging. Interceptor drains to recover this seepage
have been constructed at a few sites in Pakistan; and were planned for Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (South)
Project, and under LBOD. The estimated cost of interceptor drains in Fordwah Eastern Sadiqia (South) is
Rs. 500 million; while the cost in LBOD is Rs. 768 million. Research fndings from IWASRI after these
projects had been approved indicated that interceptors should be used selectively, and not as a standard
technique for recovering seepage from canals, because the effectiveness of the interceptors was too low
(30%, which implied that to recover 0.5 cusec net, 2.7 cusec has to be pumped); and would lead to
excessive O&M costs.
37.    Drainage research has also contributed to the reduction of costs for drain envelopes. In Pakistan,
gravel is traditionally used as drain envelope; whereas there is a worldwide trend to use synthetic materials.
IWASRI has started laboratory and field tests to establish applicability of synthetic materials as drain
envelope. Test lines have been laid in Fourth Drainage Project, and are scheduled for Fordwah Eastern
Sadiqia Project. Switching from gravel to synthetic envelopes has already resulted in capital cost savings
as high as 40% in the Fourth Drainage Project with the same level of drainage collection and efficiency.
38.    The Sector Planning Subcomponent: Empirical evidence shows that sound sector framework is
essential to achieving development impact of projects. Sector studies are essential tools for guiding policy
formulation and implementation. Such studies would include policy, strategy, planning and feasibility
studies. The expected benefits of the sector planning subcomponent are not easily quantifiable. However,
potential benefits which are expected from each of the main areas of intervention under the planning
subcomponent are summarized in the following paragraphs.
39.    Policy Studies: These are expected to result in an improved policy environment for public and
private investment in irrigation and drainage. A partial list of the potential benefits which are expected
from each of the main policy studies proposed or agreed to be carried out under the project are summarized
below. The National Water Policy would (i) enable investments in major inter-Provincial water resources
development programs such as reservoirs and trunk drains; (ii) codify the role of the Borrower in the water
sector; and (iii) allow official recognition of water as an economic good. The study of water markets and
water rights in AWBs and in selected FO pilot areas could eventually result in the: (i) establishment of a
National Register of Water Rights; (ii) legalization of water trading up to the AWB level, possibly between
AWBs; and (iii) greater willingness to price surface water at more realistic (market based) levels. The
study on gypsum marketing and distribution would be expected to result in a greater: (i) willingness of the
Borrower and Provinces to deregulate gypsum marketing, and to abolish the erratic subsidy on gypsum,
which appears to be a major deterrent to development of an effective private sector-led market in gypsum;
(ii) greater availability and use of gypsum for treatment of sodicity; and (iii) in the long run, increased
utilization of gypsum and the associated reduction in land areas lost to sodicity. The study on promoting
private investment in drainage would be expected to provide the basis for: (i) policies to encourage private
sector investment in drainage, particularly from communities in partnership with private contractors; (ii)
reduction in subsidies for drainage; (iii) more rapid drainage and reclamation of waterlogged and saline
lands, as private investment substitutes public investment; (iv) policies and programs which result in more
focused targeting of public investment in drainage to areas where the public good is clearly dominant, and
away from areas where private gains are substantial; and (v) improvements in capital and O&M cost
recovery resulting from clearly defmed policies in that regard. The study on regulation of exploitation of
FGW is expected to recommend: (i) policies to regulate and promote optimal exploitation and permit
recharging of FGW aquifers; (ii) clearer delineation of the roles of Federal and Provincial agencies in



106                                       ANNEX 9
Page II of 18
regulation of FGW exploitation; and (iii) reduction of salt-water intrusion in FGW aquifers arising from
unregulated over-exploitation of FGW aquifers.
40.    Planning Studies: The benefits which are expected from the agreed or identified planning studies
are as follows: (a) the Irrigation and Drainage Atlas of Pakistan is expected to result in substantial
improvement in (i) planning for irrigation and drainage; and (ii) utilization of water resources; (b) the
Long-Term Financing Options for Drainage study is expected to result in recommendations and policies
which would encourage private investment in drainage, as well as policies to facilitate public sector
financing for drainage e.g. developing capital markets for financing drainage; (c) the study of Revenue
Prospects for WAPDA 's Water Wing would lay the groundwork for policy and institutional reforms which
would enable the Water Wing to become financially self-sustaining in the long run, for example by selling
its services to the Power Wing; (d) the study of Revenue Options for PIDAs, A WBs, and FOs would enable
them to identify prospects and mechanisms for them to increase the buoyancy of their revenue sources,
from Abiana and from other sources; (e) the study of Efficacy of Past Drainage Investments by the
Planning Commission is expected to result in recommendations for changes in the Borrower's policies and
priorities for financing drainage, including PC- 1 guidelines for project preparation, selection, and
implementation; and (f) the Preparation of the Ninth Five Year Plan (1998-2003) is expected to facilitate
the preparation of a high quality contribution from the Water Wing of the Planning Commission into the
Ninth Five Year Plan.
41.    Feasibility Studies: The following are among the feasibility studies for future potential projects
which would be carried out under the project: (i) National Surface Drainage System (NSDS; (ii) LBOD
Stage II; (iii) Preparation of NDP 11; and (iv) Feasibility Studies for Hydraulic Modeling of Canal
Commands for A WBs and FOs. These feasibility studies would be in addition to the modular feasibility
studies and business plans for PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs that would be financed under the project as part of
the institutional reform program. The benefits which are expected from the agreed or identified feasibility
studies are: (i) a strong pipeline of better prepared high priority projects; (ii) consensus on implementing
major inter-Provincial drainage projects; and (iii) attraction of donor financing for drainage programs. Of
course, the real benefits of the pipeline of high priority national drainage projects whose feasibility studies
would be financed under the project would accrue when they are implemented and operated satisfactorily.
Expected Benefits from the Institutional Reforms Component
42.    Institutional Reforms in WAPDA's Water Wing: Expected benefits from institutional reforms
in WAPDA's Water Wing include improved performance of the institution, for example, coordinated
management and regulation of water resources at the basin level, including related land and water quality
issues and monitoring of environmental impacts.
43.    Institutional Reforms in PIDs: Substantial benefits are expected to come from  the
decentralization and management transfer of irrigation and drainage services from PIDs to PIDAs, AWBs,
and FOs. Since PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs will be independent revenue generating and spending agencies
(the latter owned by farmers themselves), they will have incentives to minimize their expenditures and
recover full costs from beneficiaries. This will reduce the fiscal dependence of the irrigation and drainage
system on Provinces for funding O&M. This will work more effectively if it is accompanied by improved
access to water through the establishment and granting of tradable water rights, and a clear demarcation of
duties between the new irrigation and drainage agencies. These reforms will in effect introduce quasi-
market incentives into the management of the irrigation system. Significant benefits can be expected to
accrue from the legalization and/or establishment of water rights in FOs, which is among the policy
reforms that would be implemented under the project. Where farms are small (or for administrative
convenience), water rights could in some instances be allocated to FOs and WUAs. According to a recent
survey by WAPDA, active water markets (trading or purchasing of water) exist in 70 percent of



107                                          ANNEX 9
Page 12 of 18
watercourses studied by WAPDA'. According to research, establishment of tradable water rights could
make important contributions in improving the efficiency, equity, and sustainability of water use9. Well-
defined tradable rights would formalize and secure the existing water rights held by users; economize on
transaction costs; and induce water users to consider the full opportunity costs of water. If well-defined
water rights are established in FOs, the entities and individual farmers can be expected to invest in water-
saving technologies knowing that they would benefit from the investment.
Expected Benefits from the Investment Component
44.     Introduction: Research evidence shows that rehabilitation projects have highly variable net
benefits, and that it is important to be selective in the choice of Investment Projects to be financed. Large-
scale, capital intensive rehabilitation which seeks to remake the entire system is prone to rent-seeking,
delays, and cost overruns that characterize construction of new systems. Therefore, investments in
improved irrigation and drainage facilities should ideally be closely linked to establishment of tradable
water rights. For the purpose of assessing the economic rate of return of the project, the direct
quantifiable benefits from rehabilitation and improvement of the public sector surface drains and
construction of on-farm drainage works would be considered. These interventions will improve drainage
conditions, resulting in higher crop yields and cropping intensity.
45.     Production Benefits:  The proposed project would have two important impacts. Drainage
installation would lower the groundwater table and reduce soil salinity, thereby leading to rapidly improved
yields and lower production cost. The project also addresses a long-term issue: vvithout the project, future
yields would progressively decline from their current levels. The project would have two additional
benefits: (a) the avoidance of further yield (production) losses, which would result if the groundwater and
salinity problems were to persist; and (b) the productivity increase resulting from reducing
waterlogging/salinity problems. The "without" project situation would lead to a substantial loss in
agricultural production and an environmental disaster and great suffering for farmers. The rising of the
deep saline watertable would reduce yields to almost zero once it reaches the crop root zone. Large areas
of crop land would completely go out of production in the "without" project scenario. Productivity
increase is the most imnportant of the two benefit subsets. The sum of the benefits represents the "with and
without" project situation, rather than the "before and after" situation. Insofar as improved drainage may
have positive effects on agricultural technologies or cultural practices, the benefits are understated.
46.     The project is expected to benefit many farmers directly, and the entire irrigated sector indirectly,
by reclaiming abandoned land, rehabilitating existing lands, and improving drainage in about 13.5 million
acres. Agricultural benefits would come from increased crop production and employment as a result of
reduction in watertable depth and soil salinity, and better operations and maintenance of irrigation system
through private sector involvement and improved performance of public institutions in the water sector as a
result of institutional strengthening. Cropped area, cropping intensity, and crop yields are expected to
increase as a result of the project. Cropping patterns are also expected to change due to reduced soil
salinity, waterlogging, and flooding. Crops that are less tolerant to salinity and waterlogging can be grown
in the "with project" situation. Production would increase over the "without project" situation due to both
(i) the direct effects of decreased saline intrusions and (ii) improved drainage. The annual incremental
production expected from the project's investment component is summarized below.
47.     New Investments and On-Farm  Drainage and O&M:   Based on the currently available
information on the pipeline of on-going or new drainage projects which the project would finance, the
8       WAPDA: Trading of Canal and Tubewell Water for Irrigation Purposes; P'lanning and Investigations
Publication No. 358, 1990.
9       The following description is based on the findings of research work done by Mark Rosengrant (IFPRI) and
Hans Binswanger (World Bank), in Markets in Tradable Water Rights; World Development, Vol. 22, No. 11 pp. 1613-
1625, 1994.



108                                      ANNEX 9
Page 13 of 18
project's new investment subcomponent would provide new or additional on- and off-farm drainage
facilities for: (i) on-going locally funded projects; (ii) transition of FGW tubewells; (iii) new surface drains;
(iv) intercepting drains; and (v) community tertiary and tile drains in the LBOD Command (Mirpurkhas),
D.G. Khan Integrated Irrigation and Drainage, Fourth Drainage, SCARP Mardan, and East Khairpur.
Additional benefits would accrue from new investments which have been identified but not prepared or
appraised, and some which have not yet been identified. The benefits of new investments are assumed to
mirror but be higher than those for rehabilitation and modernization (see para below), although the benefit-
cost ratio would be more favorable for rehabilitation and remodeling.
48.    Rehabilitation &  Modernization of Off-Farm  Drainage: A number of surface drains are
proposed for rehabilitation and remodeling. Projections for agricultural production without surface drain
investments in the selected areas are that yields would gradually decrease and over a thirty year period be
reduced by 50 percent. Costs of production would gradually increase as planting and sowing, harvesting,
and fertilizer continue to grow as a percentage of production inputs. Surface drains are expected to reduce
the number of days the land is waterlogged and decrease salinity and thus reclaim cultivable command
area, improve planting and harvesting efficiency, and decrease costs of production including planting and
sowing, harvesting and fertilizer.
49.    Rehabilitation &  Modernization of Water Management: The component is expected to
provide canal commands with improved telecommunications and equipment. Rehabilitation of the canal
commands is expected to improve water carrying capacity of drains and reduce crop losses from flooding.
It will also significantly increase water deliveries to tail-end farmers. Modernizing canal commands with
improved telecommunications and equipment would have a positive impact on the distribution of water
and provide for better water control. Improved distribution of water will affect agricultural production in
the entire cultivable command area and improve productivity.  The intervention would also increase
productivity and decrease maintenance costs of production for tail-end farmers, who will now receive a
steady and reliable source of water. Agricultural productivity is expected to start increasing from the year
after completion of construction works. It is estimated that productivity would improve by 2 percent for
the entire command area and by an additional 20 percent for tail-end farmers. Tail-end farmers would also
realize additional benefits from a 1.5 percent reduction in costs of production. Productivity and costs are
expected to remain steady in future years after the initial impact. It is estimated that rehabilitation would
increase productivity and cropping intensities by 2 percent as a result of reduced crop damage from
breaches in canals and flooding, and an additional 5 percent for tail-end farmers, who would observe a
significant increase in surface water deliveries.
50.    Lining Watercourses in Saline Groundwater Areas:  The primary objective of lining
watercourses is to increase agricultural production through effective use of irrigation water saved by
renovation of watercourses and application of improved on-farm water management practices. It is
expected, for example, that 750 watercourses would be lined in saline groundwater (SGW) areas around
Nara Canal Command and Khairpur East; the projections for agricultural production without lining
watercourses in saline areas of Nara and Khairpur in the Sanghar and Khairpur Districts are that yields
would remain constant and cost of production would increase gradually due to rising costs of planting,
harvesting, etc. It is estimated that lining watercourses would have a positive impact on the distribution of
water at the watercourse level and would affect agricultural production by 11 percent in Sanghar and
Khairpur. It is also anticipated that the intervention would provide for saving water conveyance losses by
5% and 10% in lined and unlined watercourses, respectively. Benefits on agricultural productivity are
expected to occur immediately the year after construction. Productivity and costs are expected to remain
steady in future years after the initial impact.
51.    Potential Production Losses: The investment component of the project is expected to lead to
some loss in agricultural production since some agricultural land will be acquired for project purposes.
The NDP Feasibility Study Consultants estimated that about 1.21 hectares of land will be acquired for each
kilometer of off-farm surface drains rehabilitated or built. On that basis, it is estimated that a total of 8,696
hectares of land are likely to be acquired. Current average net income in the project areas is estimated at



109                                            ANNEX 9
Page 14 of IS
Rs. 17,670 per hectare per year. Thus average annual losses from agricultural income from land acquired
for project purposes would be about Rs. 153.7 million. This loss would be more than offset by expected
benefits.
Estimation Of Economic Rates Of Return And Net Present Values
52.     The selection criteria requires that Investment Projects should have a minimum economic rate of
return (ERR), excluding non-quantifiable benefits, of 15 percent. The various types of Investment Projects
which would be supported under the project have had historically high ERRs (200/%-50%) in Pakistan'0.
Studies of completed projects in Pakistan also show that higher ERRs are achieved under program rather
than project approach for the same type of investments. Drainage projects in other countries also show
high rates of return". The economic analysis for the potential Investment Projects in the pipeline (given in
the Table below) indicate that substantial number of these projects, covering various types of interventions,
would meet the ERR selection criteria. The ERRs of the various types of Investrment Projects also span a
wide range. These reflect variations in cropping patterns and yield levels, the degree of surface flooding
and its frequency, the extent of waterlogging, and the available irrigation supplies.
Results of Economic Analysis Of Potential Investment Projects in the Pipeline
Investment Project                                      ERR (percent)       NPV (Rs. million)
The Project
*   Feasibility Study Cons.                                19.6                 4,224
Portfolio of Investment Projects in the Pipeline
*   Integrated Irrigation and Drainage
D.G. Khan             18.4                 1,942
*   Surface Drainage
RBOD Priority            14.2                  461
Surface Drains in Punjab         14.5                  179
Surface Drains in Sindh         20.0                 1,194
Surface Drains in NWFP           14.5                 N/A
Gojra Khewra II           21.1                   63
Shorkot Kamalia           27.0                   135
Fordwah Eastem Sadiqia           13.5                   69
KafurDherill             13.2                    3
Lasbela            31.7                   105
Thatta District          18.3                0.664
Larkana District          18.4                 3.039
*   Subsurface Drainage
Community Tile Drainage in All Provinces       27.1                  584
Private Tile Drainage         21.2                  704
SCARP Khairpur             20.0                 1,194
10      For example, the completion ERRs for similarly designed sector Investment Projects (i.e. designed on a
program approach) in Pakistan were 23 percent for Command Water Management (Cr. 1487-PAK), 32 percent for
SCARP Transition Pilot (Cr. 1693-PAK), 22 percent for OFWM II (Cr. 1603-PAK), over 50 percent for ISRP I (Ln.
2210-PAK), and 45 percent for OFWM I (Cr. 1163-PAK). Completion ERRs for Specific Investment Projects are
lower e.g., 7.6 percent for Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development (Cr. 0648-PAK), 13 percent for
SCARP Mardan (Ln. 1733-PAK), 14.5 percent for Fourth Drainage (Cr. 1375-PAK), and 23 percent for SCARP VI.
11      A study in Kailanakhas (India) showed that even farrns neighboring the project area benefited significantly
as a consequence of their land improvement The yield of wheat increased from 600 to 1600 kg per hectare in a period
of four years.  Similar results were observed for mustard, bajra, and other crops (Source: Indian Economic and
Political Weekly, March 20-27, 1993, p.A-22).



110                                              ANNEX 9
Page 15 of 18
Results of Economic Analysis by Type of Investment Projects in the Pipeline
(cont'd. from previous page)
Investment Project                                   ERR (percent)       NPV (RsL million)
*   Rehabilitation of Tubewells and Evaporation Ponds
SGW Tubewells in Sindh and Punjab          30.7                   542
SCARP VI Evaporation Ponds             9.5                   -44
Transition of FGW Tubewells in Sindh and NWFP          50.7                  489
*   Lining Watercourses in SGW Areas
Khairpur District          23.9                  1.152
Sanghar District           29.8                 1.931
*   Rehabilitation and Modernization of Canal Commands
Sanghar (Nara Canal)           28.9                 0.664
Nawabshah              21.4                  0.306
Lower Bari Doab Canal            18.3                 3.424
Flow Gauging and Telemetry for Ifrigation       N/A                   N/A
Chasma Right Bank Canal            15.3                 5,172



111                                                   ANNEX 9
Page 16 of 18
Table IA
ILLUSTRATIVE ANALYSIS OF
FISCAL IMPACT OF NDP (INVESTMENT) AND MACROECONOMIC TARGETS
(FY95/96-FY02/03)
FY95/96     FY96/97      FY97198      FY98/99     FY99/00      FY0O/Ol    FY01/02       FY02/03
GDP at current market prices (Rs.    1866.3      2214.3        2563.2      2912.1      3302.0      3745.9        4246.5        4801.0
billion)
Total PSDP (Rs. billion)              121.3       141.7         164.0       180.6       204.7       228.5         246.3         278.5
%ofGDP                              6.5%        6.4%          6.4%        6.2%         6.2%        6.1%         5.8%          5.8%
Investment Program for Drainage with   10.258       9.944        13.853      15.292      12.934       13.704       14.767        12.167
NDP (excluding beneficiary
contribution): Rs. billion
% of PSDP                           8.5%        7.0%          8.4%        8.5%        6.3%        6.0%          6.0%          4.4%
% of GDP                            0.5%        0.4%         0.5%         0.5%        0.4%        0.4%          0.3%         0.3%
Beneficiary Contribution (Rs. billion)  0           0.1           0.12        0.16        0.21         0.236        0.29          0.1
Investment Program for Drainage with   10.258      10.044        13.973      15.452       13.144      13.940       15.057        12.267
NDP (including beneficiary
contribution): Rs. billion
%ofPSDP                             8.5%        7.1%          8.5%        8.6%        6.4%        6.1%          6.1%          4.4%
% of GDP                            0.5%        0.5%          0.5%        0.5%        0.4%        0.4%          0.4%          0.3%
Investment Program for Drainage         9.701       7.857         9.694      10.000       10.250      10.500        10.725       10.975
without NDP (Rs. billion)
% of PSDP                           8.0%        5.5%          5.9%        5.5%        5.0%        4.6%          4.4%          3.9%
% of GDP                            0.5%        0.4%          0.4%        0.3%         0.3%        0.3%         0.3%          0.2%
NDP excluding Beneficiary               0.559       2.321         4.897       6.573        4.206       4.593        4.594         1.704
Contribution (Rs. billion)
%ofPSDP                             0.5%        1.6%         3.0%         3.6%        2.1%        2.0%          1.9%          0.6%
NDP including Beneficiary               0.559       2.421         5.017       6.733       4.416        4.829        4.884         1.804
Contribution (Rs. billion)
% of PSDP                           0.5%        1.7%         3.1%         3.7%        2.2%        2.1%          2.0%          0.6%
of which projects already in PSDP      0.002       0.234         0.738       1.281       1.522        1.389        0.552         0.512
(Rs. billion)
of which new projects (Rs. billion)    0.557       2.187         4.279       5.452       2.894        3.440        4.332         1.292
%ofPSDP                             0.5%         1.5%         2.6%        3.0%         1.4%        1.5%          1.8%         0.5%
Source: GOP, GOProvinces, CAS, and Staff Estimates



112                                                ANNEX 9
Page 17 of 18
Table lB
Page I of 2
IMPACT OF NDP ON RECURRENT (OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE) BUDGET
(Rs. Million)
Punjab PID Budget
FY95/96    FY96/97      FY97/98     FY98/99      FY99/00      FYOO/01      FY01/02      FY02/03
Total O&M Budget                 3846.52     4300.41      4708.95      5076.25      5472.19      5899.02     6359.15  6855.161991
O&M Transfer to Beneficiaries
(I) Transfer of FGW Tubewells
(2) Transfer of Sub-Drains           0          0.7          1.4          2.0          2.7         3.4          3.4          3.4
(3) Transferof                      0.0         0.0         19.4         77.5        155.1       232.6        310.1        426.5
Distributary/Minor Canals
(4) Transfer of Saline Tubewells    0.0         9.9         20.9         35.2         35.2        35.2         35.2         35.2
to Farmer Managed Tile Drains
Subtotal forthe savings (real)       0.0        10.6         41.6        114.8        193.0       271.2        348.7        465.0
Sub total for the savings (current   0.0        12.8         55.4        164.7       298.5        452.2        626.8        901.1
prices)
%oftheO&MCost                     0%         0.3%         1.2%        3.2%         5.5%         7.7%         9.9%        13.1%
Sindh PID Budget
FY95/96    FY96/97      FY97/98     FY98/99      FY99/00      FYOO/01      FY01/02      FY02/03
Total O&M Budget                 2515.59     3115.41      3805.17      4704.50      5743.04     6880.25      8125.50 9489.039205
O&M Transfer to Beneficiaries
(1) Transfer of FGW Tubewells        0            0         41.8        157.2        272.3       272.3        272.3        272.3
(2) Transfer of Sub-Drains           0          0.6          1.1          1.7          2.2         2.8          2.8          2.8
(3) Transferof                        0         0.0         19.4         58.2        116.3        174.5       232.6        310.1
Distributary/Minor Canals
(4) Transfer of Saline Tubewells    0.0         8.8         17.6         26.4         28.8        28.8         28.8         28.8
to Farmner Managed Tile Drains
Sub total for the savings (real)     0.0         9.3         79.8        243.4        419.6       478.3        536.4        614.0
Sub total for the savings (current   0.0        11.3        106.3        349.2        649.0        797.5       964.2       1189.6
prices)
%oftheO&MCost                     0%         0.4%         2.8%        7.4%        11.3%        11.6%        11.9%        12.5%
NWFP PID Budget
FY95/96    FY96/97      FY97/98     FY98/99      FY99/00      FY0O/Ol      FY01/02      FY02/03
Total O&M Budget                  412.45      461.12       504.93       544.31       586.77      632.53       681.87   735.05702
O&M Transfer to Beneficiaries
(1) TransferofFGW Tubewells          0            0         22.8         45.5         45.5        45.5         45.5         45.5
(2) Transfer of Sub-Drains           0          0.2          0.4          0.6          0.7         0.9          0.9          0.9
(3) Transfer of                      0          0.0          7.8         23.3        46.5         69.8         93.0        116.3
Distributary/Minor Canals
(4) Transfer of Saline Tubewells    0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
to Farmer Managed Tile Drains
Sub total for the savings (real)     0.0         0.2         30.9         69.3         92.8        116.2       139.5        162.7
Subtotal forthesavings (current      0.0         0.2         41.1         99.5        143.5        193.8       250.7        315.3
prices)
%of the O&M Cost                  0%         0.0%         8.1%        18.3%       24.5%        30.6%        36.8%        42.9%



113                                              ANNEX 9
Page 18 of 18
Table 1B
Page 2 of 2
Balochistan PID Budget
FY95196    FY96/97     FY97/98      FY98/99      FY99/00      FYOO/Ol      FYO1/02      FY02/03
Total O&M Budget                  150.29      168.02       183.99       198.34       213.81      230.48       248.46   267.8426983
O&M Transfer to Beneficiaries
(1) Transfer of FGW Tubewells        0           0           0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0
(2) Transfer of Sub-Drains           0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.1         0.1          0.1           0.1
(3) Transferof                       0          0.0          3.9         11.6         23.3         34.9        46.5          58.2
Distributary/Minor Canals
(4) Transfer of Saline Tubewells    0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0           0.0
to Farmer Managed Tile Drains
Sub total for the savings (real)     0.0         0.0          3.9         11.7         23.3         35.0        46.6          58.2
Sub total for the savings (current   0.0         0.0          5.2         16.8         36.1         58.3         83.8         112.8
prices)
% of the O&M Cost                 0%         0.0%         2.8%         8.4%        16.9%       25.3%        33.7%         42.1%
NDP's Fiscal Impact on Recurrent Budgets
FY95/96    FY96/97     FY97/98      FY98/99      FY99/00      FY0O/Ol      FY01/02      FY02/03
Total O&M                        6924.85     8044.96      8809.23      9496.35     10237.07     11035.56    11896.33     12824.24
O&M Savings by NDP                   0.0        24.3        208.0        630.1       1127.0       1501.7       1925.5       2518.9
Intervention
% of Total O&M                   0.0%        0.3%         2.4%         6.6%       11.0%        13.6%        16.2%         19.6%
Source: GOProvinces and Staff Estimates



114
ANNEX 10
Page I of 4
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS



SECTOR PLANNING AND RESEARCH COMPONENT
OBJECTIVES    INPUT AND PROCESS                             OUTPUT                               OUTCOME AND IMPACT
INDICATORS'                    INDICATORS2                                   INDICATORS3
* Strengthen the        . Number of contracts for    * Number of Major Research       * Development of improved technology on irrigation and
technical foundations    Major Research Programs     Programs satisfactorily           drainage
of and knowledge        signed                       completed                      * Increased awareness of improved technology and design
base on irrigation and  * % progress on research   * Number of new research            issues
drainage                programs                     proposals prepared under Small   . Wider application of improved technology and in design of
. Number of grants            Grants Program                    new projects and operation of existing infrastructure
approved under Small       * Number of Research Papers
Grants Program              disseminated under Small
* Contract for Research       Grants Program
Advisers signed
* Staff-months of Research
Advisers utilized
* General Manager
(Monitoring and Research)                                                                                                    I-
appointed                                                                                                                    U
* Improve sector        * Number of Policy Studies   . Number of Policy Studies       * Policy reforns and master/sector strategies adopted by the
policies and planning   commenced                    satisfactorily completed         Borrower and/or the Provinces
* Number of Sector          . Number of Sector Planning       * Improvement in policies, procedures, and planning for
Planning Studies             studies satisfactorily completed  water sector projects
commenced                  a Number of Feasibility Studies    * Pipeline of Investment Projects with satisfactory Feasibility
* Number of Feasibility       satisfactorily completed          studies
Studies commenced         * Feasibility Study for National    * Pipeline of Investment Projects with satisfactory
* Number of ElAs, RAPs,        Surface Drainage System          environmental, resettlement, social design, and IEC
SAs, IEC Campaigns          completed                         campaigns
commenced                  * Number of EIAs, RAPs, SAs,
IEC Campaigns completed
I      Input indicators measure the quantity (and sometimes also quality) of resources provided for project activities. Process indicators measure the   0
effectiveness and timeliness with which a project's inputs are being procured, used or deployed to generate outputs.
2      Output indicators measure the quantity (and sometimes also quality) of goods and services that have been created or provided through the use of
inputs.
3      Outcome indicators measure the quantity (and sometimes also quality) of direct results that have been achieved through the provision of project goods
and services. Impact indicators measure the degree to which wider sector /project objectives are being achieved through the direct outcomes of project
activities.



INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS COMPONENT
OBJECTIVES          INPUT AND PROCESS                   OUTPUT                             OUTCOME AND IMPACT
INDICATORS                   INDICATORS                                 INDICATORS
Strategic           * Number of new computers  . Number of staff trained       * WAPDA's progress on developing and managing the water
reorientation,        installed                * Satisfactory functioning of     resources of the Indus Basin beyond construction (e.g.:
strengthen capacity    * Number of training      Social Cell, Public Information  extent to which WAPDA has brought basin-focus on
and improve           courses conducted          Cell, Public Information Center    monitoring and evaluation, water resources planning,
efficiency of       * Number of qualified or     & Library, Operations Policy    groundwater and surface water management,
WAPDA                 professional staff         Cell, and Evaluation Cell       environmental management related to irrigation and
appointed by WAPDA         established in WAPDA           drainage, participatory and social aspects relating to
* Consultants staff-months    * Improvement in functioning of    irrigation and drainage, financial planning for irrigation
utilized                  functional Departments of        and drainage, etc.)
* Number of WAPDA            WAPDA (e.g.: Finance,        * WAPDA's withdrawal from intra-provincial irrigation and
Departments in which       Planning, WEC, Monitoring,      drainage
streamlining and capacity  Procurement, & Regional       * Improvement of internal processes and procedures,
building initiatives have  Offices)                        including decentralization in WAPDA
been introduced                                          * Reduction in administrative costs of WAPDA
* Decentralization and   * Number of new computers  * Number of PIDAs established    * Area managed by decentralized institutions such as PIDAs,
management transfer    installed                 and functioning                 AWBs and FOs
of irrigation and   * Number of training       * Number of AWBs established    * Reduction in subsidies provided to PIDAs, AWBs, & FOs
drainage system in    courses conducted          and functioning               * Cost reduction achieved by PIDAs, AWBs and FOs
Provinces, and      * Consultants staff-months    * Number of FOs established and   * Increases in revenues achieved by PIDAs, AWBs and FOs
strengthen capacity   utilized                   functioning                   * % of budget of PIDAs, AWBs and FOs spent on O&M
and improve         * Number of qualified or   * Number of staff trained         works
efficiency of         professional staff       * Number of Drainage Circles (as  * % of budget of PIDAs, AWBs and FOs spend on staffing
decentralized         appointed by PIDAs,        renamed or reconstituted into   and establishment costs
institutions          AWBs or FOs                PIDAs, AWBs or FOs)           * Extent of improvement in provision and quality of client
streamlined                    services by PIDAs, AWBs and FOs. Indicators would
include delivery efficiency of water, delivery of water to
tail-enders, effective functioning of canals and drains (%  X
performing to designed levels), extent of customer
satisfaction with services provided, etc.
* Extent of transparency in financial and operational
performance of PIDAs, AWBs and FOs
* Improvement of internal processes and procedures,
including decentralization in PIDAs and AWBs



INVESTMENTS COMPONENT
OBJECTIVES    INPUT AND PROCESS                         OUTPUT                             OUTCOME AND IMPACT
INDICATORS                   INDICATORS                                 INDICATORS
Improve irrigation  * Engineering Design and   * Number and cost of Investment  * Area of waterlogged land (i.e., watertable depth compared
and drainage          Supervision Consultants    projects completed. Area        to baseline situation e.g., % of Area waterlogged, with
infrastructure        staff -months utilized     covered by completed            watertable 0-5 feet, 5-10 feet, 10-15 feet, and more than 15
network             * Number of incremental      Investment Projects             feet)
* Minimize drainable    staff-months on design and  * Length of off-farm drains  * Quantity of salt (and % of total drainable surplus) being
surplus; and facilitate   supervision of Investment    constructed or rehabilitated  drained to the sea
eventual evacuation   Projects                 * Length of on-farm surface     * Area of saline land
of saline drainable  * Number and cost of        drains constructed or         * Area and % of land requiring drainage provided with
surplus from the      Investment Projects        rehabilitated                   adequate and functioning surface and sub-surface drainage
Indus Basin to the sea   approved              * Area on which tile drains were    * Area and % of land requiring drainage connected to a
. Number and cost of civil    installed                     proper and functioning outfall
works contracts approved   * Number of watercourses      . ERR of completed Investmnent Projects
or awarded                 improved                      * Increases in cropping intensities and yields resulting from
* Number and cost of O&M    * Number of Canal Commands      reduced waterlogging and salinity
Performance Contracts      modernized
signed                   * Length of canals rehabilitated
* Counterpart Funds        * Area in which O&M was
released                   carried out efficiently through
Performance Contracts
-o



113                                    ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 2
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
I. Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Islamic Republic of Pakistan,
November 22, 1995, The World Bank,; and Pakistan - Country Assistance Strategy - Progress
Report, March 20, 1997, The World Bank
2. Eighth Five Year Plan (1993-98), June 1994, Planning Commission, Government of Pakistan
3. Pakistan Irrigation and Drainage: Issues and Options, March 1994, The World Bank
4. Water Sector Investment Planning Study, December 1990 prepared by Sir M MacDonald and
Partners Limited, National Engineering Services Pakistan (Pvt.) Limited, Harza Engineering Co
International LP and Associated Consulting Engineers ACE (Pvt.) Limited
5. Pakistan: Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment - National Drainage Programme, June
1993 prepared by National Engineering Services Pakistan (Pvt.) Limited and Mott MacDonald
International Limited
6. Feasibility Study, National Drainage Programme I, May 1995 prepared by National Engineering
Services Pakistan (Pvt.) Limited and Mott MacDonald International Limited
7. National Drainage Program: Implementation Volume to Staff Appraisal Report, May 1997, The
World Bank
8. Sector Development Policy Letter, August 21, 1995 issued by Government of Pakistan
9. Supplementary Sector Development Policy Letter, October 3, 1995 issued by Government of
Pakistan
10. Institutional Program for WAPDA's Water Wing, July 30, 1995, Letter of Chairman, WAPDA
11. Reorganization of Water Wing of WAPDA, January 1995, Individual Research Paper by Mr.
Ahmed Khan Bhatti, Chief Engineer (Dams), WAPDA for the 22nd Senior Management Course,
WAPDA Administrative Staff College, Lahore
12. National Drainage Program of Pakistan: Issues and Recommendations for Institutional Reform,
August 1995 prepared by Dr. Fernando Gonzalez Villarreal (World Bank Consultant, Second Pre-
appraisal Mission)
13. Institutional Reforms in the Water Sector in Pakistan - Political Economy and Political Risk,
Working Paper for the National Drainage Program, May 1997
14. Study for Nara Canal Command Institutional Development Pilot Program, Interim Report and
Institutional Framework, July 1997 prepared by Euroconsult, Associated Consulting Engineers and
Euroconsult Pakistan.
15. Feasibility Study - Second Irrigation and Drainage Sukh Beas/Lower Bari Doab Canal Project,
Interim Report, October 1994 prepared by National Engineering Services Pakistan (Pvt.) Limited,
Agrar-Und Hydrotechnik GMBH, and National Development Consultants



119                                      ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 2
16. Briefing Paper - Options for Private Sector Participation in Operation and Maintenance (Draft
for Discussion), May 1995 prepared by LBOD Consultants (Sir M MacDonald and Partners Limited,
National Engineering Services Pakistan (Pvt.) Limited, and Associated Consulting Engineers ACE
(Pvt.) Limited)
17. Operation and Maintenance and Cost Recovery with Special Reference to Farmer Participation
in Drainage Activities, February 1995 prepared by Sindh Development Studies Center, University of
Sindh, ITAD Limited and Wye College
18. Moving Towards Participatory It rigation Management - Pilot Project for Farmer-managed
Irrigated Agriculture Under the Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage I Project, Pakistan, Phase 11
Report, January 1997 prepared by International Irrigation Management Institute, Lahore
19. Lower Indus Region Right Bank Master Plan, February 1992 prepared by Mott MacDonald
International Limited and Hunting Technical Services Limited
20. Lower Indus Right Bank Irrigation and Drainage Project (Stage-I) Prio.rity Works (PC-1), May
1994 prepared by Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority
21. Feasibility Study - SCARP Dera Ghazi Khan Phases I and 11 (Surface and Subsurface Drainage),
June 1995 prepared by Agrar-Und Hydrotechnik GMBH and National Engineering Services Pakistan
(Pvt.) Limited
22. Monthly Status Reports on Contract Packages related to Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD)
Project Proposed for Financing under NDP prepared by LBOD Consultants
23. Left Bank Outfall Drain State 1 Project - Irrigation Works Concept Paper, Draft, March 1997
prepared by LBOD Consultants and Irrigation and Power Department, Government of Sindh
24. Feasibility Study on Chashma Right Bank 1st Lift Irrigation Project (Draft), December 1994
prepared by Nippon Giken Inc. and Nippon Koei Co. Ltd
25. Flow Gauging and Telemetry for Irrigation Water Management Project (Draft PC-I), February
1995 prepared by Pakistan Water and Power Development Authority
26. Irrigation Facilities for Riverine Areas in Sindh Province, August 1993 prepared by MMP
Pakistan (Private) Limited, Engineering Associates, Engineering Consultants, and Mott MacDonald
International
27. National Drainage Program (NDP): Accounting and Financial Handbook prepared by H.M.
Yousaf, Partner, Ilyas Saleem and Co., Chartered Accountants



MAP SECTION



I



TIJRKIENSTfl ,TM  <       Je           ._tz                          70                        71'                                                                             74
- AFGEANSTON  TAJIRDTAJ-  _ '   ;                                                                                                                             :
-. AEGHALASTAN  to8 I, rOAR                                                        TARDELA               'K>                            ~JAMMU   &
Ar-                                    34'                                                                                      DA                                                   KASHMIR
PAKIS  AN                                                                                                             1 5SLAMABAD                                ,,     UeA nro/
Ma,-aecalsrztf  o                                                                 Kohol o                                                      -SAAL
SNOT     1 't5hFxINDIA                                                                             '                                     MANG
,   NA l C lAI Dy FE                                                      JINNA                                 A
6'8'                      65qPR   '                                                                                                                                         L
PAKISTAN                                                             CHA              Manol                         j6H~t
NATIONAL DRAINAGE                                        NWFP                                                                                               _
PROGRAM (NDP) PROJECT
STATUS OF SALINITY CONTROL AND '
RECLAMATION PROJECTS (JUNE 1996)  ?                                                                   /R' e
~PLANNED PROJECTS"                                                  
E iONOGOINGOPROJECTS                                        j ~       }            '0 4             
ICOMRPLErED PROJECTS                                                          10 V1 2jPROPJ
3'1                            SCARP BOUNDARIES AND NUMBERS                                                             S                   2ARRAGE
-M MJOR RIVERS                                                  TAUNS  ,
MAIN CANAL, BRANCHES AND RIVERS                                               A]
-     OUTFALL DRAINS                                       )
- - - - ORTFAL!DRAINS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                              30-
.....ORTEALL DRAINS EROPOSED6,I
)~ISYPHONO, BARRAGES                                                                                           ISLAM
0     SELECEED CITIES
NATIONAL CAPITAL                               /                                                                   _,
PROVINCR DOUNDARIES                       *se
-       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                    .
_ 29.                                    '         <t,f ;   y/lja   w            w                                 s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E,.6P
MAINNtVA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P"                                                                                    INDIA ,W=f    <_f 
jBALOCHIS_TALNTYOTRLADRELMAINARJET
-                       1;i1 i { , PUNJAB/SB                           S -N                 4H0 BR R             l
II                 I
20      40       60      80      I 00Mb,I
'~~~~                                          t': /,    : / NTOA   UFAEiSr:|Kar
MAi'N NARA VALEY                       f-E.o IT                                                                                                                    He| RerenNAESSTM  6Sdenyc6nee6orrrareo
DRAIN (MINVD)  ~         I                                                                                                                         rl rde   ppApoTenTh.  ecnR-
S6t'OJ-BBOO                 6                                                                                          neeonoeL2ew]rroe   ,                        28'-
-28'
4                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~SALINITY CONTROL AND RECLAMATION PROJECTS
(NMDS)                       27'      4 Shahper                                    41 KBndhketT uShohdodkht
- 277             '  Lwke-    7 .         @          L                *                                                        6  Scarp III S--                                ShkA68  PIyPt
' t  2  9X Sj - .yt ;  i Ez 7   Xs l  .   t                                      6 Sh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ars K-Am. Pda.           i  S,kk., R,qht Bank F.G W
10 Lower Reehng IKiroWoe Urr)                    - L.BRO.D. Core Progmime [Spinal Drain)
210 An rodgin0 AIl ny1  P-aR0                          -LG   TOre, I  hah, Sanghor,
J   .--/; .t -i 1i1 T' -t .2>   \                       |                   _~~~~~~~~~~2  Anrnnelerleggirg Alan6 ES SM.B eL nk  Ear da Muheammad (han
KOTRI  )   ttis, L;L44X t   ,.t i   - 7 ~                            23 Saiuntd,] l,1 Al Polrarey (DreinaBe lYI   89 Eane Aeon
-'                -                 BARRAGE   .    i" t          . '              r'                     -                 oB  Kherl Reclna.oen                             R    Rhipe  
POPL EDM                                                                                                     25 Upper Renae iD y aAiNl 6 arsh, Dinr D                    Ee
L. \                                      }k.  ch.                                      26t Y    a                       P Gore a <rerr Phase   i,63 B M     D B ank IEre-6Dmi
."                                                                   n'""    so Oherkel Konroire Selire~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A6   R64&U   Mip,k.,
'I                     ReIn1 2 ,g'7} <                                                                           09) \  /     25 - CBDC  lRemerain8} oo San9dlreAoyA
-2So                               [e Lke        X 7<f              \ (    \P 0                                              00  easlernS -iia,Phosell & I                BALOCHISTAN
i- _,p m rv v r ~__                                                     D3 SGl Bean Below 85 Lin PhaeI                                                      Rrr=der Proec
E  ... - <-t  -?     '1331    d' '                                                                   SakE No Inrdasbu ChaUnnel                     Pehr Poder Projr
__ .~ ,                                                                                            Irden MH de Ur U, ,_S-rk, K.aa-  Ceanranrb
q-         6        7 Ch:ehine Cooerrand Area .     l !I        it 'eshoaror PAkiT &' L  e-  ' Mh.....  h eli
ARABIAN     ,'>                     ~~~~ EKOTrern-Sed 1  Pi,qi                                                                  IRen]nioTK-arShri A WLdo-Pahoe  iy
-24'     COASEAT (PEEKS           -.         -                        RA~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~ND H!  OFp KUTCK-6i~                                 Right Ch -h k Cersied AD  D,,ni. nr
4'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~<                                                                                                                             Seone ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-- S.,.   -h.S~D ojgioo
2    67'1                                                                                                                   E-'   .dS'. Pt-I 71                     BALCHrrroCISTnedA reN     eeeneiI
K-ac I ~   ~       ~       ~       II                                                      






URKLESTNI7IA.-                                                                   71 ,                                          73                    74
- UZ3EKISTAN  IAIIKDTWIV  _i
AFGHADNISTAN                     34S               PAIAN                         K .
~~~~~ ~~~ TARiEBLAIA                                             JAMMU  &
'. Aren >-vsAtReE rR I IX                           PAKISTAN                                                 D_6,lAMAEt9,'  ,,JAM 
oBa=fMo    r WS/FUhAANATIONAL DRAINAGE                                                 '        tj K                        ,  V                           KH
PA KIS 5FrA N    i         PROGRAM   (NDP) PROJECT                                        r        I M    in'                                  App-i-R,ste
PAKI                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISLAMABAD.auneIntj
A.OChrISTAN                      IRRIGATED AREA  PROVIDED WITH  Kehet                                                               I  .                   SALAL
AND IN NEED OF DRAINAGE                                                                          -
INDIA                 IN  THE INDUS BASIN                                                                    W  -LA
AbeD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
Al-bo                 Gw Vv                                                                                        a         
68  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     '   BARRY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BARAEGerl
IRI             ~~~~69'                                          "      RMR
AREAS COVERED BY DRAINAGE:                                         CTOHWASH
tSSURFACE DRAINAGE                          N '         r      t      s<u        ' .;             (        's"
SBSURFACE DRAINAGE                        N .N. F              PI32
32         _      AREAS IN NEED OF DRAINAGE                                                                         .^g,,>               <B
SURFACE DRAINAGE                          see
SUB SURFACE DRAINAGE
AREAS WHERE DEPTH TO WATER TABLE ~5 FRET 
CA NAEICOMMANDLAREAS                                                         / s          4                                    Kn C /  /k30
CANAE COMMAND AREA BOUNDARIES                                                             t                                                             ----- -4(t 
(PROSPECTIVE AREA WATER BOARDS)                                  '                                                                    .3
MMOR RRVERS                                                                    <)     BRA
__.__  tRAIN CANAL, BRANCHES AND RIVERS
OUTFAEL DRAINS
-    2 4 tiOUTFALL DRAINS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
OUTFALL DRAINS PROPOSED                                                       -<
)(5 SYPHONS, BARRAGES                                   I      TAUNL/IA-                                                                BIRG
O     SELECTED CITIES                                    );0
NATIONAL CAPITAL     80    100MIlIs                                   * ,   ,t                                                   -'                        30j
- -PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                  '                         2 6             S     0V,ne 
-D- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o   25  4AU  HO  RU  10TKilnmetoes
o      20    46              T        MIne        .-                                          1
1                            ~~~~~~~~~29'-
29'
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 7,                                                                                      li Boeens mIns A eoer e, en7 IA|.''7f 
PUNJAB   /                                 n   oe, op s
1D,  X,                                                1                    f  "'  f;.ff  tHAsaM'w''LmM)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~np,en Menn H Io soe )npeTn nee
MAIN NARA VALLEY                                                                                                  IedseleonesnsoudLoroe
DEAN (MNVD)                              j    -                                                                                            CANAL COMMAND
>-2a'                                                                                                                                              IUpp Jhd.. =C-1~'~fJ   ~   ;;  . '  - - --   RANf29 ;)F    5 .   _.  ~DppnodUeAor
isPe..to AR-n U.M RC- Cne
   TEI-IWAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7i.p, . -
RAE BAG  ....  ,:  ,.  _.  . _ , ~  ~ ..  ~ . :i Pof eedm C=ol ..DRAINAGE..Y...M                                                        Pkpf.. A6-..M..II..Cfv
_ t7  Fi3,d-h & 69E7ff M-  =.dq. 5  K   Rie & _  troLls uedo e
26 Detent Coca
I                                     59~~~~~~~~~~~1 North Wes CAne).-1
SB BeGan Sled Cone
PROPOSE                                                                                                                              SD Dod C-rn
ARAB IAN                                                                                               C  Role), Cone)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.   t,1 C 1,1- .&  .
BAR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~-                                                                          AOHSA
SINDH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e Feede Cone) I
67'      69'                    70-                   71"      -             72'                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~North West Caro1g






TURKMENIETAN B EKISL   WIKST N2. n-'- r                 706                      7'1                                                 73'                       74
AFG AISTAN          ?34'-
34                        PAKISTANJAM &
\     -  dAbr       X                         NATIONAL DRAINAGE                                               .                               ,  'K                              K
-          P A K. AXIS SAN   iPROGRAM  (NDP) PROJECT                                                                          ISLAMA                                           Appro mate
22,  M^LCOOC LSTV                   ,, AGRO-CLIMATIC ZONES &                                                           /                   BAD                                * oFCen, SALAL
4.Z'    (  '                                        GROUNDWATER QUALITY                                                                                                       .          DA
INDIA
"-"A               T         TO
6b --  -V - -:e -E                                                                                                      52t gx   ---i<G                           r t,       f`A'
68'                                                                                    -'K''N OX
AGRO-CJMAiC ZONES.                                                           CHASNWMA
PUNJAR MIXED WHEAT                              N       W        F      P.  BAR
-322'    ~       tMo    PUNJAB SUGARCANE WHEAT                                                                         -             0                   -;
PUNJAB CROINS WHEATRA
SINSDH RICE WHEAT NORTH                                                                        ,0      'T    $t
SIND coTTON WHEAT NORTH                               I                                                                                                                        3
SINS RICE WHEAT SOUTH                                                                 A A          i                                                   I D
SINSCOTTONDWHEAT SOURTH                                                nf                                        >3'
50-    CANALCOMMANDAREAS                                                                                                                                                     BARR2AGE7
CANAL COMM/AND AREA BOUNEARIES
(PROSPECTIVE AREA WATER BOARDS]
MAJOR RIVERS
AMA.N CAAL, BRANCHES AND RIVERS
PROP'OSED CANLALS                                                   T                                                                                     ARG
-    OUTEALL DRAINS
-     .OUST ALL DRAINS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                       a     ~     ~      ~     [I      +5C '                                                                                 o
....    OUTTALI DRAINS PROPOSED
-30'
if I   SYPHONS, BAREAGES
0      SELECTED CMTES
NATIONAL CAPffALowe                                                                                                                                   r 1
-.  -   PROVINCE BOUINDARIES
-   -    R4TUBNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                                                   2W~~~~~~~~~~~4
-2XG~~~~ ~ ~~ ->    17 :: -i N'LT.. lDE.;~~-:                      -.                                     A B
r                                                    -  -    :--    Fi    ..   /.   --  --- - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N J   873                                      14,'fPfeeeCm 
CANAL COMMANDS
MALA/ NA LA VAEY                                         (R PROSPECTIVE AREA
DRAIN (MN/ID)                                                                                               ~~~       ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2R'-  WATER BOARDS)
PUNJAB
-28'                                                                                                                                                                     n   ppanJhalans Canal 
aL-ma Jkelam Canal
a    ta/a. Rani Ud Canal 
aUpper Cheas Canal
U   2)  40)  60   RD  /UU/(dwn/a                            an-Caa
I   I  I    I                         , ~~~~~~~~~Dipa/p., U.k Ca..a/
I ~~~~~~~~~~~I 1aa/ syphan
N /DASURFACE                  IR       4       60       00     /00  in            Dipalpan Canal /Uppat & Eawa)
24              j       ~~~~~~~~~DRAINAGE SYSTEM                                                  27LawanpRanT SAab CanaL,kC-
-27'                                                                                                                                                                     is 1./Mi/ni Ba/m- S.M.b Lec-Caa
all:~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h=                                            = b hIapan     maLydaraDgaianSata/T,Wanta  t  Fandana & Ha/lam Sad/qia
Tehiwna,  dI.~ Biaannr ahayah,naanaC ir Canal
CC                                             %.  %                              an&ainnatanarnWHnaaafiwhhn~",.o  _~anda,a          D, Gan/Kh-A/Cb-iaCn
SEHWAN                                                                                           7R   anpa Cna
CO   A//LOPOE                                                                                                                                  s-u             Thai Canal
IFUOPOSEDIMOOCAIIaF\                                                2~~~~'X6'-   GROUJNDWTRAEu                                          ~        hra  aa
-26'NWF'                                                                                                                                                                N.W.F.P.
as  ppen- DaaCana
Ma. pFnuih  --            ''         so ~~~Ln.- Swat & Dna/a & 5/n/gina
-                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ma,pSaline2  Warank High L-1
aK aa Elan, & Jai SnAh R I-adafian
25'-                                                                t C.-I-atTin Cna
Ka-hi                                                                                                                          2'25  Dada Cana
0                                                                                                                  73'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  KkhairparWatCana/
asK/sinpa East Canal
snRn/r CanalI
SBEaslna Na. Canal
Io'inyan Cana
INDIA                   ORGa/aCanIaL/iend Ch-annl/
ARABIAN                                                                                                                                                           F An T/a CanI
EA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~~C  24OR Tanda Baa Lin-d C/on.l/I
/                                       -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                        BALOCHISTAN
MaPat Fender Cal .. 
67'                             09'                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       ~~70  A  a  NantAW-ntCna ... 






6,                                                            68- 69
,   _   .   '  .   ;   .   .,   '   X  .  .   |   ;                            .   '     h   .5   /~68 '         6 9
/
Des,  Ca-
:              : MAIN NARA VALLEY                                                     42                WoADese,Ca ;-                         _     -   ''
:DRAIN(MNVD)'
~~ 2 B '   -   ,   -   M  0          '  /   C                  * *4  ,                                                              -   
dX t 0:fES0020 lf l$000000 t:t fX . .. ,IO\                                                              F3 0                           I ,8CEPs,D:-s,' 'O  N:
4.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
'~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                  /  '  \ShhdJrlBDr.-.. .(   ..
.....-~~~ \   Xf                  29        P<,,S
'a~~4'
~~~  31~~~~~ 
I   ~          ~~~~ '. o:     p K""                          // 3;  7                       ARRKAGE                                         (
-   . '.  { D   E  -  . X, i,,~~~~~ ,,            >      ,,,/    ,,,  ,,;           1..0'N
Lake                                         --------/                                                            X
NATIC
-  A    8 >   X  t   X  f   ;    t:     X   #                                   @             PROGR/
) ___, .  0  !. -    42        ftw<'"i' >z             t   /                                            * * S/"   \'-{'                   .                  SURFAC
k 27              t                                                 *                                                                                                            ( o  S Q . .  '  l/ y|,o,,  O   $,    S  S    vr  ,   N  ..
:   O  i  8;    t          Xif''  ~~~~~ ~~32                          6 7    /'/__ 



SURFAC
LU                                                                                                                                                                         (SO
jk
-27'
E:
F32
ol
135]
A
SEHWAN
BARRAGE                                                                                                                    B,
(PROPOSED)
0     51
4
Like                                    W
PF
SCHEMATIC OF RBOD, STAGE I
RBOD                                                                                                                    t
26'
M.;, 0-m                                    - - -   EXtSTtNG OIJTFALL
(MNVD)
Mu. 6- Z- P.mt             M.m Drain
Gh.h, N. -4         4 15 6  Mi,. Kh-
ch-d (I 00 d,)                  M.;. D-i
B-ch Dmi.
Regulator
Regulator
[Ha.al Escape)
306
Lake
7
Hom.1 Regulator A
M,.i. D i,,                                                         KOTRI
BARR
o-,3w f, Ml                                                                   AGE
Wm i.
0=128ck KN Sh.h
M.  D,.i                                                                        Hyderabad
N/
F.11
L4
Rzullator r ---,")CIUS link
(M   ILor              --127
PC)                                R.D.0-    (Plop-Sed)
7 'OD
25'
Manchhcir Lake        A-1 W-h-



-z                       ,Uits )volwel aBARRAGE"
.01               Mojo] Droon (      8s
>;- I    Q=128cds  KNShch
Moin Dro,n                                                                                            Hyderabad
\ ~       ~       ~        0                                                                                                                 '\          \   :' ,'       X i             
ReguIotor                                                                          ..                                    I         I      /11
Escape)                                        IRp 0         Ppooed)                                                      /2                           (                .=
Danister cis ea C , , 
25'                              Manchhar Lake              Ara Wah        - - -                                                    /
.                           Kairi g       /   ( /   z -         ;Kaft-i
Latke(         ~         " 
Karachi                                                                                       /-
hisvpplaedi        ~             /hMDrndllWxS-                                                                                                                                                             __   \ g\
73~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                               91
10        20             30                                        41<                        {''                                                                             V    f  
~nKILOMETERS                             ~                                                                       .
The bounoorien, ooors, dnoo.oinaotioo,nod on>'other in>onnotion                 1'                                  -                                  / /4IaA  .' j      
,7  ythe Mop Denlo (Joit f A.0 World Ben.          N
Ahoon on i mop do nof imply, on the pod of The World Book                                                       "*
Groop. on>' jodq,nt on the legolstotso of.ny tnitoy, or on>y        I            I                    ,,
nornotoon o occeptonc . of ooh bodns.
67'      .I                                                                         )'                                                              -
TURKMENISTAN                                  J - -               Z//                                                                                     *'f
'UZBEKISTAN   TAJiKiSTAN,V " "- 3-                                                                 W                                  f',r
36                                                36                        -
AFGHANISTAN             .   . -  ".                                                  /                        DHANDS &                                                                        /
KASHMIR                                                                                                                                              RANN  OF KUTCH
0.424016MMgU  24t                                                   COASTAL CREEKS                                          00'
32                         >I2
PUNJ4B j
.   _      _             P A K I  T A N                                                                          .   l          J                 / A          |
28'   BALt(JL II                                  2  A              R         B IA  N- -                                                              (       '
of Mcp                             C F A
I'              ).,   5iNDt1INDIA                            V *                                                                                                              /
24'    A-ol,           .1
5-                     r69
-c 62'            64'             7              74                                                                                                                                                                      I



69                      f                                7D                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POTENTIAL DRAINS TO BE REHABILITATED/
/                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~REMODELLED/EXTENDED UNDER THE PROJECT
(SUBJECT TO APPRAISAL):
/                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Drainage   Length
Name                                               Circle         (km)
____             ~~~KADHAN PATEJI OUTFALL DRAIN
77                    1 7                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LBOD Bronch Drain (RD 132-160)          Kotri            9
/                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-R of Shadi Bhadur Branch Draini (RD 27-44)  Kotri  5
/                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tanda Bago Branch Drain             Kotri          29
6-R Sub Drain (RD 32.5-42.51                       Katri           3
Laswari Branch Drain                                 Katri          39
/                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24L Sub Drain                     Korri           4
.-  -  G(JDU                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-R S,bI Drci,                 Kdr-i           S
j,,W.h,  IJs-,C,o                                                                                                          ARG                                                                -R Sub Drain (RD 9.5-19)                           K.tri           3
Sid~~~~~~~~ BARG                                                                                                                                                                     Bakirn Khadi Link Drain                            Kotri            3
-  -  -  -  -                                                           8.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 ~~~~~Kanaria link Drain                                                        Korri           4
F28                                    /                                                                                      Sirani Branch Drain & its Systnm                      Kat,i         36
4                     '                                                            FULEI GUNI OUTFALL DRAIN
-  -.   -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~~~Fuleli Guni Outfall Drain & Structurns                                                           Kotri          38
I                                             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -R Sub Drain                     Katri           6
Fe65                                                                           *          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~1 -L a( I -R Sub Drain  Kotri         2
-                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-L Sub Drain                        Katri           5
- ,--                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tando Mnhammnad Khan Branch Drain  Katri  5
Bogari  ~ ~  ~        ~       ~      ~      ~     --.-                                                                      ~        .. -2:R Su,b Drain (RD 37-62)                                                       Katri          1 9
Q~~~~~~Q/                                                                                                                     3-R S,b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Drain             K.t,i           2
-,                                            *                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                              ~~~~~4-R Sub Drain  Katri  1 2
-                                                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                         ~ ~~~~-R Saub Drain  Kotr-i  Is
I1-R af 5-R                                        Kairn           3
F30o                                                                                                                                                                  24L Sub Drain (RD 40-50)                           K.tri           3
.  U                        ~~~~~~~~~Mathi Branch Drain                            Katri
I8       -R Sub Drain (RD 28-58)                           Kan            14A
<7  ~~~~~~~~ ~2 7                      ,~                              -1I ASub Drain (RD 0- 13.5)                                                                                   KFain            5
.                                      *              N                      -            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-L Part-I Snb Drain (RD 7-66)  Katri
1                          7'       *                                     /                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-L Part it Sub Drain   Katri           9
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                    Wnstnrn Mir Main Drain & its Syste.                   Kotri   37
/                                                 *                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KARO GUNGRO OUTFAIL DRAIN
*9~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooGugoOtol&Bac Drain                                                          Kotin          68
I-SbDraitn                                     Ko tri        19
2LSbDrain                                     Katri          14
I RSbDrain                                    Katri           7 
2RSbDrain                                      Kotri         7t
U      JKUR4-R Sub Drain                                                                                                                                                                                     Kotri          10
U                                                               B.IA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J5-R Sub Drain                                                                                              Kotri           9
NATIONAL SURFACE                                     Loghari ~~~~~Branch Drain &its System                Kotri          1 6
GiCuiBranch Drain & its System                  Katri         24
SYSTEM  ~~~~~~~~KporBranch Drain                                                     Konri           6
DRA /'iIN/AG   SYSTEM                                                        LSub DriFotri                                                     6
11 -R Sub Drain                                    Kotri          10
~~~~cr                                                         1k1C1iCI                                                                 1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rnof Umed Ali Branch Drain (RD 3.5-51  Kacri  I
kee         /       ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ I'4~~~~~~JL/..J/~~~~~~~N S S                                                   BUHARA Outfall Drain & Pir Bhitaii Sub Drain          Kotri         I1I
/r-  /                           *                                      /                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~         ~~~~~~2-i Ochita Outfall Drain (RD 12-24)  K.tri  4
~~~~~~~~~1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~NAGON DH-ORO OUTFALL DRAIN
/F33                 7/*Nagon Dohar Ontdall Droin                                                                                                                                                                                                 K(otri         43
1 -L Sub Drain                                     Kotri           8
___                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                ~~~~~~2-L Sub Drain  Katri  8
3-L Sub Drain (RD 26-46)                          Fi 
I                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-R Sub Drain  Kutri  ID0
____    I                                                                                         PAKISTAN ~~i  C3-R Sub Drai'n                                                                                 -Katri                     8
______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAITN4-R (RD 1 3-281                                                                                                                                                    Katri           5
[34 _4_                                                                                                                                                                        2-Rn1f Su-anua Branch Drain (RD 16-3D)                Kcain           8
NATIONAL DRAINAGE                                                                     I Ro - R 52)K.tri                                                  3
17                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROGRAM  (NDP) PROJECT                                                     GH-ORABARI OUTFALL DRAIN
j                                                                                                                          G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~harobari OutFall Drain  Kotri    8
SURFACE  DRAIN    NETWO/RK                                                      1 -L Sub Drain (RD 0-22)                           Katri           7
SURFACE   DRAIN   I4LIYY~~~~~~~~~.'IXIX ~~South Soalro Branch Drain                                                  Katri
.~~~~~ii                                         (SOUTHERN   ZONE) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 -R Part 11 Sub Drain                                                          Kun-i          6 1
2-R Sub Drain                                      Kti           5
27       -L Sub Drain (RD 0-15)                            Kotri           5
Thatta Branch Draincage Systnnm                      Katri          80
0                                          *4  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING AND PROPOSED DRAINS                                 JAMSAKRO OUTFALL DRAIN
Jamsakro Duffafl Drain                               Kot,i          32
-     OUJTFA[ L D3RAINS                                                          Sub Drains a) Norn & Mirpur Sakro Brar,lr Drains  Kotri           96



i-      -lIN/k%/-%d                     I_        I                   -. u D ra n                                     \o[ri         0
(N SDS)                                                             BUHARA Outloll Drain & PrBhitoi Sub Drain         Kotri         1 1
2-L Ochito Outf.ll Drain (RD 1 2-24)              Kotri          4
NAGON DHORO OUTFALL DRAIN
~~~'33  -./  -                                                                  /                                                    Nagon Dhora OutFall Drain                          Kotri        43~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ngo  Dor OllilDrinKori4
F3 31                                                                                                                               I -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1- Sub Drain  Kotri       8
-/                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24L Sub Drain  Kotri  8
3-L Sub Drain (RD 26-46)                        Kot,i          8
2-R Sub Drain                                   Katri         1 0
ei~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 3-R Sub Drain                                                                                                                                                                         KatFi          8
_____  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     *~~~~ *~~~:                                     PAKISTAN                                                         A-R (RD 13-28)                                  Kotri           5
4                                        <~~~~~~~~~~.r\                IAI'kA                                                                      2-R of Sulav,al Branch Drain (RD 16-3D)            Kotri          8
S~~~)    *             I~~NATIOJNIAL DRAINAGE                                                           1 -R of2-R (RD 15-24                            Kotri          3
,kIr~~~~~D1                                  Ot-I~~~GORABARI OUTFALL DRAIN
PROGRAM  (NDP)~ PROJECT                                                               Gharabaci Outfall Drain                           Kor,j          B
N~~~-  *.  SURFACE   DRAIN   NETWORK                                                    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -L Sub Drain (RD 0-22)  Katri         7
*                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~South Saksra Branch Drain  Kotri
*                        ~~~~~~~~~~~(SOUTHERN   ZONE)                                               I -R Part II Sub Drain                          Katni         613
o I                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-R Sub Drai  K.tri  33
(\N  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 27 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I -L Sub Drain (RD 0- 15)                    Kofr,          5
*  ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2'                                                Tkaita Branch Drainage System                     Korri         80
-o ~ ~ ~~~~~~~*EXISTING AND PROPOSED DRAINS                                                                            JAMSAKRO OUTFALL DRAIN
JaskoOutfall Drain                           Kotr,         32
OUTFALL DRAINS                                                        Sub Drains of Nari & Mirpur SQlsra Branch Drams  Katri        96
KhiGaoOutfall Drain                         Kotri         1 8
- - --   OUTFALL DRAINS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                     Jati Outfall Drain                                Kari           12
Jhorepettar, Maliriri & Link Drain af
.....OUTFALL DRAINS PROPOSED                                                     Mairir Sub Drain                                 Kotri         1 6
o                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUB TOTAL (KOTRI DRAINAGE CIRCLE)  1,048
60 CANAL COMMAND AREAS
SCARF KHAIRPUR
CANAL COMMAND AREA BOUNDARIES                                            Sub Drain Pumping Statian at RD 4 af Sathio Wah   LBOD           2
(PROSPECTIVE AREA WATER BOARDS)                                     Sub Drain Pumping Station at RD 1 2.5 of
Drib Mahar Shah Drain                          LBOD           2
-*-- MAJOR RIVERS                                 SSub Drain Pumping Station at RD 40 af
Sainhara Wab                                   [BOD            2
SYPHONS                                                             Pumping Station af RD 52 of Khairpur Feeder East   [BOD
BARRAGES                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sub Drains at Pumping Stations at RD's 41, 58,      1 NR
BARRAGES                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~71, 73, 85, 93, 230, 236 of Rohri Canal  LBOD      1 8
SELECTED CITIES                 j                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Spinal Drain [BOD                     LBOD        207
SUB TOTAL (LBOD DRAINAGE BASIN)                        233
~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL                                          -LARKANA SHIKARPUR SURFACE DRAINAGE PROJECT
:  ~~~~~j  C/totiari          MAIN CANALS, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ratca Duhro Drainage Systum                                                      RBOD         290
LCkotiori                                        BRAINCHEAS, &  IESMirokhan Drainage System                                                                            RBOD          75
Lake               BRANCHES & RIVERS                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Shudadksut Drainage System           RBOD         t190
- - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                -MISCELLANEOUS DRAINS
Eutension of Sub Drainr to caner ler nut packet   RBOD          24
- -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                            Drainage of Sehwoni, Dharani, Lokhi, Wazirabad
/              ~~~~~~~and Khanpur Villages (1 Nr Pump St; 21 Km Dr)  RBOD     21
It                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~         ~~~~Diversian 4 RCB Lalkhi Sub Drain  R800
ulsshuh                                                                                                  /                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Relocatian af Pumping Station Naudero Branch Drain RBOD
Wes                                                             ....u                                                                                                              1-R Sub Drain Shadadkrot                          RBOD          13
V  N                                                                     1                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~      ~~~~3 LA (Chari Gan-ar) Drain Shadadkot  RBOD  10
-                ~~~~~~~Pump Statian 804A7 of 3 1 Sub Drain-Mirokrhan  8800            I NR
'-                                                 I                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pumping Station at Ralib Escape  R800   I NR
-                ~~~~~~~Miscellaneous Drains/Pumping Stations       RBOD          30  3 NB
26'          NORTH DADU SURFACE DRAINAGE PROJECT
PMpsedlSurFace Drainag  ScemsOD0                                4830N
KNKTPLTPROJECT
Rehabiltation af Kandhksot Pumping Station       8800               I NR
SUB TOTAL (RBOD DRAINAGE BASIN)                  731  20 NR
GRAND TOTAL  2,012 20 NR
c; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~THE PROJECT (SUBJECT TO APPRAISAL):
/1'                                                                       /                                                                       POTENTIAL DRAINS TO BE CONSTRUCTED UNDER~~~~~~~~~SI N 
No.me                             ~~~~~~Drainage  Length



36 X   , c   t  (  t    <    sz   i                  /POTENTIAL DRAINS TO BE CONSTRUCTED UNDER
nE z gi   >  - o,                           a,>4vs  ffi00 - @       k           S I N   D  H                                                        THE PROJECT (SUBJECT TO APPRAISAL):
3E    (   !0                                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Drainage  Length
I                          ,                          r  /  >o<    g Name                         Circle      (km)
~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~NAGAN DHORO OUTFALL DRAIN
H\derabad                                                                                                                                                                          L Ladun Branch Drain                              Sindh         13
'10'                                                                                                                                                                                    l 8   '  t  _   . oz \ i \   \ .   }  2-1 Sub Drain  Sindh    10
'4ls  .t  '  \   \s  <  9   E   \ Jx            ;            X                                                       2-L Sub Drain                                   Sindh         I 8
.-\                                                                                       1 i \  jfl  >1- s1(>  $  \   <  I -R Sub Drain  Sindh          6
'7f jt ! ;t  X  X   )  \  | t   vi    j                                                  2-R Sub Drain                                   Sindh           8
3-RB Sn Drain                                   Sndh         413
GH-ORABARI OUTFALL DRAIN
-- jf y S j nve/ \ )                                                                                             25 _        SOdrolal Branch Drain  Sindh  1 9
1 4 Su  Drain                                  Sindh           S
/ ;t  ff    ~-  !    4 0  | rD   t   cz]       T   do   \   \       cP/ -/-                                                                                            2-L Subara,  Garho, I -R  Garho  &  Maliriri  OulfuLS   Drain  Sindh  6
I If                                                                                                                                                                       FULFIl s ,1 \1   \ <  \\  <   //  KhUN raJrron,rAdKhuhLALL Ir-
3-B of Western Mir Branch Drain                   Sindh         17 
-.                                    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /                                            25' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ta4lhar Branch/Sub Drains Western Mir Branch Drain Sindh /  ri  3nh1
3-B Sub Droin                                   Sindh        ID
MISCELLANEOUS LINK DRAINS                             Sindh        100
) ~   K7                                                                                                                                                                      B i1-  " t   r   | Ft  j:)  )    Cegulalors-atiJaio KaratGungro & Stoneo ilching3
r 2 o V zE / t krJ v Z . r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DRAINAGE SCHEMES IN NAWABSHAH DISTBICT
-  \>o   \   /  B7  t  \  v        /                                                                                            .           Dhonz Between Qazi Ahmaud&Rda'&PUW  i Al  h       Sindh~~Buar, Grh, I-RGoro   Mairri utallDrinsSidh    N
Cana                   - <   5  ..    5  > .    1   /   _,  _,-h  /  Dhoroin   chido Sout BhS o, 2wri   ar Shahk io
<  \  _.    CANAL COMIMLANI3S                        HaranBHI, MAkhnr                                  Balochisamn
\ ~  ~~~~~~~~~ -                                                                                        -    (PROSPECTIVE AREA WATER BOARDS)                              ZidiArea, Kiruzdar                                Buluctristan
1t    4i            - <  ,  5,                   .   ,                                         "   .                _              SINDH                                                    reoJorae M achi                                 Bolc histan
*    .4.  0]    &- ext: Link 3 Ghc,ki                                                                                    Maiklar Loralni                                   Enlachistun
-29 -    -  gil Norlb Wesl Canal                      Sumpl Scfemes Lorali Districh                     Balrchistan
-                                                                             30-  -   .   ~   --  ~  -   -   :   1(  Begari Sind Canal  SUB TOTAL (BALOCHISTAN DRAINAGE CIRCLE)
' ,._ -     RANN  OF   KUITCH                                    -                 3: Rice Canal                                                                                           Sind1
n                                                                                                                   3-- -.    Khairpur WEst CanalGRANDTOTALD353
/:                                                                                 37  Bar                                                                        luri Canal
/6               C -- -  anal
) _ /   <   t  10  TanJo BagoC(Lined Channel)
.1/  17    -       />~     /                                                                                               1~ 41  Kalri Baghar(Lined Channel)
'N BALOCHISTAN
69                                                                  gM  Norlh WesteCanal                                              W



POTENTIAL DRAINS TO BE REHABILITATED!                                                                    71'                                                              72'                                                              73'
REMODELLED/EXTENDED UNDER THE PROJECT
(SUBJECT TO APPRAISAL):
Drainage       Length                                         PAKISTAN                                                       /       A -t Ni
Name                                        Circle         (kcm) 
PR.8K. & MacWhana Drainage System        Sargadha            109NA I                          AL D         A      AG       PR         R     M 
B'UdIi Nalo Drainage System              Sargodha            138                                                               ~2
Ehera Drainage System                    Sargodha            100                                 (NDP) PROJECT                                                                                _23_
Miana Gondal Drainage System             Sargodha             70                         S R A ED AN N TN R
Bhiko Drainage System                    Sargodha            100U FA                                  ED AN             EW        R
Malakwal Drainage System                 Sargodha             10(N R                                        E N
Horia Drainage System  Sargodha       37  ~~~~~~~(ORTERNZONE)                                                                                   24                        ' o,
Bhauddin Kot Baloch Drainage System      Sargodha             36                                                                            t      h
D-D'rainage System                       Sargodha              9 
Halki Nala Drainage System               Sargadha             16                                                                                                                               06/ '*'"
miscellaneous Drains                     Sargadha             54                                                                                -    ~     ~       
Mona, Drainage SystemSagha                                  20                                                                                                                            j     \
Hadda Drainage System                    Sarg.d6a            136                                                                                                  'K
Faqirian Sillanwali Drainage Syster      Sargadha           342                                                                                     \        \ 
Jhanabad Drainage System                 Sargodha            191                                            ~                                              ~~-"
Khushab Drainage System                  Sargodha             25                                    EXISTING AND PROPOSED DRAINS                             r     0                                                                ABI
Lower Budhi Nola                         Sargodha                                                   OU5FAL--DRAIN TROPOSE
Bola Dranage System                      Sargodha             78                         ....OTALDANPOOE                                                                                                                                A
Lawer Ranial Drain                       Saraodha            2411                          F1    CAALCOMNDARA
SUB TOTAL (SARGODHA DRAINAGE CIRCLE)                 2,077                          - ---    CANAL COMMAND AREA BOUNDARIES                                                  2
(PROSPECTIVE AREA WATER BOARDS)                      4'/co 
Rasul Nagar Main Drain & its System      Faisalabad           68                                                                                             C70r -l    KHANPUR                                                         N
Structures Remodelling                 Faisalabad                                                 MAJOR RIVERS                                                                                                                                          i
Kat Ishaque & Vanike Drainage          FaiaPbad14NA
Ahmacd per nagh Drain                     Faisalabad          30                             X~ SPOS                                                                                             ~..
Akalgarh said Nagar Drain               Faisalabad           17 
Thatta Deaksa Drain                     Faisalabad           4AARAE
Kal. Tarar CIsamb Drain                  Faisalabad           20                             0      SELECTED CITIES                                                                I
A.K.N. Main Drain & its System            Faisalabad          97                                                                                                                   * 
Aismad per Kat Niskka Drainage System   Faisalabad          79                                    NATIONAL CAPITALISA                                                                                                                       B D
Marlh Chiniot Main Drain & its System    Faisalabsad          44                                                                                                                                                                   SA A A A
Structures Remodelling                 Faisalabad                                             n~MAIN CANALS, BRANCHES & RIVERS
Theri Branch Drain                     Fvaisalabad          15                          -     - PROVINCE BOUNDARIESRA                                                                                                                                 L
Marhi Salar Drain & its System         Faisolabad          112                                                                                                          1                                                                      DAM
Sukheki Drainage System                Faisalabad           20                             *      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                 7    -
Chsak Bandi Main Drain                   Faisalabad           57
Thatta Galotran Branch Drain & its System  Faisalobad       14                                                                                                          /
Paharang Main Drain & its System       Faisalabad           63
Scrangssala Branch Drain & its System  Faisalabad           29                                                                                                0
Jaranwala Drainage System                Faisalabad          419
Structures Remodelling (10 Na)         Faisalabad
Karyal Try Drain             ~~Faisalab,ad         2                                                                                      .
CKhak 9T3r/GB 'Trny Drain              Faisalabad            2-
Channelizing Deg Nola below QEB Link    Faisalabad          841 
Chaksu Main Drain                        Faisalabad           14/Rvr
Jagattan Branch Drain                   Faisalabad          10                                                                                                5In                          Re
HariurBranch Drain                     Faisalabad            5                                                                                          s.-I
L=niaealo Branch Drain                 Faisalabad            2
Walgon Brtanch Drain                     Faisalabad            3             4{'.\-
Nua Thaha Try Drain                      Faisalabad            1
Sarsuar Wali Drain                       Faisalabad                                                                        /  JINNAH
Shahpur Branch Drain                     Faisalabad            2H
Samundrii Main Drain                     Faisalabad           65                   n-BARRAGE4,!
Samoundri Branch Drain & its System    Faisalabad           76          3'H      D
Madduana Branch Drain & its System     Faisalabad          168    ~ ~ n05 
A-agat Branch Drain & its System       Faisalabad           81    ~ ~ Dr. 
Aminpur Branch Drain                     Faisalabad           10         C)        V  
SUB TOTAL (FAISALABAD DRAINAGE CIRCLE)                 1,662
KtA.Drainage System                  Muafrah             109                                     -,
OtAlipGut Drainage System                Mu.tlrAAt            8
Dira Din Panch SystemMnzlarh                        1 4
Sulta51n Drainage System               Muzlarak             1 B                                                                                                                                                             e Ii-
SaaaDrain                            Muzarah              1 3                                                    /HAS                                                                                                         Dne
Mainka Drain                             Muz  frah            76                                                              'BRA E-'-                                           --
SUB TOTAL (MUZAFFARGARH DRtAINAGE CIRCLE)                  354                                                            /~~- 



<,flhz, rna Orlal-uy   ysniMnzoltrgorh                       80
Al'pu, Dramina9ue Syste.                   Mnza11orgarl,         AA
Di'ra Di P Ial System                      Muzaffargarhs         14
Kot Sultan Drainage System                 Muzoffargarh          1 8
Soasnan  Drain                             Muzaffargarh          1 3                                          ~'./,Dhe, D'
Manksa Drain                               Muza!fargarh          76BRgO                                                                                                          -     .--'-f
SUB TOTAL (MUZAFFARGARH DRAINAGE CIRCLE)                      354                                                               '                                                                                            yall
Kali Budhi Drain  Baho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alp.r  36                                                                                                              ~s~
Sadiqia Drain                              Bahawolpvr            39___
Solsail Drain                              Bahsawalpur           19                    ~2
Bahawalnagar Drain                         Bahrawolpur          144                                   p                                                                                   *~4 
Mirza Drain                                Bahawalpur             7 
Pirgraos Fatelsgork Drain                  Balsawalpur            7
Dogar Drain                                Balsawalpur            6/                                                                                                  '>
Phrarman Drain                             Bahawalpur             7                                                                                                                                                                               <s( i   - ~ \
SUB TOTAL (BAHAWALPUR DRAINAGE CIRCLE)                      385$
NWFP                                                                        32'            ~/S __                                                                                   SIS~
Structures an Surface Drains                                                                                                  2                                                 '                                      *                                        A
of Mardan SCARP                          NWFP                                                                    At                   
Surface Drains in Kur,am-Gans6ila Basin    NWFP                 177
Surface Drains in Pabbi Area-Peshsawar&
Valley                                   NWFP                 200
Surface Drains in Daaba Doudzai            NWFP                 82                              ,j7ubn
KOHAT IRRIGATION DIVISION                                                                              /)
BAMA Drainage System                       NWFP                 4A1/S~_
Taugh Drainage System                      NWFP 
Chambai Drainage System                    NWFP                  2                        7                                                                                                                           '
SWABI IRRIGATION DIVISION                                                                                                                                                                                          Cu8d  
Surface Drains in PeIssr Canal Commnandf    NWFP                 71                                                                                                                    1n               
Surface Drains in Maira Branch Cammand    NWFP                  185             -                                                                     .
SUB TOTAL (NWFP DRAINAGE CIRCLE)                  728                    4'                                                                                                    I                                                    .  0        C
GRAND TOTAL  5,206                                (                                                                                                                                                             ,r
*  KI,~~~~~~~~~~C
55                                                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   .~~~~~~~~~~u,  (5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Muitcin~~~~~~~~                                     5.uil
3v                  /                                                                                         u                                                  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  *      n       n' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 ~ ~~~~~~~                                                                                 -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K/F/ 4
Fi-21                                                                            KIII~~~~~a 
-F                                   /' 9                                                                              I 
/                                                                    I                                        /~~~~~~~~c
/    ,,~~~~  ~~  13MB Oscfu/ILS  A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~n                         ~     ~     O/
(                               TAUNSA                                                                                                                                               skh            .        voo1~~~~~~Q1
30'~ ~ ~ /                                                               AAE <     ~                                                                                                                                                      S"1



1    (     go   .    /     *     _4       1          15t 1121  
30   g ) X   X ... t_r T --~~~~~~~~~~F 9
\   9   oV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   .....  -*-- u l
29                                                            PUNJAB1'71'                  1



72'                                            73'                                             7A4                         TURKMENISTAN~, .i< 
*  UZBEKISTAN   ASA' 
S6-                               36.;
73-~~~~~~~~~~~  Am   *t J                                                                        KA
vRAM  _AS  i   X                                                          / -_.                               <               Area  > IsttI, ose IR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FGANSTN    -
'                                                                    '                                    I' =d L f ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ac  X5MI
SRAM                                                                                                             I,-of map                                                            .
F231                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUN4JAB
ARE               -i no                      \                                                                                                                                     2-~, *    '*'\*.CNLC M AD
~~~~~~~~W -,*                                                                                            PAK   TAM  o -8 ..* 2Uprhumal
24'                              *c\ l/                                       .ALOCHISTAN                                                              -
RS 48 1'~~~~~~/                                                                                          ISAAA a. SMYrn.. -sHvl aa
O (1/                                                                                                                                    INDIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
%' ,} /   . .                            DAMj                       \ t                      .                         9 Lavie Bari Doab Cana
\,/~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~< -/                                         /                                                                  SINC *-  _  idnsAC
.    Approximate
Line of Control _  -mv*i              '  *
25H    ~                                                                                 DAM       t                                               N    Paharpu  C lDAM
'ARJES  26    -    *                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CANAL COMMANDS
:DS)                                                                                                                                                    (PROSPECTIVE AREA WATER BOARDS)
KHANPUR                                      .PNA
DAM                          (
/AGEAS, j                               .                          f \ C\)_ ' 33^- ES Upper Jhelum Canal
4_1                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2Ltower Jhelum Canal
1%                                I                                                 3 Morala Ravi Link Canal
4 Upper Clienab Canal
ISLAMABAD  (~~~~~~)     SIMLY                                                    s 5Lower Chenab Canal
DAM'                                                    6 Haveli Canal
I                                                RAWAL      )                                                                    aRavi y pAon
1/               DAM/                                                                          9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DipaSppor Canal lUpper & Lowef)
/                                                   10 Low~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~er BoiDoob Canal
/                     /                                                                         11 P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~apaon Abe S.M. Link Canal
/                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 2 Sidhnai Canal
13 Mailsi Below S.M. Link Canal
14 Fordwah & Eastern Sadiqia
1s Qaim Canal
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 16 Bahsowal Canal
17 Paninad & Abbasia Canals
la D1G. Khan Canal
R,venrRiv19 Muzafforgarh Canal
~~~~~~  .1  (                                                                                            20 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rangp.r Canal
21Thal Canal
MANGLI                                                      2Paharp.r Canal
AAH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
~~~~~~~~JAH ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.W.F.P.
~~~~~~~~~AGE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33 '                                                                          Upper Swat Canal
>/\                            )~~~~~~~~~~J ~~Lower Swat & Doaba & Shol9ora
//                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Worsak High Level
26Kabul RIver & Jis Strekh & In.ndation
0A                                ~~~~~RASUL                                                      ____ ________
BARRAGE                                    MAAL
BARRAGE                I-



-r24 Lo,ver Svat & Dooba & Sholgara
Worsak High Level
L26 Ka6ul River & Jui Shekk & Inundation
RA'SUL
0                                                                                                                BARRAGE                                                     MARALA
BARRAGE
HAS                                                                                                                                                                      KHAN Kf
ARIZAGE                                                                                                                                                              HEADW09KS
Q
"-Brc ch
op
0
Aeoo
t3l
zz
S h
j::                 K                                                                                                                                  32'-
0
Ae                                                                         RAVI
t'oll  k.                                           SYPHQN,/,-
8-d, M.is
A-,
Lhore
0
CO                                                                                             Fais
-13ALLOK1111-
TRIMMU
BARRA
BARRAGE
3
es
3 V-
R
X
F61
BARRAGE
9
Bcjrl            0,
0                                                                  POTENTIAL DRAINS TO BE CONSTRUCTED UNDER
X-0                                                                          THE PROJECT (SUBJECT TO APPRAISAL):
SIDH                                                                 -
-'-BRRAGE----
Drainage       Length
Name                                                Circle        (km)
BEAS                                                                                                     P.R.K. & Machhiana Drainage 5ystem (IO Nr DrJ    5argodho          5 1
B.dhi N.I. Drainag. Syst-  (9 Nr Dr.)            Sorgodh.          37
EIMANKE              Bhiko Drainage System (2 Nr Dr I                 S.r(j.dho          19
Itan                                                                                                                                                           RRAGE                Bhera Drainage System (6 Nr Dr. I                Sargodha          26
M.l.k-I Dr.i.m9e Syst-  (2 N, Dr.)               S.rg.dh.           5
SU                           F, 11                                                                                              Bhouddin Kot Baloach Drainage System (3Nr Dr)   S.rg.dk.           1 7
o         el                                                                    Miscellaneous Drains (3 Nr Dr.)                  S.r9odh.          23



:>lDHNAI     (11I''                                             /  1                                   NI THE PROJECT (SUBJECT TO APPRAISAL):
,, ,-  t-  -%<  .     s         *   IDHNAI         ,                                                  -fp                                                     ,
:BRRAGE                                                      ~\~/Dasae                                                                                                                                             Lnt
,-(O~> -.BARG=--'t4 (  --r{ )     -  Name                                     Circle    (km)
BEAS                                                                                                          P,R.K. & Machhiano Drainage System (10 Nr Dr.)   Sargodha             51
7                        /  / \vr - - ~-~ ------ --- - ----- - . .-.-.--                            ---     ULEIMANKE Budhi Noa  DrainageSystem  (NrDr.)  Sargodho         37
--               SUlton   '  *             ~ )   LEIMANKE  Bhike Drainage System (2 Nr Dr.)     Sargodha          19
-..                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Miana Gondail Drainage System (I Nr Dr.)  Sargodha        2
i Multan                                                                        .                                                 . i                                    BARRAGE                  Bhero Drainage System (6 Nr Dr.)                   Sargocha           26
0  1           i                          ;iif,          s                                           8tt5     9\C            - -        vJi  s5;  z   U             J1             j       f Makwa ll Drainage System (2 Nr Dr,       )      Sargoclha          3
Bhouddin Kot Balo (3 Draie Ssem(N   r Dr     .)   Sargodha           63
u  ,KY                                                                                                                           .   / * i O \ \ C $ /   < 0   S  _     . a Miscellaneous  Drains (a   System( Nr Dr.)   Sargodha  23
Moin a    illn i Drainage System (4 Nr    Dii      SOAgAODha          3
,                                    -                                     L     R; SYi' ah Drainage System (2 Nr Dr.)        Sargodh6
/**      I      ;.                               F-                                                                                                    Sha         t Baara,h Dr ainage  System  (Gr goir Dr.m4N  SaiaSrgado   67
/-X kg    HX \o                                                             /                                   Hadda Drainage System (4 Nr Dr.)                   Sargodira             i
>> . t = ,(4 /) >-i MJy  ishonOrcelaeous Drains (5 Nr Dr.)                            Sargaoda            17
f   - -                                                                                                                             -!nCh  j    /  aXJr   </l                                     SUB TOTAI(FA15ALAA DDRAINAGE CIRCLE)                     251
I~ SLAM
Age ff  f  vXmKharar  Br. Drain                                                                                                       Faisalabad 1h
h~ARRA ''                                 k'        o/,/Dr,                                                                 Char Y_ri Br. Drain                                Foisalabod           5
ff A . l Mehta Suia ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Drain                                                                                                                      Faisolarrod
*. *      ..... .                MAILSI                                               n'                                                                                                  Rosul ur Pindi Bhalan Drainage System              Faisalabad         49
Kaiam    a chomb Try. Drain                        Faisalabad          3
SYPHON r.i4555O il'                                                                                                                                       Clro eriaan Try. Drain                             Faisalabad          7
F Treih*n Try. Drain Fnisalobod                                                                                                                            2
Pornlr U.]j'~r. NA  Abad Try. Drain                                                                                                                        FaisaLabad           2
o//    /             Dr                 29- Garb Dra,inge System  Garbr Main Drain)                                                                                              Faisholbad         66
\y       bad 0r                                                                                   Nrr TBry TOTALDrain (Garr Main Drain)              Foisc9abbd          5
.,.~~~  ./  .,/"..    ~~~~~~~~   t~~n~~~~'~~'                                                                            An) Try. Drain (Jassiana Try. Drain(ifTry  FrinaiGssalTryabadn)Faialaad 
\  .2L Try. Drain (Thatta Glotran Branch Drain)                                                                                 Faisalabad          2
\~                                                                           Lahorian Tr. Dran                                  Faisalabad           7
DRAINAGE SYSTEM                                                                                                            20         30 7l a'                                   Bhammadoi WaaTry. Drain MuT aFaisalabad                             6
15SDS)  !                                                            KlLOMhaER249arB M                                                           ry. Drain                             MuCFaisalabad      1
SUB TOTAL (FAISALABAD DRAINAGE CIRCLE)                   174
A~hmdpur   5rn                . /co                            6jzr                                            FManowala Drain                                                                                                                    Lahore              4
K    mambra Drainage System                       Lahore
-6                          /                                                                                           T                                                                  Kali Drain                                         Lahoare            10
'I                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gnlloke Drain              Lahare              3
rt ~~~~~~~raach  (  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~         .1                                                                                       Then Drain                                        lahare         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hei rinLaor 
De5ell'--B                                                                                                                                                      Bra Prind Dra;in                                   Lahore             2
Pahkniao  Drain hLE.r                                                 S9
Mehta Sn)a Drain                                  Lahare
/                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jenwan Goraya Drain     Lahore
Mandiala Drain                                     Lahore              3
Jlramke Chatto Drain                              Lahore
Jandiala She, Khan Drain                           Lahore              I
wo I 00                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dhatcal Drain                    Lahore
Sarai Drain                                        Lahore
P U N JA B                                                                                                                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kotli Korotana Drain  Laahore       7
~~~~ .40                                                                          29'- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kaulassala, Thubaol, Bhurri & Kakar Drain,s  Lahare
-50029                                                                                                                                              SUB TOTAL (LAHORE DRAINAGE CIRCLE)                   39
ALIPUR DRAINAGE SYSTEM:
/                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Qadra Branch Drain  Muozalarhgarh    lS
j                                                                                                          O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~haissan Branch Drain  Muzaffarhgarh  17
KOT ADD DRAINAGE SYSTEM:
NATIONAL SURFACE                                                                                                                                                                 Shah Jamal Branch Drain                           Muzaffarhgarh  16
0          10         20         30                                         Maol,ra Brachc Drain                             M.ozffarhqarh    23
DRAINAGE   SYSTEM                                                                                                                             B~~~~~~~~I     II  ail Qaim Shah Drain                     Mnzoflarhgarh    22
KILOMETERS                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ara Main Drain                    M.zaffarhgarh    20
(NSDS)                                                                                                                             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KaIu Drain   Mozalbarhgarh    11
I                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~SUB TOTAL (MUZAFFARHIGARH DRAINAGE CIRCLE)  127
NWFP
SURFACE DRAINS IN:
Korram-Gambila Basin                              NWFP               47
TMi map ea prd.end bry tire Mop De,inr Wnit of ris Wdrd B.Ak.      Pehur Canal Command                                NWFP               43
rh. boond-rie, colun d--rmi-aiora -rd ony other irfo-rni-n         Phamar Valley                                      NWFP              100
sl-ooanottisrrmp d.ot imply,o-nlb. portofrT6 W.rddRark                          SUB TOTAL (NWFP DRAINAGE CIRCLE)                        190
Gmmmp, myany,o ent- no heqlegalsta  ofnay t-ritory, or ny
Imd--smet ar  -ptnrce of soah brnodrie-
GRAND TOTAL 781
712                                                                73'                                                                 74'



IMAGING
Report No.:        15310   PAK
Type:     SAR



