                                                 \

                             Report No. 30704




    The I          C




Report andRecommendation




Pakistan: National Drainage Progra
(Credit No. 2999-PAK)




November 17,2004

                    ABBREVIATIONS ANDACRONYMS



ADB     AsianDevelopment Bank
CBO     Community-Based Organization
DMP     Drainage ManagementPlan
DPOD    Dhoro PuranOutfall Drain
DSEA    Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment
EIA     Environmental Impact Assessment
EMMP    Environmental Managementand MonitoringPlan
EMP     Environmental ManagementPlan
FLAR    Framework for LandAcquisitionandResettlement
FO      FarmerOrganization
GoP     Government of Pakistan
GoS      Government of Sindh
IBIS    IndusBasinIrrigationSystem
IDA     International Development Association
IES     InitialEnvironmental Scoping
KPOD    KadhanPateji Outfall Drain
LBOD     Left Bank Outfall Drain
NDP     NationalDrainage Program Project
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NSDS    NationalSurfaceDrainage System
O&M      Operation andMaintenance
PoE      PanelofExperts
RAP      ResettlementAction Plan
RBOD     Right Bank Outfall Drain
RD       ReducedDistance
S A R    StaffAppraisal Report
SIDA     SindhIrrigationandDrainageAuthority
WAPDA    Water andPower Development Authority of Pakistan
WMP      Wetlands ManagementPlan

                                     The InspectionPanel

                             Reportand Recommendation
                                                  On
                                    Requestfor Inspection


               PAKISTAN: NationalDrainage ProgramProject
                                   (Credit No. 2999-PAK)



   1. On September 10, 2004, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection
       related to the Pakistan: National Drainage Program Project (the "Project").             The
       Request was submittedby Khadim Talpur, Mohammad Ali Shah, Mustafa Talpur,
       Munawar Hassan Memon, Iqbal Hyder, Mir Mohammad Buledi, and Najma
        Junejo on their own behalf and on behalf of "others who live in the area known
        as district Badin, Sindh, Pakistan" inthe Indus River Basin.' On September 17,
        2004, in accordance with the Resolution establishing the Inspection Panel (the
        "Resolution"),2 the Panelnotifiedthe Executive Directors andthe President of the
        International Development Association                    that it had received the Request,
        which constituted Registration of the Request under the Panel's Operating
         procedure^.^ The Panelreceived Bank Management's Responseto the Request on
        October 19,2004 (the "Re~ponse").~

   2. As provided in paragraph 19 of the Resolution, the purpose of this Report is to
        determine the eligibility of the Requests and to make a recommendation to the
        ExecutiveDirectors as to whether the Panel should investigate the matters alleged
        inthe Request.

   A. The Project

   3. The Request raises issues related to the Pakistan: National Drainage Program
        Project (NDP), inparticularto the disposal of saline effluent and to the proposed
        construction o f the National Surface Drainage System (NSDS), a northwards
        extension of the existing Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) system in Sindh
        Province. The Bank states: "A related issuefor sustainability of the system is a
        long-term solutionfor disposal of drainage effluent outside the Indus Basin. The

 The Requestwas receivedelectronically. Prior to Registration,the Panelreceiveda hardcopy ofthe
Requestwith over 2,000 original signatures.
 IDAResolutionNo. 93-6, the ResolutionEstablishingthe InspectionPanel(September 22, 1993).
 For the purposes ofthis Report, the IDA is referredto as "the Bank."
 See The InspectionPanel, OperatingProcedures (August 19, 1994),117.
5Bank ManagementResponseto Request for Inspection, Pakistan:NationalDrainage ProgramProject
(IDA CreditNo. 2999-PAK) [hereinafter "Management Response"].


                                                                                                 1

        project would support the preparation of feasibility studies and detailed design
        for the Borrower's proposed NSDS which is intended to create a permanent
         disposal channelfor drainage efluent via the LBOD into the Arabian Sea."6

    4. The National Drainage Program was launched in 1997 to address waterlogging
         and salinity, which are the principal threats to the sustainability of irrigated
         agriculture in Pakistan. Waterlogging is a phenomenon that can permanently
         afflict areas like wetlands, and it has economic (agricultural) and species
         distribution consequences. Waterlogging cuts off the oxygen supply to roots and
         inhibits the escape of gases, such as carbon dioxide, from the roots, which then
         accumulate inthe soil and have a correspondingeffect on the roots themselves. It
         may also increase risk of soil-borne fungal diseases, and in warmer climates near
         the sea, waterlogging canalsoproduceincreasedsalinity.*

    5. The Indus Basin Irrigation System (IBIS) brought water to the basin but did not
         have an outlet to the sea to drain off surplus water.' Inother words, there was an
         extensive irrigation system, but no corresponding interconnected drainage
         network. Muchof the drainage either stayedinthe irrigationsystem itselfor was
         disbursed into rivers and streams. The retention of surplus water caused the
         watertable to rise very close to the surface and to become heavily saline." In
         Sindh Province, it was estimated in 1997 that 56% of groundwater areas were
         moderately saline, 32.5% severely so."

    6. On December 13, 1984, IDA approved a Credit of $150 million for the LBOD
         Project, to address flooding and salinity problems. The central feature of the
         LBOD is the s inal drain, which connects the drainage network to the sea through
         a Tidal Link.'`The       LBOD spinal drain collects surplus drainage and distributes it
         through a weir to two branch drains, the Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD) and
         the Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain @POD). The spinal drain systemwas designedto
         direct the high salinity drainage into the KPOD and thence to the sea. The KPOD
         connects to the sea via a 26-mile long canal, referred to as the Tidal Link. By
         December 31, 1997, the closing date of the Project, some works were yet to be
         completed. The outstandingcomponents were transferredto the NDP.


 Staff Appraisal Report, No. 15310-PAK, dated September25, 1997 (hereinafter "SAR"), 75.20.
 Id, 81.8.
 Jackson, Michael B., School ofBiological Sciences, University o fBristol. "The Impact ofFlooding Stress
on Plantsand Crops." Available at http://www.plantstress.com/Articles/waterlogging-i/waterlog-i.h~. As
stated by the International Commissionon Irrigationand Drainage, "[iln the hot and arid climate the
capability rise of groundwater in areas with salty soils, carries the salts upward to the surface of the root
zone. Evaporation of water leaves layers of salt at or close to surface afsecting agriculturalproduction."
International Commissionon Irrigationand Drainage,Irrigation & Drainage in the World-A Global
Review, p. 4. Available ut http://www.icid.org/i-dqakistan.pdf.
 PakistanPublic Expenditure Management, ReportNo. 25665-PK, 72.5.
loJackson, Michael B., School of BiologicalSciences, University ofBristol "The Impact ofFlooding Stress
on Plantsand Crops," 76. Available at http://www.plantstress,com/Articles/waterlogging_i/waterlog-i.htm.
  SAR, 71.8.
  Id, 72.5.


                                                                                                             2

    7. The NDP Project i s partly financed under IDA Credit No. 2999-PAK. According
         to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objective of the Project i s "to implement
          thefirst phase of the Borrower's and Province's 25-year NDP which is designed
          to minimize saline drainable surplus, andfacilitate the eventual evacuation of all
         saline drainable surplusfrom the Indus Basin to the Arabian Sea, and thereby
          restore environmentally-sound irrigated agriculture to Pakistan." The SAR
          describes the Project as "a `highreward-high risk' vent~re."'~

     8. The Project as described in the Development Credit Agreement includes; a)
          drainage and irrigation institutional reforms, b) drainage and irrigation research
          and sector planning, and c) drainage and irrigation infrastructure investment
         projects." The investment component, which is also described in Section 2, Part
          Eofthe SAR,I6includes the following sub-components: (i) drainage; (ii)
                                                                          off-farm
          o n - f m drainage (only where Farmer Organizations (FOs)have beenestablished
          andare willing to share the investmentcosts and responsibility for Operation and
          Maintenance (O&M) costs); (iii)    rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation
          systems, focusing on saline groundwater areas where FOs have been established;
          and (iv) O&M of selected drainage and irrigation facilities through private sector
          performance contracts.l7

     9. The pipeline of investments includes completion of ongoing projects such as the
          LBOD and the Right Bank Outfall Drain (RBOD), construction, rehabilitation,
          and improvement o f surface drains in five drainage circles in Punjab and two
          drainage circles inSindh, andO&M performance contractsfor five projects which
          includes the LBOD.l8

     10. The Project was assignedEnvironmental Category B basedonthe submission of a
          Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment @SEA).l9According to the Bank no
          investmentproject would be included "unless there is a disposal strategyfor the
          drainage effluent." 2o Furthermore, the Bank obtained assurances from the
          Borrower that all investment projects would have an Initial Environmental
          Scoping (IES) and that full Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) would be
          preparedto IDA'Ssatisfaction for all those projects that the IES indicates have
          significant environmental impacts. "Such projects would only be approved for
         funding under the project if their EIA indicates that the adverse environmental
          impacts would be substantially mitigated or avoided."21



l3 Id, 72.1.
l4 Id, 75.13.
   DevelopmentCredit Agreementbetweenthe Islamic Republicof Pakistanand the International
DevelopmentAssociation, December 16, 1997, Schedule2 (hereinafter "Credit Agreement").
l6 SAR, 72.28.
   Id, 72.28 -2.33.
   Id, 72.34.
l 9Id, 74.16.
2o Ibid.
   Ibid.


                                                                                            3

    11. The Project's Environmental Management Plan (EMP) includes design and
        implementationof a Wetlands Management Plan (WMF') which is to focus on
        critical wetland areas affected by the IBIS.22This plan is to include mitigation
        measures to improve wetlands protection. Assurances were obtained that in
        constructing field drains, wetlands would be adequatelyprotected.23

    12. The Bank obtained assurances that the Water and Power Development Authority
        ofPakistan (WAPDA) and the Provinces would carry out all land acquisition and
        involuntary displacement (and subsequent resettlement and rehabilitation) in
        accordance with an agreed Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement
        (FLAR).24The Bank required the submission of a land acquisition plan and
        Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for all investment projects. 25 The FLAR
        estimated that about 9,500 acres o f land would be required for the investment
        component.26In the S A R the Bank argues that the investment projects would
        reclaim around 22,430 acres of currently abandoned land, rehabilitate another
        estimated 162,850 acres, andprovide drainagerelief to over five million acres.27

    13. According to the Supervision Plan for the Project described in the SAR, "IDA
        would decentralize an increasing proportion of its responsibility for supervision
         of the pro`ect to its Resident Mission in Pakistan and
        Monitor." *The SAR includes a caveat that this assumes that Consultant Trust
                   J                                                  Q World Bank Project

         Funds are available to finance the costs of such supervisory service^.^' The SAR
         adds: "The donors and the Borrower would jointly supervise the project. IDA
         supervision Missions would be held twiceyearly in April and No~ember."~'

    B. Financing

    14. On December 16, 1997, the InternationalDevelopment Association entered into a
         Development Credit Agreement with the Islamic Republic of Pakistan providing
         for a credit in an amount equivalent to SDR198,600,00031 for the Project. In
         addition to the Association's credit, the Project's financing structure includes a
         loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and a loan from the Japan Bank
         for International Cooperation. According to the SAR the breakdown of the
         Project's financing is as follows:




22Id, 74.18.
23Id, 74.19.
24Id, 74.15.
"Ibid.
26Ibid.
27Ibid.
28Id, 74.10.
29~d,~ ~ 4p.33.,
             3
30~d,
    74.10.
31SDRs are SpecialDrawingRights; SDR198,600,000 is equivalentto aboutUS$285 million.


                                                                                          4

    AsianDevelopment Bank




        Source: StaffAppraisal Report

    15. The Bank approved the Project on November 4, 1997. According to the legal
        agreement the Project was expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.35The
        current closing date of the credit i s December 31,2004.

C.The Request


    16. The Requesters state: "We have suffered, or are likely to suffer, harm as a result
        of the World Bank'sfailures in the National Drainage Program Project (NDP)
        credit no 2999-PK, being implemented in [the] Indus Basin Irrigation System in
        Pakistan     (...)yy36 They add: "The implementation of [the] NDP as envisaged in
        [the] Staff Appraisal Report, mid term review and other World Bank documents
        will likely cause a [sic] serious adverse impacts on our livelihood and
        environment on which we depend."37 They argue that there are "several thousand
        people who entirely dependon local DhandsBshing,grazing, and agricult~re."~~

        InvoluntaryResettlementand Loss of Livelihood

    17. The Requesters claim that the saline effluent coming down the drainage system
        will cause large-scale flooding which will force them to leave their ancestral
        villages. They claim that such displacement "is even not considered in project
        documents even though it will occur due to the consequences of [the] project
        outcome."39The Requesters claim that "[the] faulty disposalsystem through [the]
        tidal link will increase the pressure of backwater flow during the high tide


32SAR, p.21.
33The OverseasEconomic CooperationFund(OECF) was establishedonMarch 16, 1961, to promote
Japan's overseaseconomic cooperationby providing concessionalfunds for industrial developmentand
economic stability o fdevelopingcountries. On October 1,1999, OECF mergedwith the Export-Import
BankofJapan (JEXIM) to form the JapanBankfor InternationalCooperation(JBIC).
34Includestaxes and duties (US$I03.3 million).
"CreditAgreement, Schedule2.
36Request for Inspection(hereinafter "Request"), 72, p.1.
3'Id, 712.
38Id, 719. Dhand is a Sindhi word for ashallow lake, depression, or wetland.
39Ibid.


                                                                                                5

         timing^."^' They state that since the LBOD system began operating, the clash
        betweenthe downstream saline effluent flow andthe incominghightide water has
        causedthe KPOD to ovefflow and inundatethe surrounding agricultural land and
        villages. "[Tlhe WorldBank andADBplanned another mega drainageproject to
        connect the existingfaulty disposal system of LBOD tofurther upstream in order
        to evacuate more efluents. We believe that in case of the NDP the historical
        custodian[s]and local communitiesof [the] coastal belt will be entirely wiped out
        due to thispolicy decision."41

    18. The Requesters further claim that a remodeling of the spinal drain, the KPOD,
        and the DPOD will be necessary to handle the extra saline effluent; that such
        expansion of the drains will require the acquisition of several thousand acres of
        land; and that the Requesters will be left with "meager resources for
        livelihood(...)[i]n addition to land there are several villages, which will be
        displaced in broadening the cross sectionsof [the] drains."42

    19. The Requesters express the fear that their land will be acquired under the Land
        Acquisition Act of 1894 for the expansion of the KPOD without proper
        compensation andresettlement andinviolation of Bank policy.43 They claim that
        the FLARis "quite vague and does not mention the location and quantity of land
        required."44Nor, they state, does it give any time frame for compensation to be
        paidor credible economic rehabilitationofaffected personsto be a~hieved.~'

        EnvironmentalAssessment

    20. The Requesters claim that the design of the NDP Project is faulty and
        unsustainablebecause it has not taken into account the social and environmental
        difficulties inherent in the existing disposal route, and because it did not explore
        possible alternative routes.46They state that they have raised objections to the
        feasibility and sustainability of the Project, but that "[ilmplementing agencies,
        financiers including the WorldBank, and theproject consultantsnever listened to
        us.,947

    21, They further claim that the environmental assessment for the Project has ignored
        or underestimated items on the checklist for Bank-financed projects.48 They
        contend that "[tlhe effect of [the] NDP on marine resources, bio-diversity
        including local coastal plants, animal[s], critical habitats and protected areas
        will be entirely negative. The NDP has under-estimated all these critical


40Id, 721.
41Id, 713.
42Id, 720.
43Id,722.
  Ibid.
45Ibid.
46Id, 714.
41Ibid.
48Id, 733.


                                                                                           6

        componentsduringplanning, We believe that we will lose severalfish species and
        other marine bio-diversity due to toxic efluents; also there is [a] threat to
        terrestrial plants. The economic costs of these bio-diversity and environmental
        impactshave also been completely ignored."49

   22. The Requesters also claim that the Bank, by accepting the DSEA, violated its
        environmental assessment policy because the DSEA focuses only on general
        environmental issues of Pakistan's drainage sector and does not deal with issues
        such as coastal ecology, safe disposal of saline effluent into the Arabian Sea, and
        protection ofwetlands." Inaddition, the Requestersstate that the DSEA, prepared
        originally inthe early 1 9 9 0 ~ ~ not updated during consideration of the NDP
                                       was
        loan in 1997, and that it "also lacks public legitimacy because no civil society
                    aflected people were consulted during the prepared [sic] of the


   23. The Requesters also claim that although the Bank`s Environmental Assessment
        policy clearly requires an EMP, "after the lapse of six years there is no such
        EMP."52They claimthat inspite ofthe DSEAproposing a WetlandsManagement
        Plan and a program of monitoring and audit, "nothing has materialized in this
        regard."53They claim they are suffering harm because of the lack of an EMP.
        "Due to these [sic] delay in the implementation of EMP of LBOD and non-
        formulation of EMP of NDP, we are bearing the cost of environmental
        degradation including reducedfish catch, loss of agriculture land andforest, loss
        of grazing land and degradation of Wetlands.Consequently the combinedeflect of
        all thesefactors is impoverishing

        Natural Habitat

    24. The Requesters state that the wetlands affected by the Project are an important
        natural habitat, because they are part of a migratory route for waterfowl and of
        nesting grounds for "a large number of locally and globally important bird
        species, including some endangeredspecies such as the Dalmatian Pelican. Two
        species of marine turtles inhabit the area, including [the] green turtle and the
        loggerhead turtle." 55 The Requesters claim that the wetlands, channels, and
        creeks "are also a productive fishery source including several species of
        commercially valuable shrimp, prawns, and crabs."56 The interconnected lakes
        known as dhands are the source o f livelihood for forty villages of fishermen with
        a combined population of 12,000 to 15,000.



49Ibid.
  Id, 734.
"Id,735.
52Id, 737.
53Ibid.
54Ibid.
55Id, 738.
56Ibid.


                                                                                          7

   25. The Requesters assert that two ofthese dhands -the Narrerilagoon andthe Jubho
                               `
        lagoon - are internationally recognized sites under the Ramsar Convention on
        Wetlands of International Importance especially as a Waterfowl Habitat              57
        "because of their si niJicancefor migratory birds and other biodiversity and
        ecosystem values."       They state that Pakistan is a party to the Ramsar
        Convention59 and that the Bank is "not supposed to provide support to projects
        that would contravene a government's requirements under international
        environmental treaties and agreements." 6o They argue that the Project is in
        violation of Operational Manual Statement2.3661and claim that the linking ofthe
        KPOD with Shah Samado creek through the Tidal Link that was passing through
        these dhands was "entirely unsound."62This is because the construction of the
        Tidal Link preventedthe water from the Ram of Kutch during wet years from
        entering the dhands. This decreasing water flow has reduced the areas of the
        dhands.

    26. The Requesters claim that the degradation of these wetlands has already caused
        severe damage to the ecosystem, habitat, and fish catch.63They believe that if the
        NDP Project is implemented according to its present design - and if there is an
        inter-provincial drainage accord and more trunk drains are connectedto the spinal
        drain of the LBOD - the dhands "will be the story of past and people earning
        their livelihood will be forcibly migrated. This will be yet another example of
        involuntary displacement of people that is ignored by the ofJicial documents of
        both government and donors."64

        IndigenousPeople

    27. The Requesters claim that people from the Mallah tribe of the coastal belt in
        certain villages close to the KPOD are adversely affected by the Project. Already,
        according to the Requesters, the existing faulty operation of the LBOD leadto the
        inundation of the Mallah villages, causing loss of livelihood and life.65 The
        reduced area of the dhands and impaired water quality in them has affected the
        fish catch on whichthe Mallah communities depend for income and sustenance.66
        The Requesters assert that the Project "has not taken into account thepoverty and
        impoverishment of the indigenous people (...). We believe that [the] proposed
        NDP investment willpose [a] serious threat to the lives, livelihood and rights to



57Ramsar Conventionon Wetlands of InternationalImportanceEspeciallyas a Waterfowl Habitat,
February2, 1971[hereinafter "Ramsar Convention"]; available at www.ramsar.org.
"Request,740.
59Pakistanratifiedthe Ramsar ConventiononNovember23, 1976.
6oIbid.
61Request, 740.
62Id, 742.
63Id, 146.
  Id, 748.
65Id, 750.
  Id, 751.


                                                                                             8

        development and culture of
        international oven ants.''^^      indigenous groups guaranteed under several


        Loss of CulturalPropertyand HistoricalMonuments

   28. The Requesters state that the districts o f Thatta and Badinhave long been a rich
        cultural location. They claim that "[tlhefew and very important cultural [sites] in
        Badin which are being badly affected by KPOD and Tidal link canal include the
        monuments of saint Shaikh Kirhiyo Bhandari, the historical site of Roopa Mari
        and thari, these both sites were the important town of the dynasty of Soomraruler
        in Sindh (1051 to 1351)."68They also declare that "the existing monuments of
        saints andformers rulers are quite important cultural sites."69The Requesters
        allege that the KPOD is passing through the identified 4 km area of Roopa Mari,
        which was the capital of the Soomra rulers and where "[the] tomb of Dodo
        Soomro the last ruler of Soomra dynasty is also               They also allege that
        these sites are all "in the range of KPOD and Tidal Link." and that "foods have
        hit theseplaces twice injve years and there is eminent [sic] threat that [they] will
        lose [their] history and ~ulture."~' The Requesters further allege that the KPOD
        has "already occupiedsome of the area of cultural and historical importance and
        in case of expansion of KPOD, the remaining areas and monuments will be
        entirely vanished."72

        CommunityParticipationandInformationDisclosure

    29. The Requesters claim that the local communities and affected people of the
        coastal belt "have been kept entirely unaware about the plans of NDP and its
        environmental assessments." 73 The Requesters consider that there "remains a
        serious lack of institutionalized mechanisms for information sharing and
        consultationwith the affected people. Theproject planning process remained the
        business of few bureaucrats and donors and project implementation remained
        non-transparent and hencefailed to obtain informed consent since the outset."74
        They state that they "were entirely unaware regarding NDP until the rains of
        2003," when they were informed "that more effluents [sic] would be added in
        existingLBOD                The Requesters further state that "[tlheparticipation of
        the affected people and local communities in any process of the project from
        planning to implementationis negligible."76



  Id, 752.
`'Id,753.
  Ibid.
70Id, 754.
  Ibid.
l2Ibid.
73Id, 755.
l4Ibid.
  Ibid.
l6Ibid.


                                                                                          9

   30. Requesters allege that local people and organizations have raised the issue with
        " WAPDA oficials, consultants and visiting mission membersfiom time to time
        (. .). But both donors and government oficials remained silent and nothing
          .
        practically has been done to adequately respond to these concerns or to
        satisfactorily resolve the           They also state that they "expedited [their]
        eflorts and communication with government oficials and World Bank after the
        monsoon rains of 2003."78The Requesters also refer to a letter, annexed to the
        Request, they sent to the World Bank Islamabadoffice on September 9,2003, and
        another on September 11, 2003, concerning "the failure of drainage system in
        Badin and losses to human life and livelihood reso~rces,"~~     stating that they
        received no response.

   31. The Requesters state that on September 17, 2003, the affected communities
        organized a protest march in Badin demanding reparation for harm suffered
        because of the LBOD and cancellation of the Loan for the NDP Project, and that
        "[tlhe detailed report of protest march again was communicatedto Bank oficials
        in Islamabad (...) and widelypublished in local and national media."" They state
        that on December 28, 2003, they organized a protest rally in Karachi, and "the
        issue of drainagesystemfailure andNDP was highlighted."81They also state that,
        on May 01, 2004, the affected coastal communities and local nongovernmental
        organizations (NGOs)organized a widely reportedprotest inthe town o f Badinto
        voice their concerns about the Project and"demandedreparation of LBOD, repair
        of LBOD breaches and cancellation of NDP loan."82The Requesters further state
        that on March 15, 2004, ten people including an eleven year old girl and two
        women from the Save Coast Action Committee "observed seven hours token
        hunger strike infiont of World Bank Islamabad ofice to record their protest on
        National Drainage Program and losses occurred due to Left Bank Outfall
        Drainage."83

    32. The Requesters allege that on December 24, 2003, they had a meeting with the
        Managing Director of the Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority (SIDA) "to
        communicate the viewpoint of local communities and civil society regarding the
        failure of LBOD and incoming issue of NDP" and that he "was quite agreeing
        with the reservation made by communities on extension of NDP."84They also
        allege that further meetings with a WAPDA Chief Engineer on December 27,
        2003, did not result in "any satisfactory           Duringthe same month they
        allegedly tried to meet with staff at the World Bank Islamabad office, who
        "declined to meet and suggested to meet with WAPDA and other implementing


l7Id, 756.
78Id, 757.
l9Ibid.
  Id, 758.
  Id, 761.
  Id,773.
83Id, 771.
84Id, 759.
  Id, 760.


                                                                                       10

         agencies instead," and also denied the Requesters access to "NDP related
         documents especially environmentalmanagementplan."86

    33. The Requesters also enumerate a list of letters that were sent from several local
         organizations and groupings between September 2003 and May 2004 to express
         their concerns about the Project. The letters were allegedly sent to Federal and
         Provincial Government officials, World Bank officials in Islamabad and
         Washington DC, the Asian Development Bank, civil society groups, and the
         press." The Requesters further state that in December, 2003 ActionAid Pakistan
         published its research on the "disastrous effects of LBOD and future risks of
         NDP," which was "widely circulated and also sent to World Bank and Asian
         DevelopmentBank Islamabadofices."88

   34. The Requesters declare that they have raised the matters of their complaint with
         the Bankg9and attempted to discuss their concerns. "We expeditedour efforts and
         communications with government officials and World Bank after the monsoon
         rains of 2003 when the proposed outfall drains brought death and widespread
         destruction to our communities. In the reporting of failure of drainage system
         Mustafa Talpur of ActionAid sent an email to several organizationsincluding Mr.
          Usman Qamar of WorldBank Islamabadofice on September 9, 2003. Theabove
         message outlined thefailure of drainagesystem in Badin and losses to human lye
         and livelihood resources.Another email was sent on September 1I,2003 to World
         Bank oficials in Islamabad. (Annex 2). No response was received.""

    35. Inits Notice of Registration, the Panelnoted that the above claims may constitute
         violations by the Bank of various provisions of the following operational Policies
          andProcedures:

          OD 4.01                      Environmental Assessment
          OP 4.04                      Natural Habitats
         OD 4.20                        Indigenous People
         OD 4.30                        Involuntary Resettlement
         OPN 11.03                     Managemento f Cultural Property
         BP 17.50                       Disclosure of Information

    D. ManagementResponse

    36. The Management Response begins by noting that many of the issues in the
          Request relate to the prior LBOD Stage 1 project, which closed in 1997, and
          asserts that the NDP will not extend the LBOD Spinal Drainany further north."


86Id, 763.
  Id, 764 - 75.
  Id, 762.
a9Id; 7[4,p.2.
  Id. 857.
91ManagementResponse, 76 (hereinafter "Management Response").


                                                                                         11

         Management states that the NDP Project was originally the product of a new
         strategy for Pakistan's water resources conceived between the Government of
         Pakistan (GoP) and IDA in 1994 and driven by concern over the deterioration of
         the drainage inli-astructure and the environmental status of the Indus Basin
         Irrigation System.92In particular, it was thought that the lack of an effective
         drainage systemwas a threat to the sustainability of agriculture inthe Basin. IDA
         in 1992hadceasedall lendingto the drainagesectorpending agreementon anew
         strategy.93

    37. The NDP Project's IDA Credit 2999-PAK (US$285 million) was approvedby the
         Board on November 4, 1997.94The total estimated cost of US$785 million was
         fundedby several donors;95IDA was financing institutional reforms, a part of the
         investment component in all Provinces (Punjab, Sindh, Northwest Frontier, and
         Balochistan), all sector planning and research, technical assistance, and
         ~upervision.~~Managementstates that the Project was deliberately lfrontloaded'
                                                               "
         with an institutional and policy reform agenda and `backloaded' with an
         investment program"97 in order to focus on strengthening governance and
         transparency in the irrigation and drainage sector. Management states that "[tlhe
         major risks emanatedfrom thepossible impact of the project on existingpower
         relationships and alliances in rural Pakistan, as was evidenced by the strong
         opposition of feudal interests and parts of the irrigation bureaucracy; such
         opposition included thwarting civil works, damaging infrastructure and illegally
         removingwater, and discouragingfarmers frompaying water charges."98

    38. Management acknowledges that implementation of the Project has proceeded
         more slowly than expected "due to various reasons, includingproject complexity,
         poor coordination and leadership; an absence of reform `champions' and,
         therefore, lack of commitment to, and slow launch oJ institutional reforms; a
         lengthy subproject identi ication andpreparation process; and lack of agreement
         on a drainagestrategy." J-

    39. During 2001 -2002 a pre-feasibility study of aNational SurfaceDrainage System
         (NSDS) was done, which envisaged a major drain some 1,464 kilometers in
         lengthto carry drainage effluent from Punjab to the sea.'" The Bank fielded a
         Panel of Experts (PoE) who reviewed the study and recommended deferring the
         NSDS unless alternative measures proved inadequate. Such alternative measures
         included institutional and policy reforms, more efficient irrigation management,



92Id, 77.
93Ibid.
94Id, 78.
95Id, 79.
% Id, 713.
97Id, 711.
98Ibid.
99Id, 716.
looId, 721.


                                                                                         12

         local stakeholder participation andlocal disposalsolutions. The Bankand the GoP
         endorsedthese recommendations.lo'

    40. Regarding the LBOD, Management states that construction of a spinal drainage
         system to dispose of excess water was begun in the 1960s to address the Indus
         Basin's drainage problems.     lo2 The total scheme involved a spinal drain,
         remodeling of the KPOD and the DPOD, and a 26-mile Tidal Link canal
         connecting the KPOD to anactive tidal creek. A 1989EIA brought forth concerns
         that the Tidal Link could have serious ecological impacts on the dhands.lo3
         Hence, the northern side of the Tidal Link was raised and a concrete weir built to
         protect local ecology by preventing over-drainage of the dhands at low tide.lo4
         Management states that indiscussing the LBOD Environmental Management and
         Monitoring Plan (EMMP), "the lack of a complete baseline and continuing,
         systematic, scientific and well coordinated monitoring and study of the [Tidal
          ink] arearemain critical issue^.^^^^^

    41. Indiscussing the status of the Tidal Link,Management states that almost as soon
         as it began operating, it experienced problems, including si      ificant erosion,
         scouring, and the collapse of a 250 foot section of the weir."All     attempts to
         close the breachedweir failed due to monsoon weather and inaccessibility of the
         site. Then in May, 1999 a catastrophic cyclone hit the area causing severe
         damage, including near total destruction of the Cholri Weir and fkther breaches
         of the Tidal Link embankment.Managementpoints out that the lower Badin area
         "is characterized by severe poverty and harsh living conditions" lo7          and
         acknowledges disruptions to livelihoods from the severe weather events.
         Management maintains, however, that "it cannot be presumed that these
         disruptions are attributable directly to the damage to the TidalLink andfailure of
         the Cholri Weir."'08

    42. Management states that the original intent of frontloading the NDP Project was
         not realized, and that the NSDS and Drainage Management Plan @MP) studies
         were only initiated halfway through project implementation instead of earlier
         when they might have provided the chance for finding local drainage effluent
         disposal solutions.

    43. Management assigned the NDP Project to EA Category Byrather than A, under
         OD 4.01. According to Management the rationale was that "a primala, objective
         was to address environmental issues associated with irrigation,"'        and that


   Id, 722.
   Id, 727.
   Id,730.
   Ibid.
   Id, 732.
IO6Id, 734.
lo'Id, 738.
logIbid.
logId, 140.


                                                                                         13

         significant environmental benefits were anticipated. Management notes that
         "[SI categorizationappearstohavereflectedapremature @re-EIA)balancing
             uch
         of possible adverse effects with positive effects, and a focus on individual
         infiastructure activities, without regard to their potential cumulative efects."` lo
         Management adds that it acknowledges "that it would have been more
         appropriate to categorize this as an EA category `A 'project."'''
    44. Management states that it believes the Project is in compliance with many of the
         requirements for OD 4.0 1 (Environmental Assessment), including preparation of
         a sectoral EA and requirements for screening subprojects.            '
                                                                              l2 However,
         Management acknowledges that no report on ex-post sampling of ongoing work
         has yet been preparedto ensure compliance with covenants on screening, nor has
         the EMP as requiredby the Project Agreement been implemented. Consultations
         conducted in the course of producing the DSEA "appear to have been few,
        particularly with affected groups."' l3According to Management the Project also
         failed to comply with the disclosure requirements for BP 17.50 (Disclosure of
         Operational Information) "since the DSEA was not disclosedprior to appraisal at
         the Infoshop and no records of disclosure in country could be located." `14
         Management states that OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), OD 4.20 (Indigenous
         Peoples), and OPN 11.03 (Cultural Property) were not applicable to the Proje~t."~
         Itadds that because agreementwiththe GoP over the FLARcould not bereached,
         IDA didnot finance any subprojectsinvolvingresettlementandtherefore OD 4.30
         (Involuntary Resettlement) didnot apply.

    45. Management states that the Bank will now take three specific actions regarding
         the Project: (1) assemble a PoE to review ecological, hydrological, and water
         quality monitoring data inthe LBOD outfall area and propose a course of action;
         (2) conduct a diagnostic study of livelihood improvements in the area to
         determine the losses suffered and formulate an assistance program; (3) assist the
         GoP witha Country Water ResourcesAssistance Strategy anda Strategic Country
         Environmental Assessment.     l6


         EnvironmentalAssessment

    46. The first set o f issues analyzed in Annex 1 of the Response relates to the
         Requesters' allegations concerning inadequate environmental assessment and
         compliance with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment).          'l7
                                                                        In response to the
         Requesters' claim that the DSEA accepted by the Bank was incomplete and
         vague, and did not cover coastal ecology issues and wetlands degradation,


`loId, 7141.
`I'Ibid.
`I2Id, 743.
`I3Ibid.
`I4Ibid.
`I5Id, 7144.
`I6Id, 145.
   Request7134.


                                                                                           14

        Management states that the DSEA in Volume 111included studies of ecological
        issues in lower Sindh; that further safeguards were built into the Project's
        design;"' and that the 1989 EL4 for the LBOD addressed the coastal zone issues
        referred to inthe Request.

    47. Regarding the classification of the Project as EA Category B, Mana ement states
        that category "A" would havebeen more appropriate for the Project."     As for the
        claim that the DSEA was not updated during consideration of the NDP loan in
        1997,I2OManagementresponds that the DSEA was accepted by IDA as a sectoral
        EIA for the Project; that it was not updated because "the primary focus of the
        NDP Project was sector reform and safeguards for each subproject were built
        into project design."'21 There were 38 such subprojects identified in Sindh
        Province. Management states that initial environmental sco ing was carried out
        for the subprojects that were actually implementedinSindh.1Y2

    48. Concerning the claim that the design of the NDP has entirely ignored exploring
        alternatives to the existing disposalroute,123 Management states that "preparation
        work for the NDP project, as well as the studies supported during its
        implementation, sought to consider all reasonable alternatives for disposal of
        Indus Basin drainage efluent."'24 According to Management, the DSEA in
        Chapter 5 of the Main Report considered five alternative methods of disposal,
        reuse, or recycling.

    49. Regardingthe Requesters' claim that there is no EnvironmentalManagementPlan
        for the Project and no Wetlands Management Plan as envisaged inthe DSEA,12'
        Managementrespondsthat the design o f the NDP Project included preparation o f
        an EMP, and that a Water Sector EMP-Framework for Action was developed
        under the Project in February, 2002, with the detailed design for it under
        preparation.`26 According to Management, "[t]he Water Sector Framework also
        outlined a basin-wide Wetland Conservation Strate
        comprehensive WetlandManagement Plan is calledfor.     ',E    Development of a


    50, The Requesters' claim that the extension of the existing LBOD system and
        construction of the NSDS poses a serious threat because of a failure to consider
        environmental issues at the disposal point.    12'Management responds that the
        NSDS pre-feasibility study, begun in late January, 2001, examined a so-called


118ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item 1,p.17.
119Id, Annex 1, Item2, p.17.
120Reauest.,,,735.
       *
   ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item3, p.18.
lZ2Ibid.
   Request714.
124ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item4, p.18.
12sRequest737.
   ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item 5, p.19.
   Ibid.
   Id, Annex 1, Items 6,7, p.20.


                                                                                        15

        "drainage superhighway," a concept rejected by the Bank's PoE in April, 2003.
        Again, in September, 2004, a PoE for the Drainage Management Plan (DMP)
        confirmed that the drainage superhighway concept was not feasible.             129
        Management states that "[tlhere are noplans under the NDPproject to extend the
        LBOD. TheNDP project has notfinanced any expansion of the area drained into
         [the] LBOD."    130Management adds that "[t]he incremental drainage resulting
        fFom the tubewells installed under the ADB-financed components of the NDP
        project is controlled so that the tubewellsdo not operateduring storm events, and
        therefore do not increase thepeakfloodflows that must pass through LBOD."`3`
        Management states that the GoP has accepted the recommendations of the PoE
        regardingthe superhighway concept.13*

    51. Regarding the Requesters' claims about land loss and salinity, inparticular about
        encroachment by the sea after the collapse of the Tidal Link and the Cholri
        Weir, 133 Management responds that a Bank fact-finding mission in 2001
        concurred with the Government o f Sindh(GoS) that the damage to the Tidal Link
        and.the Cholri Weir was beyond repair.'34According to Management,the mission
        also found that the Tidal Link was continuing to function well, but observed that
        salinity in the Link had increased because the more saline waters of the Rann of
        Kutch and the dhands were mingling with the Link waters. Management states
        that the salinity of the dhands "has probably changed as a consequence of the
        damage [from the cyclone^],"'^^ but that data collection along the Link will help
        improve understandingo f the problem. Management adds that "draina e efluents
        alone would not be the cause of increasedsalinity, if it has occurred."'B

    52. The Requesters also claimed that the proposed drainage network will badly affect
        an already degraded environment in the Indus Delta because there is no fresh
        water available to add to the Delta andbecausethe drainage effluent contains both
        saline water and toxic residues of pesticides, fertilizer, and industrial waste.137
        Management responds that "the NDP project is being implemented in a manner
        that does not add to or exacerbate the environmental problems of the already
        degraded Indus River Delta or the coastal                Management relies on the
         1989 LBOD EIA to support this response. Management acknowledges that there
        are seriousproblems inthe IndusDelta, and attributes them to ``the drastic change
         infreshwater flow and reduced sediment load reaching the Delta brought about




12'Id, Annex 1, Item6, p.20.
I3OId, Annex 1, Item7, p.20.
13`Ibid.
13*Ibid.
133Request724,25,29.
134ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item8, p.21.
13'Ibid.
136Ibid.
137Request730.
13'ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item9, p.22.


                                                                                        16

        by the development of the Indus Basin irrigation system (especially since the
        1960s)    ."'
                    39

    53. The Requesters claim that the tidal effect prevents the drainage flow twice in
        every twenty-four hour period inthe Tidal Link, causing the effluent to see into
        the sides of the KPOD up to Reduced Distance (RD) 110 (110,000 feet)1TO and
        negatively affecting groundwater quality and human health.         14'Management
        responds that the tidal effect does not prevent the flow from the KPOD to the
        sea.142 It states that the tidal effect and the Cholri Weir are essential hydraulic
        features of the Tidal Link design and adds that there is no specific information
        regarding groundwater quality or drinking water sources in this specific
        location.'43 Management states that the primary source o f drinking water is
        freshwater from the canal system, and that the Drought Emergency Recovery
        Assistance program, funded from the IDA Credit, su ported several drinking
        water supply schemes inSindh, including one at Badin.18

    54. The Requesters also claim that local communities, particularlyinthe coastal belt,
        have been kept entirely unaware of the Project's plans and environmental
        assessments; that the implementation process has not been transparent; and that
        the Project officials and donors failed to obtain the informed consent or
        meaninghl participation of affected persons.14' Inresponse to this, Management
        states that "[clonsultations were held during the project preparation phase with
        representative NGOs, FOs, and CBOs [Community-Based Organizations] to
        define the overall program and to outline the consultation and appraisal criteria
        and process for individual subprojects. Local consultations were carried out
        duringpreparation of subprojects." 146 Annex 9 of the Response sets out indetail
        the places, dates, and names of NGOs and CBOs consulted. Management notes
        that in March, 2004 the Task Team Leader met with NGOs including the Sindh
        Agricultural Forum, and in September, 2004, the PoE of the DMP held
        stakeholder consultations       in Badin and Hyderabad,           which    included
        representativesofActionAid Paki~tan.'~'

        Involuntary Resettlement

    55. The Requesters claim that there are several thousand people who entirely depend
        on local dhands for fishing     and on grazing and agriculture for their livelihood
        who will be forced to leave their ancestral villages by saline water flooding their



13'Ibid.
140Accordingto the Request, ReducedDistance is measuredat oneRD= 1000feet.
14'Requestp:VII, p.2.
14'ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item 10, p.23,
143Ibid.
   Ibid.
145Request755.
146ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item 11, p.23.
147Id, Annex 1, Item 11, p.24.


                                                                                         17

        area.'48 Management responds to this claim by saying that areas of lower Sindh
        are indeedprone to flooding, but that flooding was greater before construction of
        the LBOD Stage 1 Pr0je~t.l~'Management believes that "the implementation of
        the NDP project has not and will not exacerbateflooding."15oIt emphasizes that
        a PoE rejected the drainage superhighway concept, so the type of flooding the
        Requestersfear "will not occur as a result of disposal of drainage efluents in the
        lowland areas of Sindh.""l

    56. The Requestersalso express fear that the expansionof the KPOD, the DPOD, and
        the Spinal Drain will drain several thousand acres causing them to lose their
        remaining land.lS2Management responds by repeating its statement that the Bank
        has no plans to support the expansion of the KPOD, DPOD, or the Spinal Drain.
        The only works planned for the KPOD and financed by the Bank are repair^."^
        Management states that "IDA funding has not supported any subprojects that
        require land acquisition or re~ettlement""~because of lack of agreement on the
        FLARwiththe GoP.

    57. The Requesters claim that the FLAR is vague, does not mention location or
        quantity of land to be acquired, nor a time fiame for compensationpayments."'
        They also complain of the lack of a RAP, or any consultantsengagedto preparea
        RAP. Management responds that the FLAR was prepared in 1996, approved by
        the GoP, and agreed with IDA. However, WAPDA officials later objected to
        some o f its provisions, resulting in revisions being proposed in May, 2001.'56
        Agreement could not be reached, with the Provinces taking the position that the
        existing law was sufficient to provide for all the issues dealt with in the FLAR
        andRAPS.Becauseno subprojectsrequiring landacquisition or resettlement were
        to be included in any IDA-funded investment subprojects, the Bank did not
        pursue further discussionswiththe GoP on the FLAR.lS7

    58. The Requesters claim that because the KPOD and Tidal Link have blocked the
        flow of water to the Rann of Kutch, the vegetation south of the KPOD has
        declined, reducing grazing areas and forcing the migration of affected people.lS8
        They claim the area has only two villages left out of the ten that existed there
        before desertification when the area was green. They claim that during monsoon
        rains in 2003 water from the Kotri barrage and the KPOD flooded 75 villages.
        Management respondsthat this claim refers to the closed LBOD Stage 1project,


148Request719.
149ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item12, p.24.
   Ibid.
''*Ibid.
   Request720.
153ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item13, p.24.
   Ibid.
   Request722.
   ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item14, p.25.
   Ibid.
158Request726.


                                                                                        18

        but that ADB-supported work under the NDP project will help mitigate residual
        environmental effects of the LBOD.lS9Management adds that the 2003 monsoon
        storm was an extremely rare event, bringing rainfall volume larger than any on
        record. Various factors resulted insurface runoff four times the design capacity of
        the LBOD. Management acknowledges the effects of the storm and proposes to
        carry out a diagnostic study to determine the extent of the losses and formulate a
        livelihoodassistance program inconsultation withthe GoP and GoS.16'

        NaturalHabitats

    59. The Requestersclaim that the wetlandso f Sindhare an important part o f the route
        of certain migratory birds; that two species of marine turtles inhabit the area; that
        the wetlands are an important fishery for local people; andthat two of the dhands
        have been recognized as Ramsar Convention sites.'61 They claim the Bank is not
        supposedto support projects that would violate international treaties, as this one
        does. Management responds that the NDP project has not supported projects that
        directly affect the two dhands designatedunder the Ramsar Convention, the Nurri
        and Jubho Lagoons, but notes that "[mlore detailed assessment is required to
        determine    ifthese sites are aflected by the breaches in the Tidal Link Canal and
        the collapseof the Cholri Weir."'62

    60. The Requesters claim that the idea of linking the KPOD with the Shah Samado
        creek through the Tidal Link passing through the dhands was unsound because
        the Tidal Link preventedwater flowing from the Rann of Kutch into the dhands.
        They allege that the 1989 EL4 for the LBOD foresaw that excessive drainage by
        the Tidal Link would affect the dhands,but that no mitigatingmeasureshave been
        taken. Management responds that this claim refers to the closed LBOD Stage 1
        project. Management states that the design combination of the Tidal Link canal
        and the Cholri Weir was intended to mitigate adverse effects on the dhands, but
        structural problems and a 1999 cyclone damaged the Tidal Link and the weir.'63
        According to Management, this severely hampered the effect of the mitigation
        measures. Managementpoints out that the 1989 EIA indicated that the additional,
        temporary inflow of drainage water from the KPOD would not have an adverse
        effect andcould offset the loss o fwater from the RannofKutch inwet years. 164

    61. The Requesters claim that degradation of the wetlands has caused severe damage
        to the ecosystem, habitat, and fish catch, especially some commercially important
        fish specie^.'^' Management responds that the Tidal Link Fact Finding Mission
        recommendedthat no repairs be done to the storm damage becauseit was beyond



15'ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item 15, p.25,
I6OId, Annex 1, Item 17, p.27.
16'Request738-40.
   ManagementResponse,Annex 1, Item 16, p.26.
163Id, Annex 1, Item18, p.27.
   Ibid.
   Request746.


                                                                                           19

        the limits of possible repair.'66 The Mission also recommended a strengthened
        monitoring program and more data collection and analysis.167 Management adds
        that ``[wlhile data collection coordinated by WAPDA-South has continued (...),
        the strengthenedprogram of monitoring and analysis has not been undertakenas
        recommended, and as a result, mitigation measures have not been identiJiedand
        decided." 68
                   '
        IndigenousPeoples

    62. The Requesters claim that the coastalMallah communities are indigenous people
        because they have a close attachment to ancestral territories in the area.'69
        Management responds that the Mallah fishing community does not meet the
        criteria in OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) as Indigenous People because they do
        not have an indigenous language distinct from the mainstream language in the
        region, they lack customary social and political institutions, and they are not
        identifiedby others as a distinct cultural group.'7oAccording to Management, the
        processes and procedures suggested in the SAR for social and environmental
        screening were followed during preparation of NDP subprojects. Management
        adds that ``[qurther, environmental and social screening of NDP subprojects did
        not identrfLany adverse impactson theMallah comm~nity."'~`

        CulturalProperty

    63. The Requesters claim that important cultural sites near Badin are threatened by
        flooding from the KPOD andthe Tidal Link.'72      These sites include monuments of
        saint Shaikh Kirhiyo Bhandari, the historical site of Roopa Mari, and the tomb of
        Dodo Soomro. The Requesters allege that the Project donors have not botheredto
        recognize the cultural and historical importance of the area and the threat posed
        by drainage projects. Managementrespondsthat there are no plans to expandthe
        KPOD under the NDP project, and that "[tlhe construction and normal operation
        of KPOD does not appear to have affected the [Dodo Soomro tomb] site, since
        the high water level in the KPOD design is about 1-2mbelow the site."'73

        CommunityParticipation

    64. The Requesters claim the Bank failed to involve local, affected people in the
        planning and implementation of the NDP, and refused to share information with
        affected communities and NGOs.          174Regarding the issue of participation,

'@ManagementResponse,Annex    1, Item 19, p.28.
167Ibid.
16*Ibid.
169Request,749-51.
170Management Response,Annex 1, Item20, p.28.
17'Id, Annex 1, Item21, p.29.
172Request, 753-54.
173Management Response,Annex 1, Item22, p.29.
174Request, 755.


                                                                                       20

        Management responds that by forming FOs, the NDP project has provided the
        chance for marginalized groups such as sharecroppers and farmers at canal tail
        ends to participate in decision-making on water allocations.       175 In  Sindh,
        Management says about 200 FOs have been established, half of these having
        assumed legal responsibility for operation and management of the tertiary
        irrigation system and for collection of water charges.'76 Regarding the issue of
        disclosure of project information, Management states that the following
        operational documents were disclosed: (1) DSEA - disclosed in the Public
        InformationCenter inApril, 1996, but no information about in-country disclosure
        to affected stakeholders or about subproject EAs could be found; (2) FLAR -
        disclosed in May, 2001 at the Infoshop, but no information on in-country
        disclosure is available; (3) Project Information Document - disclosed in 1994,
        updated in 1997. Management also states that from 2001 a periodic bulletininthe
        Sindhi languageabout the Project has been disseminatedamong farmers.'77


F.      ELIGIBILITY

    65. The Panel must determine whether the Request satisfies the eligibility criteria for
        an Inspection, as set forth inthe 1993 Resolution establishing the Panel and the
        1999 Clarifications, and recommend whether the matter alleged in the Request
        should be investigated.

    66. The Panelhas reviewed the Request and Management's Response. Panel Member
        Werner Kiene, together with the Panel's Assistant Executive Secretary Andrew
        Thomson, and Panel Operations Officer Serge Selwan, visited the SindhProvince
        andIslamabadinPakistanfrom November 3-6,2004. Duringtheir visit, the Panel
        team met with the Requesters, national and provincial govemment officials, local
        people inthe Project area, local NGOs, and World Bank staff.

    67. The Panel team started its mission by meeting Sindh provincial officials in
        Karachi. The Panelthen undertook field visits at the Roopa Mari site, the Kadhan
        Pateji Outfall Drain, its intersection with the Lowari Branch Drain, Shekhani
        Garhi, andthe villages of Moulvi Haji AhmedMallah and FazalKhanLund. The
        Panel met with the Requesters and Badin district officials in the town of Badin.
        The Panel also met with GoP officials in Islamabad. At Fazal Khan Lund the
        Panel team met with a group of villagers who personally experienced flooding
        events in the vicinity of the KPOD, some of whom reported the loss o f family
        members, and also with a group of former fishermen near the village of Moulvi
        Haji Ahmed Mallah. Both groups allege that their livelihoods now depend not on
        agriculture or fishing but on the collection and sale of firewood, which has
        resultedina substantial reduction to their incomes.



   ManagementResponse, Annex 1, Item23, p.30.
17'Ibid.
17'Id, Annex 1, Item23, p.30,31.


                                                                                         21

68. While visiting the Project area the Panel witnessed engineers employed by the
    GoS supervising earthworks on KPOD's western embankment. The senior
    engineer stated that the purpose o f these works was to repair breaches that had
    occurredduringlast year's flood, and to increase the height o fthe embankment so
    that the drain would hold more water during the coming monsoon season. H e
    added that similar work would be done on both sides along most o f the LBOD's
    lower section andwas being fundedthrough NDP Project.

69. Duringthe visit, the Panel confirmed that the Requesters and other signatories o f
    the Request are legitimate parties under the Resolution to submit a Request for
    Inspection to the InspectionPanel. They reside inthe Borrower's territory, live or
    own land inareas apparently affected bythe Project (andor represent people who
    do) and have common interests or concerns (Resolution paragraph 12 and
    paragraph 9(a) ofthe 1999 Clarifications).

70. The Panel notes that the Request asserts "in substance that a serious violation by
    the Bank of its operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have
    material adverse effect upon the requesters." The Request asserts that the
    Requesters have and will suffer severe adverse effects from the Project and that
    such effects result from the Bank's failure to follow its operational policies and
    procedures.

71. The Request states, and the Requesters interviewed by the Panel reiterated, that
     several dozen people died infloods inthe Badin area in SindhProvince, a tragedy
    that, according to the Requesters, is a result o f faulty design o f the L B O D Project
     and a failure in the NDP Project to address the inherited risks o f the LBOD
     components carried over into the NDP Project, and to carry out proper
     environmental assessment and analysis on those and other components.              The
     Requesters assert that the component works o fthe LBOD carried forward into the
    NDP Projectwill affect them ina material adverse way.

 72. The Panel notes the conflicting assertions regarding the relationship between the
     LBOD Project andthe NDP Project. Onthe one hand, Management states that the
    Requesters' concems relate not to the NDP Project but rather to the LBOD
     Project, which i s closed. On the other hand, the S A R approved by the Board for
    the NDP Project states that the Project strategy on evacuating saline drainable
     surplus is, inter alia, to "(`0 use environmentally sustainable methodsfor disposal
     of saline drainage effluent       (including diverting saline effluent away from
    freshwater lakes and rivers), and lay the groundwork for construction of a
    permanent trunk drainage network connected to the sea via LBOD's Spinal Drain
     which would be known as the NSDS (...)."178      Moreover, the SAR states that the
    pipeline o f investment projects includes, inter alia, the     "e)   completion of on-
    going projects including the LBOD Project (donor-funded including IDA and
    ADB) (...)."179 The SAR also states that the investment subprojects which would


SAR, 72.5.
SAR, 12.34.


                                                                                         22

       be commenced in the first two years of project implementation "would
       substantially comprise completion of the on-going LBODproject (estimated cost:
        US$I66million), O Mof recently completedprojects (notably LBOD - estimated
       cost US$46 million), and small surface drainage schemes with short preparation
       period."'80 Indescribing the Project's co-financing arrangements, the SAR states
       "IDA wouldfinance the rest of the donors' share of project costs. This would
       include all Investment Project costs in Sindh Province, costs of remaining works
       under the ongoing LBOD Project, some componentsof theRBOD Project, and all
       remaining technical assistance and program coordination and supervision
                 '
   73. Further, an Aide Memoire for the NDP Project Implementation Review dated July
        10, 2003 carries the statement under the section entitled Infrastructure
       Component, "Completed and On-going Works. Projects worth an estimated Rs.
       2328 million have been completed (LBOD remaining works) and another set of
       projects worth Rs. 725 million is under implementation." lg2As stated above,
       during its visit to the Project area the Panel team was informed that NDP funds
       were being used to add new infrastructure to the LBOD works, i.e. to increase the
       height of the KPOD embankments to handle increasedwater flows.

   74. In the Request, the Requesters claim that the harm done to people in the Badin
       area of lower Sindh Province indicates that Bank Management and staff have not
       complied with a number of Bank policies and procedures in the design and
       implementation of the NDP Project and that the failure to comply has had a very
        significant adverse effect upon the Requesters' rights (Resolution paragraphs 12
        and 14(a) andparagraph9 (b) ofthe 1999 Clarifications).

   75. The Panel is satisfied that the Request "does assert that its subject matter has
       been brought to Management's attention and that, in the Requesters' view,
       Management hasfailed to respond adequately demonstrating that it hasfollowed
       or is taking steps to follow the Bank's policies and procedures." The Request
        claims that the Requesters raised the matters of their complaint with Bank
       Management, and includes evidence of prior correspondence with the Bank.

   76. The Requesters state, "We have been protesting since the inception of theproject
       and had attemptedseveral times to approach local implementing agencies as well
       as World Bank officials to discuss our concerns regarding [the] NDP. We have
       received no response. Werequest the Inspection Panel to investigation [sic] these
       policy violations and the harm we have suffered and make recommendations to
        the Board for how to resolve these harms and these policy violations, in
        consultation with the affected people."183 The Panel received evidence showing


  SA& 72.34-2.35.
lS1
  SAR, 73.5.
Is'
  PakistanNationalDrainageProgram(NDP) Project, ImplementationReview: Sindh Aide Memoire, July
10,2003.
  Request, 74.


                                                                                           23

        that the Requesters wrote to Bank staff about their concerns on several occasions
        (Resolution paragraph 13 andparagraph 9(c) of the 1999 Clarifications). Some o f
        them demonstrated outside the Bank's office in Islamabad to voice their
        complaint.

    77. The Panel notes that the subject matter o f the Request is not related to
        procurement (Resolution paragraph 14(b) and paragraph 9(d) of the 1999
        Clarifications).

    78. The expected closing date o f the related Credit i s December 31, 2004. About 76
        percent o f the IDA Credit hadbeen disbursed as o f the date the Request was filed.
        The Request therefore satisfies the requirement referred to in the Resolution
        paragraph 14(c) and in paragraph 9(e) o f the 1999 Clarifications that the related
        Credit has not been closed or substantially disbursed.lS4

    79. Furthermore, the Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the subject
        matter of the Request. Therefore, the Request satisfies Resolution paragraph 14(d)
        and paragraph9(f) ofthe 1999 Clarifications.

    80. The Panel is satisfied that the Request meets all of the eligibility criteria provided
        inthe 1993 Resolutionandparagraph9 o fthe 1999 Clarifications.

G.      CONCLUSION

    81. In the Panel's opinion, the contradictions in the assertions of the Requesters and
         Management are substantial and bear close relation to the sources and extent of
         the harm alleged by the Requesters. The Request and the Requesters meet the
         eligibility criteria set forth in the Resolution that established the Inspection Panel
         and the 1999 Clarifications. The Request, Management's Response, the Panel
         team's visit to Pakistan, and discussions with Project officials and affected
         persons, confirmed that the differing views on the issues raised by the Request
         cannot be easily reconciled and that they involve conflicting assertions and
         interpretations about the issues, the facts, and compliance with Bank policies and
         procedures.

    82. The Panel believes that these important questions regarding the Bank's alleged
         failure to comply with its policies and procedures as well as the proximate causes
         of the alleged harm that can only be addressed in the context of a Panel
         investigation.

    83. In light o f the foregoing, the Panel recommends an investigation of the matters
         alleged inthe Request for Inspection.



   The 1993 Resolution establishing the InspectionPanel provides inNote 1that this will be deemedto be
the case when at least ninety-five percent of the loan [development credit] proceeds have been disbursed.


                                                                                                        24

      ANNEX I




REQUESTFORINSPECTION


  To: Executive Secretary, the Inspection Panel
  1818 HStreet NW, Washington, D C 20433, USA

  September 9,2004

  Dear Sirmadam:

   1. We Khadim Talpur, MohammadAli Shah, Mustafa Talpur, Munawar Hassan Memon, Iqbal
  Hyder, Mir Mohammad Buledi, and Najma Junejo live and/or represent others who live inthe
  area known as district Badin, Sindh Pakistan. Our addresses are given at the end o f this
  document.

  2. We have suffered, or are likely to suffer, harm as a result o f the World Bank's failures inthe
  National Dramage ProgramProject (NDP) credit no 2999-PKYbeing implemented inIndusBasin
  Irrigation System inPakistan for which credit agreement was signed on December 16, 1997
  between Islamic Republic of Pakistan and International Development Association (IDA), IDA
  agreeing to provide $285 million.

  3. We have suffered or likely to suffer following material harm and losses o f livelihood due to
  the implementation o f NPD:

 I.ThedisposaloftheentireupcountrysalineeffluentsinexistingLBODsystem,whichisfaulty,
    will cause flooding in future. Morethan 50 o f our villages will be inpermanent threat of
    flooding ifthe existing LBOD drains will be expanded further under NDP.
11. More than 30people dieddue to the overflowing, breaches andseaintrusionduring2003 rains,
    thousands o f houses were damaged and thousands o f acres o f agriculture crops were destroyed.
     This project-induced displacement is not one time; we have been made so vulnerable that in
     any monsoon rainy season the upcoming drainage effluents could displace us. Butthis type o f
     displacement and involuntary settlement has never been considered inthe project.
111. The NDPwill require more landto expand the drains, we have already sacrificed duringthe
     construction o f LBOD and less landhas left with us fir livelihood, expansion o f drains and
     forceful acquisition o f landwill ruinour livelihood base.
Iv. TheNationalSurfaceDrainage System(NSDS), centeredontheextensionnorthwards ofthe
     LBOD as a spinal drain, is by far the major potential investment projectwithin the NDP. We
    have already argued that existing disposal system through Tidal Link i s not sustainable. We
    have already lost thousands o f acres o f landdue to the failure o f tidal link andNDP will
     aggravate the situation.
V. The alternateproject options or disposal systems, which are historicalnatural disposal systems,
    have been ignored and super engineering ideas have been used against the natural flows, which
     i s causing harm to us.
VI. The proposed drainage network will badly affect the already degraded environment ofIndus
     Delta. There i s no fresh water available to add to the ecological value o f delta, which is
     essential for coastal forests and marine life. Inthe absence o f fresh water, disposing toxic
     drainage effluents will destroy the remaining resources o f marine fisheries andmangrove
     forests. The drainage effluents comprise not only the saline sub-soil water but also it
     accumulates along the way the residuals o f pesticides, fertilizer and industrial waste.

 The tidal effect restricts the drainage flow for two times intwenty four hours this fight between
 drainage effluents and sea tides continues for about 4-6 hours, thus entirely blocks the drainage
 effluents. The standing drainage effluents seeps into both sides o f KPOD up to RD. 110,
 negatively effects ground water quality, which i s a single drinking source, thus causing severe
 impact on humanhealth
 The proposed NDP will cause destruction o f coastal wetlands two o f them are Ramsar sites.
 The degradation o f these important wetlands due to the failure o f tidal link and choleri weir has
 caused severe damage to the ecosystem, habitat and fish catch. These Dhands (wetlands)
 provide livelihood resources to the forty villages o f fishermen having a 12000-15000
 population and living around these water bodies. There i s no other livelihood source.
 The project will badly affect the indigenous Mullah community; there are more than 60
 villages o f this community with the population o f 25,000 and engagedinfishing at both sea
 and contiguous wetlands. The operation ofLBODhasbrought significant changes inthe lives
 o f these people. The two-mega shocks mentionedearlier one cyclone in 1999 and other
 monsoon rains during2003 have changed the economic base o f these people. Inboth these two
 tragic events the Tidal LinkCanal andKPOD inundated their villages, damaged houses and
  some families even lost their family members.
 The southern part o f Pakistan i.e. district Thatta and Badin have been a rich cultural location
  due to the vicinity o f sea as well as the Indus Delta. There were several ports used for local and
 international trade. The few andvery important cultural sites inBadin which are being badly
  affectedby KPOD and Tidal link canal includes the monuments o f saint ShaikhKirhiyo
 Bhandari, the historical site o f RoopaMari and thari, these both sites were the important town
  o f the dynasty o f Soomraruler in Sindh (105 1to 1351). We fear that under NDP the remaining
 portions o f these important historical sites will be destroyed.
  Local communities, and especially the affected people o f coastal belt, have been kept entirely
 unaware about the plans o fNDP and its environmental assessments. The project planning
 process remainedthe business o f a few bureaucrats and donors while project implementation
 remained non-transparent and hence failed to obtain informed consent or meaningful
 participation since the inception. We were entirely unaware regardingNDP untilthe rains o f
  2003, when we were informed that more effluents would be added in existing LBOD system.

4. We believe following World Bank policies and operation procedures have not been observed:

e   OperationalDirective OD 4.30 regardingInvoluntary Resettlement
e   OperationalDirective OD 4.01 Environment Assessment
e   OperationalPolicy OP4.04, Bank ProcedureBP 4.04 and OperationPolicy NoteNo.
    11.02
e   OperationalDirective OD 4.20 regardingIndigenousPeople
    OperationalPolicy OP 4.11 regardingCulturalproperty
e   OperationalManualStatement2.36 regardingEnvironmentalSustainability


We have been protestingsince the inception o f the project andhad attempted several times to
approach local implementing agencies as well as World Bank officials to discuss our concerns
regarding NDP.




                                                                                                    2

     d




I




         3

Contents

I. NationalDrainageProgramProject:Backgroundandbriefhistory                                  ..................6
     A. Involvement of WorldBank inNDP ..........................................................
     B. Implementation Issues .........................................................................       .6
                                                                                                              .6
     C. Linkbetween LBOD andNDP .................................................................              7

II. MaterialHarmandourconcerns            .................................................................    8

     A. Alternative Project Options: Ignoringour historical experiences ........................              ..9
     B. Project Inducedflooding, Displacementandinvoluntary settlements ...................10

     D. Damageto nationally andinternationally recognizedWetlands ..........................
     C. Environmental Damages ......................................................................         .13
                                                                                                              16
     E. IndigenousPeople ..............................................................................       .20
     F. Loss to RichCultural Property and Historical Monuments ..............................                ..21
     G. Community ParticipationandInformation Disclosure ....................................                 .22

III StepsTakentoConveyConcernstotheBankandotherRelevantAuthorities
n7.     Summary andDemands        ..............................................................................23
                                                                                                               25

Lists of Annexes:

Annex- 1      Pictures and MediaReporting of failure of LBOD during2003 rains
Annex-2       Article floated on email on failure of LBOD during2003 monsoonrains
Annex-3       Reporting and Mediacoverage of Affectees Rally inBadin Town
Annex-4       Media coverageof Karachi Rally
Annex-5       Letter sent by Save CoastAction Committee duringSept. 2003 to Dec. 2004
 Annex-6      MediaReporting of Rally and Press conferenceby Save CoastAction Committee
 Annex-7      Letter of District andTaluka Nazims sent to President of Pakistan
 Annex-8      Emailcorrespondencewith ADB
 Annex-9      Email correspondencewith World Bank Country Director
 Annex- 10    Email correspondencewith NDP task team leader
 Annex- 11    Hunger strike demandletter for cancellation ofNDP loan
 Annex- 12    Media Reporting of Hunger Strike
 Annex-13     Pictures andMediaReporting of May, 2004 rally inBadin SindhPakistan
 Annex- 14    Letter of Taluka NazimBadin Sindh Pakistanto Presidento f Pakistan

 ListofMaps

 1.           Map of LBOD Area
 2.           Map of proposedNational Drainage network inupper IndusBasin
 3.           Map of proposedDrainagenetwork inlower Indus Basin

 Letter of Representation (Authorization from affectees)




                                                                                                                 4

Acronyms

ADB      AsianDevelopmentBank
BP       BandProcedure
CCA      Cultivable CommandArea
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
DPOD     Dhoro PuranOutfall Drain
DSEA     Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment
Dhands   Localword used for Wetlands
EMP      EnvironmentalManagement Plan
EA       Environmental Assessment
EPAs     Environmental ProtectionAgencies
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
FATA     Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FLAR     Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement
GoP      Government ofPakistan
GoS      Government o f Sindh
IDA      International Development Agency
IBIS     IndusBasinIrrigationSystem
JBIC     Japan Bank for International Cooperation
KPOD     KadhanPateji Outfall Drain
LBOD     Left Bank Outfall Drain
Mallah   Indigenouspeople engagedinfishing
NDP      National Drainage Program
NSDS     National Surface Drainage System
NWFP     NorthWest Frontier Province
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NESPAK   National Engineering Services Pakistan
ODA      Overseas Development Administration
OD       OperationalDirective
OP       Operational Policy
PIDs     Provincial IrrigationDepartments
RBOD     RightBank Outfall Drain
RAP       ResettlementAction Plan
RD        ReducedDistancemeasured, one RD=lOOO feet
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SF        SaudiFund
SDC       Swiss Development Corporation
S A R     Staff Appraisal Report
TOR       Terms of Reference
WAPDA     Water and Power Development Authority
WMP       Wetland ManagementPlan




                                                            5

NationalDrainageProgramProject:Backgroundandbriefhistory

1. The NationalDrainage Program(NDP) is amultimillion dollars program withthe goal to
minimize saline drainable surplus water andto facilitate evacuation of all saline drainable
surpluses from the Indusbasin to the Arabian Sea and thereby restoring environmentally sound
irrigated agriculture inPakistan. The project area covers the whole ofthe IndusRiver Basin
located inPakistan and small-irrigated areas inBalochistan, NWFP, FATA andNorthern Areas.

2. The idea of national drainageprogram consideredas an integrated and cohesive national level
efforts designedwith program approach with thepurposeto restore the sustainability of irrigated
agriculture inan environmentally soundmanner by: (a) minimization of the drainable surplus;
and (b) evacuation of drainable surplus from the IndusBasin to the Sea. It i s assumed tht all
separate drainageproject will be managedunder NDP umbrella. The main component of the
project i s investmentcomponentunderwhich several thousand kilometers of surface drains and
interceptor drains will be excavated, tube wells will be installed and tile drainage facilities will
beprovided. Finally all the effluents generatedat upstreamofIndusBasinwill be transported
through the network of surface drains callednational surface drainage system (NSDS) and
connectedwith existing LBOD fall point inleft side of Indus andRBOD on right side of Indusin
order to disposeinto sea.

A. InvolvementofWorldBankinNDP

3. The World Bankhasbeeninvolvedinwater sector inPakistan since early 1960's. Bank has
financed several projects inboth irrigation and drainage sectors inPakistanincludingLBOD in
1980's and 1990's. This project seems to be the extension of LBOD at wider level. The bank
approved the credit number2999 Pak and developmentcredit agreementwas signedon
December 16, 1997between Islamic Republic of Pakistan and International Development
Association (IDA). The IDA agreedto lendto the borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth
an amount invarious currenciesto one hundred ninetyeight million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 198, 600,000), Equivalent to US $285 million2The closing date
shall be December31,2004. Except IDA two other co-financiers Asian Development Bank and
Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) are also involved inNDP and have separate
loan agreementswith government of Pakistan. The ADB and JBIC i s planned to finance US $
140and 100millionsrespectively.

B. ImplementationIssues

4. As of June 30,2003 the total expenditure of all the componentsofNDP was Rs. 6,961.832
millionagainst allocated Rs. 28, 494.830 million. At the end of sixth year of project only 24.4
percent of project funds have beenutilized. This indicates the delay inimplementation of the
various componentsof projects especially investment component.


'See PC-1 Proforma (Revision-1): National Drainage Program Project, January 2004. NDP Management
Organization, Lahore Pakistan.
* See Development Credit Agreement NDP between Islamic Republic o f Pakistan andInternational Development
Agency (IDA) and Staff Appraisal Report NDP.


                                                                                                         6

5. The midterm review conducted byjoint donor mission from March 19 to April 6,2001
concluded that the implementationof NDP has been slowed by numerous bottlenecks and
disputes, and its impact andresults have been far less than anti~ipated.~Similar comments were
generated by JBIC positionpaper. According to paper NDP has almost completedits third year;
implementation of the project has been considerably delayed without any substantial
accomplishment due to various reasons including absence o f political initiatives, differing
approaches and resultant disputes among stakeholders.

6. The NDP became the target o f criticism because o f structural flaws and slow implementation
o f the project. Subsequently, a decision given inthe 13thFederal Programsteering Committee
meeting held on May 09,2003 requiredWAPDA to immediately work on the revision o f the
PC-1 of NDP. Revision of the NDPPC- 1 i s therefore undertaken as per this directive. It should
be noted that the revisedtotal cost o f the PC-1to be financed by IDA, ABD, JBIC, Gop,
Provinces and beneficiaries i s now reduced to Rs. 28.68 billion (US $490 million) with a
scheduled completion date inDecember 2005.4

7. It i s obvious that duringthe implementationo fNDP, almost all the provincial governments
were remainedreluctant and Balochistan even opted out. The slow progress of government
agencies indicates that project was not originated within country with broader consultation.
Though the problem of waterlogging and salinity are local but World Bank borrowedthe
solutions and suggestions from other countries, which are neither compatible to local
institutional set up nor favorable in country context.

C. LinkbetweenLBODandNDP

8. The LBOD stage-1 project was initiated in 1984. According to initial plan LBOD stage -1
project would be serving Culturable Command Area (CCA) o f about 516,000 hectors and
implemented over an eight years period (FY 1986-FY 1993). There were several components o f
the project including completion o f main outfall drain, construction o fbifurcation weir at the
junction o fthe Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD) and the Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain (DPOD)
to limit the flow of DPOD to 57 cumecs 2000 cusecs), construction o f 3000 cusecs tidal link
from Pateji Dhand to Shah Samdo creek.        5

9. The Project cost estimated at early stage of appraisal was Rs. 9,202.9 million (US $ 635.7
million). The cost was agreed upon by 7 external co-financiers, these co-financiers were IDA;
ADB; Saudi Fundfor Development(SF); Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA);
Overseas DevelopmentAdministration (ODA-UK); Swiss Development Corporation (SDC); and
the OPEC Fundfor Development. The IDA and ADB remainedthe major donors o f LBOD
contributing US $ 150.0 and $122.0 millions respectively during appraisal estimates, however
their actual disbursement differs from appraisal figures. The World Bank Credit 1532-PAK in
the amount o f SDR 147.6 million equivalent was approved on December 13, 1984.


  See National Drainage Program (NDP) Project: Joint World Bank, ADB and JBIC Mid-Term Review (MTR)
Mission Draft Aide-Memoire, April 10,2001.
  Seepage S- 1National Drainage Program Project, PC-1Proforma Revision-1, January 2004.
  See - Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Left Bank Outfall Drainage Stage 1Project, South Asia Projects Department
Irrigation 1 Division, World Bank Report No. 5185-Pak, November 5, 1984.


                                                                                                              7

10. The works o f LBOD project could not finished in estimated cost and time. The works deleted
from the Project were included inthe National Drainage Program (NDP) launched in 1998 and
co financed by ADB, the World Bank, and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation. The
total cost at project completion i s estimated at $963.0 million (estimated U S $ 1021.O millionby
World Bank), $308.2 million (47%) higher than the appraisal estimate o f $654.8 million.

11.After the huge cost overrun andtime lapse all the project components were not completed
andit achievedpartial objectives. Remainingcomponents of the LBODwere transferred to NDP.
Thus itmakes direct linkbetween the two projects, as NDP seems the extension o f LBOD at
national level. The project achieved many o f its physical objectives as defined inthe SAR and
M T R Report; andwill fully achieve them on completion infour years with financial support
from the National DrainageProgram(NDP) Project (Cr.2999-PAK).6 Inaddition the government
reports also indicate that works remaining incomplete have been transferred for execution under
NDP.7

    I.MaterialHarmandourconcerns

12. The implementationo fNDP as envisaged inStaffAppraisal Report, midterm review and
other World Bank documents will likely cause a serious adverse impacts on our livelihood and
environment on which we depend. Significant losseshave already been incurred due to illdesign
o f LBOD. The losses o f LBOD are multi-dimensional andhave occurred over time and space.
Duringthe implementationphase several thousands families were displaced frommain drain
routes and Chotiari reservoir andhave not been properly settled. There are also long term and
continuous environmental and livelihood losses to coastal communities after the operation o f the
project.

13. There i s no official record or survey to measure the losses occurred duringthe cyclone o f
1999 andhavoc o frains during2003. The damage to Choleri weir, tidal link andKPOD is still
there, when the World Bank andADB plannedanother mega drainage project to connect the
existing faulty disposal system o f LBOD to further upstream in order to evacuate more effluents.
We believe that incase o f the NDP the historical custodian and local communities o f coastal belt
will be entirely wiped out due to this policy decision. Addingmore effluents andextendingthese
drains to provide drainage facility to entire Indus Basin Irrigation System (IBIS) without proper
disposal into Arabian Sea will only add inthe miseries o f coastal communities. Since the key
issues o fNDP are related to the fall anddisposal o f LBOD, so these bothprojects will be
referred inthis claim. The final destination o f entire effluents o f NDP will transported through
existing LBOD drains with the scheme o fNational Surface Drainage System (NSDS), so the
social, environmental andlivelihood issues as well as alternative project options discussed here
are also relevant to both LBOD andNDP. For the technical reasons we focus our claim on NDP
however the losses are interchange-able and have either occurred or most likely to hitunder


  See- Implementation Completion Report, LBOD Stage- 1Project, RuralDevelopment Sector
ManagementUnit SouthAsia Region World Bank Report No. 18037
  LBODStageIProject(Cr. 1532-PAK) ImplementationCompletion Report Appendix B:
Borrower's Report


                                                                                                  8

NPD.The scope, magnitude, geographical locationandpolicy violation are interconnected
between LBOD andNDP.

A. Alternative Project Options: Ignoring our historicalexperiences

14. The feasibility and sustainability o f entire NDP depends on the sound foundations o f LBOD
because it is a final disposal point of drainage effluents. The design o f NDP has entirely ignored
the current reality and the social and environmental problems of the existing disposal route, and
never explored the alternatives. We have been suggesting an alternative since early 1980's when
the LBOD was started. Based on our knowledge o f historical flow routes, from the very first day
when the LBOD was launched, we have been raising objections regardingits feasibility ard
sustainability. We rightlypointed out that the fall o fKPODwas against natural disposal system
andwould destroy the entire coastal environment. Implementingagencies, financiers including
the Woild Bank, andthe project consultants never listened to us.

15. There was historical drainage system o f runoffwater through Dhoro Puran, under LBODthat
link was convertedinto Dhoro PuranOutfall drain andhugeweir was constructed to restrict the
flow towards Shakoor Dhand, hence entire load o f effluents was diverted to KPOD. As
mentioned inthe report o f World Bank Fact FindingMission' that three possible options were
considered for the terminus o f the LBOD drain: one option was to continue to empty most o f the
LBOD flow through KPOD into Pateji Dhand, tk second option was to empty the drain directly
into the Ranno f Kutch and the thirdwas to empty the drain directly into sea through an
independent canal linked directly with an active tidal creek. There were other options too, which
were not properly evaluated, including disposing the effluents in Shakoor Dhand through
existing Dhoro Puran, and other small waterways towards south. But the selectedroute was more
dangerous andnow it has proved that in fbture it will cause more damage rather than benefit.

16. The planningo f NDP has never considered the problem in existing disposal system and
conceived to bringmore effluents infaulty systemto dispose. These faults combinedwith
seasonal (and predictable from a planningstandpoint) shocks i.e. cyclone in 1999 andmonsoon
rains o f 2003 created havoc with our lives and livelihood. There has been no recognition o f our
losses at policy level or compensation, becausewe are considered poor, powerless and voiceless.
From time to time we havebeen pointing out the serious problem inthe technical design o f the
LBOD system, andthen inNDP, butno consideration havebeen given to our concerns. The
donors andgovernment, rather than focusing on the problems faced by us due to their technical
mistakes, are insteadplanninganother project inthe name o f NDP to add to our miseries.

17. Several documents both from government o f Pakistan and World Bank indicate the extension
o f existing LBOD system and construction o fNational Surface Drainage System. As the SAR o f
NDP mentions, "the planners of Pakistan's IBIS and its principal donors ledby IDA always
knew that ultimately, the Indus Basin Irrigation System would require an outlet to the Sea.
Sustainability can only be achieved inthe longrunby buildinga NSDS. Giventhe long leadtime
required for detailed planning, feasibility studies, and inter-provincial agreement on cost sharing
and transportation o f saline effluents from the Upper Bank o f Industo the Sea via Sindh

  See- LBOD State -1 Project-Tidal Link, World Bank Fact FindingMission. Technical Note and
Recommendations.


                                                                                                   9

Province, work on the NSDS is probably already overdue".           The midterm review mission inits
findings and recommendations mentioned, "it was understood that projects that mobilize large
quantities o f salt inNWFP, Balochistan, Punjab, and areas on the rightsbank o f the Indusin
Sindh, would be undertaken duringa later phase o fNDP, after trunk drains (LBOD, RBOD)
were extended to these provinces". It further states that project supported National System
Drainage Study hasrecently started". The midterm review admits two major constraints that
dramatically affect scope andpace o fNDP. First, the absence o f a master drainage plans and
second agreement on inter-provincial drainage flows that ensure environmentally safe and
sustainable disposal.

18. We believe andit i s obvious after the operation o f LBOD that this is not a viable and
sustainable solution for the effluents disposal. However time-to-time the World Bank officials
are persistent on the studies on NSDS and itsjustification. They have not been talking the other
alterative options. We feel strongly insecure inthe case o f going aheadwith the current option o f
NSDS. We have a less confident inthe inter-provincial accord becausethose governmental
accords do not incorporate the issueso f local communities. So the validity o f such accord will be
questionable to us. We think that the way NDP has been plannedand several mission
recommendations are leading towards extending current LBOD system to upstream, against our
wishes. Ifsuch planswill be implementedthat will be serious violation o four human rights,
rights to life and livelihood and development.

B.      Project Induced flooding, Displacement and involuntary settlements

Likely Lossesdue toNDP:

19. Though the NDP is being implementedinentire Indus BasinIrrigation System, which
geographically covers whole country, but the specific location o f drainage disposal has certain
peculiarities. The southern part of Pakistan, where the proposed up country effluents will be
disposed has a less gradient, more flat topography and bestowed with natural shallow water
depressions and vegetation. There are several thousand people who entirely depend on local
Dhandslfishing, grazingand agriculture. Keeping inmindthe experience o fLBOD, we can
easily predict that incoming saline water will cause huge flooding and havingno other option we
have to leave our ancestral villages. This type o f displacement is even not considered inproject
documents even though it will occur due to the consequences o fproject outcome.

20. Incase o f connecting existing spinal drain further upstream as proposed inNDP, will require
remodeling o f spinal drain, KPOD and DPODto cater the needs of more effluents. We have a
fear that in the phase o f expansion o f KPOD, DPOD and spinal drain several thousand acres o f
landwill be required. We have already scarified for existing system and left with meager
resources for livelihood, in case o f expansion, we might lose remaining land. Inaddition to land
there are several villages, which will be displaced inbroadeningthe cross sections o f drains.




  See- Para 1.24 StaffAppraisal Report,National DrainageProgram Project September 25, 1997 World Bank
ReportNo. 15310-PAK
loSee-MidTermReviewMission, DraftMissionFindingsandRecommendationsMarch-April2001



                                                                                                      10

21. The faulty disposal system through tidal linkwill increase the pressure o fbackwater flow
duringthe hightide timings. Currently the systemisjust disposing the effluents of three districts
i.e. Nawabshah, Sanghar andMirpurkhas; even inthis situation the hightide water significantly
restricts the flow towards sea. Inthis fight of incoming saline effluents and hightide water the
KPOD overflows and inundates the surrounding agriculture lands and villages. This i s happening
since the operation o f LBOD system. Incase o f increasing the saline effluents inthe system it
will be permanent danger o f overflowing and flooding the area during the hightide period,
especially inmonsoon rains. Inthis situation the population, agriculture land and villages up to
RD. 70 ofKPOD, except 42 KMareaoftidal linkwill be affected.

  The WorldBank's OperationalDirective OD 4.30 regardingInvoluntary Resettlement,
  which was adopted in 1990, has been violated Inparticular,projectplanners have
  ignored thefollowing provisions:




22. The government o f Pakistan has no approved policy on resettlement and we have hadvery
bad experience during the land acquisition andresettlement at Chotiarireservoir under LBOD
and the affected families are still waiting for resettlement and compensation. The government of
Pakistan prepared and submitted to the World Bank A Framework for Land Acquisition and
Resettlemnt (FLAR) in 1996,which i s quite vague and does not mention the location and
quantity of land required'  '.The FLARdoesnot give time frame ofcompensationpayment and
credible economic rehabilitation o f project affectees. The government has since disownedeven
that halfhearted FLAR. We think that our landwill be acquired under landacquisition act o f
1894 for expansion of KPOD, without proper compensation andresettlement and inviolation o f
World Bank policies. There was no resettlement Action Plan (RAP), a fact that was recognized
butnot correctedat the time ofthe midterm review o fNDP inyear 2001 andmentionedby the
Bankmission"during the March 2000 supervision mission, itwas agreedthat the Pakistan

   See- Annex -3 Revised PC-1National Drainage Program


                                                                                                11

Drainage Consultants will prepare TORs for the preparation o f RAPS",to date no TORs have
beenprepared, andno consultants engagedto prepare FL4Ps12.

Losses already incurred due to LBOD:

23. The plannedNDP project will further aggravate all the problems mentionedbelow. The
major problem lies inthe disposal system. The entire disposal system o f tidal link and KPOD has
been damaged and continuously causing livelihood and displacement problem for communities.
Once this system will be connected with NDP drains it willjust multiply the losses o f local
communities. The breaches inKPOD andtidal link, the blockage o f flow towards sea during
hightide, overflowing andinundation will increase andaggravate the existingvery vulnerable
conditions o f the local communities. We are quite clear that it is impossible in current technical
design o f disposal system to carry the added effluents o f NDP. The future losses will be very
high.We are very poorpeople livingaround this area since centuries andwill be entirelywiped
out or could not survive in cortinuous shocks like flood anddisplacement. It i s surprising that
without resolving all the disposal issue related to LBOD and its technical flaws surfaced after
operation, policy makers anddonors includingWorld Bank are engaged inextension o f existing
drainage system, while they are quite aware o f our suffering since the operation o f LBOD in
1995.

24. After the operation o f LBOD system we have witnessed two severe shocks, which were
aggravated by the KPOD and tidal link canal. First the cyclone, which hit this area in 1999, and
severely damaged the tidal link, KPOD and choleri weir, which resulted ino f breaches inKPOD
the saline effluents flooded our villages, destroyed agriculture crops and forced thousands o f
people to leave their homes for couple o f months. The unrestricted water of KPOD and tidal link,
which was further coupled with hightide seawater, spread around and damaged our livelihood
system which comprises on small/subsistence agriculture, fishing, livestock and forestry.
According to experts, water of Kotri surface drains, which previously flowed through lakes into
natural creeks, has been obstructed by the construction o f Tidal Link; consequently this drainage
water becomes stagnant and creates flooding.l3

25. Immediately after the cyclone o f 1999 Government o f Sindh (GoS) constituted high-level
technical committee to review the damage to the tidal link and Choleri weir. The committee's
key findings were: 56 breaches inthe southern and northern embankments o f the Tidal Link,
severe erosion o f canal banks; most o f the northern embankment along with the entire berm has
been eroded. At hightide water apparently flows over the banks at some o f the low points or
through the breached sections. Inyear 2002 World Bank also fielded its own fact-finding
mission14. The mission also agrees with the technical committee observations mentioned above.
Mission pointed out that as soon as Tidal Linkbegan operation on June 6, 1995 it experienced
significant erosion and scour problems along both banks and the bed. Insome sections, almost
50 percent o f the total embankment body was lost and erosion i s still inprogress. Both these


l2 Midterm review ofNDP, World Bank
l3 See- SZABIST center for informationandresearchreport onthe cyclone 2A.
l4 -
   See   World Bank fact finding mission comprisedon Sakwa Bunyasi (Mission Leader), Walter Garvery (water
resources advisor, SouthAsia Region), SafwatAbdel-Dayem, World BankDrainage Advisor), O hMyint,( Sr.
irrigationengineer); and UsmanQamar (Sr. Irrigationengineer).


                                                                                                          12

findings are compatible with our experienceof flooding duringhightide and rainy season,
damaging our livelihoodresourcesbadly butboth the missionwere unable to suggest any
solution to the breachesanddamage to tidal linkandits negativeconsequences on the livelihood
of local community.

26. KPOD drainandtidal link hasblocked all runoffwater to move to Runn ofKutch and other
grazing areas. This caused declining of vegetation to the south of KPOD, loss to forest species
and decreasedgrazing areas. It impacted on the livelihoodof local communities and findingno
other alternative these people havemigrated. Just two villages are settled now with less
population inthe southern side ofKPOD inRannof Kutch. While before there were about 10
villages. The area was greenwith several species of gross and forest trees, but when the water
source has beenblockedbyKPOD this area desertified and could not support the life.

27. Another shock witnessedbyus duringmonsoonrains of 2003. We are live witness of the
episodethat how the water of KPOD andkotri barrage surfacedrains flooded about 75 villages.
The study conductedby national NGO ActionAid observedthat the failure of the drainage
systemportrays the entire coastal strip of Sindh as a drainage bowl, destroyedtidal link indicate
that saline water of LBOD, insteadgoing into the sea, i s continuously destroying the Badin
District lands.l5 The newspapersreported that one hundredandsixty dehd6are completely under
inundation, where agriculture crops standingover 200,000 acres hasbeen destroyedandmore
than 200,000 villagers have beenrenderedhomeless for couple ofmonths. Insingle union
council, which was worst hit by KPOD flowing water invillages, 32 people died due to
drowning in drainagewater. There were 14major breachesobservedinKPOD from RD 20 to
RD 180. (Annex-1newspaper reportingon LBODfailure during 2003 rains andpictures of
RPODbreaches andflooding)

     C.      EnvironmentalDamages

Likely Losses due toNDP:

28. The NationalSurface Drainage System(NSDS), centeredon the extensionnorthwards of the
LBOD as a spinal drain, is by far the major potential investmentproject within the NDP. We
have already argued that existing fall system through Tidal Link is not sustainable. Contrary to
its purpose, the Tidal Linkcanalhas become a permanentinflow channel to bring seawater and
thus causedserious seaintrusion. Duringthe cyclone of 1999, it was obvious that tidallinkwas
totally a failure anditprovided awell designedandpermanentpassageto sea tide, block the
drainageeffluents and cause overflowingof KPOD and small drains of kotri barrage surface
drainage system. This phenomenonof sea intrusion has not beenrecognized duringthe planning
of NDP. [However inthe early estimates regarding sea intrusion the world bank fact finding
mission mentioned that the Tidal influence (back water) would extend from Shah Samdo Creek
all the way up to the Tidal Link to KPOD, but Sea water was not expectedto extend farther than
12 miles upstreamfrom tidal creek (to RD-93), just below the Dhands.l7Butwe have witnessed
that Seawater duringhidetide timing(twice in twenty; four hours) comes up to RD 70 of KPOD


l5 Disastrous effects of Left Bank Outfall Drain- LBODA mega failure, ActionAid Pakistan December 2003.
l6 Deh indicates smallrevenue unit inPakistan.
l7 See- Para 4 World Bank fact finding mission technical note andrecommendations August 05,2002


                                                                                                        13

the way up]. We have a serious threat due to the extension o f LBODwithout looking into the
environmental issues at disposal point and sea intrusion. The same has been identified in
Environmental Management PlanFrameWork Sindh Province. The plan identified two key
mitigation measures that are needed to counter trend several obvious potential major negative
impacts o f anNDP on - a National Surface Drainage System (NSDS) guaranteeing
environmentally-acceptable modes o f disposal to the sea for all unwanted effluents and a
Wetland Management Plan (WMP) to sustain the many ecologically important wetlands.           *

29. This phenomenon of sea intrusion has already destroyed the agriculture land. The loss of
topsoil due to flooding is a common andhundreds o f acres o f coastal land are gradually being
converted into sea. Thousands o f acres o f our landhave been encroached by sea and this process
has accelerated aRer the collapse o f tidal link and Choleri weir, we have shared these concerns
duringthe process of participatorypoverty assessmentinSindh. Hundreds of farmer families
have been pushed to live under extreme poverty. Incase o f increasing the drainage flow; this
problem o f land loss will be scaledup. Inaddition to loss o f topsoil the problemo f secondary
salinity will also rise. Incase o f overflowing, breachesinTidal Link and KPODthe saline
effluents willjust spread around the agriculture land, thus add into soil salinity.

30. The proposed drainage network will badly affect the already dyingenvironment o f Indus
Delta. There i s no fresh water available to add the ecological value o f delta, which is essential for
coastal forests andmarine life. Inthe absence o f fresh water, disposing toxic drainage effluents
will destroy the remainingresources of marine fisheries and very little mangrove forests. The
drainage effluents comprises not only the saline sub-soil water but also it takes along the
residuals o f pesticides, fertilizer and also industrial waste. There i s no mechanism to monitor the
quality of effluents; the disposal ofthousands of cusecsofuntreated effluentsper day willpose
serious negative impacts on marine resources, on which thousands o f fishermen depend.

31. There are several small drains o f Kotri Barrage Surface Drainage System falling into KPOD.
Before extension o f KPOD these drains were just disposing inopen Ranno f Kutch or some in
local Dhands. The backwater effects o f tidal link and then KPOD also affect the sub-drains
falling inKPOD. Duringthe monsoon rains in2003 and cyclone o f 1999 all these drains started
flowing backward and caused flooding inthousands o f acres. These drains brought sea water in
our lands and the fertility o f landis being degraded.

32. The tidal effect restricts the drainage flow twice intwenty-four hours; this fight between
drainage effluents and sea tides continues for about 4-6 hours, during which time the drainage
effluents i s backed up. The standing drainage effluents seep into both sides o f KPOD up to RD.
110, negativelyeffects groundwater quality, which is a single drinkingsource, thus causing
severe impact on humanhealth. These impacts have never been studied or mitigated by project
authorities or the World Bank. Incase o f increasing quantity o f drainage effluents this problem
will aggravate the ground water degradation.




'*See- EnvironmentalManagementPlanFramework, SindhProvince Terms of Reference (Final Draft) Pakistan
DrainageConsultants, August 2000.


                                                                                                     14

  Webelievethatfollowing specijkprovision of WorldBank OperationalDirective OD
  4.01 has been totally violated:




33. The checklist for EA of bank-financed projects is quitecomprehensive but inNPD all key
components of EAhas been either ignored or under estimated.The effect ofNDP on marine
resources,bio-diversity includinglocal coastalplants, animal, critical habitats andprotected
areas will be entirely negative. The NDP has under estimatedall these critical components
duringplanning. We believe that we will lose several fish species and other marinebio-diversity
due to toxic effluents; also there is threat to terrestrial plants. The economic costs of these
biodiversity and environmental impacts have also been completely ignored.

34. We believe that World Bankhas seriously violated its operational directive OD 4.01 in
regard of taking into consideration the serious environmental issues. The Bank acceptedthe
Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment (DSEA) preparedby the consultant on behalf of
government of Pakistan. The DSEA focuses general environmental issues of the drainage sector
inPakistan.According to the assessment total saline effluents anticipated is 10.91Maf(13.5
Bcm), ofwhich, 60% is planned to be disposeddirectly into the seathrough LBOD19,but the


ReconstructionandDevelopment. PakistanDrainage Sector EnvironmentalAssessment - National
l 9Government ofPakistan, Water andPower DevelopmentAuthority and InternationalBankfor

drainage Programme, June 1993,NationalEngineeringServices Pakistan(PVT) LimitedandMott
MacDonaldInternationalLimited



                                                                                                 15

assessment which was acceptableto Bank to fulfill the requirementof OD 4.01 is incomplete,
vague and does not cover the issues like coastalecology, safe disposal into Arabian Sea and
environmental degradationofwetlands.

35. The DSEA was preparedinearly 1990's and duringthat time LBOD was not operational so
the technical problems of LBOD fall system was not obvious, however this study was not
updated duringthe considerationof NF'D loan in 1997; we believe that this i s a violation of Bank
policies. The DSEA also lacks public legitimacy becauseno civil society groups or affected
people were consulted duringthe preparedof study, as reportedinDSEA volume- 1only experts
andofficials of different government agencieswere consultedinall the workshops:

"The initial scoping sessions to identify the major environmental factors related to drainagewere
carried out inOctober 1991with representativesof the EPAs, WAPDA and other interested
agencies. Itwas followedby a Workshop in EnvironmentalAssessmentheldat Lahore, on 8-9th
April 1992, at which 27 professional representativesfrom EPAs, PIDs."

36. The DSEA is also failedto focus on the environmental degradationofwetlands and its
impact on species, as it is very clear from the text of DSEA andreproducedas under:

        "The overall impacts of changes inwetlands and their species i s extremely difficult, ifnot
        impossible, to attribute to the actual drainage process. Whilst drainage certainly can and
        does reducewildlife stocksat specific sites, there havebeenpowerfulpressuresagainst
        the survival of many wetland species over a longperiod. It i s not possible to say that
        drainage is responsiblefor such declines, only that is it capable of augmenting the
        pressures from 0 t h directions."

 37. The World Bank operational directive is very clear andelaborative on mitigation measures
and OD 4.01 suggests the preparation of Environmental ManagementPlan. But in case of NPD
after the lapse of six years there is no suchEMP. In addition to EMP the DSEA also proposed
Wetland ManagementPlan andenvironment monitoring andAudit but nothinghas materialized
inthis regard.This is a clear violation ofWorld Bank's safe guardpolicies. We believe that the
delay in formulation of EMP leads to the environmental degradationand eliminates our trust that
any suchkindofplanwill beformulated inandimplemented.The environmental disastrous
effects of LBODhavenot evenbeenmitigated. Due to these delay inthe implementation of
EMPof LBOD and nomformulation of EMP of NDP we are bearingthe cost of environmental
degradationincluding reducedfish catch, loss of agriculture land and forest, loss of grazingland
and degradation of Wetlands. Consequently the combined effect of all these factors i s
impoverishing us.

    D.      Damage to nationally and internationally recognizedWetlands

38. The Wetlandsof Sindh especially mentionedbelow form an important component of a major
migratory route for waterfowl known as the     " IndusFlyway". They are important wintering,
nesting and staginggrounds for a large number of locally and globally important bird species,




                                                                                                  16

including some endangered species such as the DalmatianPelican. Two species o f marine turtles
inhabit the area, including green turtle andtly: loggerhead turtle. The wetlands, channels and
creeks are also a productive fishery source including several species o f commercially valuable
shrimp, prawns andcrabs. The western margin ofthe RannofKutch, where the drains enter the
coastal zone, consists of a number o f small, interconnected lakes called Dhands in Sin&, and a
number of small lagoons. The surface area ofthe Dhands varies seasonally and from year to year
but averages about 700 sq.km.

39. These Dhands provide livelihoodresourcesto the forty villages o f fishermen having a 12000-
15000population and living around these water bodies. There is no other livelihood source
except the fishing because the saline soil does not support agriculture and even where the land i s
marginally good, the shortage o f irrigation water limits the potential o f agriculture. These
fishermen are living inabsolute poor conditions without any education, health and drinking
water facilities.

40. Two o f these Dhands havebeen internationallyrecognized as a Ramsar sites because o f their
significance for migratory birds and other significant biodiversity and ecosystem values. One is
the Narreri lagoon near the outfall o f the Fuleli drain in Mehro Dhand, andthe other i s Jubho
lagoon locatedon the western side o f MehroDhand. Pakistan i s a signatory to the Ramsar
Convention. Under the obligation o fRamsar treaty the government and donors have to ensure
the wise use and conservation o f wetlands defined, recognized and protected by the convention
The World Bank is not supposed to provide support to projects that would contravene a
government's requirements under international environmental treaties and agreements. This
project therefore violates Operational Manual Statement 2.36.

41. Duringthe discussion o f LBOD disposal system ignoring the community concerns and
suggestion the option o f Tidal Link canal was finally chosen. The adopted scheme included a 26-
mileTidal Link Canal runningfrom northeast to southwest connecting KPODto an active tidal
creek, Shah Samando Creek. As mentioned in the fact-finding mission2' "the canal would
physically separatethe four major Dhands inthe Sindh portion o f Rann o f Kutch, called Sanhro,
Mehro, Cholri, andpateji from Ranno f Kutch. The uplanddrainage water o fKPODwould be
confinedwithin the deep cut o fthe Tidal Link canal boundedat both sides by highearthen
embankments. The northern side o f the embankment runningalong Pateji and Choleri Dhands
was providedwith an overflow concrete-crested weir (Choleri weir), 1800 feet long." The
purpose o f the weir is clear from ADB report? ,which mentions, "An embankment was included
on the northern side o f the Tidal Link, andthe Choleri weir was provided to allow drainage flows
from the north to escape at low tides and to permit temporary storage o f drain water at hightides.
Such storage would have served to attenuate peak water levels in the upstream Tidal Link and
thus improve conditions for the Kotri surface drains.

42. The idea o f linkingthe KPOD with Shah Samado creek through Tidal Link that was passing
through these wetlands (Dhands)was entirely unsound. Before the implementation of LBOD,
these drains were receiving water from kotri drains, rainfall and surface runoff inthe monsoon
season. The construction o f Tidal Linkprevented the water o f Ranno f Kutch duringwet years to

'' See-Para 3 of Technical Notes and Recommendations o f World BankFact Finding Mission.
   See-Project Completion Report on LBOD. Asian Development BankPCR: PAK 17055 December 2002


                                                                                                  17

enter into Dhands andthe fall of kotri barrage surface drains into KPOD also reduced flow
towards Dhands. The decreasing water flow to Dhands reduced the areas of Dhands.The 1989
EIA for the LBODdetermined that the most important effect o fthe Tidal Linkon the Dhands
would be excessive drainage due to the tidal fluctuations. However no measureswere taken to
preserve andprevent such kindo f situation.

43. The collapse of Tidal LinkCanal and Choleri weir constructed to regulate tidewater into
Dhands had a significant negative impact on the ecology o f Dhands.As recognized inproject
completion report o fLBOD by ADB, InJune 1998:

         "A section ofthe Choleri weir collapsed as aresult of erosioninthe Tidal Link.In
        consequence, deep channels developed into the Dhands from the Tidal Link. Later, in
        1999,a cyclone hit the project area, seriously damaging the Tidal Link's embankments.
        The damage has not affected the disposal o f saline effluents from the project area into the
        sea, but the influence o f the tide has movedmore than 20 kilometers (km) upstream along
        the Tidal Link.The impact o f these events on the Dhands ecology and the food chain for
        wintering birds is expected to be detrimental. It also adversely affects communities living
        along the periphery of the Dhands."

 44. The World Bank's fact-finding mission also observed same situation, according to mission
report, "Since the collapse o f weir and cyclone breaches inthe embankment, the whole water and
salinity balance o f Tidal Link andDhands have changed. The tidal link flow i s no longer
confined, and is instead, intermingled with the flow to and from the Dhands and the Ranno f
Kutch at every tide cycle through the breaches along the embankment. The salinity has been
increased in the Tidal Link up to RD-35". The mission report further recognizes that:

        "Since the complete destruction o f the weir in 1998-99,water now flows freely inand out
        o f the Dhands inresponse to tidal fluctuations inthe canal through the opening left by the
        absent weir, andthrough major breach inthe canal bank. North o f the weir opening, and
        the large breach inthe embankment observed by the mission, a network o f channels has
        quickly formed inthe Dhands through which a significant portion o f the Dhandsare
        drained at low tide twice a day. Anecdotal suggeststhat local people are fearful o f the
        changes taking place. They are reported to be concerned that becausewater is coming
        from all directions waterlogging will increase, that the strong tidal influence i s bringing
        sea water to the Dhands, and that the Sea, once far away, is now very close."

45. Despite this recognition o four concerns, the Bank has not done anythingto ensure that these
problems are addressedor mitigated.




                                                                                                    18

Webelievethatfollowing specific provision of WorldBank OperationalPolicy OP 4.04,
Bank ProcedureBP 4.04 and OperationPolicyNoteNo. 11.02 which are in operationsince
September1995,have been totally violated:




46. The degradationof these important wetlands has caused severe damage to the ecosystem,
habitat and fish catch. Although boththe technical committee of the Government of Sindh and
World Bank fact-finding mission recognized these issues after the 1999 cyclone, no measurewas
taken to preventor mitigate the situation. Under the sectionof "risk" the fact findingmission
mentions that ``the first major risk is that the outcome anticipated by the Technical Committee,
i.e. that the Tidal Link stabilizes and functions adequately but the uncontrolled connection
betweenthe canal andDhands remains, results in substantial andirreversible damage to the
ecosystem, habitat and fishery inthe Dhands. The large diurnal fluctuations inDhandwater level
may changeconditions intheDhands sufficiently to cause severe degradationto the ecosystem
and loss ofbiodiversity andkey qualities of the waterfowl habitat. The changes inbiodiversity
and habitat notedabove could adversely affect the fishery reducing yields particularly of
commercially important species".

47. During2003 heavy rains the situation ofDhands and Tidal Link canal again worsened.
Though in theory there would be an environmental managementplan, butphysicallynothing has
been done to conservethese nationally and internationally recognized wetlands. The



                                                                                                19

environmental managementandmonitoring plan for Chotiari reservoir, Nara canal and Tidal
Linkpreparedby Sir MMacDonaldandPartnersLimitedinassociationwith NESPAK and
Associated Consulting Engineering (Pvt. limited does not even identify the importance of
wetland and risk due to Tidal link canal2 This important document preparedby national and
                                               a.
international consultants failed to note the risks relatedto key wetlands. Currently the areas of
Dhandshave been reduced andwater quality has degraded. Inconsequence the fish catch has
declined and the numbers of migratory birdshavereducedsignificantly.

48. The NDP is entirely blindregardingthis aspect of coastal ecology. We believe that with the
implementation of NDP as per design, and ifthere is a inter-provincial drainage accord and trunk
drains are being connectedto the spinal drain of LBOD andbringingmore effluents without
taking any seriousmeasureto preserve the ecology of Dhands,these highly important wetlands
will be the story of past andpeople earningtheir livelihoodwill be forcibly migrated. This will
beyet another example of involuntary displacement of people that is ignored by the official
documents ofboth government anddonors.

E.Indigenous People

49. The majority of coastal communities belong to Mallah, who from their forefathers are
engagedinfishing. These groups ofpeople are classified indigenous people, because they have
close attachmentto ancestralterritories and natural resources inthis area especially the shallow
water bodies and wetland. Thesepeople are more marginalized and vulnerable to policy shocks
such as degradation of their livelihoodresources. Since havingno asset base, the social and
economic status of Mallah tribe of coastal belt is a major obstacle to access the productive
resources. Living inand around the water bodies, far from the towns andlack of social
amenities, these people have distinct identity, which i s different from dominant society. There
are more than 60 villages of this community with the population of 25,000 and engagedin
fishingat both sea andcontiguous wetlands. Some affected villages are very near to KPOD,
Tidal Link canal and other are at some distance.

50. The operation o f LBOD has brought significant changes inthe lives of these people. The
two-mega shocks mentioned earlier one cyclone in 1999and other monsoon rains during2003
have changedthe economic base of these people. Both these shocks were interconnectedwith the
operation of LBOD and aggravatedby the overflowingandbreachesinKPOD and Tidal Link.In
both these two tragic events the Tidal Link Canal and KPOD inundated their villages, damaged
houses and some families even lost their family members. The women andkids were the most
affected groups duringboth events, as they cannot move quickly. Inaddition they lost their
means of earningi.e. boats, and nets. These people could not manage to rebuilt their damaged
house and buy the lost boats and nets. Already poor, these communities were pushedinto further
absolutepoverty.

51. These communities have also witnessed eroding livelihoodbase after the operation of
LBOD. The fish catch of shrimps, for example, has reduced significantly. Inaddition the reduced


22 See- EnvironmentalManagement andMonitoring Plan Chotiari Reservoir, Nara Canal and Tidal Link,
Left Bank Outfall DrainStage 1Project, October 1995, Sir MMacDonaldand Partners Limited inassociation with
National Engineering Services Pakistan (Private) Limited and Associated Consulting Engineers (Private) limited.


                                                                                                               20

areaof Dhands andwater quality have badly affected not only the fish catch but also several
other aquatic plants, which were usedboth for commercial purpose and household use. This
gradual decrease inlivelihoodresources affected overall healthand well being o fMallah
community andwe have observed that these people have lost rather than gained from this huge
project.

52. The NDPhas not taken into account the poverty and impoverishment of indigenous people
andis also unableto anticipate the negative effect o fproposed NDP interventions on the already
miserable conditions o f these poor fishermen. We believe that proposed NDP investment will
pose serious threat to the lives, livelihood andrights to development and culture o f indigenous
groups guaranteed under several international covenants. The project will inequitably distribute
the costs andbenefits. The marginalized andvulnerable group o f indigenous communities as
usual will be looser inthis game. Again the worst affected will be women due to gender
inequality in society.

  Webelievethatfollowing specific provision of WorldBank OperationalDirective
 OD 4.20 which isoperationsince 1991, have been totally violated:




F. Loss to RichCulturalProperty and HistoricalMonuments

 53. The southern part of Pakistan i.e. district Thatta andBadin have long been a rich cultural
location due to the vicinity o f sea as well as the Indus Delta. There were several ports used for
local and international trade. The few andvery important cultural sides inBadin which are being
badly affected by KPOD andTidal link canal includes the monuments o f saint ShaikhKirhiyo
Bhandari,the historical site o f RoopaMari andthari, these both siteswere the important town of
the dynasty o fSoomraruler in Sindh (105 1to 1351). Some o f these archeological sites have
been explored and other has beenjust identified by several historians and archeologists.
Unfortunately, due to the neglect of cultural and historical and livelihood factors, the rich history
o f this area has not been fully understood. But the existing monuments o f saints and formers
rulers are quite important cultural sites.




                                                                                                   21

54. The KPOD i sjust passingthrough the identified4 kmarea of Roopu Muri, where the soomru
rulers havetheir capital. The tomb ofDodo Soomro the last ruler of Soomru dynasty i s also
located there. All these cultural and historical sites are inthe range of KPOD and Tidal Link
flooding. The floods havehit these placestwice infive years and there i s eminent threat that we
will lose our history andculture. Inaddition the currentpassageof KPODhas already occupied
some of the area of cultural andhistorical importance andincase of expansionof KPOD, the
remaining areas andmonumentswill be entirely vanished. Inboththe projects neither

  Webelievethatfollowing speciftcproviswn of WorldBank OperationalPolicy OP4.11, which is
  eflectivefrom August 1999 on culturalproper&, have been totally violated:




governmentnor donors have evenbother to recognize the cultural andhistorical importance of
this area andthe threat to thoseplacesdueto drainageprojects.

G.CommunityParticipation andInformation Disclosure

55. Local communities, and especially the affected people ofcoastal belt, have been kept
entirely unawareabout the plans of NDP and its environmental assessments. There remains a
serious lack of institutionalized mechanisms for information sharing and consultation with the
affected people. The project planningprocessremained the business of few bureaucratsand
donors and project implementation remainednontransparent and hence failed to obtain informed
consent since the outset. We were entirely unaware regardingNDP until the rains of 2003 and
we were informed that more effluents would be added inexisting LBOD system. Event the
NGOs involved in advocacy campaignwith the World Bankhavebeenrefusedvital information
with regardto completion report of LBOD and feasibility studies ofNDP. The participation of
the affected people and local communities in any process of the project from planning to
implementation i s negligible.




                                                                                                22

                                                        ~~
III.StepsTakentoConveyConcernstotheBankandotherRelevantAuthorities

 56. Inconnection of NDP, we came to know very late that now the disastrousLBOD drains are
 beingextendedwithout our consentandaddressingthe concerns. The localpeople from the area
 includingFaqir Natho Lund, Bahadur Khan Lund andjournalist Allah BachayoJamali were
 raising the issuewith WAPDA officials, consultantsand visitingmission members from time to
 time. The localbranchof SindhAbadgar Board(a organizationoffarmers) andthe Sindh
 chamber ofAgriculture officials were raising the concernsregarding the fall of LBOD and NDP
 at various forums time to time. Butboth donors and govemment officials remained silent and
 nothing practically hasbeen done to adequatelyrespondto these concerns or to satisfactorily
 resolve the issues.

 57. We expedited our efforts and communication with government officials andWorld Bank
 after the monsoon rains of 2003 when the proposedoutfall drains brought death andwidespread
 destruction to our communities. Inthe reporting of failure of drainage systemMustafa Talpur of
 ActionAid sent an email to several organizations includingMr.Usman Qamar of World Bank
 Islamabadoffice on September 9,2003. The above message outlined the failure of drainage
  systeminBadinandlosses to humanlife andlivelihoodresources.Another email was sent on
  September 11,2003 to World Bank officials inIslamabad. (Annex-2). No responsewas
 received.

  58. The affected communities organizeda protest march on September 17,2003 inBadintown
 inwhich they demandedthereparation ofLBOD lossesandcancellation ofNDP loan. The
  detailedreport of protest march againwas communicated to Bank officials inIslamabadby
 Mustafa talpur andwidely publishedinlocal and national media. (Annex-3)

  59. On December24,2003 Mustafa Talpur of ActionAid has a meeting with Mr.Rafique Safi
 managing director SindhIrrigation and DrainageAuthority to communicate the viewpoint of
 local communities and civil society regarding the failure of LBOD andincomingissue of NDP
 Mr.Safi was quiteagreeingwith thereservationmadebycommunities on extensionofNDP.

  60. On December27,2003 Mustafa Talpur has a meeting with Mr.Abdul RehmanLaghari Chief
 EngineerWAPDA southto discuss the issuerelatedto the disposal of effluents through Tidal
 Link, failure of systemandNDP. He could notget any satisfactoryanswer fromWAPDA
  official.

  61. On December28,2003 the affectees of LBOD/NDP organized a protest rally inKarachi and
 widely supportedby affectees of other projects including affeecteesof Manchar Lake, Chotirai



                                                                                              23

reservoir, RBOD andIndusDelta. Again the issueof drainage system failure andNDP was
highlighted inthe rally. The rally was widely reportedinmedia (Annex-4)

62. InDecember ActionAid Pakistanpublishedits researchon disastrouseffects of LBOD and
future risks of NDP. The report was widely circulated and also sent to World Bank andAsian
Development Bank Islamabadoffices.

63. InDecember2003 Mustafa Talpur phonedMr.Usman Qamar senior irrigationengineer in
World Bank Islamabad office to set appointment to discuss the concerns of NDP, butMr.Qamar
declined to meet and suggestedto meet with WAPDA and other implementingagenciesinstead.
Mr.Talpur alsorequestedhimfor NDPrelateddocumentsespecially environmental management
plan, but he deniedhaving such a document.

64. Duringthe Periodof September2003 to December2003 the Save Coast Action Committee
sent letters regardingthe concerns of NDPLBOD to more than 50 related government officials,
donors and civil society groups includingPresidentandPrime Minister of Pakistan, World Bank
Country Director, Chairman WAPDA, Chief Secretary Sindh, Chief Minister of Sindh, Irrigation
andPower Department andFederaldepartments. (Copy of letter is reproducedin annex-5)

65. The Save CoastAction Committee organized a press conferenceat Press Club Hyderabad on
December 11,2003 inwhich they highlighted the issuerelated to the fall system of LBOD.
Mediareporting is given in Annex4

66. On January 01,2004 the District Nazim, Taluka Nazim and four Nazims includingUnion
Council Bhugra Memon, Badin 3, Badin2 and Seerani district Badin sent a letter regardingthe
concernsrelatedto LBOD/NDP under the subject of "Save Badin from the devastation of LBOD
and help inrehabilitation ofAffectees to Presidentof Pakistan, FederalMinister for Water and
Power, Chairman Planning Commission of Pakistan, Governor ofthe province of Sindh and
chairman WAPDA. (Annex-7)

67. On January 30,2004 Mustafa Talpur wrote an email to Mr.FredRoche of Asian
Development Bankwith Copies to World Bank officials, requestinghimfor environmental
managementplan of LBOD/NDP. But he never gave a satisfactoryreply. (Correspondence i s
reproduced in Annex-8)

68. On February 09,2004 four civil society groups wrote an email to Mr.John Wall country
Director World Bank Pakistanseeking appointment to discuss the issues related to NDP. Butno
responsewas receivedfrom Mr.Wall. (Annex-9)

69. On February 09,2004 four civil society groups sent same email to Mr.Manuel Contijoch,
World Bank Task Team leader ofNDP for requesting a meeting when he i s inPakistanto
discuss the issues relatedto NDP. But no responsewas received from Mr.Contijoch andhe
never bother to contact the communities and civil society groups when he visited Pakistan later.

70. On February12,2002 another email was sent to Mr,Manuel Contijoch, Task Team leader of
NDP with its copies to JohnWall Country Director World Bank Islamabadoffice, Usman Qamar



                                                                                               24

  Senior Irrigation Specialist Islamabad office, Praful C. Patel regional vice president and Senior
  Advisor (South Asian Environment andSocial) requesting them for considering the community
  concerns on NDP. But no replies have been received so far. (Annex-10)

  71. On March 15,2004 Ten people including a 11years old girls and two women o f S a x Coast
  Action Committee, observed seven hours token hunger strike infront o f World Bank,Islamabad
  office to record their protest on National Drainage Program and losses occurred due to Left Bank
  Outfall Drainage. They handed over the demand letter to World Bank officials (Annex-11) and
  same letter was also sent by mail to the World Bank President James W. Wolfhenson and Vice
  President for South Asia Prafbl C. Patel. The event was widely publishedinnational Englishand
  Urdunewspapers andcommunicated to World Bank officials, butthere was no response.
  (Annex-12)

  72. OnApril 20, 2004 Mustafa Talpur andKhadimHussain o f ActionAid Islamabad had a
  meeting with Mr.Roche and Suhail Sober Khan o f Asian Development Bank, inwhich the
  issues related to NDP, was discussed indetail. Mr.Roche admired the role o f NGOs in
  highlightingthe community andenvironmental issuesofmegaprojects andhewas ofthe view
  that ADB i s not interested ininvesting the mega water projects.

  73. On May 01,2004 the affectedcoastal communities and local NGOs organized a huge protest
  rally inBadin town and demanded reparation o fLBOD, repair o f LBODbreaches and
  cancellation o f NDP loan. Local members o f Sindh Assembly attended the rally. Again the rally
  was widely reported in local newspapers. (Annex-13)

  74. On May 15,2004 Taluka NazimBadin wrote a letter to the President o f Pakistan with copies
  to chief minister o f Sindh, Federal minister for Water and Power, Country Director World Bank
  and Director General Pakistan Environment Protection Council under the subject o f "Permanent
  solution o f LBOD disposal system indistrict Badin and rehabilitation o f 2003 affectees".
  (Annex-14)

  75. InMay 2004 district Nazim Badinwrote a letter to the Commander o fFive Corps o f Pakistan
  army under the subject o f "Permanent Solution o f LBOD disposal system in district Badin and
  Rehabilitation o f 2003 affectees".

IV. SummaryandDemands

  76. The main idea o fNDP i s to construct a network o f surface and sub-surface drainage system
  inentire IndusBasinIrrigationSystem. The effluents consisting of saline water, runoffwater,
  and agriculture residuals would be transported through the network o f surface drains to dispose
  into Arabian Sea. On the left side o f IndusRiver this upcountry network will be connected to
  existing LBOD system and on the rightbank to connect with ongoing RBOD network. We are
  unhappy with the entire concept of NDP inwhich it i s proposed to construct National Surface
  Drainage System because it i s seriously flawed and will destroy the coastal ecology, the
  environment and our livelihood resources. We believe that the NDP ifimplemented as designed
  will encroach our fundamentalrights including righto f living anddevelopment. The effluents
  disposed through NDP constructed drains will degrade already dyingwetlands, aggravate the



                                                                                                   25

problem of sea intrusion & loss of agriculture land, will causemassmigration of coastal
communities, will be permanent threat of flooding and destroying villages and crops, will further
impoverish indigenouspopulation of mullah andcause loss to cultural heritage.

77. Since the construction and operation ofLBOD, we have beenraising our concernswith
relevant authorities, but nothing hasbeendone to address our concern. After the operation of
LBOD several environmental, social and technical issues have been surfaced, but without
looking the drawbacks of already constructedsystem or mitigating existing problems and flaws,
donorshave financed another project to expandthe current drainage system which will only
exacerbatethe harmsuffered by local communities. We have tried our best to engage with local
authorities andWorld Bank officials to discussour concerns with them. Butwe havenot got any
positive response from them. Fromtime to time we have been engagedinpeacefulprotestin
order to protect our historical rightsandentitlements.But all our peaceful efforts of engagement
andprotesthave yielded nothing.

78. We are requesting the inspection panel to review and respondthis inspection request
submittedunder the Inspection Procedureof World Bank. Our major demandis that the project
beputon holduntilit is brought into compliancewith World Bankpolicies andclear link is
establishedthat there will be no social, environmentaland livelihood lossesin future. We have
following specific demands:

       The World Bank mustrequire and assistthe borrowers-the government ofPakistanand
       the Sindhgovernment-to bringthe project into Compliance with the terms of the
       indigenous/tribal people's policy, the environmental assessment policy and involuntary
       resettlement.
       An independentandparticipatory social, cultural and environmental impact assessment
        should be carried out at the coastal areas includingwetlands
       The full investigation of livelihoodlossesdue to degradation of Wetlands and loss of life,
       livestock, and of agriculture landdue to sea intrusion should be carried out and affected
       people must be compensatedfor such losses.
       Fullindependenttechnical studyfor the alterative optionof disposalsystem.
        The calculation of losses occurred due to failure of LBODand fullreparation of the
        affected communities.
       Independentandtransparent studywith the full participation of local coastal communities
       to determine the possible future risks, losses and problems ifthe existing disposalroutes
       will beused.

Basedon the foregoing, the claimants herebyrequest that the World Bank InspectionPanel
undertakean independentinvestigation into the policy violations inthis project andrecommend,
in consultation with affected people, measures for bringingit into compliance and for correcting
the harmthat hasbeencausedbypolicyviolations.




                                                                                                26

    ANNEX I1




WAGEMENTRESPONSE


                    BANKMANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
           REQUESTFORINSPECTIONPANELREVIEW OF THE
 PAKISTANNATIONAL DRAINAGEPROGRAMPROJECT (CreditNo. 2999)

Management has reviewed the Request for Inspection of the Pakistan National Drainage
Program Project (Credit No. 2999), received by the Inspection Panel on September 10,
2004 andregistered on September 17,2004 (RQ04/5). Managementhas preparedthe fol-
lowingresponse.


                                                              CONTENTS

AbbreviationsandAcronyms              .........................................................................................                      iv
L   INTRODUCTION        ....................................................................................................                          1
IL THE REQUEST        .......................................................................................................                         1
IIL PROJECTBACKGROUND                                ...................................................................................              2
N. SPECIALISSUES         ...................................................................................................                          9
      Left BankOutfallDrain                  .......................................................................................                  9
      TidalLink and CholriWeir...                              ............................................................................
      NDPProjectIssues.....................,..,.....................................................                               ..................11
                                                                                                                                                     12
V. RECOMMENDEDACTIONS                                        .............................................................................           14
VL MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE                                           ..........................................................................        15


Map
Map 1.    IBRDNo. 33664-PakistanNational DrainageProgram(NDP) Project -
          Area ofInspectionPanel Request
Map 2.    IBRDNo. 33665 - PakistanNational DrainageProgram(NDP) Project -
          SindhProvince
Map 3.    IBRDNo. 33666 PakistanNational DrainageProgram(NDP) Project -
                             -
          Location of Contractsfor Subprojects

Tables
Table 1. Comparative Supervision Costs NDP, SASAR, SAR (USD000)

Figures
Figure 1. Vision 2025

Annexes
Annex 1. Claims and Responses
Annex 2. Chronology of Key Events
Annex 3. History of the Drainage Crisis inPakistan
Annex 4. Supervision Chronology
Annex 5. NSDS Pre-feasibility Study-Panelof Experts-Executive Summary
Annex 6. NDP SubprojectsAppraised, Completedor UnderImplementation in Sindh
Annex 7. Studies Completed UnderNDP
Annex 8. LBOD Stage 1Project -Tidal Link -World Bank Fact FindingMission
Annex 9. Consultations




                                                                                iii

            ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

amsl       above mean sea level
ADB        Asian DevelopmentBank
AWB        Area Water Board
BP         Bank Procedure
CBO        Community-Based Organization
CCA        Cultivable CommandArea
CIDA       CanadianInternationalDevelopment Agency
DERA       Drought EmergencyRecovery Assistance
DfID       Department for International Development (UnitedKingdom)
DMP        DrainageMaster Plan
DPOD       Dhoro PuranOutfall Drain
DSEA       Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment
EA         Environmental Assessment
EL4        Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP        Environmental ManagementPlan
EMMP       EnvironmentalManagement and MonitoringPlanof the LBOD
           Stage 1Project
EPA        Environmental ProtectionAgency
FESS       Fordwar EasternSadiqia South
FGW        FreshGroundwater
FIDC       FederalIrrigation and Drainage Cell
FLAR       Framework for LandAcquisition and Resettlement
FO         FarmerOrganizations
GoP        Governmentof Pakistan
GoS        Government o f Sindh
IDA        InternationalDevelopment Association
IES        Initial Environmental Scoping
IPN        Inspection Panel
IsDB       Islamic Development Bank
IWASRI     International Waterlogging and Salinity ResearchInstitute
JBIC       Japan Bank for International Cooperation
KPOD       KadhanPateji Outfall Drain
LBOD       Left Bank Outfall Drain
NDP        National Drainage Program
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
NIO        National Institute of Oceanography
NSDS       National Surface Drainage System
NWFP       North West Frontier Province
OD         Operational Directive
ODA        Overseas DevelopmentAdministration
OFWM-PB    On FarmWater Management- Punjab Agriculture Department
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
OP         Operational Policy
OPEC       Organization of Petroleum ExportingCountries
PAP        Project Affected Person


                                 iv

P&D                  Planning andDevelopmentDivision, Government of Punjab
PDC                  PakistanDrainage Consultants
PIC                  Public Information Center
PIDA                 Provincial IrrigationandDrainageAuthority
PID                  Project Information Document
PIDS                 Provincial IrrigationDepartments
PoE                  Panelof Experts
PPt                  partsper thousand
PSR                  Project StatusReport
QACU                 Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit
RAP                  ResettlementAction Plan
RBOD                 RightBankOutfall Drain
RD                   ReducedDistance measured, one RD=1000 feet
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SAR                  SouthAsia Region
SASAR                SouthAsia Agriculture and Rural Developmnt Unit (WB)
SCARP                Salinity Control andReclamationProjects
SDC                  Swiss Development Corporation
SGW                  Saline Groundwater
SEPA                 SindhEnvironmental ProtectionAgency
SFD                  Saudi Fundfor Development
SIDA                 SindhIrrigationandDrainageAuthority
SMO                  SCARP Monitoring Organization of WAPDA
TOR                  Terms of Reference
WAPDA                Water andPower Development Authority
WECS                 WAPDA Environmental Cell (South)
W E D                WatercourseMonitoringandEvaluation Directorate of WAPDA
WMP                  Wetland ManagementPlan


                                        UNITS
EnglishUnits                            MetricUnits
1inch                    (in)           25.4    millimeter
1foot                    (fi)           30.5     centimeter
1mile                    (mi)            1.609  kilometer
1acre                    (a4            0.405   hectare
1million acre            (Ma)           0.405    million hectare
1acrefoot                (a0             1,233.5 cubic meter
1million acre foot       Waf)            1,233.5 million cubic meter
                                         1.234  billion cubic meter
1cubic foot per second   (cfs)          28.5     litreper second
                                        0.0285   cubic meterper second  (m3/sec)
1foot per second         (fps)          0.305    meterper second         ( d S 1




                                            V


                                                             NationalDrainageProgramProject




                                  L    INTRODUCTION

1.      On September 17, 2004, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection,
IPN Request RQ04/5 (hereafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the Pakistan
National Drainage Program (NDP) Project partly financed (Credit No. 2999) by the h-
ternational Development Association (IDA).

2.     Structure of the Text. The document contains the following sections: Section I1
provides information on the Request. Section I11presents the background o f the project,
including the history of the drainage crisis in Pakistan and earlier projects. The section
also contains a description o f project status and evolution. Section IV discusses issues o f
particular relevance to the Request, including the Left Bank Outfall Drain, the Tidal Link
and Cholri Weir, andNDPproject issues. Section V recommends actions, and Section VI
concludes the main text. Annex 1 presents the Requestors' claims, together with Man-
agement's detailed responses, in table format. Eight other annexes provide background
and other pertinent information.


                                  IL THEREQUEST

3.      The Request for Inspection was submitted by Khadim Talpur, Mohammad Ali
Shah, Mustafa Talpur, Munawar Hassan Memon, Iqbal Hyder, Mir Mohammad Buledi,
and Najma Junejo on their own behalf and on behalf of over 2,000 others who live in the
areaknown as district Badin, Sindh, Pakistan (hereafter referred to as the "Requesters").

4.      Attached to the Request are:

            Attachment 1- Pictures and media =porting o f failure o f Left Bank Outfall
            Drain(LBOD) during2003 rains;

            Attachment 2 -Article circulated on email on failure of LBOD during 2003
            monsoon rains;

            Attachment 3 - Reporting and media coverage o f Affectees Rally in Badin
            Town;

            Attachment 4 -Media coverage o f Karachi Rally;

            Attachment 5 - Letter sent by Save Coast Action Committee during Sept.
            2003 to Dec. 2004;

            Attachment 6 -MediaReporting o f Rally and Press conference by Save Coast
            Action Committee;

            Attachment 7 - Letter o f District and Taluka Nazims sent to President o f Paki-
            stan;



                                               1

Pakistan



        0  Attachment 8 - Email correspondence with the Asian Development Bank
           ("

           Attachment 9 -Email correspondencewith World Bank Country Director;

        0  Attachment 10-Email correspondencewith NDP Task Team Leader;

           Attachment 11-Hunger strike demandletter for cancellation of NDP loan;

           Attachment 12-Media Reporting ofHungerStrike;

        0  Attachment 13 - Pictures and media leporting of May 2004 rally in Badin,
           Sindh, Pakistan;

           Attachment 14-Letter of Taluka NazimBadin SindhPakistan to President of
           Pakistan;

           Map of LBOD Area;

        0  Map ofproposednational drainage network inupper IndusBasin; and

        0  Map ofproposeddrainagenetwork inlower IndusBasin.

No further materials were receivedbyManagmentin support of the Request.

5.      The Requesters claim that the Bank has failed to observe or has otherwise vio-
lated various provisions of its own operational Policies andProcedures, including:

        0  OD 4.01 Environmental Assessment (October 1991);

        0  OP 4.04 Natural Habitats (September 1995);

        0  OD 4.20 Indigenous People(September 1991);

           OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement(June 1990); and

           OPN 11.03 Management of Cultural Property (September 1986).


                           III.PROJECTBACKGROUND

6.      Manyof the issues raisedinthe Requestrelate to the prior LBOD Stage 1Project,
which closed in 1997. The Requesters claim that the LBOD system i s faulty and they
have incurred losses because of its poor design. They also voice concerns that the NDP
project would extend the system to serve the entire Indus Basin, adding more effluents
from the upperbasin, through a National Surface Drainage System(NSDS). Management
wishes to note that the LBOD Stage 1 Project was closed in 1997 and NDP will not ex-
tend the LBOD Spinal Drain further mrth. Although the NDP project as originally con-


                                            2

                                                            National Drainage ProgramProject


ceived inthe 1997 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR.) was to have laid the groundwork for the
NSDS, the concept was subsequentlyrejectedas a result of extensive studies andreviews
(see Annex 1, Items 6 and 7). Issuesrelating to the LBOD Stage 1Project and the NDP
project are further elaboratedin SectionIVandthe chronology of the two projects i s pro-
videdinAnnex 2.

7.      The Project. TheNDP project originated as a result of the new strategy for water
resources development formulated by the GoP and IDA in 1994 (Pakistan Irrigation and
Drainage: Issues and Options, March 1994) and other recommendations, including the
Borrower's Water Sector Investment Planning Study, the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1993-
1998) and lessons of experience from projects in Pakistan and the reform experience in
Mexico, Turkey, Chile and elsewhere. The GoP and IDA commissioned a Drainage Sec-
tor Environmental Assessment (DSEA),which was completed in 1993, inresponseto the
deterioration of drainage and environmental status of the Indus Basin Irrigation System.
The lack of an effective drainage system for the IndusBasin IrrigationSystem was con-
sidereda principalthreat to the sustainability of agriculture inthe Basin (see Annex 3 on
the history of the drainage crisis inPakistan). In 1992, IDAhad stoppedall new lending
to the sector pendingformulation and agreementwith the GoP on anew strategy. As part
of the new direction, IDA and the GoP closed eightprojectsbetween FY92 and FY94 and
restructured a number of others, The Bankmeeting on the Initial Executive Project S u m
mary for the NDP project was held in January 1994 and the project was prepared over a
period of almost four years. The project's complexity i s dictated by its challenging con-
text-the  irrigation system of Pakistan is one of the largest integrated irrigationnetworks
inthe world. SeeMap 1.

8.      The IDA Credit 2999-PAK for USD 285 million for the NDP project was ap-
proved by the Boardof Executive Directors on November 4, 1997. Two legal agreements
pertain to the project: the Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and IDA, and the Project Agreement among the Pakistan Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA), the Provinces of Punjab, Sindh, North West Frontier
and Balochistan and IDA, both signed on December 16, 1997. The project became effec-
tive on February 25, 1998. It is being implementedby WAPDA and the Provinces of
Punjab, Sindh, North West Frontier, and Balochistan on behalf of the Government of
Pakistan(GoP).

9.      Project Financing. The NDP project's estimated cost was USD 785 million, of
which USD 525 million was provided by several donors. IDA contributed USD 285 mil-
lion; the ADB provided USD 140million; and the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF), later renamed to Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), provided
USD 100million. Farmers, through Farmer Organizations (FOs), were to contribute USD
32.1 million and GoP and the Provinces the balance of USD 227.9 million. Loan Agree-
ments with ADB and OECF were signed on December 6, 1996 and March 31, 1997, re-
spectively. Both these donors are participating in the project on the basis of parallel
financing.

10.     Project Objectives. The NDP project i s supporting a six and one-half year time
slice of GoP's 25-year national irrigation and drainage program. It spans all four Prov-



                                             3

Pakistan


inces of Pakistan, with a total irrigated area of 18million ha. The objective ofthe Project,
as noted inthe SAR, i s to improve the efficiency of the irrigation and drainage systemin
Pakistan, and ensure its sustainability, by: (a) establishingan appropriate policy environ-
ment andinstitutional framework, and strengtheningthe capacity of sector institutions (to
carry out the first phase of policy and institutional reforms in the water sector); (b) im
proving sector policies and planning; (c) strengthening the technical foundations of and
knowledge base on irrigationand drainage; and (d) improvingthe irrigation and drainage
infrastructure network. While the NDP project originally contemplated a solution such as
the NSDS(see Map 2), the results of the pre-feasibility studies and reviewsby two Panels
of Experts (PoEs) have led to the preference for solutions other than the "drainage super-
highway" concept infavor of local disposal options (see Annex 1,Items6 and 7).

11.     The NDP project, which marked a new conceptinproject design, was deliberately
"fiontloaded" with an institutional and policy reform agenda and "backloaded" with an
investment program. Management sought to focus the dialogue on strengthening govern-
ance and transparency in the management of irrigation and drainage affairs-increasing
community participation, strengthening environmental planning and management and
improving water use efficiency. The institutional reforms were seen as critical to improv-
ingwater management and therefore addressingproblems of waterlogging and saliniza-
tion. Fromthe outset, it was seen as a complex interventionwith a number of risks. The
major risks emanatedfrom the possible impact of the project on existing power relation-
ships and alliances inrural Pakistan, as was evidencedby the strong opposition of feudal
interests and parts of the irrigation bureaucracy, such opposition included thwartingcivil
works, damaginginfrastructure and illegally removingwater, and discouraging farmers
from payingwater charges.

12.     ProjectComponents.The NDPproject hasfour components:

        0   Sector Planning and Research (USD 25.7 million) providing capacity build-
            ing and technical assistance for: (a) policy-oriented studies in irrigation and
            drainage; (b) sector planning studies; and (c) research, including major re-
            searchprograms, and small grantsprograms;

            Institutional Reforms (USD 57.7 million) calling for institutional reforms to
            WAPDA's Water Wing, focusing on strategic reorientation, streamlining and
            restructuring, and capacity building and training. An institutional program i s
            aimed at decentralizing Provincial Irrigation Departments (PIDs) and convert-
            ing them to Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authorities (PIDAs), and es-
            tablishingpilotArea Water Boards (AMs) andFOs;

        0   Investment (USD 683.1 million) designedto improve drainage andwater man-
            agement infrastructure and protect wetlands. Subprojects are focused on
            rehabilitation, construction and improvement of      OD and off-farm drainage;
            rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation systems; and operation and
            maintenance through performance-based contracts awarded to the private sec-
            tor, including completion of some carry over projects from LBOD Stage I;
            and


                                               4

                                                           NationalDrainageProgramProject



         0   Program Coordination and Supervision (USD 18.5 million) which supports
             overall program coordination and monitoring, comprising the Federal Project
             Steering Committee, which i s chaired by the Secretary of the Ministry of Wa-
             ter and Power of the Borrower; the Federal Irrigation and Drainage Cell
             (FIDC) in the Ministry of Water and Power; and WAPDA and Provincial
             NDP Coordination Cells.

13.      Financing Arrangements. According to the understanding among the NDP do-
nors, IDA i s financing institutional reforms, a part of the investment component in all
Provinces, all sector planning and research, technical assistance, and coordination and
supervision costs. ADB i s providing parallel financing for the major part of the invest-
ments in Balochistan and NWFP, some in Sindh and environmental management moni-
toring and evaluation. JBIC i s providing parallel financing for most of the investment
projects inPunjab andtraining and capacity building.

 14.     Project Supervision Since it became effective in February 1998, the NDP pro-
ject has been intensively supervisedby a combination of headquarters and field staff and
consultants. Task managementwas basedinthe field from January 2000 to August 2003;
the co-task team leader has always been located in Islamabad. In addition to regular m-
teractions with the Borrower and implementingagencies, there have been ten full super-
vision missions (see Annex 4). Supervision required above average costs because of the
range of expertise required and the intensity of the effort, given the complexity of the
project, Except for FY02, NDP project supervision costs were a factor of 2-3 times the
norminthe South Asia region(see Table 1below):

         Table 1. Comparative Supervision CostsNDP, SASAR, S A R (USD 000)

      NDP           237       285       389      269        96        372       177
      SASAR          97       1ox       131       94        69         131       70
      SAR            49       110       135       87        60         79        63


 15.      Project Status. As of September 28, 2004, USD 206.5 million (72 percent of the
 original Credit amount) were disbursed. Bank Management and GoP have agreed that
NDP will be closed on December 31, 2004, the original closing date. All ongoing IDA
 supported subprojects are expectedto be substantially completed by that time. JBIC has
 agreed to a two-year extension to allow completion of a large canal remodeling subpro-
ject it i s supporting in Punjab. ADB is also considering extension up to December 2006,
 subject to improved performance on institutional reforms and satisfactory monitoring
 arrangements.

 16.      Project Evolution. Project implementation proceeded more slowly than expected
 due to various reasons, including project complexity, poor coordination and leadership;
 an absence of reform "champions" and, therefore, lack of commitment to, and slow
 launch of, institutional reforms; a lengthy subproject identification and preparation proc-
 ess; and lack of agreement on a drainage strategy. The Mid-Term Review (MTR) process
 was conductedjointly with the ADB and JBIC. The February-April 2000 MTR mission



                                              5

Pakistan


(also the Bank's fifth supervision mission) concluded that further review was needed.
Hence, the M T R continued in March-April 2001 and tsulted in recommendations for
restructuring. By the second stage o f the MTR, it was evident that the project as origi-
nally designed was overly ambitious andunlikely to meet its target and objectives. Figure
1 shows the tlationship o f the long-term vision of GoP to use of land and water t-
sources.




                                 4                      4
                             PrsfeasibilityStudy   SoilSalinityand
                              NationalSurface       Waterlogging
                              Drainage Systems     Surveys inIni-
                                  (NSDS)            gated Areas
                                           I                           F+, Institutional




                                                          4I
                         4                         DrainageAtlas




  Figure1. Relationship betweenthe Vision of GoP and Use of Landand Water Resources
                       (Source: Mid Term Review Report NDP, 2001)


17.     Review by Special Committee Appointed by the President of Pakistan. Fol-
lowing a change of government in October 1999, h e GoP subjected all externally a-
sisted projects, including the NDP, to a detailed review. Shortly after the second M T R
mission, inJune 2001, the President appointeda Special Committee (the Junejo Commit-
tee) headed by the Federal Minister for Food, Agriculture and Livestock to carry out an
in-depth review o f NDP. The project was put "on-hold" until completion of the review.
The deliberations o f this Committee culminated ina report entitled "Report o f the Special
Committee on the Review o f the National Drainage Program," (February 2002).



                                                6

                                                                    National DrainageProgramProject


18.      The key recommendations o f the Report were that NDP implementation should be
revived with full momentum according to the restructured program proposed by the Spe-
cial Committee; a Drainage Master Plan (DMP) be prepared within nine months; a
Drainage Accord reached amongst the Provinces at the earliest; institutional reforms
implemented strictly in their entirety and spirit; consultancy costs reduced; coordination
among water and agriculture improved; the scope and size of investment component
made commensurate with implementation capacity and remaining time period in the life
o f the project. Insummary, the project objectives were endorsed, but the project cost was
reduced from PRs 31.4 billion (USD 785 million equivalent at appraisal) to PRs 25 bil-
lion (USD 428.2 million equivalent) due to the elapsed time. The Report's recomenda-
tions were approved by the President inAugust 2002.

19.      The M T R completion mission (Joint Donor Review) was carried out in October-
November 2002 to identify expected outcomes-given                 the review o f the Special Com
mittee-and identify a program that could be implementedin the remaining two years o f
the project.

20.      Reallocation of USD 100 million for Drought Emergency Recovery Assis-
tance (DERA). Beginning in 2000, Pakistan was faced with a major drought, including
severe water shortages in the major rivers and reservoirs that had a significant impact on
agriculture and the overall economy. In April 2001, the GoP qproached the Bank for
emergency recovery assistance to mitigate the drought impacts. In response, the Bank
agreed to allow use o f funds from two ongoing projects, one o fwhich was NDP, inwhich
utilization o f fundshadbeen very slow. An amendment to the NDP legal agreements was
approved by the Board o f Executive Directors in July 2001 to create new categories to
support the DERA components, and an amount o f USD 100 million was allocated to
these categories.' ADB also reallocated (USD 77.25 million) from its NDP loan to its
drought recovery projects andtwo other irrigation projects.

21.      National Surface Drainage System (NSDS). As called for in the NDP SAR, a
pre-feasibility study o f an NSDS was carried out from January 2001 to November 2002.
This study envisaged a major drain, 1,464 km long, to carry drainage effluent from Pun-
jab to the sea at an estimated cost o f USD 575 million. The Bank fielded an independent
PoE to review the Report and advise the Government. The PoE recommended that the
proposed NSDS be deferred and that it be considered only if alternative approaches and
measures-such       as institutional and policy reforms, more efficient irrigation m a n a p
ment, local stakeholder participation and management, and local drainage eMuent dis-
posal solutions-were        not found adequate by themselves. The PoE, in its Draft Final Re-
port o fApril 2003 (see Annex 5) also advised that further studies be carried out and their
results incorporated ina proposedDMP for Pakistan.


'    The funds allocated to DERA have beenfully utilized or committed. The drought is continuing and its
severity has once again increased. Severewater shortages are expected during the 2004-2005 winter crop
season. GoP requested, and the Bankhas approved, a fiuther allocation o fUSD 35 million to the DERA
categries.

Pakistan


22.      Implicationsof NSDSPoERecommendations.The PoErecommendations were
endorsed by the Bank and the GoP. One implication o f this was that the NDP investments
indrainage would continue to beconfinedto: (a) rehabilitation ofthe existing system (es-
sentially deferred maintenance and repairs) without increasing the drainage area: and (b)
investments to reduce the drainable surplus through improved water management, im-
provement o f watercourses, channel lining, and institutional reforms, including greater
farmer participation. See Annex 6 and Map 3.

23.      DrainageMaster Plan (DMP). The objectives of the DMPbeing preparedunder
the NDP project are to: (a) encourage and sustain increased agricultural production and
improve agricultural productivity; (b) alleviate poverty and improve quality o f life; (c)
ensure equitable sharing o f benefits accruing from investments and as far as possible tar-
get these benefits towards the disadvantaged; (d) encourage beneficiary participation in
project formulation and construction, as well as in Operation and Maintenance (O&M);
(e) reduce O&M liability o f government to a minimum level; (9 minimize and mitigate
adverse environmental impacts; and (g) improve the knowledge base o f the planners, de-
signers, executers andoperators o fprojects. A draft o f the DMPwas completed inAugust
2004. At the request o f the GoP, the Bank convened a PoE in September 2004 to review
the draft DMP.The DMP PoE confirmed the finding o f the earlier PoE that hadreviewed
the NSDS and rejected the concept o f extending the LBOD or constructing major trans-
basin drains.

24.      Project Outcomes.While the NDP project didnot bring about an increase inthe
area benefiting from new drainage capacity and facilities, it has had several positive out-
comes. First, ithelped to clear the backlog o f deferred maintenance o f the existing system
(some parts o f the irrigation and drainage system had had virtually no maintenance for
several years). Second, although the institutional reforms component had a mixed per-
formance, the need for the reforms was endorsed at the highest level o f the GoP and the
Provinces. Third, it was instrumental in the completion o f key policy and sector studies
that have paved the way for introduction o f a National Water Policy and a drainage sector
strategy for the country. Fourth, the project improved the knowledge base by providing
funding for institutions and individualresearchers and contributing international experi-
ence through study tours anduse o f internationalpanels o f experts. Fifth, the NDP project
promoted farmer participation in the operation and maintenance o f the irrigation system.
Finally, the NDP project provided a forum for the discussion o f long term options for the
sustainable development o f the Indus River Basin, and as a consequence, has raised
awareness o f the importance o f sound environmental planning and management.

25.      Project Rating. The project is currently rated as unsatisfactory overall, princi-
pally because of the Institutional Reforms component.




*   The only exceptionis abattery o ftubewells that wouldprovideverticaldrainageinthe Mirpurkhaas
area supportedby ADB. These tubewells would be operated insituations wherewaterloggingreaches"dis-
aster levels"- (0-150 cms fromthe surface).




                                                    8

                                                          National Drainage Program Project


           The Sector Planningand Research component i s satisfactory: seven important
           policy studies have been completed and some seventeen sector studies are
           completed or about to be completed (see Annex 7). Similarly, the research
           component has performed satisfactorily;

           The Institutional Reforms component has had mixed performance. While
           Sindh has made substantial progress in mobilizing farmers in the pilot areas
           and in forming new institutions, progress inthe other Provinces has remained
           slow. InSindh, three A M s were established, as were over 200 FOs, o fwhich
           half have obtained operational autonomy (responsibility for O&M, authority
           to collect water charges). InPunjab, the proposed pilot AWB is not yet opera-
           tional and while over 340 Nehri Panchayats (similar to FOs) have been estab-
           lished, only about 20 FOs are expected to be granted operational autonomy in
           the near future. In NWFP, one AWB and 20 FOs have been established. Ba-
           lochistanwithdrew from NDP after the M T R butrejoined in2003;

           The Investment component was scaled down for various reasons, including
           lack o f agreement within Provinces on a core portfolio o f subprojects to be
           supported under NDP; inability to comply with the Framework for Land Ac-
           quisition and Resettlement (FLAR); and lack o f an environmentally safe out-
           fall for disposal o f drainage effluent; and

       0   Safeguardpolicy compliance was first ratedinDecember 1999 (Project Status
           Report - PSR, December 1999). Compliance with both the EA and Involun-
           tary Resettlement policies was rated satisfactory. The rating for Involuntary
           Resettlement changed to unsatisfactory in2001 due to continued disagreement
           with the GoP over the FLAR (PSR, December 2001). Based on subproject
           screening, the rating for compliance with the EApolicy hasremained satisfac-
           tory.


                                   IV. SPECIALISSUES

26.    The Request concerns three broad areas: losses the Requesters claim to have m-
curred due to poor design o f the now-closed LBOD Stage 1 Project; impacts from the
damage to the bunds o f the Tidal Link and failure o f the weir; and various issues with
regard to NDP project implementation Therefore, this section reviews issues related to
LBOD as well as some broader issues o f relevance to the NDP project. Another major
concern o f the Requesters, the extension o f LBOD to the north, i s no longer a part of the
NDP project (see paras 21-23 and Annex 1, Item 7). Management's responses to specific
claims are providedinAnnex 1.

LEFT BANKOUTFALLDRAIN

27.    Inthe early 1960s, the GoP started construction of a spinal drain system discharg-
ingto the Arabian Sea to dispose of the excess water o f the lowland areas and reduce



                                               9

Pakistan


flooding problems. A principal objective o f the LBOD Stage 1Project was to address the
Indus Basin's drainage problems. The project was approved by the Board o f Executive
Directors in December 1984;3 it was implemented from September 1985 to December
1997, when it closed (after 4 years o f extension).

28.      Carrying the LBOD drainage, consisting o f baseflow and stormwater, across the
coastal mne to the Arabian Sea was considered important for several reasons. First, the
drainage outflow from the system couldnot be emptied into the Shakoor Dhand and Rann
o f Kutch because these are international wetlands shared by India and Pakistan. Second,
while the dinity o f the drainage outflow is quite moderate compared to the Rann o f
Kutch, it was likely to contain a number o f agricultural chemicals, nutrients, and indus-
trial and domestic pollutants, and hence could not simply be disposed o f in such a valu-
able wetland without possible risk to its important environmental values. Third, it was
believed at the time that a sustainable direct outlet to the sea would need to be developed.

29.     The adopted scheme for disposal o f effluents included: (a) completion o fthe Spi-
nal Drain (started in the 1960s and funded until then largely from GoP resources); (b)
remodeling o f the Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD) and the Dhoro Puran Outfall
Drain (DPOD); and (c) a 26-mile Tidal Link canal, runningfrom northeast to southwest
across the Rann o f Kutch and connecting KPOD to an active tidal creek, Shah Samando
Creek. The canal physically separated the four major dhands4 (Sanhro, hbhro, Cholri,
and Pateji) inthe Sindh portion o fthe Ranno f Kutch, from the rest o f the Rann o f Kutch.
See Map 2.

30.      As early as 1989, during preparation o f the Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) for LBOD Stage I, were animated discussions amongplanners and civil soci-
                             there
ety about the approach to effluent disposal. The 1989 EL4 evaluated ecological impacts
on the tidal creek, the coastal zone and the dhands. Exposingthe dhands to the tidal fluc-
tuations in the Tidal Link canal could have caused potentially serious ecological impacts.
Therefore, the northern side o fthe Tidal Linkcanal was raised along the Pateji and Cholri
Dhands and an overflow concrete-crested weir (Cholri Weir), 1,800 feet long, was con-
structed to protect the aquatic and marine ecology o f the adjoining areas and to evacuate
saline drainage water o f the LBOD to the sea. The top o f the weir was fixed at +4.5 feet
above mean sea level (amsl) to prevent over-drainage o f the dhands at low tide, and to
allow the temporary flow o f canal water into the dhands to attenuate water levels in the
canal at hightide.

31.      The LBOD was beneficial to Sindh agriculture and to the livelihoods o f millions
o f people (see Annex 3). Among these benefits were increased agricultural productivity


    The LBOD Stage IProject was financedby eight donors: for a total s u m o fUSD 430 million (rounded)
as follows: ADB (USD 169 million); IDA (USD 141 million); SFD (USD 43 million); ODA/DfID
(USD 33 million); CIDA (USD 12 million); SDC (USD 10 million); OPEC Fund(USD 9 million); IsDB
(USD 9 million); SDCDfI D/CIDATrust Fundfor M&E(USD 5 million). The Tidal Link component was
h d e dbythe SFD.
    Dhand is the Sindhi word for the shallow lakes, depressions and wetlands commonly found inthis re-
gion.




                                                    10

                                                              National Drainage Program Project


on more than half a million hectares (1.27 million acres); revival and expansion o f agro-
industries including rice milling, oil and flour mills, sugar factories and cotton ginning
facilities; and greatly improved flood management in Sindh. All works under LBOD
Stage Iwere completed except certain contracts pertaining to the remodeling o f the Nara
Canal, commissioning of the Jamrao Canal and some electrification works, which were
carried over to the IDA-financed portion o f the NDP project. None o f these works pertain
to the Requesters' claims.

32.      Status of the LBOD Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
(EMMP). In 1997, the first series o f baseline studies was carried out, covering avifauna,
fisheries, water quality, and comparative landuse. In 1998, an update o f the 1995 EMMP
was prepared for the LBOD Stage 1 Project, including the Tidal Link area, under ADB
financing. The key mitigation measures identified in the 1989 EIA for the Tidal Link
were incorporatedin its design, but the lack of a complete baseline and continuing, sys-
tematic, scientific and well coordinated monitoring and study o f the area remain critical
issues. Apart from ongoingbathymetric andhydrographic surveys o f the Tidal Link canal
by the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) andwater table and salinity monitoring
byWAPDA's SCARP Monitoring Organization (SMO), no further studies havebeencar-
ried out, and no ecological monitoring, analysis or management o f the situation in the
area i s takingplace. More recently, based on its August 2004 mission, ADB has indicated
that it is taking steps to ensure implementation o f the LBOD EMMP, including a Stake-
holder ConsultationWorkshop and implementation of monitoring activities.

33.      An important consequence of the failure to implement the LBOD EMMP i s the
lack o f public awareness of the need to sustainably manage both the fishery and the eco-
system o f the dhands. Community mobilization and the creation o f local mechanisms to
sustainably manage the dhand ecosystem resources in collaboration with local authorities
shouldbe a central element o frenewed efforts to implement a revisedLBOD EMMP.

TIDALLINKAND CHOLRIWEIR

34.      Damage to the Tidal Link and Cholri Weir. Almost as soon as the Tidal Link
began operating in June 1995 it experienced significant erosion and scour problems. In
June 1998, undermining and erosion caused a 250 foot section o f the weir to collapse.
Many attempts were made to close the breached weir section, but all failed due to mon-
soon weather and the remoteness of the site. At the end of October 1998 the federal and
provincial authorities and the consultants who visited the breach site jointly decided to
stop further rexredial works after the length o f the breach inthe weir had increased to 450
feet from the southern end. On May 21, 1999 a catastrophic tropical cyclone hit the Tidal
Link area causing severe damage, which includedthe near total destruction of the Cholri
Weir, and further breaches o f both sides o f the Tidal Link embankment in 56 places.
Since the collapse o f the weir andthe cyclone breaches inthe embankment, the water and
salinity balance o f the Tidal Link and the dhands have changed. The Tidal Link flow i s
no longer confined; instead, it i s now intermingled with the flow to and from the dhands
and the Rann of Kutch at every tide cycle. Details on the history of the Tidal Link are
providedinAnnex 8.



                                              11

Pakistan


35.      Response of the Government and theBank to theDamages. InMarch 2001, the
Bank fielded a Tidal LinkFact FindingMission. The missionconcurred withthe view of
the High-Level Technical Review Committee convened by the Government o f Sindh
(GoS) in May 2000 that, despite the damage, the Tidal Link was continuing to function
(i.e., to discharge LBOD effluent to the sea with good gradient) and the ongoing channel
evolution should stabilize sometime in the future, in a path that would generally follow
the current alignment. It also agreed with the recommendations o f the committee that no
repair or remedial work should be undertaken for either the Tidal Link or the Cholri Weir
until further monitoring provided a basis for formulating mitigation measures. The Bank
Fact Finding Mission placed particular emphasis on the critical need to strengthen and
expand the monitoring and study o f the ongoing physical and morphological changes in
the Tidal Link canal andthe dhands, and o f the environmentaland socio-economic condi-
tions inthe dhands and their surrounding areas.

36.      The PoE engaged to review the NSDS also considered the findings and recom
mendations o f the Committee and the Fact Finding Mission. It agreed with the recom
mendations as given by the Bank Fact Finding Mission. The monitoring that i s being
done at present shows that after seven years without maintenance dredging, the discharge
capacity has not been significantly reduced. However, from time to time maintenance
dredging may be required to maintain the hydraulic performance o f the drain outfall.

37.      Ina meetingchaired by the President of Pakistan on August 20, 2004 inKarachi,
the Engineer inChief o f the Pakistan Army presented the findings o f a review carried out
on the July 2003 floods inThatta and Badin Districts o f Sindh. The review recognized the
benefits that LBOD has provided to the Province as well as the need to address its limita-
tions in order to enhance its performance. For example, it was recommended that the
GoS, in consultation with and with technical support from WAPDA, analyze additional
flood mitigationmeasuresto prevent damage from future unusual storms.

38.      The lower Badin area is characterized by severe poverty and harsh living condi-
tions. Management acknowledges the disruption in livelihoods experienced during the
extreme weather events in 1999 and 2003 (see Annex 1, Item 20). However, given the
difficult circumstances o f the lower Badin area, it cannot be presumed that these disrup-
tions are attributable directly to the damage to the Tidal Link and failure o f the Cholri
Weir. The Fact Finding Mission acknowledged the environmental and social risks o f
these events and the Bank is supporting a diagnostic study b determine to what extent
they have affected livelihoods (see para 45 andAnnex 1, Item 17).

NDPPROJECT&SUES

39.      NDPImplementation Delays. Three aspects ofNDP implementationwere weak.
First, the original intent to frontload implementation o f major planning studies, such as
the NSDS, was not realized. The DMP, while not specifically mentioned inthe SAR, was
seen as part o f the NSDS study (Back-to-Office Report, July 10, 1995). Both the NSDS
and DMP studies were initiated more than halfway through the project implementation
period. If the studies had come earlier, they would have provided opportunities to focus
on finding local drainage effluent disposal solutions, which was being emphasized in the


                                             12

                                                            National Drainage ProgramProject


planningand implementationof subprojects. Second, the environmental managementand
planning studies that were upfront covenantsinthe ADB loan didnot begin for four years
and hence the ability of the project to benefit from the findings was reduced. Third, the
institutional development component did not make much progress in Punjab, NWFP and
Balochistan Provinces, although significant progresswas madeinSindh.

40.     Project EA Categorization. Environmental Data Sheets were preparedin April
1993, May 1995 andMarch 1997.Ineach case, the project was designatedas Category B
under OD 4.01. The rationale for assigning the NDP project to Category B was that a
primary objective was to address environmental issues associatedwith irrigation. Signifi-
cant, beneficial environmental effects were anticipated, i.e., the project would address
problems such as waterlogging and salinity andmitigate the effects of sedimentation, soil
erosion and water contamination. Capacity building to strengthen environmental assess-
ment andmonitoring was contemplated; investment subprojects would conformto envi-
ronmental criteria and ResettlementAction Plans (RAPS)were to be prepared. The 1995
Data Sheet noted that ADB had prepared a detailed Environmental Report to update the
DSEAandapply it to the more specific designs ofNDP, but this document could not be
located.

41.      Duringthe 1990s, the Asia environment department(combining what are now the
East and South Asia environment units) of the Bank placed somerelatively large projects
inCategory B ("the bigBs").Suchcategorization appearsto have reflected a premature
(pre-EM) balancingofpossible adverseeffectswith positive effects, and afocus onindi-
vidual infrastructure activities, without regardto their potential cumulative effects. Thus,
a Category B for the NDP project was consistentwith the Region's practice at the time-
it hadpotential environmental benefits and the investments were individually small- to
mediumsized subprojects that had not yet been designed but would be subject to envi-
ronmental and social screening. Management acknowledges that it would have beenmore
appropriate to categorizethis as an EA Category "A" project.

42.      This practice of "big B" categorization has ceased. The creation of the Quality
Assurance and Compliance Unit (QACU) in2000 with its mandate to pursue quality and
Bankwideconsistency inthe application of safeguardpolicies, examination of the portfo-
lio by QACU and regular discussions among the anchor and Regions about safeguards
have significantly improvedthe understandingof how projects should be categorized. In
particular, there i s now recognition of the needto consider potential regional and cumula-
tive effects, the overall size of investment componentsandthe use ofthe Category A des-
ignation as appropriate to projects with majorrisks.

43.      Compliance with Bank Safeguard Policies. Management believes that the NDP
project is in compliance with many of the requirements of OD 4.01 (Environmental As-
sessment), including preparation of a sectoral EA and requirements for screening of sub-
projects in a sector investment loan. Independent consultants to WAPDA, Pakistan
Drainage Consultants (PDC), carried out environmental scoping and screening, social
assessment and economic analysis for subprojects other than O&M. Subprojects were
dropped or their designmodifiedto ensure compliance with environmental and social re-
quirements and guidelines. A Bank consultant further reviewedsubproject appraisal E-



                                              13

Pakistan


ports and conducted site supervision of ongoing works. Nevertheless, no report has yet
been prepared on ex-post sampling, as required in the April 2000 MTR, to ensure com
pliance with the EA policy or the covenants concerning screening in the Project Agree-
ment. Implementation of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP), required by the
Project Agreement to cover the cumulative basin-wide environmental aspects and impli-
cations of the project as a whole, has not yet beenachieved. Consultations on the DSEA
appear to have been few, particularly with affected groups. With respect to disclosure of
the EA (see Annex 1, Item 23), the NDP project was not in compliance with BP 17.50,
Disclosure of Operational Information, since the DSEA was not disclosed prior to 9-
praisal at the Infoshop and no recordsof disclosure incountry could belocated.

44.     According to the PSR, OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples),
and OPN 11.03 (Cultural Property) were not applicable. Natural habitats and cultural
property issues were to have been taken into account in Initial Environment Scoping
(IES) for investment subprojects as appropriate. As explained inAnnex 1, Item 20, OD
4.20 on Indigenous Peoples does not apply to the Mallah community. With respect to OD
4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement (see Annex 1, Item 14), the FLARwas agreedto during
negotiations but objections were subsequentlyraisedby the GoP and agreementcouldnot
bereached. Therefore, no subprojects involvingresettlementwere financedby IDA.


                           V. RECOMMENDEDACTIONS

45.     While a poverty-targeted intervention i s certainly neededin the lower Badin area,
Managementbelieves that the NDP project i s not the right instrument for this and further,
that implementation of the NDP project has not worsened the plight of the people living
near the dhands. The National Rural Support Program, with resources from the Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF), has been active in Badin District for the last three
years and has completed approximately 50 community infrastructure projects that have
included watercourse linings, hand pumps and link roads, all aimed at improving liveli-
hoods. The GoS High-Level Technical Committee (see Annex 2) reviewed the environ-
mental and social effects of the cyclone damages to the Tidal Link and Cholri Weir and
outlined a series of physical and other livelihoodinterventions targeting the population in
areas prone to flooding in lower Badin. Taking into account the findings of the High-
Level Technical Committee, the Bank will implement the following actions:

            Assemble a PoE to review the ecological, hydrological and water quality
            monitoringdata inthe LBOD outfall areaand propose a course of action. This
            course of action would bedevelopedwithin the next three to six months;

            Carry out a diagnostic study fbcused on livelihood improvements in the area,
            in consultation with GoP, GoS and the affected population, to determine the
            extent and severity of losses incurred and, in discussion with the district au-
            thorities in Badin, formulate a livelihood assistanceprogram, taking into con-
            sideration the ongoing programs in the area. The diagnostic study will exam-
            ine the relationships between economic, social and vulnerability concerns, and




                                              14

                                                              National Drainage ProgramProject


             natural resource management in the area, including the Mallah fishing c o m
             munity.This approachwould be developedwithin the next three months; and

             Assist the GoP with a Country Water Resources Assistance Strategy (sched-
             uled to be completed in June 2005) and Strategic Country Environmental As-
             sessment, andwork with the GoP, ADB and other partners insupporting envi-
             ronmental capacity building and management support for the water sector,
             building appropriate elements into the next Country Assistance Strategy,
             which is also scheduled for completion inJune 2005.

46.     Based on the findings and recommendations o f the diagnostic study, the formula-
tion o f a livelihood program will take cognizance o f other ongoing and proposed Bank-
assisted activities, which also provide opportunities to address the three inter-linked con-
cerns o f poverty, environmental degradation and security from natural disasters. The
Bank will urge the GoP andGoS to:

        0    Further target resources to the lower Badin area, from the PPAF, which i s al-
             ready supporting poverty alleviation activities in the district; and

        0    Improve the knowledge base and analytical capacity and consultation mecha-
             nism, through the proposed Water Sector Improvement Project (WSIP) cur-
             rently under preparation, to support preparation o f a water development and
             management plan for the Kotri sub-basin area, with stakeholder participation.
             This approach would also help implement recommendations o f the Tidal Link
             Fact Finding Mission concerning a better knowledge base for assessing im-
             pacts and designing mitigation measures for the damage to the LBOD
             infrastructure.


                           VL MANAGEMENT'SRESPONSE

47.     The Requesters' claims, accompanied by Management's detailed %sponses, are
provided inAnnex 1.

48.     Management believes that the Bank has made efforts to work with the GoP, ADB
and JBIC to realize the objectives o f an extremely large and complex Project. The Bank
intends to pursue issues raised in the Request concerning Sindh Province with the Bor-
rower so that the Requesters' concerns are addressed. Management believes that the Re-
questers' rights and interests are not, nor will be, directly and adversely affected by the
manner inwhich the Bank has implemented its policies and procedures in the NDP pro-
ject.




                                               15


                                                                          National Drainage ProgramProject


                                                    ANNEX 1
                                             CLAIMS AND RESPONSES



closed in December 1997. However, as relevant, informationonthe issues and historical context is providedin the re-
sponse.
-     EnvironmentalAss                         -
1.    EnvironmentalAssessment.The              34   The DSEA(1993) was accepted bythe Bank because it provides
      Bank acceptedthe Drainage Sector              a strategic overview ofthe environmental issuesofthe drainage
      Environmental Assessment (DSEA)               sector in linewith the scope ofthe NDP project. It includesthe
      preparedbythe consultant on behalf            following volumes:
     of government of Pakistan.The                     Volume I- Drainage Sector EnvironmentalAssessment;
      DSEA focuses generalenvironmental             0  Volume II- Concept Frameworkfor National Drainage Pro-
      issues of the drainage sector in Paki-           gramme;
      stan. Accordingto the assessment                 Volume Ill-Supplementary reports, including studies of issues
     total saline effluents anticipatedis              specificto lower Sindh, comprisedof: (a) Forestry: (b) Fisher-
      10.91 Maf(13.5 Bcm), of which, 60%               ies Sector; (c) Birdsof the Wetlands of Pakistan; (d) Environ-
      is plannedto bedisposeddirectly into             mental EngineeringAspects (Assimilative Capacity of Drains);
      the sea through LBOD, butthe as-
      sessment which was acceptable to                 and (e) Role Frameworkfor Institutionsand Guidelinesfor Ac-
                                                       tion (including Referenceto Social Aspects); and
      Bankto fulfillthe requirement of OD              Volume IV-Water, Soil and Agriculture.
      4.01 is incomplete, vague anddoes                 Further safeguards were built into the design of the NDP pro-
      not cover the issues like coastal ecol-       ject. IESswere carriedout for all subprojects except O&M. Full
      ogy, safe disposalintoArabian Sea
      and environmental degradation of              ElAswereto be preparedfor subprojects whose IES indicated

      wetlands.                                     significant environmental impacts. Requirementsfor social as-
                                                    sessments and the application of the FLAR were also agreed
                                                    (SAR, paras 4.13,4.15 and4.16,Annex 1,Annex 7 and the SAR
                                                    ImplementationVolume). Duringthe April 2000 MTRthe subpro-
                                                    ject review and approval processwas clarifiedsuch that IDA
                                                    would needto review on a prior basisthe first two subprojects in
                                                    an investment category, regardlessof cost, andthereafter, those
                                                    that invokedland acquisition/involuntaty resettlement, cost over
                                                    USD 5 million, or that were technically complex and worth review
                                                    by a PoE, e.g., with major environmental issues.
                                                         The 1989 LBOD EIA addressed the coastal zone issues ref-
                                                    erenced by the Requesters.Additional information on this is
                                                    found in Items 5, 7 and 9.
                                                         Analysis of alternativesduring preparation of the draft DMP
                                                    (currently under review by the Government and a PoE)concludes
                                                    that there will be a substantial reduction in estimateddrainage
                                                    surplus (from 875 m3/secto 33 m3/sec).See also Item12.
2.    EA Category. The projectwas classi-      Box  The principalobjective of the NDP project was sector reform It
      fied into "B" category, butthat was      on   was designed as a program inwhich subprojectswere identified
      again in violation ofthe World Banks     4.01 and preparedon a three-year rolling plan,with environmentaland
      guideline provided in annex-E of OD           social screening of individual subprojects, as indicated in Item 1,
      4.01. The para 5 of guideline men-            consistentwith the requirementsfor sector investment loans.
      tions, that a full EA is required if a        Nevertheless, Management acknowledgesthat it would have
      project is likelyto havesignificant           been more appropriateto categorize this as an EA Category "A"
      adverse impactsthat may be sensi-             project.
      tive, irreversibleand diverse. The pro-
      jects of irrigations, drainage and flood
      control. as well as those that have      -

                                                          17

     Pakistan



               Claimllssue            -Pare
                                         RQ                               Response

resettlement impacts, are listed in
categoryA projects. (NDPis a large
drainage projects and has sensitive,
irreversibleand diverse environ-
mental impacts, and resettlementim
pacts.)                               -
Updating of EA. The DSEAwas pre-       35   InJanuary 1996,the Borrowerformally submitted, and IDA ac-
pared in early 1990's and duringthat        cepted,the 1993DSEA as a sectoral EIA for the project. Itwas
time LBOD was not operational so            not updatedas such, becausethe primaryfocus of the NDP pro-
the technical problemsof LBOD fall          ject was sector reformand safeguardsfor each subproject were
system was not obvious, howeverthis         built into project design. These safeguards called for investment-
study was not updatedduringthe              specific environmental and social assessmentsto be prepared in
considerationof NDP loan in 1997;           a current timeframe. Substantial studies and research have sup
we believethat this is a violation of       ported updatingof environmental infor"       to complementthe
Bank policies.The DSEA also lacks           original DSEA.
publiclegitimacy because no civilso-            Environmental issueswere addressed inthe Second Preap-
ciety groupsor affected peoplewere          praisalMission,during which a limited IESwas conductedjointly
consultedduring the prepared of             withthe ADB to address key technicaland institutionalissues
study.                                      (Back to Office Report, July 6, 1995).The resultswere reviewed
                                            and recommendationsdeveloped by environmentalspecialists in
                                            WAPDA, major Pakistani environmental NGOs,ADB, and IDA.
                                                With respect to consultation, the IESwas discussed at public
                                            meetings conducted by the NDP Program Manager and Provin-
                                            cia1Cells in Punjab(Lahore), Sindh (Hyderabad), NWFP (Pesha-
                                            war), and Balochistan (Quetta) in October 1995(as described in
                                            the EnvironmentalManagement section of the SAR Implementa-
                                            tionVolume). A widely attended Project LaunchWorkshopwas
                                            also organized at the beginningof the project (January 1998).
                                                Therewere 38 subprojects identifiedin Sindh, of which 10
                                             have beencompleted, 15are under implementationand 13were
                                            dropped or not implemented. Other than those for which screen-
                                             ingwas not applicable (e.g., surveys, and O&M contracts) and
                                            two subprojectsthat were carried over from the LBOD Stage 1
                                             Project, IESwas undertaken for the subprojects that were imple-
                                      -      mented in Sindh(see Annex 6).
                                                 See Item23 with regardto disclosure.
Alternatives. The feasibility and sus- 14-   Managementis ofthe view that preparation work for the NDP
tainability of entire NDP depends on   18    project, as well as the studies supportedduring its implementa-
the sound foundationsof LBOD be-            tion, sought to consider all reasonable altematives for disposalof
cause it is a final disposal point of        lndusBasin drainage effluent
drainageeffluents. The design of                The DSEA (1993) considered the following altematives (Chap-
NDP has entirely ignoredthe current         ter 5 of the DSEA Main Report):
reality and the social and environ-          (a) Reuse ofthe tubewelldrainageeffluent from fresh ground-
mental problemsofthe existing dis-               water (FGW) areas directlyor after mixingwith canal wter.
posal route, and never exploredthe           (b) Recyclingof the saline drainage effluent by disposal in
altematives. We have been suggest-                nearby canals or rivers, keeping mixedwater qualitywithin
when the LBODwas started... Im
 ing an alternativesince early 1980's             permissible limitsfor reuse downstream.
                                             (c) Disposal into lakes for temporary or permanent storage.
 plementing agencies, financiersin           (d) Disposal in evaporation ponds.
cludingthe World Bank, andthe pro-           (e) Disposal inthe sea througha carrier drainage system (the
ject consultants never listened to us.            LBOD).
We believeand it isobvious after the   -        See also DSEA Chapter 7, where surface, tile, tubewell and




                                                   18

                                                                     National DrainageProgramProject


                                                                                                           -
                                         Para
                                         no                                 Response

operation of LBODthat this is not a           biologicalalternatives for drainage arediscussed, along with the
viableand sustainable solutionfor the         "no-disposal" option.
effluents disposal. Howevertime-to-              To explore these options further, the NDP project included
time the World Bank officials are per-        provisionfor feasibility studies of the NSDS and related studies
sistent on the studies on NSDS and            (see Annex 7).Item6 providesfurther details regardingthe
itsjustification. They have not been          NSDS.
talkingthe other alterative options...           Contrary to the Requesters'supposition,there are no plans
We think that the way NDP has been            underthe NDP projectto extend the LBOD (see Item 7). Man-
planned and severalmission r e m              agement also notesthat none of the NDP projectinvestments
mendationsare leadingtowards ex-              result in additional surface drainage load on the existing LBOD
tending current LBOD systemto up-             system.
stream. aaainst our wishes.
Mitigationand Monitoring.The             37,  The designof the NDP projectforesaw preparationunder the pro-
World Bank operationaldirectiveis        Box  ject of an EMP, as described inthe SAR and ImplementationVol-
very clearand elaborative on mitiga-     on   ume (Section 11, EnvironmentalManagement).The NDP project
tion measures and OD 4.01 suggests       4.01 is supporting various elements of environmentalmanagement.A
the preparationof Environmental               Water Sector EMP-Framework for Action was developed under
Management Plan. But in case of               the NDP project in February2002. Detaileddesign of the Water
NDP afterthe lapse of six years there         SectorEMP is under preparation.The Water Sector Framework
is no such EMP. Inaddition to EMP             also outlined a basin-wideWetland Conservation Strategy.De-
the DSEAalso proposedWetland                  velopment of a comprehensive Wetland Management Planis
Management Plan and environment               called for. Separately, a Wetlands Action Planhas been devel-
monitoringandAudit but nothing has            oped by WWF inAugust 2000.
materializedinthis regard. This is a             With respectto the Requesters'claim that effects of LBOD
clear violation of World Bank's safe          have not been mitigated,the LBOD Stage 1Project incorporated
guard policies. We believethat the            into itsdesign the mitigation measures identifiedinthe 1989 EIA
delay informulation of EMP leadsto            to protectthe wetlands. These were confgurationof a Tidal Link
the environmentaldegradation and              canal to convey the effluents past the wetlands to the sea and
eliminates our trust that any such kind       constructionof a weir to regulate the tidal influence and maintain
of planwill be formulated in and im           an appropriate water balance in the wetlands. The first seriesof
plemented.The environmentaldisas-             baseline studies under the EMMP for the LBOD Stage 1Project
trous effects of LBOD have not even           was prepared in 1997(see Item 16), but full implementationof the
been mitigated. Dueto these delay in          LBOD EMMP was delayed as a result of difficulties in institutional
the implementationof EMPof LBOD               coordination. More recently, ADB has indicated in its September
and non-formulationof EMP of NDP              2004Aide-Memoire steps to ensure implementationofthe LBOD
we are bearingthe cost of environ-            EMMP, including a Stakeholder ConsultationWorkshop and the
mentaldegradation including reduced           implementationof monitoring activities.
fish catch, loss of agriculture land and          Regarding livelihoodissues, see Item 17.
forest, loss of grazing land and deg-
radation of Wetlands. Consequently
the combinedeffect of allthesefac-
tors is impoverishingus.
The appraisal missionensuresthat
the mitigation plan is adequately
budgeted, anddetermines ifthe EA'S
recommendationsare properly ad-
dressed in projectdesign and eco-
nomic analysis. (Incase of NDPthere
is no EMPand no budaetina).              -



                                                   19

     Pakistan


                                     -Para
                                       no                               Response

NSDS. Severaldocuments bothfrom       17   Examiningthe feasibility of an NSDS was amongthe agreed ac-
government of Pakistanand World           tions of the SAR (Annex 7).The NSDS prefeasibilltystudy, which
Bank indicatethe extension of exist-       did not begin untillate January 2001, examineda "drainage su-
ing LBODsystem and constructionof          perhighway."
NationalSurface DrainageSys-                   Inmid-2002,the GoP requestedthat the Bank providean in-
tem....The midterm review admits           dependent PoEto reviewthe NSDS. The Panelfound (seeAn-
two major constraintsthat dramati-         nex 5, Executive Summary of the PoE Report,April 2003) that the
cally affect scope and pace of NDP.        "drainagesuperhighway" concept was not feasible.
First,the absence of a masterdrain-            Duringthe same time period, and following the second NDP
age plansand second agreementon            MTR (April 2001), the GoP recognizedthe importance of develop-
inter-provincialdrainage flows that        ing a DMP and National DrainageAccord. The International Wa-
ensure environmentally safe and sus-      terlogging and Salinity Research Institute (IWASRI) began prepa-
tainable disposal.                         ration ofthe DMP in March2002.
                                               InSeptember 2004, a PoEfor the DMP carried out a reviewof
                                           the interimfindings of the DMP studies, and made recommenda-
                                           tions on the next steps for the DMP planning process. Italso can-
                                           firmed that the "drainage superhighway"concept was not feasi-
                                           ble.
                                                Further studiesof drainage and water management are being
                                           pursuedthrough the DMP. For example, the PoE hasdeveloped
                                           terms of reference (TORS) for water managementplans for Kotri
                                           Basin and trained localtechnicians in how to develop drainage
                                           plans. As part of the DMP, state of the art DRAINFRAMEmeth-
                                     -odology       will be used as a pilot to analyze two major basins-Kotri
                                           in Sindh and Chaj in Punjab.
Extensionof LBOD. We have a se-       28   There are no plans underthe NDP projectto extendthe LBOD.
rious threat due to the extension of       The NDP project has not financed any expansion ofthe area
LBODwithout looking into the envi-         drained into LBOD. The incrementaldrainageresultingfrom the
ronmentalissues at disposal point          tubewells installedunder the ADB-financedcomponents ofthe
and sea intrusion.The same has             NDP project is controlled so that the tubewells do notoperate
been identifiedin Environmental            during storm events, and therefore do not increasethe peakflood
Management Plan FrameWork Sindh            flows that must passthrough LBOD. Moreover, as noted above,
Province.The planidentifiedtwo key         the "drainage superhighway" option has been rejectedby two
mitigation measuresthat are needed         independent PoEscomposedof local and international experts.
to counter trend several obvious po-       The PoE recommendationswere accepted by the govemment.
tential major negativeimpactsof an             The 1989LBOD EIA addressed the environmental issues of
NDPon -a NationalSurface Drain-            the disposal point, as described in Item 9. Extensivefield studies
age System(NSDS) guaranteeing              of avifauna inthe Tidal Link and adjoining areas and a fisheries
environmentally-acceptable modesof         survey of the dhands in Badin, were completed in 1997(see Item
disposalto the sea for allunwanted         16).
effluents and a Wetland Management             Inaddition, many studies and competitive researchgrants
Plan (WMP)to sustainthe many               (seeAnnex?')have been financed under the NDP project to im
ecologically important wetlands.           provethe knowledge base on environmental and drainage issues
                                           inthe lndus Basin.
Land Loss and Salinity. This phe-     29   Lower Sindh is an extremely flat delta region, proneto intense
nomenonof sea intrusion has already        monsoon stormsthat produce high rates of excess rainfalland
destroyedthe agriculture land. The         extensive shallow flooding. Cyclones raisethe sea level, further
lossof topsoil due to flooding is a        impeding drainage. Because of the low drainage capacity of this
common and hundredsof acres of             area, the naturally recurrent seasonal flooding tendsto persist for
coastal land are gradually being con-      long periods, adversely impacting health and livelihoodsinthe
verted into sea. Thousands of acres        area. Limitedisolated erosion is occasionally associatedwith this
of our land have been encroached by  -     floodinq.




                                                20

                                                                             National DrainageProgramProject
                                               -
                                               Para
                                                no
sea andthis process has accelerated                      The objective of the LBOD Stage 1 Projectwas notonly to
after the collapse of Tidal Link and                  dispose of drainage effluent to the sea, but also to improvethe
Cholri weir, we have sharedthese                      disposalof excess rainfall and runoff, thereby reducing inundation
concerns during the processof par-                    and land loss. As notedin Item7, investmentsunderthe NDP
ticipatorypoverty assessmentin                        project have not increasedexcess rainfall, runoff, or peakflood
Sindh. Hundredsof farmerfamilies                      flows, andtherefore have not exacerbatedflooding nor ledto in-
have been pushedto live under ex-                     creased land loss due to erosion.
treme poverty. Incase of increasing                      InJune 1998, a section ofthe CholriWeir on the Tidal Link
the drainage flow; this problemof                     collapsed, Severalattemptsto repair it failed becauseof continu-
landlosswill be scaled up. Inaddition                 ing erosion. In May 1999, a cyclone hit coastal areas of Sindh;
to loss of topsoil the problemof sec-                 the banksof the Tidal Link were damagedat numerouslocations
ondary salinity will also rise. Incase                andthe Cholri Weir was further damaged.
of overflowing, breaches inTidal Link                    The 2001 Bank Tidal Link FactFinding Mission(see Annex 8)
and KPODthe saline effluents will                     concurredwiththejudgment of the GoS`s High-LevelTechnical
just spread around the agriculture                    Committeethat the damages done by the 1999cycloneto the
land, thus add into soil salinity.                    Tidal Link andthe CholriWeir were beyondrepair.The mission
                                                      also indicatedthat the Tidal Linkwas continuingto discharge
                                                      drainage effluentto the sea with good gradient, but observedas
                                                      well that salinity had increased inthe Tidal Link upto RD-35' (the
                                                      dhands are at roughly RD-93)as a consequence of the co-
                                                      minglingof the much more salinewaters of the Rannof Kutch
                                                      andthe dhands with the Tidal Link flow. The mission strongly
                                                      recommendedthat monitoringof water levels and bed levels in
                                                      the Tidal Link, and environmental conditions includingsalinity, be
                                                      continued to help determinetrends.
                                                          The salinity of the dhands has probably changed as a conse-
                                                      quenceof the damage, but that has not yet been ascertained
                                                      empirically. Datacollection now being carried out at five points
                                                      along the Tidal Link will help to improvethe understatingof the
                                                      changesthat are occurring. However,drainageeffluents alone
                                                      would not bethe cause of increasedsecondary salinity, if it has
                                                      occurred.
                                                          InJuly 2003, most parts of Sindh, particularlythe southem
                                                      districts, receivedvery intense and heavy rainsand the resulting
                                                      flooding by surface runoffwas far greaterthan the LBODwas
                                                      designedto handle. After the 2003 floods and resulting damage,
                                                      the GoP requestedthe Bank for assistance underthe NDP pro-
                                                      ject for emergency repairsto the LBOD system. The Bank ap-
                                                      proved the use of NDPfunds for emergency repairsto KPOD(the
                                                      drain connectingto the Tidal Link Canal at the end of the LBOD
                                                      SpinalDrain), although manyof these were ultimately undertaken
                                               -      directly bythe GoP on an emergency basis.
                                                          Regardinglivelihood issues, see Item 17.




 '   Where a canalstarts the point is usually markedas RD 00. Going downstreamon a canal, the RDs increase.The
 pointwhere a drain ends or its outfall point is markedas RD 00. Moving upstreamon a drain, the RDvalues increase
 (oppositeto that of canals). Negative RD values occur in measuringdistance beyond the end point or outfall point of a
 drain. In the LBOD drainagecomplex,the Tidal Link startswhere KPOD ends. Treating the Tidal Link as a continuationof
 the KPOD drain, its RDs start with a negative value,which keeps increasinguntil the pointwhere it meets the sea.




                                                           21

     Pakistan
                                       -
                                                                           Resaonse

 EcologicalEffects.The proposed        -Managementbelievesthat
                                         Para
                                         no
                                        30                                the NDP project is being implemented
 drainage networkwill badlyaffect the         ina mannerthat does not add to or exacerbatethe environmental
 already degraded environment of In-          problemsofthe alreadydegraded lndus River Delta or the
 dus Delta. There is no fresh water           coastal zone. Moreover,the LBODwill not be extended underthe
 availableto add to the ecological            NDP project.
 value of delta, which is essential for           The 1989LBOD EIAexaminedthe potential impact of the
 coastal forests and marine life. Inthe       LBOD outfallon the coastal environment, and found that:
 absence of freshwater, disposing                 The mangroves near ShahSamandoCreek (the outlet of the
 toxic drainage effluents will destroy            Tidal Link Canal) were in poor condition, and the LBOD dis-
 the remaining resourcesof marine                 chargewould not be likelyto have any effect on the them;
 fisheriesand mangroveforests. The            0   The dischargewould mix rapidlywith creek water, which is of
 drainageeffluents comprise not only              higher salinity, and would not be likely to affect creek salinity
 the saline sub-soilwater but also it             significantly; but,
Iaccumulates along the way the re-                The dischargeof pesticides and other effluentsthroughLBOD
 siduals of pesticides, fertilizer and            appearedto be a potentially serious hazard.
 industrialwaste.                                 In 2002, underthe auspicesof the NDP project,the Sindh En-
                                              vironmental ProtectionAgency (SEPA) monitoredwater quality in
                                              various water bodies in Sindh, includingthe lndus River, various
                                              lakes, drains and the Tidal Link. The principal pollutionfoundwas
                                              humanwaste inthe canals and drains (Pilot Water Quality Moni-
                                              toring Program in Sindh, November2002, SEPA). Inthe Sindh
                                              On-Farm Water Management Project, a pest management plan
                                              incorporates both monitoringand measuresto reduce pesticide
                                              use.The  ADB is leadingthe development of a regulatoryframe-
                                              work to better manage disposal of domestic and industrialefflu-
                                              ents in selected pilotdrains (Satokatia in Punjab, PinyariCanal in
                                              Sindh, Budni Nullah in NWFP and Habib Drain in Balochistan).
                                              This includesthe establishmentof a database management and
                                              information system at federal and provincial levels, initiationof
                                              wetland management activities, and a training program for envi-
                                              ronmentalstaff.
                                                  Quite independent of the NDP project,there are serious prob-
                                              lems inthe lndus RiverDelta. The ecological impacts of the dras-
                                              tic change in freshwater flow and reducedsediment load reaching
                                              the Delta brought about by the development of the lndus Basin
                                              irrigation system (especially sincethe 1960s)are the subject of
                                              intense interest and debate in Pakistan.The Delta is affected by
                                              the processof coastal erosion aggravatedbythe change in flow
                                              regime andthe loss in sediment due to the development of Paki-
                                              stan's irrigationsystem-the largestcontiguous irrigationsystem
                                              intheworld-built over a periodof morethan a century. Paki-
                                              stan's National Oceanographic Institute has calculatedthat the
                                              original sediment deposit was inthe order of 400 milliontons a
                                              yearThe currently it is only about 35 milliontons a year.
                                                    butdispute  among the Provincesis over the natureof the
                                              damage and costs caused by the changes inthe hydrologic re-
                                              gime ofthe lndus River and the amount of minimumfreshwater
                                              flow that should be "allocated" below Kotri, the last diversion
                                              structure on the Indus,to mitigate this damage. In an effortto re-
                                              solvethis dispute and mitigate the damage, the GoP is inthe
                                       -would processof commissioningthreestudies. Two of these studies
                                                      examinethe ecology and salinity of the lndus River Delta




                                                   22

                                                                 National Drainage Program Project




                                          andthe minimumenvironmental flow requirements below Kotri
                                          Barrage. The thirdstudy would look at the downstream environ-
                                          mental impact of the easterntributariesof the lndus river, whose
                                          waters were albcatedto India under the 1960lndusWaters
                                          Treaty between India and Pakistan.The Bank has agreedto fi-
                                          nance, from another ongoing project, a PoEto reviewthe findings
                                          completed-expected by April2005.
                                          and recommendationsof these studies once they have been

Water Quality. The tidal effect re-       Thetidal effect andthe CholriWeir were essential hydraulic fea-
stricts the drainage flow fortwo times    tures of the Tidal Link design which, under the LBOD Stage 1
intwenty-fourhoursthis fight be-          Project, hadthe specific aim of mitigatingdrainage and tidal envi-
tween drainage effluentsand sea           ronmental impactson the dhands. The tidal effect does not pre-
tides continuesfor about 4-6 hours,       vent flow from KPOD to the sea.
thus entirely blocksthe drainage ef-          No specific information has beenfound regardinggroundwater
fluents. The standing drainage efflu-     quality or drinking water sources inthis specific location (either
ents seep into bothsides of KPOD up       side of KPOD upto RD 110).
to RD 110, negatively effects ground          Ingeneral, most groundwater in the region is saline. The pri-
water quality, which is a single drink-   mary source of drinkingwater is usually the freshwaterfrom the
ing source,thus causing severe im         canal system. Besidesdirect use of canal water for drinking, hand
pact on human health.                     pumpsare usedalong canal banksto tap water seeping from
                                          canals. In areas served by non-perennialcanals, water is stored
                                          in pondsfor later use.
                                              Undertheongoing DEW, for which funds from the NDP
                                          Credit were allocated in 2001, drinking water supply schemes
                                          have beensupported in several areas of Sindh, includingthe dis-
                                          trict of Badinwhere KPOD is located.
Consultation. Localcommunities,            During preparationofthe DSEA,government stakeholders par-
and especially the affected peopleof      ticipated in a scoping session that was held in October 1991.This
coastal belt, have been kept entirely     was followed by a workshop on EA held at Lahoreon April 8-9,
unawareabout the plansof NDP and           1992, at which 27 professional representativestook part.A sec-
its environmental assessments.The         ond roundofworkshops was held in Lahore and Karachi in Sep-
project planning processremained          tember/October 1992 (DSEA, Main Report, Volume I).
the business of a few bureaucrats              Giventhat NDPwas a national program,the projectwas a
and donors while project implementa-       vehicle to bringtogether concernedgovernment agencies and
tion remained non-transparentand           NGOs/CBOsin all Provincesfor open and transparent discus-
hence failed to obtain informed con-       sions. Consultationswere heldduring the project preparation
sent or meaningful participationsince      phasewith representativeNGOs, FOsand CBOsto define the
the inception. We were entirely un-        overall programandto outline the consultationand appraisal cri-
aware regarding NDP untilthe rains         teria and processfor individualsubprojects. Localconsultations
of 2003, when we were informedthat         were carriedout during preparationof subprojects. See Annex 9
more effluents would be added in ex-       for additional detail.
isting LBODsystem.                             During 1997-1998,the NDP project facilitatedengagement
Para 8 of annex-D of OD 4.01 men-          with NGOsthroughoutthe country, and helpedto put in place a
tions, "In addition, in viewofthe need     partnershipframework. This was used as a basisto invite the
for the borrower to take the views of      Pakistan NGO Federationto nominate representativesto the Co-
affected groups and local NGOs into        ordination Cellsand the ProvincialSteering Committees.
account, the Task Manager ascer-               InSindh, the list of NGOslintenediaries includedDhartiDost,
tainsthe nature of the consultations       Oxfam, Strengthening Participatory Organization (SPO); Sindh
undertakenwith such groups and as-         Agriculturaland ForestryWorkersOrganization (SAFWCO); IlMl
sesses the extent to which their views     (now IWMI-lntemationalWater Management Institute; Worldwide
have been considered." (In case of         Fund For Nature (WWF); Trust ForVoluntary Organizations
NDP no such consultationhas been           (TVO); Non-Govemment Organization Wsource Center




                                                23

          Pakistan



No.               etac~lssuca                                             Response

    conducted for EA).                       (NGORC); Sindh Ngo Forum(SINGOF); International Union for
                                             the Conservationof Nature(IUCN); Sindh Goth Sudhar Sangath
                                             (SGSS),Water Users Federations,Thar RuralDevelopmentPro-
                                             gram and others.
                                                A briefing notewith basic informationon the NDP projectwas
                                             translated and sharedwith participants in advance of the meet-
                                             ings, which were open and included media representatives.
                                                The Bankteam also visited local communities in Badin and
                                             other areas. The team met with local community groups and
                                             farmers and obtainedfeedback. The team also interactedwith
                                             local intermediary organizations inthe field and invitedthemto
                                             join on these visits.
                                                In March2004, the Task Team Leader hada meetingwiththe
                                             Forumfor Conflict Resolution andthe Sindh Agricultural Forum.
                                             More recently, in September 2004, the PoEof the DMP held
                                             stakeholder consultations in Badin and Hyderabad,which repre-
                                             sentativesof ActionAidattended. They also participated inthe
                                             final workshop in Islamabadwith the GoP and representativesof
                                             the Provinces.
    tnvoiuntary Resettlement
12. Flooding Potential. Though the NDP       Areas of lower Sindh are always proneto flooding. Indeed,the
    is being implementedin entire lndus      extent and duration of flooding were greater priorto construction
    Basin Irrigation System, which geo-      of works underthe LBOD Stage 1 Project
    graphically coverswhole country, but         Managementbelieves that the implementationof the NDP pro-
    the specific locationof drainage dis-    ject has not and will not exacerbateflooding. As explained inthe
    posal has certain peculiarities. The     responseto Item7, the IDA-financedsubprojects have been lim
    southem partof Pakistan,where the        itedto repair and rehabilitation of existing drains and there is no
    proposed up country effluents will be    planto finance any new drains.
    disposed has a lessgradient, more           The PoEthat convened to reviewthe NSDS prefeasibility
    flat topography and bestowedwith         study rejectedthe optionof disposalof the entire lndus Basin
    natural shallow water depressions        drainage effluent through a "drainage superhighway"to the sea.
    and vegetation. There are several        Therefore, thetype of flooding feared by the Requesterswill not
    thousand peoplewho entirely depend       occur as a result of disposal of drainage effluents inthe lowland
    on localdhanddfishing,grazing and        areas of Sindh. The disposalstrategy recommended by both
    agriculture. Keeping in mindthe ex-      PoEs(forthe NSDS prefeasibilitystudy and the DMP) relies pri-
    perienceof LBOD,we can easily pre-       marily on localdisposal options, such as evaporation ponds, sa-
    dict that incoming saline water will     lineagriculture, improved irrigationpracticesand basin manage-
    cause huge flooding and having no        ment.
    other option we haveto leave our             Livelihoodissues are addressed in Item 17.
    ancestralvillages. This type of dis-
    placement is even not considered in
    project documents even though it will
    occur due to the consequences of
    projectoutcome.
    Land Acquisition. We havea fear           The Bank has no plansto support expansion of KPOD, DPODor
    that inthe phaseof expansion of          the SpinalDrain. Under NDP Bank supported activities, the only
    KPOD, DPOD and spinal drain sev-         works proposedfor KPOD are repairs.
    eralthousand acres of landwill be            IDAfunding has not supported any subprojectsthat require
    required.We have already sacrificed       land acquisitionor resettlement. Subprojectsthat would have
    for existing system and left with mea-   needed landacquisition were excluded because of lack of
    ger resourcesfor livelihood, in case     agreement on the FLAR andthe implementing agency's capacity
    of expansion, we might lose remain-      to apply it.See also Item 14.

                                                                 NationalDrainageProgramProject



                                                                        Response

ing land.
Resettlement Framework. The gov-          The FLARthat was agreed by IDA and the GoP laid out the legal,
ernment of Pakistanpreparedand            institutionaland implementationframework to guide compensa-
submittedto the World BankA               tion for assets lost, resettlementand rehabilitation involvingpro-
Framework for Land Acquisition and        ject affected persons (PAPs) adversely affected by any subpro-
Resettlement(FLAR) in 1996,which          jects under NDP. The FLAR required detailed field investigations
is quite vague and does not mention       including census, inventoryof affectedassets and preparation of
the location and quantiof landre-         appropriate RAPsor mitigation plansfor subprojectsthat require
quired. The FLARdoes not givetime         land acquisition. Detailson PAPsand entitlementswere not in-
frame of compensation payment and         cluded inthe FLAR becausethese were to be included in subpro-
credible economic rehabilitation of            RAPs.
project affectees. The govemment          jectThe  FLARwas originally prepared in January 1996and after
has since disowned eventhat half-         much discussionwas officially approved bythe GoP and agreed
hearted FLAR.We think that our land       with IDA, as noted inthe SAR. However,duringthe Project
will be acquired under land acquisi-      LaunchWorkshop, inJanuary 1998,WAPDA project directors
tion act of 1894for expansion of          raisedobjections to a number of provisionsof the framework. Fol-
KPOD, without proper compensation         lowingfurther discussions with projectofficialsduringthe April
and resettlement and in violation of      2001 MTR (seeAnnex 7 of the Aide-Memoire), revisionsto the
World Bank policies. There was no         FLARwere proposed in May 2001. However, no agreement was
resettlement Action Plan (RAP), a         reached; the positionof the Provinceswas that: "Law of the land
fact that was recognized but not ax-      is comprehensive andtakes care of allthe concems involved in
rectedat the time of the midterm re-      RAP/FLAR." Inview of the decisionto includeonlythose subpro-
view of NDP in year 2001 and men-         jects that do not involve land acquisition and resettlement inthe
tined by the Bank mission"during          IDAfinanced investmentcomponent, further discussions withthe
the March 2000 supervision mission,       GoP on the FLARwere not pursued.
itwas agreedthat the Pakistan                 TORs for engagement of RAP consultants and RAPswere not
DrainageConsultantswill prepare           prepared becausethe subprojectsdid not involve land acquisi-
TORs for the preparationof RAPs",to       tion. With regardto the Requesters'specificconcerns, there is no
date noTORs have been prepared,           land acquisition involvedin the repairs and rehabiltationofthe
and no consultants engagedto pre-         KPOD.
pare RAPs.
Losses Incurred. KPODdrain and            While this claim refersto the closed LBOD Stage 1 Project Man-
Tidal Link has blocked all runoff Mater   agement is ofthe view that the ongoingwork supported by ADB
to moveto Rannof Kutch and other          under the NDP projectto support and strengthen implementation
grazing areas. This caused declining      of the LBOD EMMP will helpto mitigate residual environmental
of vegetation to the south of KPOD,       and socialimpacts of the LBOD system
lossto forest species anddecreased            Stormwater runoffoccurs on boththe left and right banks of
grazing areas. It impacted on the lie     LBOD (andsouth side of KPOD). Runoffon the left bank of LBOD
lihoodof localcommunities and find-       spreads inthe areas on the left bank (including grazingareas).
ing no other alternativethese people      The runoff also goes through the DPODto the Shakoor Dhand
have rrigrated.Just two villages are      and thence to the Rannof Kutch.Also, whenever the flow in
settled now with less population inthe    LBOD exceeds 2,000 cubic feet per second, stormwater flows,
southem side of KPOD in Rannof            includingthose generated on the right bank, go into the DPOD
Kutch. While beforethere were about             onwards to
10villages. The areawas green with        andAssessmentsShakoor Dhand.
                                                             carried out bythe GoSand WAPDA afterthe
severalspeciesof gross and forest         2003 monsoon stormconcludedthat this was an extremely rare
trees, but when the water source has      event. The volume of rainfall associated with this storm, which
been blocked by KPODthis area de-         caused extensive flooding, was larger than that of any other
sertified and could not supportthe        storm on record. The extremely heavy rainfallin boththe upper
life.                                     and lower basins, accompanied by farmers breaching embank-
Another shock witnessed by us dur-        mentsto drain their fields and by a hightide, resultedin surface
ing monsoon rains of 2003. We are         runoffthat was four times the design capaclty of the LBOD drain-




                                                25

     Pakistan



                                                                       Response

live witness ofthe episodethat how        age system. The existing drainage system, includingLBODand
the water of KPODand Kotri barrage        the drains improvedunderthe NDP project was overwhelmed by
surface drains flooded about 75 viI-
lages. The study conductedby na-          theManagementacknowledgesthe
                                              unusual magnitudeof the storm.effects   of the monsoon rains
tional NGOActionAd observedthat           of 2003 on the community. See also Item 17.
the failure ofthe drainagesystem
portraysthe entire coastal strip of
Sindh as a drainage bowl,destroyed
Tidal Link indicatethat saline water of
LBOD, insteadgoing intothe sea, is
continuously destroyingthe Badin
District lands. The newspapers re-
portedthat one hundred and sixty
dehs (indicates a small revenue unit
in Pakistan) are completely under
inundation, where agriculture crops
standing over 200,000 acres has
been destroyed and morethan
200,000 villagers have been rendered
homelessfor couple of months. In
single union council, which was worst
hit by KPOD flowing water in villages,
32 peopledied dueto drowning in
drainage water. There were 14 major
breaches observedin KPOD from RD
20to RD 180.
Netud Habitats QP 404
                 -
RamsarSites. The Wetlands of              The NDP project has not supporled investmentsthat directlyaf-
Sindh especially mentionedbelow           fectedthetwo dhands designated as Ramsar sites or any other
form an important component of a          sensitivewetland areas.
majormigratoryroutefor waterfowl              Nurri(2,540 ha) and Jubho (700 ha) Lagoonswere designated
knownas the "Indus Flyway." They          as Ramsar sites in Cctober 2001, about four years after the NDP
are importantwintering, nestingand        project was approved. Accordingto their Ramsar listings, which
staging grounds for a large number of     confirm their importancefor migratory waterbirds, neithersite is
locallyand globally important bird        explicitlyprotected under any environmental legislation, nor have
tles inhabitthe area...The wetlands,
species...Two species of marinetur-       managementplans been prepared. More detailed assessment is
                                          requiredto determine ifthese sites are affected by the breaches
channels and creeks are also a            inthe Tidal Link Canalandthe collapse of the CholriWeir. The
productivefishery source...The            Rannof Kutch was also designated as a Ramsar site in Novem-
western margin ofthe Rannof Kutch,        ber 2002.
where the drains enter the coastal                               sites were given Ramsar status, and before
zone, consistsof a numberof small,        theLong projectwas initiated, the environmental importance of
                                              NDPbeforethese
interconnectedlakes called dhands in      these sites was recognized, andthe design chosen for the Tidal
Sindh...                                  Link connecting KPODto the sea incorporated measuresfor their
Two of these dhands have been             protection and conservation. Inaddition, the LBOD EMMP pro-
internationally recognized as a           posedthat extensive studies and monitoringbe carried out to en-
Ramsar sites becauseof their              sure their sustainable management.
significance for migratory birdsand           In 1997,the first series of baseline studies was carried out as
other significant biodiversity and         part of implementation of the LBOD EMMP. These studiesin-
ecosystem values...Underthe                cluded avifauna(ZoologicalSurvey Department, 1997), fisheries
obligationof Ramsartreaty the              (University of Sindh, Jamshoro, 1997), and comparativeland use
government and donors haveto              (Mott MacDonald Limited, 1998). Becauseof a disputebetween
                  use



                                                26

                                                                     National Drainage Program Project



No,

    of wetlands defined, recognized and      the GoS and WAPDA, work on implementationof the LBOD
    protected bythe convention The           EMMPwas stalled and isonly now being re-initiatedwith ADB
    World Bank is not supposedto pro-        support underthe NDP project.
    vide support to projectsthat would           NDP project design recognizedthe importanceofwetlands
    contravene a govemment's require-        (SAR, Section 4.19) and includeda processof environmental
    ments under intemationalenvim-           screening and assessment to take into considerationimpactson
    mentaltreaties and agreements.           natural habitats(see Item 1).The NDP project also called for de-
                                             velopment of a Wetland Management Plan, intendedto establish
                                             measuresto imDrovewetlands Drotection.
17. Livelihoods.These dhands (wet-           The 2001 Tidal Link FactFindingMissionsummarizedthe physi-
    lands) provide livelihoodresourcesto     cal and socio-economicconditionsof the dhands area based in
    the forty villages of fishermen having   part on the available 1997studies and concludedthat socio-
    a 12000-15000population and living       economic conditions inthe area are very poor.
    around these water bodies.There is           While a poverty-targeted intervention is needed in this area,
    noother livelihood source.               Managementbelievesthat the NDP project is not the right in-
                                             strument for this and further, that implementation ofthe NDP pro-
                                             ject has not worsened the plightof the people living nearthe
                                             dhands. The NationalRuralSupport Program,with resources
                                             fromthe PPAF, has beenactive in Badin Districtfor the lastthree
                                             years and has completedapproximately 50 community infrastruc-
                                             ture projectsthat have includedwatercourse linings, hand pumps
                                             and link roads, all aimed at improving livelihoods. Recognizing
                                             the extraordinary circumstances of the 2003 floods, in consulta-
                                             tionwith the GoP and GoS, Management proposesto carry out a
                                             diagnostic study to determinethe extent and severity of losses
                                              incurred and, in discussion with the district authorities in Badin,
                                             formulate a livelihood assistance program,taking into considera-
                                             tion the ongoing programs inthe area.
18. Tidal Link Canal. The idea of linking     ThisThe
                                                   claim referstothe closed LBOD Stage 1Project.
    the KPODwith Shah Samandocreek                    1989LBOD EIA determinedthat the most importanteffect
    through Tidal Linkthat was passing       ofthe Tidal Linkonthe dhandswould be excessive drainage due
    throughthese wetlands (dhands)was        to tidal fluctuations, if no measuresto mitigatethis effect were
    entirely unsound. Beforethe imple-       taken.
    mentationof LBOD,thesedrains                 The design combinationof the Tidal Link Canal and the Cholri
    were receiving Materfrom Kotri           Weir was intendedto mitigatethese adverse effects. However,a
    drains, rainfalland surface runoff in     series of structural problems, compounded bythe 1999cyclone,
    the monsoon season. The construc-         damaged the Tidal Link Canal and renderedthe CholriWeir inop-
    tion of Tidal Link preventedthe water     erable, severely limitingthe efficacy of these mitigation measures
    of Rannof Kutchduring wet years to        The Tidal Link Fact Finding Missionreviewedthe current status oi
    enter into dhands andthe fall of Kotri   the Tidal Link canal andthe weir as well as implementation ofthe
    barragesurfacedrains into KPOD            physical and environmental monitoring programs. The mission
    also reducedflow towards dhands.          stated that "the uncertainty about the future outcome of the active
    The decreasingwater flow to dhands        channel processes inthe Tidal Link, the cost and viability of vari-
    reducedthe areas ofdhands. The           ous rehabilitation options,and the environmental risks associated
    1989EIA for the LBOD determined          with the conditionsdeveloping inthe dhands strongly indicates
    that the most important effect ofthe     the needfor an effective monitoring programthat would helpto
    Tidal Link on the dhandswould be          understandthe trendsand help to definefeasible and sustainable
    excessivedrainagedue to the tidal         mitigation measures."
    fluctuations. However no measures                  1989LBOD EIA also determined that additional, tempo-
    were taken to preserve and prevent        raryThe
                                                  inflow of drainage water from KPOD,which occurs at high
    such kindof situation.                   tide when backwater raisesthe water level in KPOD,would not
                                              havean adverse effect. This inflow could also offset the loss of




                                                   27

          Pakistan



                                                                             Response

                                                water from the Rannof Kutch in wet years, further stabilizingthe
                                                water balance inthe dhands.
                                                    With regardto recommendedactions, see paras 45-46 ofthe
                                                maintext.
    Damageto the Ecosystem. The                 The recommendations of the Tidal Link Fact Finding Mission (see
    degradation of these importantwet-          Annex 8) were that no repairs be undertaken (as also recom
    lands has caused severe damageto            mended bythe GoS's High-Level Technical Committee) because
    the ecosystem, habitat andfish catch.       the damage was beyondthe limits of possible repair, andthe
    Although boththetechnical commit-           channelwas continuingto actively evolve. The mission also rec-
    tee of the Govemment of Sindh and           ommendeda renewed and strengthened monitoring programwith
    World Bank fact-finding missionrec-         increasedemphasison data analysis (see also Item8).
    ognizedthese issues after the 1999              While data collection coordinated by WAPDA-South has con-
    cyclone, no measure was taken to            tinued (see Memorandumof Understanding betweenSMO-
    prevent or mitigate the situation.Lh-       WAPDA and National Instituteof Oceanography, March 1999),
    der the section of "risk the fact find-     the strengthened programof monitoring and analysis has not
    ing mission mentionsthat "thefirst          been undertakenas recommended, and as a result,mitigation
    major risk is that the outcome antici-      measureshave not been identified and decided.
    pated by the Technical Committee,               Becausethe LBODEMMP is in the early stages of implemen-
    i.e. that the Tidal Link stabilizes and     tation, it willtake some time before solid data becomes available
    functions adequately but the unm-           with which one could assess the specific changestaking place in
    trolled connection betweenthe canal         the dhands. Anecdotal evidence, includingthe movementof the
    and dhands remains, results in sub-         fishermen from the dhands to the Tidal Link channel, suggests
    stantial and irreversibledamageto           there have beenchanges inthe composition and yield of the fish-
    the ecosystem, habitatand fishery in        ery, but there is no systematic data on which to understandthe
    the dhands. The large diumalfluctua-        changes and formulate mitigation measures.
    tions in dhand water level may
    change conditions in the dhands suf-
    ficiently to cause severe degradation
    to the ecosystem and loss of biodi-
    versity and key qualities ofthe water-
    fowl habitat. The changes in biodiver-
    sity and habitat notedabove could
    adversely affect thefishery reducing
    yields particularlyof commercially
    imDortantsDecies."
    IndigenousPeopieSs OD 4.20
                          -                -The
20. Mallah. The majority of coastal com     49-      Mallah in Sindh were originally involvedwith guiding people
    munities belongto Mallah, who from       51 at sea; the word Mallah in Sindhiderivesfrom this activity. They
    their forefathers are engaged in fish-      are longtime, Sindhi-speaking Muslim inhabitants of the Province.
    ing. These groups of peopleare clas-        Their principaloccupationis fishing althoughsome havealso
    sified indigenous people, because           moved into agriculture. The fishing community is considered to
    they have close attachment to ances-        form part ofthe mainstream in Sindh by a majority of the Prow
    tralterritoriesand natural resources        ince's population. The GoP does not have a classification for Ir+
    inthis area...There are morethan 60         digenous Peoples.
    villages of this communitywith the              The Mallah fishing community does not meet the criteria
    population of 25,000 and engaged in         specifiedinthe Banks OD 4.20 for classification as Indigenous
    fishing at both sea and contiguous          Peoplebecause it: (a)does not have an indigenous language
    wetlands... The operationof LBOD            distinct from the mainstreamlanguageof the region; (b) lacks
    has brought significant changes inthe       customary social and politicalinstitutions; and (c) is not identified
    lives of these people. The two-mega         by othersas adistinctcultural group.
    shocks mentioned earlier one cyclone                  lives and livelihoodsof the Mallah fishing community werc
    in 1999and other monsoon rainsdur-          notThe
                                                    disrupted in 1999and 2003 by the LBOD and Tidal Link.



                                                     28

                                                                         National Drainage Program Project


I
INo,                      Issue              -Para
                                               no                              Response

     ing 2003have changedthe economic              Thesefacilities were overwhelmed by two storms of very great
     baseofthese people. Boththese                 magnitude,andthe flooding that occurred during these extreme
     shocks were interconnectedwith the            events would likely have.beenworse had the LBOD andthe Tidal
     operationof LBODand aggravated                Link not been in place.However, no studies have been under-
     bythe overflowing and breachesin              taken to date to determine impacts on this communitythat might
     KPODand Tidal Link. Inboththese               stem from the changedwater regimeof the dhands.
     two tragic eventsthe Tidal Link Canal
     and KPOD inundatedtheir viIlages,
     damaged houses and some families
     even losttheir family mem
     bers...Already poor,these communi-
     ties were pushed into further absolute

I    poverty.
     Poverty Impacts. The NDP has not        -The
                                              52        NDP project has been implementedunder diligent proce-
     taken into account the poverty and            dures for social and environmental assessment and screening for
     impoverishment of indigenouspeople            each subproject. There are no "proposed NDP investments"that
     and is also unableto anticipatethe            extendthe LBOD, materially change conditions inthe KPOD or
     negative effect of proposed NDP in-           Tidal Link areas, or otherwise threaten people's lives or liveli-
     terventions on the already miserable          hoods.
     conditions of these poor fishermen.              The SAR (Section4.13, Annex 1 andAnnex 7) and subse-
     We believethat proposed NDP in-               quent implementation guidelines requiresocial assessmentand
     vestment will poseseriousthreat to            screening of each subproject underthe NDP project. The vulner-
     the lives, livelihood and rightsto de-        able groups to be identified in social assessmentsfor subprojects
     velopment and culture of indigenous           include low incomegroups (smallfarmers) women andthe lowest
     groups guaranteed under several in-           one third inthe income range (includinglandless andtenants). All
     temationalcovenants. The projectwill          social and economic groups that are disadvantagedare thus en-
     inequitably distributethe costs and           compassed. The checklists and assessmentsat the subproject
     benefds. The marginalizedand vul-             levelaim to ensure that potentialadverse impacts are mitigated
     nerablegroup of indigenous commu-             andthat proposed interventionsmaximize project benefits, includ-
     nitiesas usualwill be looser in this          ing employment creation, for identifiedvulnerable groups.
     game. Again the worst affectedwill                The processand procedures suggested for social and envi-
     be women due to gender inequality in          ronmentalscreening were followed during preparationof the NDP
     society.                                      subprojects. Since these subprojects mainly consisted of rehabili-
                                                   tation and improvement of existinginfrastructure, detailed social
                                                   assessmentwas not considered necessary.The NDP project has
                                                   not supported interventions in the dhands or the Tidal Link. Fur-
                                             -     ther, environmentaland social screening of NDP subprojectsdid
                                                   not identify any adverse impactson the Mallahcommunity.
     CulturalProperty-OPN *11,03
 22. Historicand ReligiousSites. The          53-  There are no plansto expandthe KPOD under the NDP project.
     southern part of PakistanLe. district    54       Roopa Mari is located about 2 to 3 km northof RD 10of
     Thatta and Badin have long been a             KPOD. The site includes the tomb of Dodo Soomro, the last ruler
     rich cultural location due to the vicin-      of the Soomra dynasty. The tomb is located on relatively higher
     ity of sea as well as the M u s Delta.        ground. The building over the grave has been rebuilt at least
     There were several ports usedfor              three times, first inthe 1lth
                                                                               century, then inthe ldhcentury and
     local and internationaltrade. The few         most recently in 1998.The constructionand normaloperation of
     and very important cultural sides in          KPODdoes not appear to have affected the site, sincethe high
     Badinwhich are being badly affected           water levelinthe KPOD design is about 1-2mbelow the site. In
     by KPOD and Tidal Link Canal in-              the 2003 rains, however,the area was flooded (see Item8 and
     cludesthe monumentsof saint                   13).
     Shaikh Kirhiyo Bhandari,the histori-
     cal site of RooDa Man and Thari.. ..              The monumentof Saint Shaikh Kirhiyo Bhandari is locatedon
                                                   the easternedae of PateiiDhandh near the tail of Mirwah Canal.



                                                        29

     Pakistan



                                                                         Response

The KPOD isjust passingthroughthe         It lieson the outskirts of Roopa Mari about 3 km northof RD 5 of
identified4 km area of Roopa Mari,        {POD. This tomb was also rebuilt severaltimes andthe present
where the Soomra rulershavetheir          wildingwas built about 20 to 25 years ago. The Pateji Dhandh at
capital.The tomb of Dodo Soomro           ;hisThe
                                                location has recededfrom the site.
the last ruler of Soomra dynasty is                 Tharri site is located 10.15 Km northof KPOD near Sirani
also locatedthere.All these cultural      Drain.
and historical sites are inthe rangeof         Duringa site visit by a Bank consultant in early October 2004,
KPODand Tidal Link flooding. The          no recentdamage was observed. Accordingto available informa-
floods have hitthese placestwice in       tion, the Archaeology Departmenthas not classifiedthese sitesto
Fiveyears andthere is eminentthreat       date and no excavations have been undertakenat any of them.
that we will lose our historyand cul-
ture. Inaddition the current passage
of KPOD has already occupied some
of the area of cultural and historical
importanceand in case of expansion
of KPOD, the remainingareas and
monumentswill be entirely vanished.
Inboththe projects neither govern-
ment nor donors have even botherto
recognizethe cultural and historical
importanceof thisarea andthe threat
to those placesdue to drainage pro-




Community Participationand h-             Participation.Through the formation of FOs,the NDP projecthas
formation Disclosure. The failureto       providedopportunities to marginalizedgroups, such as share
involve local peopleespecially mar-       croppers andfarmers at the tail endof the system,to participate
ginalized indigenousgroups who are        in decision-makingon water allocations among farmers. A review
worst affected by LBOD inthe plan-        of several subproject feasibiltty reportsindicatesthat stakeholder
ning and implementation in NDP,the        views were taken intoaccount in subproject design.
refusalto share informationwith af-            All on-farm investments (tertiaryirrigationchannel improbe-
fected communities and interested         mentsand subprojects for improvementof distributary canals)
 NGOs, andthe failure to ensure that      were/are beingimplementedthroughfarmer participation. Water
the voices and mcemsof affected           distribution, particularly the rotationschedulesduringtimesof
 peopleare heard and considered in        water shortage, is prepared in consultation with FO representa-
the context of environmentalassess-       tives. InSindh, about 200 FOs have been established,ofwhich
 ment, disposal of drainage effluents,    about half have taken on legal responsibildyfor operation and
 conservationof wetlands and long         management ofthe tertiary irrigationsystem and for collection of
term involuntary displacementisa          water charges. With the aim of participatorydecision making,the
 violation of bank policies regarding     Chairman ofthe AWB is elected bythe members, who include
 involuntary resettlement, environ-       small farmers and farmers from the tail endof the distributary ca-
 mental assessment and indigenous         nal. Furthermore, in Sindh, an apex body calledthe Farmers0-
 peoples. Few ofthe project related       ganization Council was established in 2001, to represent FOs.
 document produced in English,which
 we cannot readwas made available          Disclosure. The status of disclosure on NDP project documents i$
 inthe offices of WAPDA and other         as follows:
 department andwas also hardto ac-         (a) DSEA (June 1993)-was accepted bythe Bank asthe EIA
 cess by us.                                     for the NDP project inJanuary 1996and, accordingto the
                                                 lnfoshop (then Public Information Center or PIC)was submit-
                                                 ted and disclosed in April 1996. This disclosure took place af




                                                  30

                                                                    National Drainage ProgramProject



                  Claimnssue                                              Response

                                                 ter the October 1995appraisaland was not in accordance
                                                 with BP 17.50, para 13for Category B IDA projectswith a
                                                 separate EA. No informationcould be bcatedabout in
                                                 country disclosure of the DSEAto affected stakeholders or
                                             (b) FLAR (January 1996)-was disclosed in May 2001 at the
                                                 about subproject EAs or Project Feasibility Studies.

                                                 Infoshop.There was no requirementfor the resettlement
                                                 documentto be disclosed priorto appraisal under OD 4.30.
                                                 No informationon incountrydisclosure to affected stake-
                                                 holderscould be located.
                                             (c) PID -was disclosedin October 1994 and subsequently up-
                                                 dated. The January 1997 PID processed by the PIC inthe
                                                 week ending February7, 1997, contained, as required, an
                                                 annexdescribingthe EA, in accordancewith BP 17.50,as
                                                 did an earlier PIDdisclosed in the lnfoshop in October 1995,
                                                 priorto appraisal.
                                                 Priorto Boardapprovalof the project,the only document lo-
                                             catedthat was translated into local languages was a briefing
                                             document (see Item 11). From2001, a periodic bulletinonthe
                                             NDP project has beendisseminatedin Sindhito farmers and
                                             other stakeholders.
                                                 Consultationswere carried out in meetings with local commu-
                                             nitiesof the subproject areas during field visits for subproject
                                             preparation.The social and environmentalscreening reports were
                                             not disclosed. Noneof the subprojectswarranted a full EIA; there
                                             fore disclosurewas not undertaken.
24. Communicationwith the Bankand             Management is unaware of the Requesters'communicationswith
    Other Authorities                        the "local authorities" (GoP or the NDP project implementing
    We havetried our best to engage          agencies) on the issues raised inthe Request. Various communi-
    with localauthorities and World Bank     cations betweenthe Requestersand Bank staff are summarized
    officialsto discuss our mcemswith         below:
    them. Butwe have not got any posi-        0 Julv 29,2003. The Requestersasked Bank staff by email for
    tive responsefrom them. Fromtime           certaindocumentsand for a meeting.
    to time we have been engaged in           0 Auaust 5,2003. Bank staff responded by email and supplied
    peaceful protest in orderto protect         electronic links to documents, and offeredto supply hard cop-
    our historicalrights and entitlements.      ies. Electronic and hard copies of requesteddocumentswere
    But all our peaceful effortsof en-          also subsequently hand-deliveredto Requesters.
    gagement and protest haveyielded          0 AuQust 5.2003. The Requestersacknowledgedby email re-
    nothing                                     ceipt ofdocuments.
                                              0 SeDtember 9 and 11,2003. The Requesterssent emails to
                                                severalorganizations, including the Bank Islamabadoffice, r e
                                                portingfailureof the drainage system
                                              0 SeDtember 17.2003. The affected communitiesorganized a
                                                protest march in Badin.A detailed report was communicatedto
                                                Bank officialsin Islamabadand widely published in local and
                                                national media. Itwas not felt that a responsewas required.
                                                December 2003. The Requesterstelephoned the senior irriga-
                                               tion engineer inthe Bank Islamabadoffice requesting a meet-
                                                ingto discuss their concerns. During the telephoneconversa-
                                               tion Bank staff suggested meetingthe Requesterjointly with
                                                concemed government and implementingagencies of the NDP
                                                project but this was not agreeable to him. The Requesteralso




                                                  31

Pakistan



        Ctaimllsaue                               Response

                        asked for NDP relateddocuments, includingthe EMP.The Fk-
                        quester was informedthat ADB was assistingWAPDA to pre-
                        pare aWater Sector EnvironmentalManagementFramework
                        and that thiswas still under preparation.
                       0Februarv9 and 12,2004. Four civil societygroupswrote
                        emails to the Country Directorand to the Task Team Leader
                        seeking appointmentsto discuss issues relatedto the NDP
                        project. Another email was sent to the Task Team Leader with
                        copiesto the Country Director, Senior Irrigation Specialist Is-
                                                                                   -
                        lamabadoffice, RegionalVice Presidentand Senior Advisor
                        requestingthem to consider community mcems onthe NDP
                        project.
                       0Februarv 13.2004.Bank staff respondedindicatingthat the
                        Country Directorwas away and suggested meetingwith sector
                        staff. A specific date was proposed.
                       0Februarv 16,2004.The Requesters indicated inability to meet
                        on proposeddate and suggested an altemative later date. The
                        altemativedate was not feasible for Bank staff. Therewas no
                        further follow up.
                        March 15,2004. A daylong sit-in demonstration by about 10
                        personswas made in front of the Bank's IslamabadOffice,
                        demanding reparations for communities affected bythe July
                        2003 rains and suspensionof all upstream drainageworks un-
                        der the NDP project. Four Bank staff metwith the demonstra-
                        tors and listenedto theirgrievances. The demonstrators also
                        delivered a letter dated March 15,2004,addressedto the
                        Country Director.
                       0March 15,2004. The Requesterssent an emailto a large
                        numberof people, including Bankstaff, informingthem about
                        the aforementioned demonstration.
                       0March 18,2004. Bank staff respondedto the Requesters, indi-
                        cating that Bank staff had agreed to meet inthe past and re-
                        mainedwilling to meet at an agreed time.
                        March22,2004. The Requesters respondedto Bank staff and
                        askedfor a meeting betweenthe Bank staff and a delegation of
                        three to four persons inthe first week of April 2004. The sug-
                        gested date was not feasible as concemed staff were unavail-
                        able. Therewas no further follow up.
                         March30.2004. The Requesters askedfor a meetingwith a
                        visiting mission. However,the meetingdid nottake place as
                        the missiondid ndvisit Islamabad.
                         SeDtemberlOctober 2004. The PoE of the DMP had consulta-
                        tions and workshops with NGOs in Sindh, and will include con-
                        cems raised in the PoE final rwort.




                           32

                                                                         National Drainage Program Project


                                                   ANNEX 2
                                  CHRONOLOGYOFKEY EVENTS
                       LBOD                                                         NDP
December   BoardApproved LBOD Stage 1
lgeq
Feltruary  EIAfor LBODStage-l (includingTidal Link)
1989
Septembf   Tidal Link and overflowweir (Cholriweir)
I 9 9 3    imp~ementationbegun                           IIi1
March 1993 Environment,SupportingReport#IO, Mid-
           Term Review. LBODStaae-1 Proied               I
                                   I
                                                             January    lnrtialExecutlveProjectSummaryfor the

                                                         IJune1994      NDPProject
                                                                        PreDaration of NDP Prdect begins
                                                         i                                         -
November   InterimEnvironmentalReport, LBOD Stagal
lW




                                                         iET            Appraisalof NDP Project

19951996   Erosion and swur of Tidal Link bed and both
           banksobserved Remedialworks along
           embankment undertakenby WAPDA 08M
           (South),but bank sloughing, bed and bank
           erosioncontinued;differentialsettlementof
           upstream face of CholriWeir detected
           beginningin 1995, remedialworks
                                                          ,  April 1996 Disclosureof DSEA at Bank Infoshop
                                                            1January
                                                             im7        PlDAs Ordinances and Acts

                                                             Novsrnber  BoardApproved NDP Projed

Oetmnber   LBOD Stage 1 projectclosed
1%I?                                                     I
                                                         I   M&JW       NDP Project Effectiveness

April 19%  Update of 1995EMMPfor the LBOD Stage -        i1i
           1Proiect indudina the Tidal Linkarea
                            -                            I
June1998   250feet of CholriWeir section length
           collapsed Attempts to close the breached
           weir sectionfailed
June 1908  implementationCompletionReportfor LBOD
           Staae iProiact
              I
October    Federal and provindal authorities stop further
 1998      remedialworks efter breachin CholriWeir       Ii
           increasedto 450 feet length
May 1999   Catastrophictropicalcyclone causedsevere
           damage,includingafmost complete
           destructionof GhotriWeir, and breachesof
           both Tidal Link embankmentsin 56 places
                                                             Fehav-      ReviewmRTR Missionfor NDP Projedwith
                                                             April 2oOo AidsMemoire in April 2000



                                                         33

        Pakistan



                           LBOD                         I                            NDP

May 2000      ejoS High-LevelTechnicalCommitteeon
              Gyctone damages to Tidal LinWCholriWeir   iIi
              with re.esortmadein October 2000          I
                    - 8
D " b e r     GoS second HigbLevel Technical Committee
2000          to reviewenvironmentaland socialeffectsof
              damagesto ridai LinWCholriWelr
                                                         EtYW          Pre-feasibilitystudy beginsfor NSDS

Mmh2001       Worid Bank Tidal Link Fact FindingMission
              on Cyclone damages to Tidal LinWChoiriWeir
                                                           Msrch-April JointWorld Bank,ADB and JBIC MTR
                                                                       Missionfor NDPProiect
                                                           June ?OR1   Special Cmmittee appointedby the
                                                                       Resident of Pakistanto make
                                                                       rwommendations to restructureNDP (Junejo
                                                                       Committee) - NDP projed put "orbhold"
                                                        i              durlng review
                                                        IJuly2001      Fundsallocatedfrom NDP oroiectfor DEW
                                                                                                  . .
October       Reportof second High-LevelTechnical
2001          Committee (receivedbythe Bank in June
              2m21
                                                           February    Water Sector EMP Frameworkfor NDP;
                                                                                          -

                                                        i
                                                        1 Mid2002      GoP reauests NSDS Panelof Experts
                                                           Auw Zoo2    Reportof Junejo Committee approved by
                                                                       Presidentof Pakistan;NDP projecttaken "off-
                                                                       haId"8hOftlythereafter

                                                        12002          Approval of SindhWater Management
                                                                       Ordinance-- Sindh revisedthe SlDA Act of
                                                                       1997
                                                                        ...
                                                           DclOim.     MTR CompletionJoint DonorReview
                                                           November

                                                        1
Jury 2003     Very heavyflooding due to abnormlfy high  I
              rainfallduring monsoon
August        Meetingto review Recommendationsof the    i  brit 2003   NSDS Panelof ExoertsReoort




2004          Chief Corpsof Engineerson LBQD
              Performanceafter July2003 floods  -chaired
              by Presidentof Pakistan
                                                           Swtei?iber  DMP Panelof ExpertsMissionto revlew
                                                                       August 2004 Draft DMP study
                                                           September   Requestto InspectionPanel
                                                        1 2 0 4




                                                        34

                                                              National Drainage Program Project




                                          ANNEX 3
               HISTORYOF THE DRAINAGECRISISINPAKISTAN

1.      The continuous and expanding use o f Indus water for irrigation (from storage or
direct river diversions) has significantly altered the hydrological balance o f the Indus
Basin. The lack o f drainage solutions has reduced the productivity o f land and the long
term sustainability of the system. Seepagelosses from irrigation canals, distributaries and
minor water courses and deep percolation from irrigated lands have resulted in a gradual
rising o f the groundwater table, bringing with it critical problems of waterlogging and
salinity over a vast area. Waterlogging i s widespread throughout Punjab and Sindh
provinces, where most o f the country's food and fiber crops are produced. The twin
problems o f waterlogging and salinity are most severe in Sindh Province (Lower Indus
Plain), where more than half o f the waterlogged and salinity affected areas are located. In
the early 1900s, the water table was more than 15 meters (m) below the surface
throughout the Indus Plain. However, by 1978 (when the Indus Basin Salinity Survey
was completed), the water table in46 percent o f the Basin was within 3 mand 22 percent
within 1.5 m o f the surface and the situation has deteriorated since then. According to
GoP's definition, severely waterlogged (or "disaster areas") are defined as those areas
that have water tables shallower than 1.5 m below the surface. Irrigated agriculture i s
only marginally viable at this level o f water table, especially when combined with
excessive salinity. A comprehensive survey conducted in 1961 estimated that about
40,000 ha o flandwere being lost annually to agricultural production due to waterlogging
and/or salinity. O f late, waterlogging problems have been reduced because of: a four-year
drought; vertical drainage from tubewells (see below); better operation and maintenance
o f drainage systems; better water distribution, because o f farmer participation and closing
o f unauthorized direct outlets from main and branch canals that are intended as carrier
channels and not for distribution o f irrigation water. See Map 2.

2.      The need for drainage and salinity control inthe Indus Basin became m j o r issues
beginning in the 1950s; by the early 1960s, the GoP had initiated a series o f salinity
control and reclamation projects (SCARP) with government tubewell installations for
drainage and supplemental irrigation in usable fresh groundwater (FGW) areas. To date,
about 12,000 such tubewells have been installed, covering about 35 percent o f Pakistan's
cultivable command area (CCA). Approximately 90 percent o f these wells are located in
Punjab, and most o f the remaining wells are in Sindh. The tubewells have partly
alleviated waterlogging and salinity in these areas, but a large portion o f the CCA,
especially in Sindh, continues to need drainage relief. While the SCARP experience
demonstrated that tubewells cb provide significant drainage relief, their operation and
maintenance (O&M) has been deficient due to technical, financial, and managerial
problems. Currently, the principal need i s to address the drainage problem in saline
groundwater (SGW) areas and to improve the efficiency o f tubewells. With the support o f
several donors, Pakistan has made substantial efforts to reduce waterlogging problems
through SCARP and the LBOD system. Farmers have installed 700,000 private tubewells
in FGW areas where canal service is insufficient. This reduced waterlogging problems,
particularly in Punjab Province, where most private tubewells are installed. In Sindh,



                                               35

Pakistan


however, where most irrigated land i s located in SGW areas, problems have increased.
There, the need for surface drainage systems and better water distribution are
fundamental to improving agricultural production.

3.      Impact of the DrainageCrisis on Sindh Province. In Sindh, irrigation canals
were extended and improved during the late 1800s and by 1910, the irrigated area had
reached a peak of 1.4 million ha. Sukkur Barrage, completed in 1932, increased the
annual cultivated area to 2.37 million ha. The completion of Ghulam Mohammed (now
Kotri) Barrage (1955), and Gudu Barrage (1962) brought the rest of Sindh's irrigation
system under barrage control. The total CCA under the three Sindh barrages now totals
5.5 million ha. The additional irrigationwater supplied by these barrageshas resulted ina
rapidrise of groundwater levels.

4.      Sindh Province is the repository for the plain's drainage waters. Approximately
3.2 million ha, more than 50 percent of Sindh's total irrigated area, has severe
waterlogging and/or salinity problems. Sindh's drainage problems are aggravatedby the
nearly level terrain (the slope southwards towards the Rann of Kutch ranges from 1in
15,000 to 1in20,000). The little natural surface drainage that exists i s impededby roads
and irrigation bunds and canals. Effective drainage and improvedwater management are
urgently needed in severely affected areas to arrest further land deterioration in the
province, which comprises about 25 percent ofPakistan's total irrigatedarea.

5.      There are a number of important environmental and social issues associatedwith
the water sector in Pakistan, exacerbatedby population growth, development needs and
infrastructure development. The coastal Sindh area that i s the spatial focus of the Request
i s subject to environmental risks, precarious livelihoods and vulnerability to natural
disasters. The key environmental and social issues include access to freshwater for
livelihoods, increased tidal fluctuations in affected wetlands, conservation of protected
areas (including Ramsar sites), surface and groundwater quality, sustainable groundwater
managment, sustainableuse of fisheries and integrated coastal zone management. These
are regional development challenges and are beyond the scope of the NDP project.

6.      RecurrentRisks of Floodingin Lower Sindh. Although average annualrainfall
i s low, southernparts of Sindh, particularly the coastal areas, are prone to intenserainfall
and cyclone events, with rainfall amounts in excess of the average annual rainfall
occurring in a span of a few days. As previously noted, the terrain i s generally flat, with
an average slope of 0.014 percent southeastwards, away from the course of IndusRiver,
which flows on a ridge higher than the adjoining areas and thus does not act as a natural
drain. Naturaldrainage i s ill-defined and to a large extent, blockedbyroadsand irrigation
bunds and channels. Since 1959, at least fourteen heavyrainfall events (with at least three
of them accompaniedby cyclones) have been recorded.' Due to the flat topography and
lack of natural drainage, such events result in severe local flooding on average about once
inthreeyears, leadingto lossoflife anddamageto property andcrops.


     Duringthepast45 years unusually heavyrains were recordedin1959,1961,1962,1964,1967,1970,
1973,1976,1979,1985,1994,1999,2003     and2004. In1999,2003 and2004 the rains were accompanied
bycyclones.


                                                36

                                                            NationalDrainageProgramProject


7.      The low density o f drainage channels (1 mlha in comparison to an international
average o f 35-50 mha; in the Netherlands, 100 &a)         and their generally inadequate
capacity coupled with poor O&M o f existing drains, poor management o f the canal
system and breaches or "escapes" from canals during storm events further exacerbate the
flooding problem. Canal systems are very long-in            some cases several hundred
kilometers. During storm events, even though action is taken to stop fwther water
diversions from the barrages, the water already present in the long channels has to be
discharged in drains, since irrigation becomes unnecessary. This increases the flooding
problem.

8.      Inaddition to acts of nature and inadequate O&M, the diversion of Indus water
for irrigation has drastically reduced the amount o f sediment that used to reach the Delta
and coastal areas, thus exposing these areas to sea intrusion. The DMP PoE summarized
this issue as follows inits preliminary report:

        "A special problem concerns the coastal erosion at various places along the
        coastal zone. There are several reasonsfor this erosion. First of all, due to the
        construction of the barrages in the Indus River the sediment supply to the coastal
        area reportedly has gone downfrom about 400 million tonsper year to about 35
        million tonsper year, In addition there may be other reasons like: storm surges,
        currents induced by the tidalJuctuations, the rise of the mean sea level and the
        disappearance of mangroves... The impression exists that a new equilibrium is
        developing. However, additional coastal erosion will have to be expected,at least
        in the forthcoming decades. Measures can be considered to counteract such
        erosion."




                                             37

Pakistan




                                     ANNEX 4
                       SUPERVISIONCHRONOLOGY

Date of Visits          Key Membersof the Team
March 16to 25,1998      0  Task Team LeaderFinancialManagement
jStSupenlisbn mission    0 FinancialAnalyst
                         0 IrrigationEngineer
                           ProjectAnalyst
                         0 Procurement Specialist
                         0 Disbursement Officer
                         0 NGO Specialist
August 3 to 18, 4998    0  Task Team LeaderlFinanciaIManagement
2"dSupervision mission     idgation Engineer
                         0 Resettlement Engineer
                         0 PrwwrementSpecialist
                         0 Project Analyst
February22 to March4,      Task Team Lea~~r/Financia~Management
1999                     0 IrrigationEngineer
$' Supervision mission   . M&E Emnomist
                         0 Operations Analyst
                         0 ~ ~ ~ r Specialiste ~
                                          E m
                         0 DisbursementOfficer
                         0 Social Development
May 17to June 24,1999    0 Task Team LeaderFinandalManagement
4'" Supervisionmission   0 Agriculture Economist
                           ProjectAnalyst
                         0 Prwxrrement Specialist
February28to April 7,    0 Task Team ~ e ~ e ~ / ~ Economistu r e
                                                        ~ ~ l t
2000
sthSupervisionmission    * IrrigationEngineer
                         0 DisbursementAoalyst
                           ProcurementSpwialist
(Joint WB/ADB/Jf31CMTR-  0

                         0 FinancialManagementSpecialist
Imission)                0 SocialDevelopment
                         0 ProjectImplementation(ADB)
                         0 Program Officer (ADB)
                         0 Project Implementation(JBIC)
March 19to Aprll6,2OQ1   0 Task Team Lewler/AgricuOtute Economist
(JointWBlADBtJBiC        0 lrrigati Engineer
MTRII missbn)            0 DisbursementAnalyst
                         0 Procurement Specialist
                         0 FinancialManagement Speclalist
                         0 Soda1Development
                         0 Projed Implementation(ADS)
                         0 ProgramOfficer (AOB)
                         0 Project\mplementation (JBIC)
June 18to July 8,2001    0  InstitutionalDevelopment Specialist
Follow up missionon
l n ~ ~ ~Reformsa l
              ~ n



                                          38

                                                                  NationalDrainage ProgramProject



Date of Visits                 Key Membersof the Term
October 30 to Navembar         0   Task Team Leader/Agrkulkrre Econamist
15, 2002                       0    IrrigationEngineer
(JointWBIADEVJBIC              0    DisbursementAnalyst
MTR-Illmission)'               0    Procurement Specialist
                               0    FinancialManagement Specialist
                               0    SocialDevelopment
                               0    PmjejedImplementation(ADB)
                               0    Program Officer (ADB)
                               0    Project Implementation(JBIC)
May 11to June 13,2003          0    Task Team ~ e a d e r / A g ~ ~Economist
                                                                    ~ u r e
ImplementationReview           0    Irrigation Engineer
mission                        0    ~ n v i ~ n m ~ Specialist
                                                    n t a l
                               0    FinancialManagement Specialist
                               0    DrainageAdvisor
                               0    Water ResourcesAdvisor
                               0    Agricunurist
                               0    Administrative Client Su~aort
                                                             ..
November 29,2003 ta            0    Task Team Leader
December6,2003                      lmgatin Engineer
ImplementationReview                                       -
                                0   Pmcuremenl Regional
                                                  -
mission (Procurement)           0   Procurement Advisor SAS
                                0   FinancialManagementSpedalM
                                    Lawyer (Consultant)
March28to April 7,2004              Task Team Leader
lmpl~menta~nReview                  Irrigation Engineer
mission                         0   RuralDevelopment Specialist
                                0   DrainageAdvisor
                                    Water ResourcesAdvisor
June 26,2004 to July 4,         0   Task Team Leader
2004                            .   lnigationEngineer
ImplementationReview            0   IrrigationAdvisor
misslon                         0   Water Resources Specialist FA0
                                                                 -
                                0   IrrigationConsultant
                                0   IrrigationConsultant




'On  June 29, 2001, the Presidentof Pakistanappointeda Special Committee headed by the Federal
Ministerfor Food,Agriculture and Livestockto reviewthe NDP Project in light of the MTR recommendations.
This reviewculminatedin a report entitled,"Reportof the SpecialCommittee on the Review of NDP dated
February2002, which was ultimatelyapproved by the President on August 27, 2002.While the reviewwas
in progressand untilthe Special Committee's recommendationswere approved by the President,the NDP
projectwas put "omhold".

                                                   39


                                                              NationalDrainageProgramProject



                                          ANNEX 5
                              NSDSPREFEASIBILITY STUDY
                                   PANELOFEXPERTS
                       DRAFTFINALEXECUTIVE SUMMARY
                                         APRIL 2003


I General

1.1.      The sector planning studies component o f the World Bank assisted National
Drainage Program (NDP), includes a study on the need o f a National Surface Drainage
System (NSDS). The objective o f the system i s to remove brackish and relatively saline,
unacceptable drainage water, primarily originating inPunjab province, but from the other
provinces as well. It envisages an interconnected system o f outfall drains traversing the
entire Indus Basin and passing through Sindh province to the Arabian Sea. A Pre-
feasibility study o f the NSDS has recently been completed in draft, covering technical,
economic and environmentalaspects.

1.2     The objective o f the World Bank - Netherlands Water Partnership Program
(BNWP) supported mission of a Panel of International and National Experts (PoE) in
drainage, water and environmental management was to carry out a careful review of the
Pre-feasibility study o f the NSDS before proceeding to the next phase o f preparing a
feasibility report. Based on the TOR for the Panel the following was to be delivered: an
initial discussion note, a draft executive summary on the findings and recommendations,
as well as a first draft o f the TOR for the Feasibility study on the NSDS and a final report
on the outcome o f the Panel's reviews and discussions, including recommendations for
taking the NSDS Pre-feasibility study forward. This Task was implemented during
October and November 2002. Based on the comments by the government services the
draft review report has been revised and in February 2003 it was send as well to the
government services. Additional comments have been received which have resulted in a
draft final version that was submitted inApril 2003 for approval to the World Bank.

1.3       The NSDS drains as proposed will have a total length o f about 910 mi (1,464
km), their ultimatecapacity willbe2,004 cusec (57 d/s)andthe area servedbythem2.1
M a (847,000 ha). The estimated construction costs are 33 billion Rs (575 million US$)
with lining of certain sections of the drains and 24 billion Rs (415 million US$) without
lining. Although the NSDS Pre-feasibility study includes a discussion of the drainage
problems in the areas o f the Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD), the Right Bank Outfall
Drain (RBOD) and Kotri, the Panel has focussed on the proposed NSDS drains as it was
concluded that the drainage plans for the other areas have already been prepared and that
those plans have no relationship with the NSDS drains.

1.4       In this report the Panel presents in brief several examples (USA, Murray
Darling, Nile, Yellow River, etc.) o f large-scale river systems where drainage and salinity
problems occur that show similarities with the problems in the Indus Basin. In most o f
the cases solutions have been found in a combination o f measures, in some cases with an


                                               41

Pakistan


outfall drain o f moderate dimensions. These examples show that in almost none o f these
cases a large outfall drain as proposed in the draft Pre-feasibility report has been made
and generally the drainage water is discharged into the river. Although no river system is
identical it shows that the decision on the construction o f an outfall drain needs a careful
analysis.

I1       Findings

11.1     Drainage o f agricultural landi s intendedto support the required increase infood
production and sustainable rural development inPakistan. Farmers, as well as the country
benefit from improved productivity resulting from improved salinity and waterlogging
control. It is important to view improved water management and adequate application o f
non-water inputs as a part of the solution to any waterlogging and salinity problem, In
light ofthis the Pre-feasibility study ofthe NSDSwill have to bepositionedinrelation to
several policy papers, ongoing projects and accords, like: Water Sector Strategy, Medium
Term Investment Plan, National Drainage Strategy (NDS), National Drainage Program
(NDP), Master Drainage Plan (MDP), Water Apportionment Accord (WAA) and the
envisaged Drainage Accord. In addition there are various related documents o f
multilateral donors. The Panel finds that especially the relation with other projects under
the NDP and with the MDP has to be taken into account in formulating follow-up
activities after the completion of the Pre-feasibility study o f the NSDS.

11.2     The Panel would have expected that a study at pre-feasibility level would
present a clear overview o f the problems to be solved, the current institutional and policy
arrangements and that the alternative options to solve these problems would have been
presented in a balanced way with their respective advantages and disadvantages. The
present study has a very strong focus on the NSDS, which i s to a certain extent presented
inmore detail thanwould be expected ina pre-feasibility study, while alternative options
have only been slightly touched upon.




                                              42

                                                               NationalDrainageProgramProject


11.3       Although an impressive amount o f data has been compiled in the draft Pre-
feasibility report, the Panel found it difficult to assess the hydrological conditions, which
may be relevant for a decision on the NSDS. By comparing the draft Pre-feasibility report
with information from other sources the Panel gets the strong impression that at least for
the medium term future, local solutions can be found to cope with the saline drainage
water. Even if it has impact on the aquifers, we speak about the development o f a
problem in a distant future. In fact no clear evidence has been provided about a
widespread accumulation o f salts inthe root zone in Punjab. The Panel also believes that
the widespread concern with salt accumulation in the Indus Basin due to the net import
with about 24 Mt of salt per par exaggerates the threat of increasing salinity, as much
more salt is already stored in the groundwater system. For example, an approximate
calculation indicates that the current water supplies inthe Punjab increase the salt storage
inthe upper 300 feet (100 m) of the sediment under the irrigated area by only 0.1% per
year. In addition it is o f importance that under the present practices a significant part o f
the annual salt load, about 28.2 Mt, is mobilised from the aquifer in the Basin. This
amount could be reduced. Notwithstanding this, however, implementation o f certain parts
o f the NSDS could be considered at an earlier stage when they offer a cost effective and
environmentally acceptable solution.

11.4       Withinthe framework of the NDP several studies are being executed and several
measures are being taken that may result in a significant reduction o f waterlogging.
Several o f these measures will also result in a reduction o f salinization in the basin, a
reduction o f the drainable surplus and increased water use efficiency. Some planned
measures such as increased water storage and additional drainage infrastructure
            -                                                                          - ifnot
carefully dealt with may result in an increase in salinization and the drainable surplus.
Measures that are being considered as part o f the NDP include:

- institutionalandpolicyreformsincludingwaterallocationandentitlementsystemsat
     Basin, Provincial Command Area and farmer levels, increased stakeholder
     participation,  introduction o f cost recovery systems and transferable water
     entitlements;
- ongoingprojectsfortheliningofirrigationcanals;
- introductionofmodernwater savingirrigationmethods;
- groundwaterrechargestrategiesusingrainfallasaresource;
- rehabilitatiodremodellingofexistingdrainsandsub-drains;
- construction ofnew drains inall the provincesto consolidate the existing drainage
     systems;
- replacementhehabilitation ofsalinegroundwatertubewells/tiledrains;
- improvedOn-FarmWaterManagement(OFWM)practices.

In general these measures will have their effect on the application of more adequate
amounts o f irrigation water to the crops and as a result o f this a reduction in the drainage
surplus. This makes the short term need for an NSDS very questionable.

11.5     The study does not differentiate between the disposal o f polluted water and o f
saline drainage water. In the Panel's opinion these problems would have to be treated
quite differently. The pollution problem, which is basically caused by municipal and


                                               43

Pakstan


industrial wastewater that is being disposed into the drains, or enters trans-boundary
through certain rivers, i s to a certain extent an acute problem. This problem would have
to be solved locally and not by disposing the wastewater to the sea. The best final
solution would be to treat this wastewater at the source. The Panel understands that such
solutions may take a long time and that intermediate mitigation measures at local level
will beneeded.

11.6    A principal question is whether surplus saline drainage water is best
accommodated locally, disposed through the Indus River, disposed through the NSDS,or
some combination. In light o f this it has to be realised that even when the NSDS will be
constructed, a significant part o f the surplus drainage water will still flow to the Indus
River. This situation will occur primarilyduringthe Kharif season when this surplus flow
to the river has its lowest salinity. There are strong reservations from the downstream
provinces to disposal inthe Indus River because o f the use o fthe Indus water for drinking
water and irrigation. Meanwhile, Punjab has technical and economical reservations
towards the construction o f the NSDS at short term. This presumably demonstrates
doubts about the immediate need for salt disposal, which will make adequate sharing o f
cost and responsibility to maintain and operate the NSDS difficult. Inthe opinion o f the
Panel, focus would therefore, for the time being, have to be on local solutions, maybe
eventually in combination with the NSDS. It is understood by the Panel that there are
certain problems with the present disposal in evaporation ponds. Such problems can be
analysed and proper solutions for the short and medium term can be formulated. With
respect to the development o f local solutions it will also be of importance that agreement
is reached on an acceptable water quality at the inlet points from the Indus River,
especially at Guddu, Sukkur and Kotri.

11.7    The level of design detail for the NSDS i s quite adequate for a pre-feasibility
study. Although additional design can be left for the feasibility phase, recommendations
made in the pre-feasibility phase may influence how future design proceeds. Therefore
the following design issues need to be mentioned:

- siphons-insteadofthemultipleboxculvertdesignconcept, theuseofpipesmaybe

- cross-drainage-thetypeofcross-drainagestructurewouldhavetobeselectedbased
    advisable;


- seepage into adjacent irrigation canaZs - insome areas, the NSDS drain ishigher
    on safety and environmental concerns, as well as intersectionof hydraulic grade lines;

    than nearby irrigation canals. Seepage and possible spills from NSDS present a threat

- bottom width to depthratio - the proposed ratio ofdrainbottomwidth to depthis
    that wouldhave to be addressed;

    quite large for many sections o f the NSDS. A deeper, narrower section may be
    preferable.

11.8     In order to restore the Tidal Link drain, embankments, which are heavily
damaged, would need to be redesigned as dikes that can withstand severe waves and
weather. This option is most probably not feasible. The Panel therefore shares the
recommendations as given by the Fact Finding Mission that studied in 2001 the Tidal



                                               44

                                                             NationalDrainage ProgramProject


Linkproblems. The monitoring that is being done at present shows that after seven years
without maintenance dredging the cross section of the Tidal Link has not been
significantly reduced and that its discharge capacity has been relatively well maintained.
However, one may expect that from time to time maintenance dredging may be required
to maintain the hydraulic performance o f the drain outfall. This doesn't necessarily mean
that the channel has to be exactly maintained, while development o f some meandering
may be expected. The maintenance dredging would have to focus on maintaining the
discharge capacity. By depositing the dredged spoil at appropriate locations berms can be
formed that could create desired barriers to cross flows. The cost o f such an activity i s
significantly lower than the cost of reconstructing permanent dikes.

11.9    Duringthe mission there have been quite some discussions on the estimation of
the construction costs andresulting operation andmaintenance (O&M) costs as presented
inthe draft Pre-feasibility report. It is understood that the NSDS Consultant has applied
the present day unit prices. The range o f costs included in the analysis is, however, not
entirely clear. Costs related to protection o f the environment and for resettlement o f
displaced families that are presently farming 37,800 acres in the proposed alignment o f
the NSDS appear to have not been included in the cost estimates. The cost for O&M is
estimated at 1.5% o f the constructioncosts, which i s understood to be a standard practice
in Pakistan. The Panel is convinced that for a drain that is subject to sediment disposal
from upstream drains and runs for a long stretch   - about 300 miles (485 km) through the
desert this estimate is too low. Based on the work done the NSDS Consultant would have
to be able to submit his professional judgement for a realistic level o f O&M costs and to
include these costs in the cost benefit analysis and the economic analysis. Other items
with respect to O&M that will have to be taken into account are the institutional
arrangements and the sharing o f the costs. Although these items do not necessarily have
to be sorted out during the pre-feasibility phase, they will be o f significant importance
during the feasibility and subsequent phases. This is especially true because the NSDS
will be constructed in two provinces that will have quite different benefits from the
NSDS.

11.10    The Environmental Assessment (EA) i s o f adequate detail for the pre-feasibility
phase andprovides a review o f some o f the environmental assets, values, needs andrisks.
It is important that these challenges and opportunities are adopted in subsequent
developments o f the study proposal. The NSDS Consultant appears to have considered
issues such as the impact o f some schemes on river salinity. It would be useful to see an
overall summation o f this and o f opportunities for additional disposal via the river
system. Further consideration and specification o f farm chemicals (and other pollutant)
loads and possible risk o f eutrophication in drains, and receiving water bodies, including
wetlands and the outfall in the Arabian Sea, is required in future phases o f project
development. Also other water quality issues need to be listed. The risk to health and
hygiene o f polluted surface water in open drains would have to be specified and its
management addressedinfuture work.




                                              45

Pah-istan


m         Recommendations

Recommendationson the_finalisationof thePre-feasibility study

111.1     The Panel recommends that the NSDS Consultant be requested to take the
following issues into account inthe finalisation o f the draft Pre-feasibility report:

- presentationofthealternativeoptionsasalreadyidentifiedbythe Consultantinsuch
    a level o f detail, both from the point o f view o f effects and from the point o f view o f
    costs, that they can be compared with the NSDS;
- anassessmentwhetherinviewoftherecentdroughtstheanalysisofthewaterlogging
    and salinity hazard and the estimates of the drainable surplus are realistic. Expected
    future developments would also have to be taken into account;
- compilation of recent data (quality and quantity) on the river pollution and
    identification o f the main contaminating sources (municipal and industry);
- effects ofdisposal to the IndusRiver onthe salinity content at Gudu, Sukkur and
    Kotribarrage;
- submission ofprofessionaljudgment for arealistic levelofO&M cost andinclude
    this cost in the cost benefit analysis and the economic analysis;
- totakeintoaccounttheissuesonengineeringaspectsasraisedinitem11.7;
- identificationofknowledgegaps.

Recommendationson thefuture steps

111.2     In the opinion of the Panel, the MDP that is now under preparation is the
obvious vehicle where alternative options for the future needs o f agricultural drainage as
an integrated component o f water management in Pakistan would have to be presented
and compared. Based on such a masterplan the government would have to formulate its
future policy. The Panel strongly recommends broadening the scope o f the M D P and to
allocate sufficient time for the preparation o f it. The MDP would also have to include a
qualitative and quantitative analysis o f the impact o f the NDP on the waterlogging
conditions in the Indus Basin. In the preparation o f the masterplan effective use can be
made o fthe results o f ongoing work under the NDP. As far as the NSDS i s concerned the
Pre-feasibility study has generated sufficient information at masterplan level. For the
alternative solutions existing reports have to be analysed and more in depth studies will
have to be done inorder to make a well-balanced masterplan. The broadened scope o f the
masterplan would not necessarily have to result in delays in preparation and
implementation o f measures that are required in the short term. The measures presented
under item 111.3 and 111.4 can be developed in parallel to the development o f the
masterplan.

Recommendationson the Termsof Reference for further studies andprogrammes

111.3     In light of the above mentioned findings and recommendations the Panel
recommends to postpone the formulation o f a Feasibility study on the NSDS. Such a
study canbetter be done at a later phase when the needfor the NSDS has become clearer,
if and when it is evident that alternative approaches       - such as institutional and policy


                                                46

                                                              National DrainageProgramProject


reforms, more efficient irrigation, more effective drainage systems, local stakeholder
participation and management - are not adequate by themselves. Instead the Panel
proposes the following pre-feasibility studies:

- effects of liningof watercourses andminors and on-farm water saving measures,
    especially in Punjab province with special reference to the effect on water saving,
    reduction of pumping o f saline groundwater and development o f salinity in the
    aquifers;
- measures that can be taken to counteract the present problems with evaporation
   ponds;
- optimalmeasurestoguaranteethedrainagefunctionoftheLBODandtheprotection
    o f the environment o f the coastal areas that may be influenced by the drainage water.

The Panel realises that parts o f these studies have already been done, or are at present
being studied. Therefore it will be o f importance to investigate what i s already available.
The Panel proposes that the pre-feasibility studies to the extent that they still have to be
done will be done under the umbrella o f the MDP. Draft TORS for these pre-feasibility
studies are presented inthis report.

111.4    In order to acquire adequate data on the water and salt conditions and to enable
the making of sound prognosis on the impact o f proposed developments, the Panel
recommends to initiate a Nationwide monitoring program in combination with the
development o f a river salinity model for the Indus Basin. This program would have to
focus on the salinity in surface and groundwater, with special reference to the use o f the
water for various purposes and the long-term development o f salinity in the aquifers. In
addition it would have to:

- focus onthe identification ofirrigation anddrainage needsfor waterlogging and/or
    salinity control in the root zone within the command areas in relation to crop types,
    targeted yield levels and sustainable use o fthe resource base (land and soil);
- compare the salt balance of the IndusBasinwith the balance as presentedinthe
    Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment (DSEA) study o f 1993 and identify the
    breakdown o f this basin per commandcatchment area.

Under the NDP many activities are already being undertaken, or in preparation that as a
whole can support such a program. In addition there is a great need for an analysis and
impact of discharging saline drainage water containing municipal and industrial waste
and possibly residues o f fertilizers and pesticides in receiving water bodies (including
IndusRiver andthe Arabian Sea).




                                               47

    Pakistan


    Table I Summarv of issues andrecommendedactions
                                                                         Recommended actions
                                                 1. Itis important to take into account the objectives and
                                                 development activities o fthe NDP and the MDP informulating
                                                 follow-up activities.
                                                 2. Reformatthe NSDS draft Prsfeasibility report to provide a
                                                 more balanced review o falternatives to resolve the IndusBasin
                                                 saline drainage problem.
                                                 3. Utilize the MDPto focus on local solutions, as far as possible,
                                                 andcontinue studiesnecessaryto resolve the saline drainage
                                                 problem.

                                                 4. Encourage continuationo finstitutional andpolicy reforms and
                                                 increased stakeholder participation inthe O&M o f irrigationand
                                                 drainage systems.
                                                 5. Continue the development o fa comprehensive database
                                                 showing the quantity, quality andlocation o f municipal and
                                                 industrial wastewater discharges into drains, streams andrivers
                                                 carrying saline agricultural drainage water.
6. There are strong reservations among           6. Postpone development ofa Feasibility studyfor the NSDS.
stakeholders regardingthe immediate              Make a better assessmento fthe saline effluent to be disposed o f
implementation o fthe NSDS.                      with future outlook o fexpected changes. Assess the effect o flocal
                                                 measures.Encourage dialogue for buildingconsensus among
                                                 provinces about strategic development.
7. Some o fthe engineeringdesign parameters      7. Review the engineering designparameters described inthe
for the NSDS have beenquestioned.                NSDS draft Prsfeasibilitv renort.
8. There is a need to rethink the concept o fthe 8. Discuss morethoroughly the design andoperation o fthe Tidal
Tidal Link                                       Link.Meanwhile, considerperiodic maintenancebydredging.
9. The factors used to estimate the cost o f     9. Reevaluate the factors usedto estimate cost o fO&M for the
O&M inthe draRPre-feasibility report for the     NSDS. Includeresettlement andenvironment management costs
NSDS appearto under estimate the long-term       inthe economic analysis.
O&M costs. The economic analysis doesnot

                                                 10. Initiate, to the extent necessary, environmental studies and
                                                 develop a comprehensive river salinity model to determine the
                                                 impact o f discharging saline drainage water, both with and
                                                 without municipal and industrialwaste andpossibly residues o f
                                                 fertilizers andpesticides, into the IndusRiver and/or the Arabian
                                                 Sea.
                                                 11.Initiate a study to establish better and more reliable
drainage needsfor salinity control inthe root    mathematicalrelationshipsbetween suchparameters as the depth
zone for different soils and crops.              o f irrigation application, its salt content, soil permeability, depth
                                                 o f leached soil, salt content o fleachedsoil and that o f leaching
                                                 water at various depths besides salinity o f drained water, inorder
                                                 to better understand the level o fsustainability o f irrigated
                                                 agriculture inthe Indus Valley on a long-term basis.




                                                          48


.



                                                                            National Drainage ProgramProject




                                                   ANNEX 7
                                      STUDIESCOMPLETEDUNDERNDP


                                                 POLICYSTUDIES


                                                                                                 Remerks


                                                                                 These studiesare beingunder taken by
   Water Rightsin SelpcW Canal C o r "                                            Federal Mination MI,Islanabad.




                                         SECTORPLANNINGSTUDIES

Sr.                   Nameof Study                 Executing        StE#        Remarks
No                                                  Agency      Completion
                                                                ddlmolyr


2   Land Levelingunder PAPSof Fordwar Eastern      QFWMPD                       Only 640 acresout of 7000 actw havebeen
    Saofiqia South (FtSS) Project                    AGH           WWO2         leveled Study hasbeenconcludedon
                                                     OEPT                       30.6 2002, becauseof main limitations


4   ImtitutzisrmlimdGnvimnmentalMonitoringof Land    SMQ                          OeQthto Watarleblemapsart GI3 basis have
    andWater C 2 " t s                             (WAPBA)         31/12/04       beencompleted uptilJune 2803 andwork on
                                                                                  October 2003 in pmgrasa.
                                                                ( E x t W d )     Ofreyear extensionhas beengrantedto
                                                                                  cover additionalactivities.
5   SailSalinitySurveysof'lnigatedApeas              SMO                        9 The surveyof 41'3 millionacres hasbeen
                                                   (WAPDA)         31111/1)4
                                                                   ~              completed
                                                                                6 Data analysisand Initial Repart hasbeen
                                                                (Extended)      -
                                                                                * FinalReportsof 9 Canal Commandshave
                                                                                  prepared80%.

                                                                                  beencompleted.
                                                                                  initialDraft Reportsof 18 Canal Carnmands
                                                                                  out of 40 areundercompletion
                                                                                  39 Canal Command have beendigitized & 20
                                                                                  mansof canal command areas conmleted-
6   Reactivationat IBMR incontext of NDP           p8O W.                       * 1heprogressis hindered dueto rwnhiringof
                                                   (WAPDA)         xUWO4          ModelingSpecialists. Possible
                                                                                  modifiationlup6lwdatbnof the IBMHis
                                                                                  being         out by the CAD itself.
                                                                                  The establitnent of Water Resources
                                                                                  OafabaseManagementSystein isbeing
                                                                                  arrangedby DG (IS).The generalinformation
                                                                                  &out lndusbasinMode4& water m o u m
                                                                                  dabhasberm9 W onWAPDA WaterWing
                                                                                  Webstte-                c  under therub
                                                                                  headof Water t3"e I'lanning.
                                                                                  Final hpart isunder prepetation.The study
                                                                                  will beended in September 2004.
                                                   Federal Cell                 Thesestudies have beeencompletedby Fedeml




                                                         53

          Pakistan


Sr.                     N m o of Study                  Executing     Statff   Remarks
No                                                       A9.n cy    Complotion
                                                                    ddlmotyr
8   BedocMstapl Effiuwit IXsgcmaI                       Iridus Ass   26/11/03  Cuorrliiiaban Cell, Islaniabad


10  Preparationof Weinage Master Plan( W P )               P&D       Q.BU!&?      C0"ecitrr on Draft Interim Reportreceived
                                                        (WAPDA)      31112104     tram the ProvincesandBankand have h n
                                                                                  inwporated. After reviewingthe UMP Repart
                                                                                  by the LocalPanelof Expert, first &aft has
                                                                                  beenissuedto the Stake Wdders and f3ank.
                                                                                  The IntemarianaiPanelof Expertswiil review
                                                                                  first DraRinSeptember 2 W
                                                           SMO       141Qllso  DraflFinal Report underpreparation.
                                                        (WAPDA)
                                                                    K*m"_. ._
                                                                    ,31/12104,
                                                                      .
12  Impwing DrainegaFxacutian& Eveluatianof Canal                              Study concluded during July 2002 due to
    Liningin FESS:                                      wAp%1A1                cantinuwadryspell.
   a) hpmving tha Pwbmffieaf Surfwe DFeinstge
      Thmugh Munitaringand Eduatianat FESS Project,                            Final Reportpublified.

    b) Priuritize DmlnageNeedsfar FESS Project Phasa-11                        Final Report published.
       by Graundwter Madding.
       MarmameEvaluationof oilbmt iypes of Cmd                       o1107/03
                                                                     31/12/03
      Linin* inFESS Pqmt (PestLiningMonitoringand                              Study extendedto incsrporateadditionalstudy
       tmluation).                                                             on water courseliniq pius as recommendedby
      Watmourse Lining PI-                                                     the Panelof Expertaon NSDS.UraftInterim
                                                                               report haa b e n submittedmd Fipleibpart is
                                                                               under proccwrs.




                   .-
1   Preperatianof NDP Phme-ll                                                  Special Cw"ttee recmmendedto canyout in
                                                                               the end of P b I .
                                                                               The study will becarriedout urlafer FIUC,
                                                                               Ministrv of Water 8 Pawer
3   ImpactMwitoringEvlllmlion                            WAPDA                 Spacial Cmmittw her8rscomntendedto be
                                                                               continuedin NDP PhaseII.
                                                                               Six firms are requested to submit proposal. IWs
                                                                               Barqab,WAPDA only responded.Bank has
                                                                               been informedand requestedto deferthe study
                                                                               trll the finalizationof DMP.




                                                               54\

                                                                  National DrainageProgramProject




                                              ANNEX 8
       LEFTBANKOUTFALLDRAINSTAGE 1PROJECT-TIDAL LINK
                        WORLDBANKFACT FINDINGMISSION

                   TECHNICALNOTEAND RECOMMENDATIONS

BACKGROUND

TheLe@Bank Outfall Drain Project and thePurposeof the TidalLink

1.       The Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) i s intended to drain saline ground and
surface water, and storm runoff, from 1.27 million acres of irrigated land in the four
districts of SindhProvince to alleviate water logging and salinity. LBOD collects excess
irrigationwater, saline see age, pumpedsaline groundwater, rainfall runoff and industrial
and municipalwastewater At its terminus near the coastal zone, the LBOD empties into
                             P.
two existing and smaller drains, DPOD and KPODS2These latter two drains empty into
two natural, shallow lakes, Shakoor Dhand and Puteji Dhand respectively. These dhands
are two of the numerous shallow lakes and depressions that form the larger wetland
known as the Runn of Kutch. The Rannof Kutch lies inboth India and Pakistan. At the
completion of the LBOD Stage 1project, disposal of the expectedlarge volume of saline
drainagewater3into this nationally and internationally important wetland became amajor
concern.

2.       Three possible options were consideredfor the terminus of the LBOD drain: one
option was to continue to empty most of the LBOD flow through KPOD into Pateji
Dhand, which is connectedto the Rann of Kutch inwet years or during highwater; the
secondoption was to empty the drain directly into the Rann o fKutchwhere it would find
its way to the sea; and the third was to empty the drain directly into the sea through an
independent canal linked directly with an active tidal creek. The first two options were
dropped partly because the Rann of Kutch i s an international wetland and partly because
of the potential adverseimpact on Pateji Dhand and the small dhands connectedto it. The
third option, which utilizes a direct, independent link canal to the sea, The Tidal Link,
was finally chosen

3.       The adopted scheme included the construction of a 26 mile Tidal Link canal
running from northeast to southwest across the Rann of Kutch connecting KPOD to an
active tidal creek, Shah Sumundo Creek. The canal would physically separate the four
major dhands in the Sindh portion of the Rann of Kutch, called Sunhro,Mehro, Cholri,
and Puteji, from the Rann of Kutch. The upland drainage water of KPOD would be

    The drainsare commonly usedto dispose o funtreatedmunicipalandindustrialwastewater even
thoughisnot consistentwith PakistanEnvironmentalLaw.
    KadhanPateji Outfall Drain(KPOD), originally one o fthe maindrains for the area irrigatedfromthe
KotriBarrageon the Indus. Itsoutfall was into PatejiDhand. Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain(DPOD), a small
streamemptying intothe Shakoor Dhand, was excavatedto carry stormwater from LBOD.
    The designdischargefromLBOD is 444Ocfs.DPODwill cany 2OOOcfso fstormwater, andthebalance
o fbaseflow (1240cfs) andstormwater (22OOcfs) will be carriedbyKPOD.


                                                   55

Pakistan


confined within the deep cut of the Tidal Link Canal bounded at both sides by high
earthen embankments. The top o f the embankment was fixed at 20 feet above mean sea
level (amsl) to avoid overtopping from both sides since water levels inboth the Pateji and
Cholri Dhands and Ranno fKutch sometimes exceed+8.0 to +10.0 amsl.

4.      The tidal influence (backwater) would extend from Shah Samando Creek all the
way up the Tidal Linkto KPOD, but sea water was not expected to extend farther than 12
miles upstream from the tidal creek (to RD -93), just below the Dhands. The northern
side o f the embankment running along Pateji and Cholri Dhands was provided with an
ovefflow concrete-crested weir (Cholri Weir), 1800 feet long. The top o f weir was fixed
at +4.5 feet amsl to prevent over-drainage o f the Dhands at low tide, and to allow
temporary flow o f canal water into the Dhands to attenuate water levels in the canal at
hightide.

Cost and Financing of the TidalLink

5.      The implementation of the Tidal Link canal and the overflow weir was started in
September 1991 using an ICB contract for construction, and an international consulting
firm for the design andconstruction supervision. The construction of the Tidal Link and
Cholri Weir was completed on time. The total cost o f constructionwas about PRs 800
million, funded inpartby the Saudi Fundfor Development.

Objectivesof theBank Mission

6.      The Bank fielded a fact finding mission during the period March 12-17, 2001.
The objective o f the mission was to understand the technical details and process o f the
failure and the damages to the Tidal Link, to understand the possible technical,
environmental and social consequences, and to suggest to the Government o f Sindh
further steps to be taken. The GOS Additional Chief Secretary4 had constituted a high
level Technical Review Committee o f senior technical experts in May, 2000. The
Committee made its report to GOS in October, 2000 [19]'. The mission visited the tidal
link site, listened to the views of various Government and NorrGovernment Officials
including members o f the Committee (Attachment l),              and reviewed the various reports
(Attachment 2) including the Technical Committee's report.

POSTCOMPLETIONOPERATINGEXPERIENCE THE TIDALLINK         OF

Initial OperatingExperience

7.      Almost as soon as the Tidal Link began operating on June 6, 1995 it experienced
significant erosion and scour problems along both banks and the bed. In some sections,
almost 50 percent of the total embankment body was lost with erosion still in progress.
The remedial works along the embankment were undertaken by WAPDA O&M (South),
but the bank sloughing, bed and bank erosion continued. Meanwhile, differential


    Vide notification No. WR(W/W)5(P&D)79/69
    The number inthe brackets refers to the list of documents consulted by the mission given in
Attachment 2


                                                     5a

                                  I                        National DrainageProgram Project


settlement o f the upstream face o f the Cholri Weir was detected beginning in 1995 and
remedial works were undertaken and completed bythe end o f 1996.

Damage to the TidalLink and Cholri Weir in 1998 & 1999

8.      Undermining anderosion caused 250 feet o f the weir section length to collapse on
June 24, 1998. Many attempts were made to close the breached weir section, but all failed
due to monsoon weather and the remoteness o f the site. By the end o f October 1998 the
federal and provincial authorities and the consultants who visited the breach site jointly
decided to stop further remedial works after the breach in the Weir had increased to 450
feet length from the southern end [161. On May 21, 1999 a catastrophic tropical cyclone
hit the Tidal Link area causing severe damage, including the almost complete destruction
of the Cholri Weir, andbreaches ofboth Tidal Linkembankments in56 places.

Function and Impact of the TidalLink

9.      The primary objective o f the Tidal Linkwas to evacuate the saline drainage water
o f LBOD to the sea. The objective had been achieved before the occurrence o f the June
1998 weir collapse and May 1999 cyclone breaches. A substantial net outflow from the
KPOD and Dhands to the sea was observed with an average rate of 1000 cubic feet per
sec (cfs). The net outflow in the Tidal Link was accompanied by a sharp reduction in
salinity inthe Dhands (by about halqs]).

10.     Since the collapse o fweir and the cyclone breaches inthe embankment, the whole
water and salinity balance o f the Tidal Link and the Dhands have changed. The tidal link
flow i s no longer confined, and is instead, now intermingled with the flow to and from
the Dhands and the Rann o f Kutch at every tide cycle through the breaches along the
embankments. The salinity has been increased in the Tidal link up to RD -35. This has
become especially pronounced in the last one and a half years because o f the severe
drought that has significantly decreaseddrainage flow from KPOD.

REPORT OFTHE GOVERNMENT SINDH (GOS)TECHNICAL COMMITTEE TO REVIEW
                                  OF
DAMAGESTHE TIDALLINKAND CHOLRIWEIR
           TO

TheRecommendationsof the Technical Commitlee

11.     The high-level Technical Committee reviewed available project documents and
monitoring data and made extensive field inspection. Among the Committee's key
findings  and observations are: 56 breaches in the southern and northern embankments o f
the Tidal Link, severe erosion o f the canal banks; evidence o f scour o f the canal bed, and
a considerable part o f the berm on top o f the embankments had bean washed away; most
of the northern embankment along with the entire berm has been eroded; the section o f
the channel has been widened considerably at a couple o f places; the water level in the
Dhands has been bwered and drained by the Link; the water was flowing within the
Tidal Link during the low tide when the Committee visited the site. At high tide, the
water apparently flows over the banks at some o f the low points or through the preached
sections.



                                              57

Pakistan


12.     The judgment o f the Committee was that the Tidal Link i s continuing to function
and the ongoing channel evolution would stabilize sometime in the future with a section
that would generally follow the current alignment However, in ight o f the uncertainties
Concerning the factors governing the ongoing changes within the Tidal Link, and the
uncertain viability o f conventional options, the Committee made the following
recommendations intheir May, 2000 [191report:

    No repair shouldbe carried out inTidal Linkas damages done by cyclone are beyond
    the repair limit;

0   Any remedial work for Cholri Weir is also notrecommended;

0   The Tidal Link is discharging its fluid into the Sea with good gradient;
    Continue monitoring o f water levels in Tidal Link and KPOD for at least one year;
    and
    Carry out a survey o f the bedlevels inthe Tidal Link.

13.     As this Committee's report covered mainly the technical aspects o f the failure, a
second committee was constituted in December 2000, to assess the environmental and
social consequenceso f the failure. This second Committee is still continuing its work.

General Commentson theRecommendatbns of the GOS Technical Committee

14.     The mission held discussions with the Committee members and other Pakistani
officials andNGOs (Attachment 1) after thorough examination o f the situation, including
a site visit and review of the existing documentation (Attachment 2). Considerable
damage occurred to the berms and embankments o f the Tidal Link. Direct connections
between the Link and the Dhands have developed in several places after the northern
embankment had been completely eroded. The downstream part o f the Weir was
breached completely and has turned into a wide opening to the Dhands where a similar
drainage channel has also been formed. Water during high tide freely enters the Dhands
through these openings. Wide and deep drainage channels have been created inthe bed o f
the Dhands by the water freely drained from the Dhands at low tide.

15.     The mission generally agrees with the conclusions and recommendations o f the
GOS Technical Committee regarding the Tidal Link and Cholri Weir. The no-action
recommendation o f the committee is justified not only because the damage i s beyond
repair by conventional methods, but also because the scour o f the channel bed and
erosion o f the embankments are still active under the influence o f the uncontrolled tidal
flow through the tidal link and flow to and from Rann o f Kutch and the Dhands. These
conditions will render any attempt to repair the damages following conventional methods
useless. Moreover, repair or replacement o f the Cholri Weir i s also meaningless because
tidal and drainage water will continue to enter and leave the Dhands freely through the
gaps inthe breached embankments.

16.     However, with respect to the Committee's              recommendation concerning
modification o f the LBOD-DPOD weir to increase disposal o f saline drainage water



                                              58\

                                                             NationalDrainageProgramProject


through DPOD into Shakoor Dhand, the mission i s o f the opinion that such a decision
should be deferred until a complete technical and environmental assessment i s made on
the basis o f the proposed comprehensive monitoring program.

Commentson theRisks

17.     LBOD drainage water i s still flowing through the tidal link to Shah Samando
creek with a noticeable velocity in the downstream direction during low tide. Thus there
i s no immediate or short-term danger o fimpeding the disposal o f drainage water from the
LBOD to the sea. However, it should be noted that drainage flows have been generally
low because the Project i s not yet fully developed and the drought conditions have
prevailed over the past two years. Hence, the Tidal Link has not yet had to operate at full
capacity inits present damaged condition.

18.        The analysis o f the longitudinal profile and cross sections taken along the Tidal
Linkat different periods coveringbefore andafter the cyclone damagesindicates that in
the long run the Tidal Link can evolve into a natural tidal creek. But it i s very uncertain
when and how that would happen. The superimposition o f cross sections taken at
different locations in 1997 and2000 shows [lS, 201that there is a trend o f localized scour
and deposition of sediments at several sections of the tidal link. It is expected that the
straight man-made Tidal Link may turn gradually into a more stable but meandering
channel within a very wide and shallow section.
19.     There could also be a more pronounced back up o f the drainage flow as
sedimentation progresses, resulting in a damping effect to the overall fall o f the
groundwater table inthe LBOD area, particularly around its downstreamreaches.

20.     Due to the ongoing active channel processes, there is scouring and deposition o f
the sediments. Meanwhile, due to the active channel processes in the Tidal Link, the
water is heavily laden with suspended sediments o f brown color apparently a result from
continuingbank erosion and bed scour.

21.     The uncertainty about the future outcome of the active channel processes in the
Tidal Link, the cost and viability o f various rehabilitation options, and the environmental
risks associated with the conditions developing in the Dhands strongly indicate the need
for an effective monitoring program that would help to understand the trends and help to
define feasible and sustainable mitigation measures.

Monitoring: Past, Present and Future

22.     Shortly after commissioning the Tidal Link, physical monitoring was carried out
by WAPDA during 1996 to assess the erosion situation in the berms and channel of the
drain, and to identify necessary remedial measures. Longitudinal profiles and cross
sections published in 1997 [9] provide a base line o f the early erosion as well as analysis
o f the water balance, water salinity and morphology o f the tidal link. A bed level survey
o f the tidal link and the KPOD downstream reach was carried out by the National
Institute o f Oceanography (NIO) in September 1998 [15] according to an agreed TOR
with DirectorateO&M, WAPDA (South).



                                              59

Pakistan


23.     The current monitoring and survey have been carried out by WAPDA's Scarp
Monitoring Organization (SMO) for the water table and salinity while the National
Institute of Oceanography has been carrying out bathymetric and hydrographic survey in
the Tidal Link. A memorandum of understanding between SMO-WAPDA and NIO
signed in March 1999 included a TOR for NIO to conduct comprehensive hydraulic
monitoring of the Tidal Link under the NDP Drainage-I (IDA Credit 2999 Pak) for the
period 1999-2003, The TOR initially coveredthe area includingthe Tidal Link Drain, the
Dhands, the tidal mud flats, parts of Shah Samando Creek and adjacent areas. After the
May 1999 tropical cyclone, which struck the entire area, the TOR was revised based on a
proposal byNIO in September 1999 to account for the morphological changes caused by
the storm. The revised TOR excluded the monitoring of any site downstream RD-125
includingthe Shah Samando Creek and the tidal mudflats. The first Annual report (1999-
2000) of LBOD-I Physical monitoring was published in December 2000 by WAPDA
l.201.

24.     The monitoringprogram as it i s being implemented is not strictly complying with
either TOR in terms of the specified sites or the frequency of measurements apparently
due problems of site accessibility. Extensive discussionswith the NIO Monitoring Team
Leader and his associates confirmed the need to continue monitoring through the
downstream reach of the Link, to comply with the TOR and to identifytrends inphysical
and morphological changes within the monitored area. Future measurementsmust build
on the base line information available from previous monitoring and surveys, It should
also continue to track the sediment transport through the Shah Samando Creek that could
be detrimental to the performance of the drainage hnction of the Tidal link if the huge
sediment load i s depositing somewhere near the mouth of the link to the creek. Year-
round monitoring of surface water in the Dhands, particularly near the outlets of Karo
and Fulelidrains, is equally important to ensure the effectiveness of the drainage from
thispartofKotri system.

ENVIRONMENTAL SITUATIONINTHETIDALLINKAREA

Environment setting of the TidalLink

25.      A broad and complex coastal zone lies between the terminus of LBOD and the
Arabian Sea. Three distinct zones can be identified:

    the Rann of Kutch, a vast, highly saline wetland, that also includes large open bodies
    of salinewater, salt pansinshallow depressions, landcovered by a layer of crystalline
    salt, andnweroussmall, often interconnected saline lakes;

    a broad, extensive mud flat, that i s temporarily covered by a thin layer of saline and
    silt ladenwater at hightide, particularly during the monsoon season; and

    a series of tidal creeks along the coast connecting the mudflats and wetlands with the
    sea.




                                              60\

                                                                     National Drainage Program Project


26.      The Rann o f Kutch, which extends across the border between Pakistan and India
includes a perennial, large and shallow body of water weakly connected bytidal creeks to
the sea. Mangroves, which are generally limited in extent, specie diversity and
productivity (because of the persistent high salinity), are found inplaces on the margins
o f the Rann of Kutch and among the tidal creeks. The land along the margins and
extending some distance upland o f this wetland is very saline, and the vegetation i s very
sparse to absent.

27.
component o f a major migratory route for waterfowl known as the "Indus Flyway" [lo].
         The wetlands o f Sindh especially those east o f the IndusRiver form an important

They are importantwintering, nesting and staging grounds for a large number o f locally
and globally6important birdspecies (55-70% o f all waterfowl found inPakistan winter in
Sindh), including some endangered species such as the Dalmatian Pelican. Two species
o f marine turtles inhabit the area, including the green turtle (frequently seen in KPOD
and Tidal Link canal) and the loggerhead turtle. The wetlands, channels and creeks are
also a productive fishery       including several species o f commercially valuable shrimp,
prawns and crabs.

28.      The western margin o f the Rann o fKutch, where the drains enter the coastal zone,
consists o f a number o f small, interconnected lakes calledDhands in Sindh, and a number
o f small lagoons some o f which are dry during the late dry season or during drought
periods. The surface area o f the dhands varies seasonally and from year to year but
averages about 700 sq. km. At low water levels, flow between the Dhands i s limited and
sometimes prevented by low ridges, but at highwater particularly during the monsoon
season or a wet year, they form a shallow, large and continuouswetland with the Rann o f
Kutch. The Dhands are generally oligotrophic7, with highly variable salinity (depending
on stormwater and drain inflows), ranging from 15ppt to over 45ppt depending on the
amount o f mixing with drainage inflows whose salinity is generally less than lOppt
(principally from the Kotri drainage system). The Dhands and the surrounding lands,
which are also saline, are nearly devoid o f vegetation (except along the margins that are
consistently fresh as, for example near a drain outfall). Biodiversity i s nevertheless high
with numerous specie of fish, crustaceans andmollusks that constitute a very productive
fishery including several varieties o fprawns, andhighquality water fowl habitat.

29.      Nearly all the villages near the Dhands depend on the fishery since the saline soils
in the uplandareas surrounding the Dhands support almost no agriculture except where
water from the Kotri Barrage is available for irrigation. There are about 30 small fishing
villages around the four Dhands and Sirani Drain (which enters directly into KPOD) [l              11.
Only one of the villages, Karo Ghangro located on Sanhro Dhand, is a permanent
settlement o f about 250-300 huts. The remaining villages are temporary, occupied
seasonally when fishing inthe immediate vicinity is good. Intotal there are about 5-6000
people, but the number varies year to year [ll]. socio-economic condition o f these
                                                           The

    The concentration o f22,500 Great White PelicaninLakeJabho inBadin District inthe winter o f 1989
was the largest number ever recorded inAsia. Inthat same year 47,000 Greater Flamingo were observed in
the Ranno fKutch, Pakistan. The breeding colony o f Greater Flamingo inthe Ranno fKutch is estimated to

7
comprise over halfthe total world population and the largest assemblage anywhere inthe world.
    Except possibly insmall areas where circulation is extremely limited


                                                   61

Pakistan


people is very poor: average incomes are about 6-800 PRdmonth; there are no drinking
water supply or health facilities; morbidity i s high; education facilities are poor and
participation rates are low [113.

30.       Ramsar* status has been officially requested by the Government of Pakistan for
two areas near to where the drains enter the coastal zone. One is the Narr-ri Lagoon
(2540 ha) near the outfall o f the FuZeZi drain inMehro Dhand', and the other i s the Jubho
Lagoon (700 ha) located on the western side o f Mehro Dhand. If sites are acceptedthese
(expected in 6-9 months), the surrounding Dhands will be designated as a Protected Area.
Underthe current regulations for ProtectedAreas inPakistan, a management plan would
then be prepared for this area by the GOS Department o f Wildlife Conservation, and the
use of this area regulated (not necessarily prevented).

Disposalof theDrainage Outflow

31.       Carrying the LBOD baseflow and stormwater across the coastal zone to the
Arabian Seawas considered important for several reasons:

     the drainage outflow from the system could not be emptied in the Rann o f Kutch
     because it is an international wetland shared by Indiaand Pakistan

     while the salinity o f the drainage outflow i s quite moderate compared to the Rann o f
     Kutch it would likely contain a number o f agricultural chemicals, nutrients, and
     industrial and domestic pollutants, andhence could not simply be disposed o f in such
     a valuable wetland without possible risk to its important environmental values

     the left bank drainage system in Sindh i s the first stage o f an as yet undefined but
     necessary national drainage system for the left bank of the Indus river. Hence, an
     even greater volume o f saline drainage and storm flow would have to be disposed o f
     inthe future, andafeasible andsustainable direct outlet to the seadeveloped

SpecificMeasures ToProtect theDhands

32.        Before implementation of the LBODproject, the highly variable water balance in
the four Dhands consisted of the relatively small Kotri drains that discharged directly into
Sanhro, Mehro and Pateji Dhands, seepage, rainfall and surface runoff in the monsoon
season, evaporation, and inflow to or outflow from the Rann o f Kutch". The drain
inflow, evaporation and flow to or from the Rann o f Kutch are thought to be
predominant, but with the construction o f the Tidal Link, flow from the Ranno f Kutch in

8    The Ramsar Convention is an internationaltreaty which came into force inPakistaninNovember
1976.The main obligation of the government under the treaty is to ensure the wise use and conservationo f
wetlands defined inthe convention as "an area o fmarsh,fen, peat land or water whether natural or
artificial, permanent or temporary, with water that is static or flowing fresh, brackish, or salt including

9
areas o fmarine water the depth o fwhich at low tide does not exceed six meters".
     The Kuro drain, which is much smaller thanFuZeZi interms o fflow (inan average year, 4.5 mcfld
versus 45.8 mcf/d from the latter inthe monsoon season), discharges into the adjacent Sunhro Dhand.
lo   Evenat highwater levels inthe Ranno fKutch inflow to the Dhands is restricted by the generally
northwestto southwest sloping topography

                                                             National Drainage ProgramProject


wet years would be prevented, and drain inflow reduced by directly connecting the
largest drain, KPOD, to the Tidal Link canal. There appearedto be two key concerns that
required mitigation:

     first, permanent separation from the Rann of Kutch, and elimination of the KPOD
     drain inflow, could lead to one of two scenarios, both with possibly adverse
     consequences: (i) ifthesetwo flows dominatethewater balance, then sucha change
     could cause a significant long term decreaseinthe normal surface area of the Dhands
     resulting in adverse impacts on both the fishery and waterfowl habitat; or (ii)if
     stormwater inflows and the remaining Kotri drains dominate the water balance, then
     such a change could result in the long-term increasein Dhandwater levels increasing
     water logging and salinity intrusion in the surrounding lands and impairing the
     effectivenessof the drains;

     second, if the Dhands are left intentionally open to the canal (uncontrolled), the large
     tidal water level fluctuations in the canal would cause large diurnal water level
     fluctuations in the Dhands (the surface area of the Dhands would vary by an
     estimated 70% [12]). This effect would be enhanced ifthe head differences between
     the canal andthe Dhands caused anetwork of drainage channels to develop within the
     Dhands. Water levels in the Dhands normally vary seasonally and from year to year
     butgenerally withinalimitedrangeof 1to 2ft.

33.       The 1989 EIA for the Left Bank Outfall Drain Project - Stage 1 determinedthat
the most important effect of the Tidal Link on the Dhands would be excessive drainage
due to the tidal fluctuations. Moreover, it was determined that additional, temporary
inflow of drainage water from KPOD would not have an adverse effect and could offset
the loss of water from the Rann of Kutch in wet years further stabilizing the water
balance inthe Dhands. Iti s important to note however, that at that point intime there was
little or no data on the present and future kinds and levels o fpollutants (pesticides, heavy
metals, etc.) and nutrients that would be in the water flowing into the Dhands from the
Tidal Link, nor what the biological and limnological fate of these substances would be
(for example how much would be retained in the Dhands, would they be concentratedin
the food chain, etc.).

CurrentSituationAt the Cholri Weir

34.       Since the complete destruction of the weir in 1998-99, water now flows freely in
and out of the Dhands in response to tidal fluctuations in the canal through the opening
left by the absent weir, and through a major breach in the canal bank. North of the weir
opening, and the large breach in the embankment observedby the mission, a network of
channels has quickly formed in the Dhands through which a significant portion of the
Dhands are drained at low tide twice a day. The network of channels forming in the
Dhands has the appearance of a typical tidal creek and appears to be progressing
(deepening and extending) into the Dhands.

35.       Anecdotal evidence suggests that local people are fearful of the changes taking
place. They are reported to be concernedthat becausewater i s coming from all directions



                                              63

Pakistan


waterlogging will increase, that the strong tidal influence i s bringing sea water to the
Dhands, andthat the sea, once far away, is now very close.

Environment andSocialRisks and Issues

36.     GOS has appointed a second high level Committee to assess the environmental
consequences of the Tidal Link damage, but it has not yet completed its review andmade
its report. The failure to implement the project EMP, which placedparticular emphasis on
monitoring and study o f the area, makes it very difficult to evaluate impacts and assess
risks. Nevertheless, it seems clear that there are several important long term risks that
stem from the present situation andthe course o f action recommended to the Government
o f Sindh by the Technical Committee (paragraphs 11-13).

37.     The first major risk i s that the outcome anticipated by the Technical Committee,
i.e. that the Tidal Link stabilizes and functions adequately but the uncontrolled
connection between the canal and the Dhands remains, results in substantial and
irreversible damage to the ecosystem, habitat andfishery inthe Dhands. The large diurnal
fluctuations in Dhand water level may change conditions in the Dhands sufficiently to
cause severe degradation to the ecosystem and loss o f biodiversity and key qualities o f
the waterfowl habitat. The great extent o f the Rann o f Kutch wetland may be sufficient to
provide alternative habitat for breeding, feeding andrestingby key waterfowl species, but
it is not known ifthere is sufficient equivalent habitat elsewhere inthe wetland, nor how
the waterfowl will respond.

38.     The changes in biodiversity and habitat noted above could adversely affect the
fishery reducing yields particularly o f commercially important species. Hence the second
major risk i s the loss o f livelihood by the poor fishermen who depend on the Dhand
fishery, and farmers whose lands could be adversely affected by high water levels inthe
Dhands (either temporary or persistent). Fishermen have been heavily fishing the canal
since its completion, but there has not been any systematic monitoring o f yields in the
canal, andpresently inthe Dhands, in comparison to before project conditions.

39.     Just as systematic and scientific monitoring i s needed to observe and understand
the evolution o f the Tidal Link channel and its effectiveness and functioning, similar and
perhaps more extensive monitoring and study i s needed to understand, anticipate and
respond to ecological changes occurring now and inthe future inthe Dhands.

Status of Implementation of theEMMP

40.     In 1998, an update of the 1995 Environmental Management and Monitoring Plan
(EMMP) was prepared for the LBOD - Stage 1 Project including the Tidal Link area
[12]. The key mitigation measures identified in the 1989 EIA [2] for the Tidal Link were
incorporated in its design - but the critical issue concerning future management o f the
Tidal Link and the surrounding impacted communities and wetlands was (and still is) the
lack o f a complete baseline and continuing, systematic, scientific and well coordinated
monitoring and study o f the area. As issues were identified in project planning and
design, the lack of an adequate knowledgebase to understand this dynamic system andits

                                                             NationalDrainageProgramProject


response to various interventions and changes, and to support decision making in the
future, became clear. In 1997 the first series o fbaseline studies were carried out covering,
avifauna [lo], fisheries [ll],
                             water quality [20], and comparative landuse [13].

41.     The 1998 EMMP update outlined a comprehensive program o f baseline surveys
and studies covering the social setting and economy of affected people, fisheries
(biology, productivity, techniques), water quality and limnology, and ornithology. These
studies were to continue for the foreseeable future at appropriate intervals to be
determined as the knowledge base developed and needs and priorities were identified.
The development o f an institutional framework for this program with specific
responsibilities assigned to different agencies who possessed the experience and
qualifications to do the work, was rightly seen as critical to its success. A newly
organizedEnvironmental Cell (WECS) was established at WAPDA (South) to coordinate
andleadthe work.

42.     However, from 1998 to the present a variety o f disagreements between WAPDA
and the Government o f Sindh over who would lead and be responsible for the overall
program includingrelatedelements o f the National Drainage Program (NDP, financing o f
drainage activities in Sindh shifted to this project when LBOD-Stage 1 closed), has
essentially prevented any further action on implementation o f the EMMP program. N o
follow-up surveys and studies have been carried out since 1977 to complete the baseline,
nor has an institutional framework to implement and coordinate the continuing
environmental monitoringprogram been put inplace.

FRAMEWORK FOR        ACTION

InstitutionalArrangements

43.     The performance o f the Tidal Link as the major outlet o f drainage water from the
Indus Left Bank to the open sea and its impact on the coastal wetlands i s o f strategic
national andprovincial interest.

44.     The monitoring program should be continued as enormous amounts o f past data
and institutional memory have been invested in these organizations. However, the
mission noticed that the analysis part o f the monitoring task i s weak. There i s no
permanent institution to constantly following up the analysis o f the collected monitoring
data o f both organizations in an integrated manner, and to make the necessary
interpretation o f the ongoing phenomena. The mission therefore suggests that a core
scientific group comprising multidisciplinary specialists should be formed solely for the
purpose, and assigned the task. This core group will function as a counterpart body to any
international and local panel o f expert. Before thinking o f engaging a Panel o f Experts
the core scientific team should accomplish the task o f consolidating the existing date and
information.

45.     Two priority actions are urgently needed to address the environmental risks:

        (i)   Those elements o f the program o f social and environmental monitoring,
              surveys and studies initially outlined in the 1998 EMMP that are most


                                              65

Pakistan


             relevant to the Tidal Link impact areas should be reviewed, updated and
             converted into a series o f TORSand the revised program launched on an
             urgent basis;

        (ii)Equallyimportant, andperhapsmoredifficult, is forthe Government of
             Sindh to establish a clear and stable institutional framework for the
             management and coordination o f the program. As noted earlier it i s not
             sufficient to arrange to contract for isolateddata collection and surveys. The
             adopted approach should:

                  provide an effective institutional mechanism to not only coordinate
                  activities by different organizations and specialists, but also to ensure
                  that data are compiled, analyzed, interpreted in an integrated manner,
                  trends identified, andthe program adjusted accordingly;

                  ensure that all the concerned and capable organizations in Sindh are
                  appropriately involved. It should be noted, for example, that the key
                  agency responsible for management o f these valuable wetland resources
                  (the Department o f Wildlife Conservation) i s not a member o f the GOS
                  Committee to review the environmental situation inthe Tidal Link area;

                  provide an effective mechanism, and appropriate incentives, to share and
                  disseminate data and information. Modern information management
                  tools such as computers, GIS and other information technology
                  hardware and software are now widely available in Pakistan. GOS
                  should give this issues priority attention - timely sharing o f data and
                  coordination of activities is perhaps the least expensive way to expand
                  knowledge.

46.     Within Sindh, and certainly within Pakistan, there are a sufficient number of
specialists with appropriate experience and advanced training to do the required work.
Additional training to fill gaps can be mobilized quickly. Many experienced specialists
can be found with in the specialist agencies, institutes and universities, and NGOs. What
is needed is an institutional framework to mobilize and coordinate this capacity, and
leadership.

47.     The physically complex and environmentally sensitive coastal zone should be o f
special interest to the scientific community in Pakistan. Scientists from universities and
research institutes should have the opportunity to develop more understanding o f the area
characteristics and the changes happening due to the construction o f the Tidal Link. This
approach would provide better vision and innovative solutions to mitigate adverse effects
and sustain safe flow of drainage effluent to the sea. The research sub component o f NDP
provides appropriate window for engaging the scientific community in the future Tidal
Linkmonitoring and studies.

48.     An important consequence of the failure to implement the EMMP is the lack of
public awareness o f the need to sustainably manage both the fishery and the ecosystem o f

                                                           NationalDrainageProgram Project



number o f studies done in 1997 [lo,
the Dhands. Over-fishing, poaching, and disruption o f habitat were highlighted in a
                                           111. When these unsustainable practices are
combined with the present threats causedby the damages to the Tidal Link, the risk o f an
irreversible loss is magnified. WWF indicated to the mission that there are good
examples in Pakistan o f successful efforts to mobilize stakeholders and communities and
their adoption o f new practices to sustainably manage their local natural resources and
ecosystems. Community mobilization and the creation o f local mechanisms to
sustainably manage the Dhand ecosystem resources incollaboration with local authorities
should be a central element o f the implementation o f the new EMMP. Enlisting local
communities to participate in the monitoring program (both the physical and
environmental monitoringprograms) would significantly enhance such a program.

49.    The recordinPakistan and in Sindh inregardto sharing data and information, and
coordination o f activities among different agencies even when the they are working on
the same general problem is not encouraging. Neither is the awareness or capacity o f
government organizations to work with local communities and stakeholders to achieve
sustainable development objectives. The economic, social and environmental issues and
risks in the Tidal Link area are o f strategic importance to Sindh. A major effort should
therefore be undertaken to overcome these past problems, simply because the risks are so
high.

Panelof Experts(PoE)

50.    Once such a comprehensive technical, environmental and social report i s ready
(one based not only on compilation o f data but on analysis and interpretation), a high
level Panel o f Experts (PoE) could be engaged in the future phase o f monitoring and
studies on annual basis. The PoE formed from local and international experts could start
by reviewing the state of developments up to the moment and recommending necessary
adjustments to the program and the various TOR for monitoring including those for
environmentalmonitoring, ifnecessary. The PoE would continue its annual reviews each
time an annual monitoring report(s) is/are prepared. The Panel o f expert will be in a
position to see the appropriate course o f actions leading to definite conclusions and
recommendations appropriate to deal with the findings o f this program.




                                             67

Pakistan


                                                                       Attachment 1
         PERSONS WITH WHOM THE MISSIONHELD DISCUSSIONS
MeetinPat the Secretariat, GOS. Karachi(03/12/2001)

1.      Mr.KhadimAli Memon       Additional Secretary, IPD, Government of Sindh
2.      Mr.TariqMasood           GeneralManager, NationalDrainageProgram, WAPDA
3.      Dr.IzharU1Haq            GeneralManager, Tarbela Dam, WAPDA
4.      Mr.RiasatAli             Chief Engineer CentralDesign Office (W) WAPDA
5.      Mr.MahboobA. Ansari      Conservator, Wildlife Department, GOS
6.      Mr.SyedRajhibAbbass Shah ChiefEngineer (W) South, WAPDA
7.      Mr.MohamadIzharKhan      Chief Engineer, KotriBarrage, WAPDA
8.      Dr. SalamMemon           ProvincialCoordinator, NDP, P&D
9.      Mr.P.S. Rajani           Chief (W&P), P&D
10.     Mr.FaimllahKhatri,       Senior Engineer, P&D
11.     Mr.RehanHyder            Assistant Director,     NDPP&D
12.     Mr.H.Ali DinMohammad     ACC, P&D
Meetingat HvderabadFieldVisit (03/14/20011

1.      Mr.SyedNasimHender       Director General, EPA, GOS
2.      Mr.TariqMasood           GeneralManager, NationalDrainage Program, WAPDA
3.      Dr.IzharU1Haq            GeneralManager, Tarbela Dam, WAPDA
4.      Mr.RiasatAli             Chief Engineer CDO (W) WAPDA
5.      Mr.MahboobA. Ansari      Conservator, Wildlife Department, GOS
6.      Mr.SyedRajhibAbbass Shah ChiefEngineer(W) South, WAPDA
7.      MuhammadYasin Shaikh     Director, SCARP Monitoring (South) WAPDA
8.      Mr.NaziHussainMoghul     SuperintendingEngineer, LSDC, Kotri BarrageRegion,
9.      Dr.Ahmad HadiShaikh      PlanningEngineer, PDC, GOS
10.     Mr.RehanHyder            Assistant Director, NDP P&D
11.     Mr.SaeedAkhtar Baloch    ASSH Conservator, Wildlife, GOS
12.     Mr.Akbar AliKhatain      EnvironmentalOfficer, LBOD, WAPDA
13.     Mr.AbdulKhalifer Memon   Member Cholri Weir Community, Badin
MeetinP at NIO. Karachi (03/15/2001

14.     Mr.S.H.Niaz Rizvi        Team Leader, Tidal LinkMonitoring Team, NIO
Meetinp at DeDartment of Wildlife Conservation. GOS, Karachi, 3/16/2001

15.     Mr.MahboobAlam Ansari,   Conservator of Wildlife
16.     Mr.AbdulMunafKaimkhani, Assistant Conservator of Wildlife
17.     Mr.SaeedAkhtar Baloch    Assistant Conservator of Wildlife
MeetinP at IUCN, Karachi, 3/17/2001

17.     Mrs.NargisAlavi,         Head, KarachiOffice, IUCN
18.     Mr.M.Tahir Qureshi,      Director, Coastal EcosystemsUnit,IUCN
19.     Mr.Ahmad Saeed,          DeputyProgramme Director, IUCN
20.     Mr.SyedAli Hasnain,      Project Manager, WWF
21.     Mrs. RahatJabeen,        Wetland ConservationOfficer, WWF




                                       68\

                                                        NationalDrainageProgramProject


                                                                        Attachment2


                                 Documents Consulted


1. Left Bank Outfall Drain StageIProject Preparation, annex 12, Outfall Systemand
    Tidal Link, Sir MMacDonald andPartnersLimited andAssociates, January 1984.
2. LBOD Stage IProject, Environmental Impact Assessment of the Outfall Drains, Mott
   MacDonaldLimited, February 1989
3. Tidal Link Mathematical Model, ModellingEffects of Dhand-Tidal LinkWeir,
    Summary of Results of 1990Modelling
4. Environment, Supporting Report 10, MidTerm Review, LeftBank OutfallDrain
    Stage 1Project, Sir MMacDonald & PartnersLtd, March 1993
5. Drainage Sector Environment Assessment, National Drainage Program, Main Report
    Vo12 -ConceptualFramework. Mott MacDonald, June 1993
6. The Performanceof The Drainage systems ofthe Left Bank of the River Indus
    Duringthe 1994Monsoon, AlbumofPhotographs, Sir MMacDonald andPartners
   LimitedandAssociates, October 1994.
7. InterimEnvironmental Report, Left BankOutfall Drain Stage 1Project, Mott
    MacDonald, November 1994
8. Presentationto the Minister for Water andPower, Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage 1
   Project, WAPDA Integrated Management Organization, Hyderabad, January 1997
9. Morphology of the Tidal Link Post 1996Monsoon, Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage-I
    Project, Sir MMacDonaldand PartnersLimitedandAssociates, May 1997
10. Survey of the Avifauna of Tidal LinkandAdjoining Areas, Zoological Survey
    Department, May-December 1997
11. Fisheries Surveyof Chotiari Reservoir (Sanghar) andTidal LinkLakes (Badin).
    University of Sindh, Jamshoro. December 1997
12.Environmental ManagementandMonitoringPlan, Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage 1
    Project, Sir MMacDonald andPartnerset al. April 1998
13, ComparativeLandUse AssessmentPre andPost Construction, Left Bank Outfall
   Drain Stage 1Project (StudyENV/l), Mott MacDonald Limited, April 1998
14. ImplementationCompletion Report, Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage 1Project, World
   Bank Credit 1532-PAKYJune, 1998
15. Bedlevel Survey of LBOD Tidal Link& KPOD Upto RD+26 by Echosounding,
    FinalReport, National Institute of Oceanography, October 1998.
16.A review of Erosion ProblemsinTidal LinMBreach inCholri Weir Structure and
   proposalsfor rehabilitation, by specialist Group, MMPakistan(Pvt) Ltd., February
    1999.



                                            69

Pakistan


17. Memorandum of UnderstandingbetweenSCARPSMonitoringOrganization WAPDA
    andNationalInstitute of Oceanographyfor Hydraulic Monitoring of Tidal Link,
    LBOD UnderNational DrainageProgramme-I, March 1999.
18. Report on aspects of Environment & Social Issues after damages to Cholri Weir in
    June 1998 & Tidal Link duringMay 1999Cyclone - Source Unknown
19. Committee Report on Damagesto Cholri Weir inJune 1998 andTidal Link During
    May 1999Cyclone to the Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Sindh, Chief
    Engineer andProject Director (South) WAPDA, October, 2000
20. Physical MonitoringLeft Bank Out FallDrain Stage IProject Under National
    Drainage Programme, (Two Volumes), SCARPSMonitoring (South) WAPDA,
    Hyderabad, December 2000.
21. Project Completion Report, Left Bank Outfall Drain Project (ADBLoan No. 700-
    PAK), January 2001




                                         70

                                                                     NationalDrainageProgramProject




                                                ANNEX 9
                                          CONSULTATIONS

NO.  ple~e Dateof
            a              Name(s)of NGOs,CBOr, Civil Soclety Group                      Reference
       ConsultationI
        Riscumlon
1.  July 5-28, 1994      #iscussions with DrainageBeneficiaryGroups            Aide-Memoire,Third
    On-farmDrainage                                                            PreparationMission (July 5
    Pilot Projeetin D G                                                        28,1994)
    Khan
2.  Nov. 1SDec.22,       Discussionswith NGOs, farmers and privatesector       Aide-Memire, Pre- Appraisal
    19w                  held                                                  Mission(November $3-
                         Fieldvlslts to projectsites in Punjab,Sindhand NWFP   Qecember 22, 1994)
3,  June 28, 1995        Representative8 NGOs includingNationalRural           Aide-Memoire, Secctnd P r s
    Islamabad            Support Program(NRSP)and BalochistanRural             Appraisal / Joint MissionWB,
                         Support Program(BRSP),Slndh RuralSupport              ADB & OECF (June22-July
                         Corporation(SRSC), InternationalUnionfor the          28,19951, and BTQ report
                         Conservationof Nature(IUCNf and NGO Resource          dated July 6,1995 with a list
                         Center, supportingrural and communitydevelopment      of 8 participating NGOs
                         efforts that m e r Pakistan'sfour provinces.
                         Discussionon IES with various stakeholdersincluding
                         representativeNGOs
                         Field discussionwith farmers and meetingwith local
                         consultantsand social organizersworking infarming
                         eammunities,




5.  June 26, August     aConsultationmeetings by the NGOSpecialistduring       AM Pre-BoardReview Mission
    15,1997              July 2-August 10, I997with NGOs, CBOs, Media          and supervisionfor the Nara
    Islamabad            representatives,local eommunitiesand farmers in all   CanalAWB Pilot Project
                         the provincesand Islamabad,
                         NGO network meetingswere held in all provincesand     BTOR by the NGOSpecialist,
                         in fslamabad, The meetingswere arranged by the        SDV, dated September22,
                         Regianaii ProvincialNetworksand the NDP team was      1997.
                         invitedfor a discussion,20-30 NGO and CBO
                         representativesattendedthe meeting in each province
                         and 12 in Islamabad.
                        aA briefingnote giving basic informationon the project
                         was prepared by the Missionand sharedwith the
                         media and NGOs, This was also translated by NGO
                         networks lnbo the nationaland local fanguages and



                                                      71

   Pakistan


No.   Place 8 Dateof      Name@)of NGQ5,CBOs, CivllSocietyGroup                       Reference
       Conrultatlcni
        DiScuSdon
                        distributedwidely among the members,This note
                        formedthe basis of discussionat NGO network
                        meetings.The rolesand responsibilities of dkfferent
                        partneragendes, includingNGOs,were discussedin
                        detail.
6.  January 7-8, 1998 0 Partlclpatlonby PunjabNGOCoordinationCouncil         Me-Memoire, Projed Launch
    Lahore              (PNCC);Aurat FoundationBelochistanNGO                Mission, January6-8, 1998.
                        Federation(BNGOF);Sindh NGO Federation
                        {SNGOF);Sarhad NO0 lttehad(SNI)Aurat
                        Foundation;and Coalitianof Rawalpindiand
                        IslamabadNGOs(CORIN)
7.  March23.April 10, 0 Meetlngwith NGO networkrepresentatives(March23-      BTQR dated May 4 1, 1998
    1998                24) in Lahore. Subjects for discussionincludedIEC,   from NGQ Specialist
                        social andenv~ronmentalassessment, social

                      * InHyderabad,Mirpurkhas, andSanghar:Meetingwith
                        mo~i~i~ationand partnershipwith NGOs.

                        Water UsersAssociations and Federations,and a
                        meting with Sindh NGOs Federation,
                        Meetingswith MGOsfocused on the role and
                        expectationsfrom NGOs InNDP Project, concerns in
                        terms of NDP's effects on envj~nmen~degradation in
                        Sindh province, RBQD, and drainageof water from
                        other provinces.The session also discussedthe need
                        and workedout a structurewithin the NGO networkfor
                        coordinationwith NOP.




9,  Feb, 22-March5,     Presentationby PDC.                                   NoteonOperationalizing
     2 999             0Presentation by NGOs: Nomineeof Pakistan NGQ          Social Mobilizationand other
    Lahore              Forumfocused on the roleof NGOs;                      relatedaspectsof NDP
                       0General Manager NRSP presentedNRSPs proposal          February 28, 1999
                        for participationin NDP;
                       0SocialCoordinator FESSdescribedthe experience of
                        FESS;and
                        DirectorOFWM wesentedtheir exoerience,
10. May 17-June24,      RuhukiFarmers'organization in Slndh,                  Aide-Memaire, FourthIDA
     1999               Fleldvisits and meetingswith prospectkeFOfanners      SuPeWidon fvlission,     17-
    Sindh,Punjaband     In Kahat,Hangu,Swat (NWFP)andfound strong             June 24,1999
    NWFP                demandfrom f a r " to manegewater in their
                        communities.
                       0Visited potentialproject$Res and farmers in



                                                    72

                                                                 National DrainageProgramProject


No.  Place8 Dateof
      Consultationi      Name(s)of NGOs, CBOs, Civil Society Group                  Reference
       Discussion
                      Muzzafagarh, Kot Adu, and D.Ci.Khan(Punjab)
11, March 1Q-Apf46, * ADD MissionNote dated March 31,2001): NWFP           AM Joint WE3, ADB 8,JBlC
    2082                                                                   MTR Mission
    NWFP              agreedto carry out information campaignand tor
                      saeial mohilbatinn
                      --     ..._-...--..-.,
12. September 2004   0Representativesof various NGOa including ActionAid.  Panelof Experts meetingon
    Badh Hyderabad    ActionAIdwas the only NGO participetingduringthe     MDP
    8 Islamabad       discussions with the Bank and the GOP agencies In
                      Islamabad.




                                                 73


