Report No. PIC909
Project Name                   Pakistan-National Drainage Program (@) 
(NDP) Project
Region                         South Asia
Sector                         Irrigation and Drainage
Project ID                     PKPA10500
Borrower                       Islamic Republic of Pakistan, through
Government of Pakistan (GOP)
Lead Implementing Agency       Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA)
WAPDA House, Lahore, Pakistan.
Contact: NDP Program Coordinator
Telephone Number: 92-42-6312770
Fax Number: 92-42-6369349
Date PID Prepared              January 30, 1997
Projected Board Date           March 27, 1997
Background: Waterlogging and salinity are the principal threats to the
sustainability of irrigated agriculture in Pakistan. The major issues
to be addressed are reducing the drainable surplus dramatically and
permanently at source, and providing the Indus Basin Irrigation System
with a permanent outlet to the sea to dispose the drainable surplus.
The Government of Pakistan and the Bank have agreed a new long-term
irrigation and drainage strategy for Pakistan.
Program Objectives: The objective of the project is to assist the
Borrower and the Provinces to implement the first phase of their -year
NDP designed to initiate the process of restoring environmentally-sound
irrigated agriculture in Pakistan, through two broad interventions to:
(a) minimize saline drainable surplus; and (b) facilitate the eventual
evacuation of all saline drainable surplus from the Indus Basin to the
sea. To that end, the project would assist the Borrower and its four
Provinces to: (i) establish the policy environment or institutional
framework to introduce the first phase of policy and institutional
reforms related to the water sector; (ii) strengthen irrigation and
drainage research and sector planning capabilities; and (iii) prepare
and finance selected investments in drainage and irrigation
infrastructure.
Program Description: The program would consist of three components,
namely: (i) drainage sector planning and research component aimed at
facilitating long-term sector and project planning (notably for the
National Surface Drainage System - NSDS to carry saline effluent from
the drainage network to the sea) and enhancing the technical foundations
of drainage; (ii) the institutional reforms component which is the most
important component and is aimed at carrying out of strategic
reorientation, streamlining and capacity-building of WAPDA's Water Wing;
carrying out of drainage and irrigation decentralization and management
transfer activities in the Provinces, including the restructuring of
Provincial Irrigation Departments (PIDs) resulting in the establishment



of autonomous Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authorities (PIDAs),
Area Water Boards (AWBs - initially on a pilot basis), and Farmer
Organizations (FOs), and the transfer to them of management of drainage
and irrigation services; and the strengthening of the newly-established
PIDAs, AWBs and FOs, and of On-farm Water Management Directorates of the
Provincial Agriculture Departments (PAD-OFWMs); and (iii) the
investments component which is designed to improve the drainage and
water management infrastructure in about 5 million hectares and protect
inland wetlands. The investments component would finance completion of
ongoing projects, remodeling and rehabilitation of completed drainage
projects, and new projects which conform to or support the overall
strategies of the project. In addition, the project would finance the
costs of coordination and supervision by the Borrower, WAPDA, the
Provinces, and NDP donors.
Project Costs and Financing Plan: Project costs are tentatively
estimated at $785 million, comprising $731.8 million of investment costs
and $53.2 million of recurrent costs, mainly Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) through performance civil works contracts awarded to the private
sector ($52.8 million). About $235.7 million of costs are expected to be
foreign exchange. The costs are only indicative, would be revised
yearly during the Borrower's annual budget cycle, and confirmed only
after the Mid-term Review (MTR), by which time the scope of the project
in general, and investment component in particular, would have become
more definitive. The Bank would finance about $285 million equivalent
of the project's costs with an IDA Credit of SDR 104.5 million
(equivalent to $150 million) and an IBRD Loan of $135 million. In
addition, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) has approved SDR 93.674
million ($140 million equivalent) from its Asian Development Fund (ADF)
in December 1995; while Japan's Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) has committed but not yet approved Yen 10,832 million (about $100
million equivalent). Both these donors would participate in the project
on the basis of parallel financing. The financial contributions of the
Borrower and Provinces for the project is estimated at $232.8 million
equivalent, and the contribution from beneficiaries' (mainly through
FOs) is estimated at $27.2 million.
Project Implementation: The Borrower, through WAPDA's Water Wing would
have overall responsibility for implementing the project. Each
Participating Agency (PA) would satisfy the specified eligibility
criteria to be eligible for incremental annual financing commitments
from the Bank Credit/Loan for new programs of activities to be commenced
under the Project, and any new contracts to be awarded by it for on-
going Investment Projects. The Drainage Sector Planning and Research
Component, and Institutional Reforms for WAPDA would be carried out by
WAPDA. The Institutional Reforms in Provinces would be implemented by
Provinces through PIDAs, AWBs, PAD-OFWMs, and FOs. Investment projects
financed under the project would satisfy the Selection Criteria for
Investment Projects. Except where one PA implements an investment
project on behalf of another, FOs (with assistance from PAD-OFWMs) would
carry out on-farm drainage and on-farm irrigation projects upto the
minor/distributary level; AWBs would carry out intra-provincial
irrigation and drainage projects (other than on-farm drainage and
irrigation) within their canal commands; PIDAs would carry out intra-
Provincial irrigation and drainage (other than on-farm drainage and
- 2 -



irrigation) outside canal commands, and within canal commands in which
AWBs have not yet been established; and WAPDA would carry out inter-
Provincial drainage and irrigation investments. WAPDA's Environmental
Cell and Provincial Environmental Protection Agencies (PEPAs) would have
the lead role in preparation, review, approval, and implementation of
environmental aspects of the project for the activities to be carried
out by WAPDA and Provinces respectively.
Project Coordination: Overall program coordination and monitoring would
be the responsibility of the Federal Project Steering Committee (FPSC),
which would be chaired by the Secretary of the Ministry of Water and
Power (MW&P) of the Borrower. The Borrower has established the Federal
Irrigation and Drainage Cell (FIDC) in MW&P, which will be the Federal
Secretariat for the project. Working level coordination would be
provided through an NDP Working Group which would include
representatives of WAPDA and Provinces. WAPDA, through the Member and
Managing Director (Water), would be responsible to the Borrower and
Provinces for overall project coordination. Day-to-day project
management would be the responsibility of Member(Water), through the NDP
Coordination Cell, headed by an NDP Program Coordinator which has been
established and is functioning. At the Provincial level, implementation
guidance, supervision, and monitoring would be provided through
Provincial Project Steering Committees (PPSCs), through the Additional
Chief Secretary of the Planning and Development Department (ACS
Development of P&DD) or Chairman of the P&DD Board, of the Province.
Additional coordination would be provided through four Provincial NDP
Cells, each of which would be headed by Provincial NDP Coordinators.
The Provincial NDP Cells would be located in the P&DD of each Province.
Participation, Environment and Resettlement: PAs would conduct Social
Assessments (SAs) for all investment projects and for FOs established
under the project. SAs would be used to provide frameworks for
incorporating participation, gender, poverty focus, and social analysis
into the design and delivery of project interventions to beneficiaries
and project-affected persons. The project's environmental
classification is Category B. The Drainage Sector Environmental
Assessment (DSEA) which is the project's Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA), and a Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement (FLAR) have
been agreed between the Bank and the Borrower. Specific EIAs and
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) will be conducted for individual
investment projects which involve significant environmental or
resettlement impacts. The program's overall environmental impacts are
expected to be highly positive. All investment projects would conform to
strict environmental criteria, especially those dealing with effluent
disposal; and no investment project would be included unless there is a
disposal strategy for the drainage effluent.
Program Benefits: The project's most significant direct benefit would be
to tenant farmers, smallholders, and tail-enders in the form of
increased efficiency of service delivery, improved availability of
irrigation and drainage supplies, and reduced cost. The project's
principal short term benefits will come from the physical drainage
improvements and better drainage O&M resulting in more effective
drainage and irrigation, which in turn will result in an improved
environment and increased output of agricultural produce. This will
-3 -



have a direct and positive impact on poorly drained land that falls
within the command of each Investment Project, regardless of the
socioeconomic characteristics of farmers cultivating these lands.
Estimates indicate that farmers benefiting from the drainage
improvements can expect to increase their income by an average of 30
percent, depending on the original condition of waterlogging and
salinity and on the agro-ecological conditions. The minimum acceptable
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for individual investment projects will be
15%.  The project's principal   medium- and long-term benefits
(particularly from the institutional reforms in Provinces) will come
from improved drainage and irrigation-related policies, improved
efficiency of public expenditures on drainage O&M, improved capability
in the public sector to plan and implement water sector projects and in
the private sector to undertake drainage-related investments, improved
and more equitable availability of irrigation supplies and drainage
facilities, improved efficiency, and (potentially) lower cost of
delivery of irrigation and drainage services as a result of
decentralization and participation by beneficiaries. All of these will
benefit the smallholder farmers and tenants in particular, rural
infrastructure, environment, and the rural sector as a whole. If
Provinces choose to do so, they could pass these savings to farmers
through a number of mechanisms, notably reduced irrigation charges or
increased investment in irrigation and drainage infrastructure. These
benefits will potentially be far greater than those from the physical
drainage investments.
Project Sustainability: Experience has demonstrated that the key
requirement for sustainability of irrigation and drainage projects in
Pakistan is a steady-state post-completion O&M regime, with a reliable
source of funding.    The other requirement for sustainability is a long-
term solution for minimization and disposal of drainage effluent. To
this end, the project would support institutional reforms that will
eventually improve irrigation efficiency and hence minimize the
drainable surplus; and finance the preparation of feasibility studies
and detailed design for Borrower's proposed National Surface Drainage
System (NSDS) which is intended to create a permanent disposal channel
for drainage effluent into the sea. Proposed policy and institutional
reforms are however the most significant assurance for post-completion
sustainability, not only of the project, but for the irrigation and
drainage portfolio as a whole.
Program Objective and Poverty Categories: The project is expected to
have strong poverty alleviation impacts. The project would support the
Bank's environmental objectives since waterlogging and salinity are the
most critical environmental problems of Pakistan. The project would also
support the Bank's objectives for public sector management, and private
sector development. Areas which are affected by high levels of
waterlogging and salinity tend to have among the lowest incomes, high
unemployment, and lawlessness in Pakistan. By raising farm incomes and
providing additional employment opportunities in those areas, the
project will help alleviate rural poverty and improve the socio-economic
prerequisites for law and order. The project conforms with the criteria
for inclusion in the 'Programs of Targeted Interventions,' by using
investment project selection criteria which direct investment projects
to the rural poor, who are defined for this purpose as beneficiaries in
- 4 -



the bottom third of the rural income strata; and is classified as such.
It would assist in poverty reduction through increasing agricultural
output and by providing environmental benefits. Waterlogging and
salinity are the most critical environmental problems of Pakistan, and
impact the rural poor and landless tenants most severely; hence the
environmental benefits have a poverty and equity dimension.
Project Risks (and Remedies): The major risk during implementation may
arise from a weakening of the strong political commitment by the
Borrower, Provinces, and WAPDA to follow through with the institutional
reforms, especially regarding decentralization and management transfer
of the irrigation and drainage system. Factors which mitigate this risk
are described below. First, the strong commitment of the Borrower,
Provinces, and WAPDA to the institutional reforms is indicated in the
Sector Development Policy Letters from the Borrower, and WAPDA's
Institutional Program Letter from the Chairman of WAPDA. The Borrower's
letter was written to the Bank following a high-level meeting in
Pakistan to endorse the reform program, involving the President, Prime
Minister, the four Provincial Chief Ministers, Cabinet officials, and
Secretaries from the Borrower and all the four Provinces. The
Borrower's highest authorities have reiterated this commitment on
several occasions since then, in the face of mounting opposition from
organized groups (notably large landholders, feudal landlords, and some
officials of PIDs who stand to benefit from the continuation of the
institutional status quo). Second, three Provinces have already
promulgated the PIDA Ordinance; and the fourth Province is expected to
do so shortly. The Provinces are expected to enact the Ordinances
afresh by the Provincial Assemblies after Provincial Assemblies are
constituted and convened, and establish: (a) the PIDAs shortly; and (b)
at least one AWB in a canal command in each Province, within one year of
the establishment of the PIDA. Third, the implementation arrangements
(specifically the eligibility criteria for PAs) for the project provide
for each PIDA, AWB and FO to be eligible for incremental financing
commitments only if it is established and operated as an autonomous
entity. Fourth, the expected encouragement from early positive results
of on-going pilots of FOs would help to reduce the perceived threats to
the interests of the opponents of reforms in the sector. Fifth, the
project's extensive technical assistance, communication and beneficiary
participation program would strengthen the constituency for reforms and
increase beneficiary participation. Sixth, establishment of
institutional focal points in the Federal Government (the FIDC), WAPDA
(NDP Co-ordination Cell), and Provinces (NDP Cells, PIDAs, AWBs, and
FOs) will create the incentives, mandates, and resources/capacity for
them to function as agents for institutional change. Seventh, since the
project is designed on a program approach, it is easily divisible. The
Borrower and the NDP donors have agreed and understand that the donors'
incremental financing commitments for irrigation and drainage
investments under NDP and other projects would be scaled back or
canceled altogether after the Mid-Term Review if the pace of reforms is
slow due to lack of government commitment, implementation constraints,
or resistance/lack of commitment by WAPDA, PIDs, PIDAs or AWBs for real
change. The second main risk to the project is slow implementation due
to factors such as poor coordination, weak supervision, delays in
preparation of investment projects, delays in approval of contracts and
investment projects, and failure of PAs to meet eligibility criteria on
- 5 -



schedule. To reduce these risks, authority and responsibility have been
decentralized significantly to PAs, the project is embedded in broad-
based capacity building efforts for WAPDA, PIDAs, AWBs, FOs and PAD-
OFWMs; and its design provides for extensive supervision and
implementation assistance. Finally, there are built-in mechanisms to
ensure that there is a high degree of client participation in the
formulation and implementation of all the studies and research
contracts. To reduce the risks of delay, several research contracts are
ready for signature, while contracts for a number of ongoing investment
projects are ready for approval, shortly after Effectiveness. Investment
projects, contracts, and incremental financing commitments for each year
of implementation will be approved in the prior year. The other risk is
that of inadequate O&M after completion. With respect to a possible
reluctance of beneficiaries and the private sector to assume their
role in on-farm drainage investments and O&M, the project's social
mobilization activities and awareness initiatives, together with the
front-end cost-sharing arrangements for investments and assistance to
the private sector for providing contracting services for on-farm
subsurface drainage facilities, would reduce this risk.
Contact Point:       Joseph Wambia, Task Manager, SAlAN
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-2027
Fax: (202) 522-1778
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 6 -



Annex 1
SUMMARY OF DRAINAGE SECTOR ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (DSEA) AND
SUMMARY INITIAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (SIEE)
The Need for Drainage: Waterlogging and salinity are the principal
threats to the sustainability of irrigated agriculture in Pakistan. The
problems of waterlogging and salinity are most severe in Sindh Province
(Lower Indus Plain). Drainage is necessary to combat the problems of
waterlogging and salinity. The area requiring drainage, inclusive of
areas in completed and on-going projects, is about 19.16 million acres,
of which 5.84 million acres are covered under on-going projects, 2.22
million acres are in areas with completed projects requiring further
rehabilitation, and 11.1 million acres are in areas with no drainage
facilities.
Disposal Strategy: None of the methods of disposal of saline effluent
that are currently in use in Pakistan, are environmentally acceptable on
a large scale or on a permanent long-term basis. Most of the drainage
effluent which is generated is retained or recycled within the Indus
basin. 24 million of the 33 million tons of salt which are brought into
the basin annually are retained and recycled within the basin: (i) 2.2
million tons are stored in evaporation ponds in Cholistan Desert which
are leaky and are threatening the Pajnand-Abbasia Canal commands on the
lower edge of the Upper Indus; (ii) 2.6 million tons are stored in
Pakistan's largest inland freshwater lakes (Manchar and Hammal) on the
Right Bank Indus, which are now threatened with extinction; (iii) 0.7
million tons are trapped in the Peshawar Valley; (iv) 18.5 million tons
are inadvertently stored in the aquifer through direct seepage from
canals, watercourses, and drains; and (v) the rest is disposed into the
Arabian Sea via the Lower Indus River itself. In the longer term, the
only viable option is disposal of the effluent outside the system. This
can be achieved only by developing a 'National Surface Drainage System
(NSDS)' by extending the Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) northwards and
constructing trans-Punjab link drains. Modeling studies to evaluate the
feasibility and importance of achieving basin salt balance, with
particular reference to the mechanism of salt transfer and storage
within the basin are required.
Environmental Impacts: NDP would have significant beneficial
environmental effects, as it would address the major environmental
problems of waterlogging and salinity. Major positive impacts would
result from efficient effluent disposal, improvement in institutional
effectiveness, and improvement in quality of domestic water supply for
major urban centers(primarily for Hyderabad and Karachi). NDP would
also have positive impacts on various physical and human issues. There
are no on-site biotic Significant Environmental Impacts (SEIs), positive
or negative. There will be a number of off-site positive impacts on
wildlife and flora, mainly due to the proposed project's Wetland
Management Plan (WMP). The only negative impact is from possible human
settlement disrupted by drain construction.
Institutional Aspects: The capabilities of institutions for
environmental monitoring, regulation, macro assessment, and strategy
-7 -



formulation should be built/strengthened. Environmental monitoring and
evaluation (M&E), both for NDP as a whole and for individual sub-
projects, should be conducted. Particular attention should be given
under NDP's institutional reform and strengthening component to confirm
that environmental management is an important aspect of WAPDA-Water
Wing's mandate, and that the necessary environmental institutional
reorganization, linkages, strengthening and support are achieved.
Environmental Screening for Sub-projects: There is no requirement for
an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for NDP. However, specific
sub-projects under NDP could create local negative Significant
Environmental Impacts (SEIs). NDP should therefore include
environmental screening and categorization procedures for all sub-
projects. The criteria for sub-project selection should include the
appropriate mitigation of adverse environmental effects to an acceptable
level. Environmental screening of projects should be conducted in
addition to technical and economic appraisal. All environmental costs
and benefits should be addressed during the economic assessment and
ranking of proposed investments.
Drainage Technologies: New tubewell schemes in Saline Groundwater Zones
should not be commenced, pending longer-term or permanent solutions to
effluent disposal. Preventive measures should be instituted to combat
waterlogging and salinity. These should include: (i) measures to reduce
the drainable surplus such as better water management, reducing or
intercepting seepage at source and (ii) biological drainage: measures
such as saline agriculture to exploit residual potential of adversely
affected resources.
Risks: The major environmental risks under NDP, are the failure to
implement the (feasibility study of the) NSDS and/or the WMP, failure to
implement the necessary environmental institutional changes to create a
genuine environmental capability in WAPDA-Water Wing, failure to improve
drainage O&M, and lack of timely research to resolve the doubts
concerning secondary soil salinity/sodicity in Fresh Groundwater areas.
Note: The 'Summary Initial Environmental Assessment' is specific to NDP,
and is based on the Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment.
WAPDA conducted public hearings in Pakistan on the SIEE.
- 8 -



