                                                                      41897

                                PAKISTAN
              NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAMPROJECT
                         (CREDIT NO.2999-PK)




                              Follow Upto the
 Meetingof the ExecutiveDirectorsof the World Bank(October31,2006) on the
           InspectionPanelInvestigationReportNo. 36382-PKand
                 ManagementReportandRecommendation

                        PROGRESSREPORT ON

               IMPLEMENTATIONOFTHE ACTION PLAN




                            November30,2007



SouthAsia Region


                                                          Contents

Introduction.........................................................................................................................     1
Summary o fProgresson Implementation ofthe Action Plan                                       ............................................ 1
Progress on Immediate and Short Term Actions                           ................................................................   3
Progress on MediumTerm Actions ....................................................................................                       9
LongTerm Outcomes.........................................................................................................                9
Conclusions....................................................................................................................... 10


Annexes
Annex 1. Management ProgressReport on the Implementationof the Action Plan, July 5,2007
Annex 2.   PakistanPovertyAlleviation Fund's (PPAF) Sindh Coastal Areas Development
           Program (SCAD). Tables and Diagrams
Annex 3.   Reportby Bank Consultants. Environmental and Social Assessment of the Dhands.
           November 2007
Annex 4.   Reportby FA0 Consultant: Assessment of Badin andMirpurkhas Districts, Flood
           Management Plan
Annex 5.   Reportby FA0 Consultant: Assessment of PresentCondition of LBOD and Kadhan
           Pateji Outfall Drain(KPOD)
Annex 6.   BankResponseLetter to InternationalRiverNetwork, November 2,2007

Tables
Table 1.   Surface Water Salinity inthe Dhands
Table 2.   Action Plan

Figures
Figure 1.  SCAD Projects by PO
Figure2.   Left Bank of IndusRiver inSouthern Sindh




                                                                 2

                                   Acronyms

AWB      Area Water Board
CGAP     Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest
DPL      Development Policy Loan
FA0     UnitedNations Foodand Agriculture Organization
FA0-TCP  FA0TechnicalCooperation Program
FO       Farmers' Organizations
GoP      Government ofPakistan
GoS      Government of Sindh
IFAD     InternationalFundfor Agricultural Development
KF'OD    Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain
LBOD     Left Bank Outfall Drain
NDP      Pakistan NationalDrainage Program
NGO      Nongovernmental organization
NWFP     NorthWest Frontier Province
PO       Partner Organization
PPAF     Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
SCAD     SindhCoastal Areas Development Program
SCAN     SindhCoastal Areas Network
SIDA     SindhIrrigationand Drainage Authority
TUP      Targeting UtraPoor Program
WAPDA    Water and Power Development Authority
WE3      World Bank
WMC      Water Management Center
WSIP     SindhWater Sector ImprovementProject
WWF      World Wildlife Fund




                                         3

                                        PAKISTAN
                   NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAMPROJECT
                                  (CreditNo. 2999-PK)

    MANAGEMENT REPORT ON STATUS OFIMPLEMENTATIONOF THE
                         ACTION PLANFOLLOWINGTHE
      INSPECTIONPANELINVESTIGATIONREPORT (NO.36382-PK)AND
 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION (INSP/R2004-0007/4&5)

                                        PAKISTAN
                   NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAMPROJECT
                                  (CreditNo. 2999-PK)

Introduction

1.    This is the progress report in response to the Board's request to provide a twelve
month report inNovember 2007 on the implementation status o f the Action Plan for the
Pakistan National Drainage Program Project (NDP), including information on new
developments. The Action Plan was included in the Management Report and
Recommendation that was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on October 31,
2006, along with the Inspection Panel's investigation report. The Board endorsed
Management's Action Plan and Elaboration o f the Short-Term Action Plan. This report
follows up on Management's first progress report o f July 2007 (SecM2007-0333 - see
Annex l),   which was submittedto the Board, per its request, prior to the 2007 monsoon
seasoninsouthern Pakistan.

2.       The present report provides the status o f implementation following the 2007
monsoon season and describes short term activities, as well as medium and longer term
initiatives. Management has carefully monitored and followed up on implementation o f
the Action Plan approved by the Executive Directors. A summary o f the Action Plan is
provided in Table 2 and five annexes contain supplementary information as follows:
Annex 1 contains the Management Progress Report on the Action Plan presented to the
Board in July 2007; Annex 2 presents details o f the work done under the Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) through the Sindh Coastal Areas Development
Program (SCAD) to address poverty alleviation activities in this region; Annex 3 i s the
report on the environmental and social conditions of the Dhands located next to the
LBOD/Tidal Link outfall system; Annex 4 reports on the work done as part o f the Flood
Management Plan in Badin and Mirpurkhas districts; Annex 5 provides information on
the physical conditions o f the drainage system and the works done by the Sindh
government; and Annex 6 contains a Management letter inresponse to an IRNbrochure,
circulated within the Board and the media, commenting on the implementation o f the
Action Plan. These materials have also beenposted on www.worldbank.ora.pk.

Summaryof Progresson Implementationofthe Action Plan

3.       Overall, the Government of Sindh (GoS) has been diligent in implementing the
Action Plan. Major results o fthe first year of implementation include:

        Livelihood interventions. Coastal Sindh has for the first time ever a strong and
        systematic livelihood program in place, the Sindh Coastal Areas Development
        program (SCAD). Significant progress has been made in addressing the harsh
        conditions o f the local population. Direct actions to alleviate poverty are in
        progress through an inclusive, participatory and demand driven consultation
        process with the communities. The PPAF has engaged ten nongovernmental
        organizations (NGOs) in efforts to improve the living conditions of the transient
        fisherfolk communities. The PPAF i s currently implementing development
        activities in336 settlements, over 65 percent o f which are inthe Left Bank Outfall
        Drain (LBOD) area' (see Figure 1). Out o f 218 SCAD community infrastructure
        schemes initiated so far, 73 percent are located inthe LBOD backwash area (113
        projects have been completed and 46 are ongoing). Under the PPAF, a Water
        Management Center (WMC)2 has been established and will provide technical
        expertise and overall coordination for SCAD activities. These activities represent
        a total commitment o f about US$3 million. An overall envelope o f approximately
        U S 2 5 million has been identifiedto cover 3,300 settlements in coastal Sindhby
        2011, directly benefiting a population o f over 1.1million. PPAF will give priority
        to settlements in the LBOD region. PPAF I11is currently under preparation and
        will be the major source o f funds to support the identified livelihood
        interventions.

     0  Dhands Diagnostic Study. A rapid assessment o f ecological and livelihood
        conditions o fthe Dhandsinthe vicinity o fthe outfall systemhas been undertaken.
        Thirteenworkshops were carried out inthe villages inthe vicinity o fthe DhandsS3
        The survey confirmed the harsh conditions o f the villages and the lack o f basic
        services in the area. With respect to the ecological conditions o f the Dhands, the
        data shows that salinity in the Dhands has decreased significantly in 2007,
        compared to 2001-2003. On the other hand, biological and chemical pollution
        from the nearby cities and sugar mills i s significant. However, overall the
        wetlands are highlyproductiveand rich innutrients, supporting numerous species
        o f animal and plant life. There is growth potential for local shrimp fisheries. The
        conclusion of this study will be included in the preparation o f the Left Bank
        comprehensive study ofthe Water Sector Improvement Project (WSIP).

        LBOD Assessment. Following on the outfall assessment undertaken inAprilMay
        2007 and discussions with the GoS, notable progress has been made inimproving
        the outfall system. The risk o f floods has been reduced by enlarging the flow
        capacity o f the outfall drains from 4,400 to 9,000 cusecs. On June 23, 2007,
        cyclone Yemyin 03B hit the coastal areas o f Pakistan, causing severe damages in



'LBOD   (1984-1997) i s amajor drain inSouthern Sindh. NDP fundedthree ongoing LBOD contracts for
the improvement o f one irrigationcanal andtubewells that were part o f the irrigation component o f the
LBOD project. The amount financed byNDP was about 3.3 percent o f the total cost.
 The PPAF Water Management Center focuses on drought mitigation, flood reliefprojects and efficient
water use.
3Dhands Study. Annex 3.


                                                   2

         Karachi and Bal~chistan.~Because o f the rapid response o f the GoS, no major
         damages occurred in Badin. The LBOD system capably handled the water flows
         inthe areaandno breacheswere reportedinthe system. Thiswas aclear result of
         the work that has been done on the LBOD system and the implementation o f the
         Flood Management Plan. The GoS i s committed to ensuring the long-term
          sustainability o f flood management plans andoperations.

         Flood Management Plans. Progress has been made in improving local
         government flood management systems. The assessment was carried out in
         AprivMay 2007 and discussed with the Government and updated again in
         November 2007 (Annex 4). Also, the district governments o f Badin and
         Mirpurkhas, with the help o f the Bank, have developed a "Contingency Plan to
          Combat Cyclones and Floods.'' While the preparation of these plans represents an
         important initiative in addressing flood risks and vulnerability, capacity building
          at the local level will remain a long term issue, and the Bank will continue to
          assist the Government in supporting this action over the medium to long term.
         These plans will be firther improved and form part o f the studies under the Flood
         Management Plan for the Left Bank of the Indus River and the Coastal
         Development Program that will be carried out underthe WSIP.

    0    Sindh Water Sector Improvement Project (WSIP)).The WSIP was approvedby the
         Board and signed in September 2007. Major lessons learned during the last ten
         years o f the Bank's involvement in the water sector have been incorporated into
         project design. Detailed plans to continue improvements in drainage and address
          flooding issues in the area on the Left Bank o f the Indus River, including the
          hctioning o f the complex drainage infrastructure o f the outfall system o f LBOD
          and coastal zone, will be initiated under WSIP. The plans will be prepared in
         consultation with the project-affected people and stakeholders inthe area.

4.       While immediate actions have been taken to address the mainissues affecting the
area as a consequence o f the floods o f 2003 and 2006, flood risks in the coastal zone of
the Indus River system will continue to be high.Efforts to reduce such risks need to be
sustained through structural and non-structural measures in the medium and long term,
some o f which are being implemented under the WSIP and potential follow-up
operations.

Progresson ImmediateandShortTermActions

5.        Since the last progress report, the following immediate and short term actions
have been undertaken or implementedby the SCAD' through an informal organization,
the Sindh Coastal Areas Network (SCAN):


 Cyclone Yemyin 03B, with winds over 100miles per hour and extremely heavy rains, hit the coastal zone o f Pakistan
causing severe damages to Karachi and the coast of Balochistan. The cyclone passedover Badin, without producing
severedamagesto the LBOD outfall system.
5The SCAD includes: (a) improving access to basic services, includinghealth, education, and drinking water supply
and sanitation; (b) increasing incomes through improvedcrop, fisheries and livestock production as well as marketing
and micro-finance services; (c) securing access to, andbetter management of, coastal areanatural resources; (d)



                                                           3

     0    Social mobilization commenced in January 2007 and, to date, there are 563
          community organizations established through the PPAF and its Partner
          Organizations (POs). Under SCAD, there is a target to organize a total of 5,000
          communities in3,300 settlements around the Sindh Coastal Area;

     0    As o f October 2007, the PPAF and its ten POs have completed 218 infrastructure
          schemes (all marked inFigure 1as ongoing or completed) with a total o f 171,000
          direct beneficiaries. Schemes include link roads that provide access to markets
          and main roads, water supply and sanitation, latrines and integrated area upgrade
          projects. Details on number o f sub-projects and detailed breakdown o f
          disbursements, information on SCAD outreach, progress made in social
          mobilization and infrastructure schemes implemented are presented in Tables 1to
          4 ofAnnex 2;

     0    A spot survey has been carried out to map all settlements in the coastal areas.
          Nine o f the ten POs have completedtheir surveys and submitted the data to PPAF
          for verification and consolidation. This will be used to conduct a base mapping
          exercise for monitoring purposes;

          SCAN has developed and disseminated a "Constitution o f the SCAN" which was
          adopted by all POs in Karachi in April 2007.6 (PPAF-WMC i s currently the
          SCAN Secretariat o f the Network);

     0    Interms ofpartnerships and areas ofcooperation with SCAD andSCAN, there is
          a memorandum o f association with WWF Pakistan under the theme o f
          environment-poverty nexus, which includes representation of WWF on SCAN;
          and

     0    PPAF has also leveraged US$1 million from the International Fund for
          Agricultural Development (IFAD), with technical assistance from the Consultative
          Group to Assist the Poorest(CGAP), for its TargetingUltra Poor (TUP) Program, o f
          which about US$800,000 i s for the LBOD area. TUP covers asset transfer,
          subsistence allowance, special health care andtraining.




formingviable communityorganizationsthat are inclusive,well governed, and can operate inpartnershipwith the
public andprivate sector; (e) integratingthese areas with thenationaleconomyby developingrural growthcenters;
promotingintegrateddevelopment ofphysicalinfrastructure,includingconstructionofproductiveinfrastructure,such
asjetties andwharves; anddevelopingtransportandmobility, throughthe constructionof inter- and intra-villageroads
and intermediatemodesof transport, usinginfrastructuregrants andmicro-credit;(0promotingtechnological
innovations, particularlytheuse of solar andwind energyfor pumpingwater and generatingelectricity; and(g)
reducingphysicalvulnerability,throughthe constructionoffloodprotectionand seawater containment structures and
betterresponsemechanismsby communities.
6Chairmanshipis heldon arotationalbasisand currentlythe ChiefExecutiveof the Aga KhanPlanningandBuilding
Serviceis the Chairperson, with the ChiefExecutiveof Thardeep RuralDevelopmentProgramas Co-chairperson.
TheGeneralManagero fthe PPAF-WMC is the SecretaryGeneralandthePPAF-WMCManageris the network
coordinator.



                                                           4

                                                                                                                111


                                                                                                            Sindh
                                                                                                            Coastal Areas
                                                                                                            Developm rnt
                                                                                                            Program
                                                                                                             (SCAD)




                      Figure1. SCAD Programs-OngoingandCompleted

6.       The WMC, which was set up to help address the dismal water management
situation: manages implementation o f SCAD.8 The PPAF has successfblly leveraged its
existing network o f local POs and experience invillages around the Sindh Coastal belt to
implement expeditiously infrastructure schemes, provide social safety nets inthe form o f
asset transfers and livelihood training under the CGAP/IFAD pilot project for TUP,
mobilize communities, andprovide skill training to POs and Community Organizations.

7.       Rapid Assessment of Ecological and Livelihood Conditions in the Dhands. The
Dhands study, which was delayed due to extensive consultations with the Government
and local organizations, has been divided into three coordinated sub-components:
socioeconomic assessment, review o f water quality and hydrology, and assessment of the
ecosystem and its wetland functions.

8.       The socioeconomic assessment focused on the people who live near the Pateji,
Cholri, Sanhro and Mehro Dhands who have been affected by natural disasters and the
'The mission o f the WMC is to incorporate water focused interventions aimed at reducing chronic poverty and
safeguarding against vulnerability to povertydue to increasing water scarcity and water related disasters.
* Theprogramis being managed through the WMC, which i s fully staffed and has recently built a Geographic
Information Systems(GIS) studio inorder to visually track and map progress.



                                                          5

breakdown of the Tidal Link. A highly participatory approach was followed for this
assessment. In total, 13 workshops (8 with men and 5 with women) were carried out in
the 58 villages in the close vicinity o f the Dhands, with 553 registered participants. The
survey confirmed the harsh conditions o f the villages and the lack o f basic services such
as water supply, education, electricity and communication. The main interest of the
people inthis area i s infindingways to increase their well being.

9.      The four brackish wetlands known as the Dhands cover an area o f 70 square
kilometers that varies significantly during the year and from year to year. They are
connected to a highly hyper-saline marshland known as the Rann o f Kutch at the border
with India (in the State o f Gujarat). Beginning in the 1960s, an extensive drainage
network was builtthat discharges into the Dhands.

10.     The study indicates that salinity inthe Dhandshas decreased significantly in2007
as compared to 2001-2003 (see Table 2) because o f the abundant water in the irrigation
system near the Dhands. The salinity levels inthe Dhands are largely dependent on water
supplies, rains duringsummer, andwater diversions to the imgation and drainage system.
However, sewage from nearby towns, workshops and sugar mills contributes heavily to
the deterioration o f the wetlands. That said, despite heavy loading of biological and
chemical pollution, dissolved oxygen levels in Dhands are at acceptable levels. The
Badin Dhands and the Tidal Link now form a wetland that is a highly productive
ecosystem, rich innutrients, that supports ample biological life. This wetland complex is
also home to highly specialized species adapted to the fluctuation in salinity. Shrimp
fisheries are the most important commercial activity in the area and can grow
substantially inthe hture.

11.     The last progress report (July 2007) already provided an account o f the rapid
assessmento f the Right Bank o f the LBOD spinal drain and Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain
(KPOD) as well as of the local government's flood management plans. Since then, in
addition to Badin, the Mirpurkas local government has also developed its Flood
Management scheme (which includes an early warning system o f imminent floods and
provides information on mitigating impact). Moreover, the breaches in the drainage
system caused by the 2003 and 2006 cyclones have been fixed and the flow capacity o f
the outfall drains has been substantially increased. Management responsibilities with
respect to the monitoringand operation o f the imgation and diversion system have been
agreed among the Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority (SIDA), the GoS, and the
Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA). The GoS i s also commencing (in
November 2007) preparation o f a detailed maintenance program for the drainage
network.




                                              6

a: Based on data collectedbyWAPDA from 178sampling points analyzed by N10
b: The range close to CholriWeir was 20-32 ppt.




                     Figure 1.Left Bankof IndusRiver in Southern Sindh
                                 (Source: POE Drainage Master Plan)


                                                 7

12.     Implementationof WSIP Phase-I Project.The WSIP was negotiated inMarch
2007 and approved by the GoS and the Government o f Pakistan (GoP). The Bank's
Board of Executive Directors approved the project in September 2007. The Financing
and Project Agreement have been signed. The Government is starting project
implementation activities, including selection of consultants for project implementation
andmonitoring and evaluation.

13.     The overarching objective o f the WSIP is to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness o f irrigation water distribution in three Area Water Boards (AWB)-
Ghotki, Nara and Left Bank-particularly      with respect to measures o f reliability, equity
and user satisfaction. This would be achieved by: (a) deepening and broadening the
institutional reforms that are already underway in Sindh; (b) improving the irrigation
system in a systematic way, covering key hydraulic infrastructure, main and branch
canals, and distributaries and minors; and (c) enhancing long term sustainability o f the
irrigation systemthrough participatory irrigation management and developing institutions
to improve operation and maintenance o f the system and cost recovery. Improvedwater
management would lead to increased agricultural production, employment and incomes
from about 1.8 million hectares, or more than 30 percent o f the irrigated area in Sindh,
which i s one o fthe poorest regions o fthe country.

14.     The WSIP includes the following components:

         ComponentA. Community Development and Capacity Building (US$lO million):
        Capacity o f SIDA, AWBs,          and Farmers' Organizations (FOs) will be
        strengthened under the project, enabling them to perform their responsibilities
        according to the Sindh Water Management Ordinance of 2002. The project will
        also strengthen the capacity o f FOs to carry out operation and maintenance o f the
        irrigation and drainage systems;

        Component B. Rehabilitation and Improvement of Irrigation and Drainage
        System (US$l39.8 million): The main and branch canals, distributariedminors
        (secondary level canals) anddrainage system inFO areas will be rehabilitated and
        improved and a modem water measurement and accounting system will be
        installed throughout the canal systems inthe three AWBs;

        Component C. Management Plans for               Major Irrigation & Drainage
        Infrastructure (US$l2 million): A feasibility study for rehabilitation o f the Gudu
        barrage will be prepared and assistance provided to prepare studies for
        rehabilitation of the Sukkur and Kotri barrages. A regional master plan will be
        prepared to deal with floods and drainage issues on the Left Bank o f the Indus
        River and measures designed for improvement o f the Indus delta and the coastal
        zone;

        Component D. Monitoring and Evaluation of              the Project Impact and
        Environmental Management Plan (US4.2 million): This component will be for
        monitoring and evaluation and supervision o f the environmental management and
        social actionplans; and



                                             8

     0    Component E. Project Coordination, Monitoring, Technical Assistance and
          Training (US$9 million): This component will support project coordination,
          monitoring o f implementation activities, management and supervision o f
          procurement by an independent project management consultant/procurement
          agent, andtechnical assistanceandtraining.

 15.      Component C ofthe WSIP i s particularly important, as it includes detailed studies
andpreparation o faregionalmaster planinconsultation with stakeholders. This planwill
address flooding and drainage issues in the area on the Left Bank o f the Indus River,
taking into consideration structural and non-structural measures, including remedial
measures for any outstanding deficiencies in the LBOD and measures for the retention
and/or safe disposal o f storm and flood water. This study will incorporate the
recommendations and lessons learned from the Dhands study, the findings o f the Panel o f
Experts on environmental flows below Kotri and the pilot studies of the Kotri drainage
basinprepared for the Drainage Master Planunder NDP. A separate planwill be prepared
for rehabilitation and improvement o f the delta area, wetlands and coastal zone, taking
into consideration the environmentalimportance o f the region and its economic potential,
and drawing upon international experience. Feasibility studies will be completed and
detailed designs will be prepared for priority works for implementation under a future
investment project that Sindh may undertake with the assistance o f its development
partners  .
Progresson MediumTermActions

 16.      The last progress report addressedthe Flood Management Plan for the Left Bank
o f the Indus River and the Coastal Development Program. There i s no further progress to
date. WSIP includes an allocation o f US$7 million, as part of Component C, to prepare a
master plan to manage flood issues in the area o f the Indus River and the coastal zone,
along with the preparation o f feasibility studies and detailed designs o f priority works
identified under the plan. The final concept and scope o f the activities for the FA0
Technical Cooperation Program, which aims to develop a project concept for a Coastal
Development Program, are still under discussion with the GoS and GoP, and are not
expected to be finalized before March 2008. As noted earlier, the PPAF has estimated at
US$25 million (up from U S 1 8 million) the financial requirement to support demand-
driven community infrastructure and livelihoodprojects.

LongTermOutcomes

17.       Inthe context ofimprovingmanagement ofirrigation and drainage infrastructure,
services and equitable distribution o f water in Pakistan, the Bank has continued to
intensify the dialogue with all Provinces in an effort to pursue institutional reforms
coupled with infrastructure development.                        The Third Punjab Irrigation Sector
Development Policy Loan (DPL-III),9 currently under preparation, is actively promoting


9The second DPL supported the Government o f Punjab MediumTerm Imgation Sector ReformProgram, begun in
2005, inimplementing institutionaland policy reforms to improve provincialasset managementplans; to make
interprovincialwater allocation and distribution more transparent; to decentralize imgation management to water users



                                                           9

a new governance agenda in the irrigation sector to increase accountability and
transparency inservice provision and farmer participation. InSindh, the WSIP will cover
30 percent o f the irrigated area in which the Government has taken action to reform
irrigation and drainage institutions, establish AWBs and develop FOs for irrigation
management. InBalochistan, a small-scale irrigation andwatershed management project,
combined with drought mitigation measures, i s being prepared. In Northwest Frontier
Province (NWFP), the Bank is pursuing a dialogue to sustain the initial reform efforts
carried out under the previous on-farm water management project.

18,      An improved institutional framework for water resources management continues
to be central to the Bank's ongoing discussions with the GoP on further development o f
water resources infrastructure on the Indus River. Pakistan i s moving steadily to ensure
the sustainable management o f the Indus system; this includes the preparation and
implementation o f a comprehensive framework o f policy and institutional reforms and
development plans, all to provide sustainable and equitably-shared benefits to the people
o fPakistan. This concept has been fully endorsed by key stakeholders at the highest level
inthe Government andbymost civil society organizations. The ongoingchallenge for the
Bank and other donors is to move the process forward in a manner that ensures full
government ownership at the federal and provincial levels and leadership in the water
reformprocess, compliant with internationalbest practice.

Conclusions

19.      Implementationo f the five actions under the Action Plan agreed by the Executive
Directors during the discussion o f the findings o f the Inspection Panel's Investigation
Report and the Management Report and Recommendation on the Pakistan NDP project
remains broadly on track". Although the solution to many o f the poverty, ecological and
flood management issues o fthe outfall area o f Sindh are o f a longterm nature and require
management and structural measures, the activities initiated under the Action Plan are an
important step in the right direction. Despite strong support at a high level in the GoS,
weak capacity at the local level will remain a serious issue and will need considerable
strengthening. The Sindh coastal zone and, in particular, the LBOD outfall system will
continue to remain a high-risk area. Addressing the complex socio-ecological and
structural issues affecting this area will continue to be a difficult challenge compounded
by recurrent adverse weather events. Management will remain actively engaged in
following up on these issues. The NDP project i s now closed; however, the Bank will
continue to support the Government through the ongoing dialogue, the PPAF, the WSIP
andthe coastal zone management initiative under preparation.




associations; andto improvewater productivity. DPL I11will follow up onthese reforms, andthe Government of
Punjabhas requestedthe continuedsupport ofthe Bank for aseries of three additionalDPLs.
loIRNpreparedabrochurethat includesits comments onthe implementationofthe Action Plan. Bankoficials met
with IRNandone ofthe Requestersto discussthe statusofthe implementationofthe Action Plan. A letterattached as
Annex 6 was preparedas aresponseto the IRNposition.



                                                      10

                                              Table 2: Action Plan"

                   Activities & Projects                      A    B C        Responsibility        Updated-
                                                                                                    Schedule
Immediate and Short Term
     Implementation of LivelihoodImprovement
     PrograminBadin and Thatta Districts
         Phase I(US$3 million)                                J             PPAF                   2006-2007
         Phase I1(US$25 million                               J                                    2007-2009


0    SindhWSIP                                                J J J
         Appraisal                                                          GoSIGoPISIDA           Nov. 2006
         BoardPresentation                                                  WB                     Sep. 2007
         Effectiveness                                                      GoSIGoPlSIDA           Jan. 2008

     Socio-economic and environmental diagnostic              J         J WBISIDA                  Nov. 2007
     study o fthe Dhands and surrounding areas

     Assessment o f the conditions o fthe right                    J
     embankment o f the LBOD spinal drain and                               SIDAIWAPDA             May 2007
     KPOD. Preparation o f a maintenance plan.                                                     and
                                                                                                   updated in
                                                                                                   November
                                                                                                   2007

RapidAssessment o f Existing Local and                                      SIDAlLocal             May 2007
Government FloodRisk Management Systems.                           J        Governments.           and updated
                                                                                                   November
                                                                                                   2007
MediumTerm
     FloodManagement Master Plan for the Left                      J        SIDA                   2007-2009
     Bank ofthe IndusRiverinsouthern Sindh


0    Coastal Development Program                              J         J   WBFAO-TCP              Mar. 2008

     0   Project Concept Note

LongTerm Outcomes
     Improved management (O&M) of irrigation and
     drainage infrastructure; improved service                J J J GoPIGoSIWB                     2006-2009
     delivery and governance; and transparent and
     more equitable water allocation and distribution

     Modern institutional framework for IndusBasin                          GoPJGoSIWB             2009-2016
     water resources management                               J J J


     Sustained governance reform agenda                                     GoPIGoSIWB             2009-2016
                                                                   J J
  KEY: A: Poverty and livelihoods, B: Floodrisk, C Threatened ecosystems




l1This table i s arevision of the one included inthe Action Planin 2006. Two activities havebeenadded inthe section
on "Immediate and Short Term" actions, and some ofthe dates havebeenamendedfor reasonsthat are explained inthe
report.The new activitieswere also includedinthe July2007 progressreport.


                                                           11

12

                                 Annex 1

                              PAKISTAN

             NATIONALDRAINAGE PROGRAMPROJECT
                        (CREDIT NO. 2999-PK)




                             Follow Up to the
Meetingof the ExecutiveDirectorsof the World Bank(October31,2006) on the
          InspectionPanelInvestigationReportNo. 36382-PK and
                ManagementReportandRecommendation

                       PROGRESSREPORT ON

              IMPLEMENTATIONOF THE ACTION PLAN




                              July 5,2007


                                                                Contents

Introduction..................................................................................................................................... 1
                                                                                                                                                  2
Progresson Immediate and Short Term Actions .............................................................................
Summary of Progresson Implementation of The Action Plan.......................................................

Progresson Medium Term Actions...............................................................................................                     3
                                                                                                                                                  10
Long-Term Outcomes ...................................................................................................................            11


                                                                 Annexes
Annex 1. PakistanPoverty Alleviation Fund's (PPAF) Sindh CoastalAreas Development
           Program (SCAD)
Annex 2.   Noteby the Consultative Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP), World Bank and PPAF:
           "Graduating the Poorest: Linking SafetyNets with Microfinance"
Annex 3.   Report by FA0Consultant: Assessmento f Badin andMirpurkhas Districts, Flood
           ManagementPlan
Annex 4:. Report by FA0Consultant: Assessment of Present Condition of LBOD and Kadhan
           Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD)

                                                                   Tables
Table 1.   SCAD Projectsby PartnerOrganization and Districts
Table 2.   Action Plan

                                                                     Box
Box 1. SCAD Implementation inKeti Bunder

                                                                   Figure
Figure 1.  Left Bank of Indus River in Southern Sindh




                                                                        11

                                      Acronyms
AKPBS  Aga Khan Planning and Building
       Service
AWB    Area Water Board
CGAP   Consultative Group to Assist the
       Poorest
DPOD   Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain
FA0    UnitedNations Foodand
       Agriculture Organization
FAO-TCP F A 0 Technical Cooperation
       Program
FO      Farmers' Organizations
GoP     Government of Pakistan
GoS     Government of Sindh
KPOD    Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain
LBOD    Left Bank Outfall Drain
NDP     PakistanNational Drainage
        Program
NGO     Nongovernmental organization
NWFP    North West Frontier Province
PO      PartnerOrganization
PPAF    PakistanPoverty Alleviation Fund
SAFWCO Sindh Agricultural and Forestry
        Workers Coordinating Organization
SCAD    Sindh CoastalAreas Development
        Program
SCAN    SindhCoastalAreas Network
SIDA    Sindh Irrigation andDrainage
        Authority
WAPDA   Water and Power Development
        Authority
WB      World Bank
WSIP    SindhWater SectorImprovement
        Project




                                          ...
                                          111

                                        PAKISTAN
                  NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAMPROJECT
                                   (Credit No. 2999-PK)

   MANAGEMENT REPORT ON STATUSOFIMPLEMENTATION OF THE
                          ACTION PLANFOLLOWING THE
     INSPECTIONPANELINVESTIGATION REPORT(NO.36382-PK) AND
 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION (INSP/R2004-0007/4&5)



Introduction

1.    On October 31, 2006, the Executive Directors discussed the findings of the
Inspection    Panel's   Investigation Report       and    the Management         Report  and
Recommendation on the Pakistan National Drainage Project (NDP, closed in December,
2004).

2.    The Panel found that the design of an earlier project, the Left Bank Outfall Drain
(LBOD, closed in December 1997),whose ongoing contracts were funded and completed
under the NDP for about 3.3 percent of LBOD's total cost), underestimated prevailing
conditions and the risk of extreme meteorological events. This contributed to the
breakdown o f the outfall system, sufferingo f local people inthe lower Badin district, and
to adverse impacts to fisheries and wetland habitats, known as "dhands". The Panel also
found instances o f non-compliance with Bank operationalpolicies.

3.    The Management Report stated that while the LBOD and NDP projects did create
opportunities for poor people by expanding agriculture substantially, all involved in the
projects could have done a better job of mitigating the risks and impact o f natural
disasters on the poor within and outside the project areas.

4.    After the closing o f the NDP,' Management has continued to work with the GoP
and GoS to address the reformagenda initiated under the project, as well as to addressthe
drainage and outfall challenges arising from the LBOD.An Action Plan prepared for this
purpose identifies suitable strategies and instruments to progress on the reform agenda
and to support the poorest people of the lower Badin and Thatta districts. The plan
includes a poverty alleviation fund, a flood responseplan, and a new lending inthe water
sector approved bythe Executive Directors.

5.    At the Board's request, this report provides an update on progress made in the
implementation o f the Action Plan before the 2007 monsoon season. It describes the
activities andprojects initiated for the short term, as well as those being developed for the
medium and longer term. The summary of the Action Plan is provided inTable 2. Four
annexes are attached. These materials have also beenposted on www.wor1dbank.ora.pk.


'The ImplementationCompletionandResultsreportwas sent to the ExecutiveDirectorsinMay2007.

Bank Management has committed to report back to the Board again in November 2007
on the implementationof the Action Plan.

Summary of ProgressonImplementationof The Action Plan

6.      Local communities and civil society organizations in Thatta district were visited
inApril 2007 by senior Bank Management. Overall, the GoP andGoS have beendiligent
inimplementing the follow up actions approved by the Executive Directors as part of the
agreed Action Plan. This report highlights the major results o f the first eight months of
the implementationofthe Action Plan:

    0   Significant progress has been made to address the harsh conditions of the
        population living in the area. Direct actions to alleviate poverty are in place
        through an inclusive consultation process with the communities. The Pakistan
        Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) agreed to intervene in the area in June 2006.
        Since then, ten nongovernmentalorganizations (NGOs)have engaged inefforts to
        improve the living conditions o f the transient fisherfolk communities. This has
        resultedin 290 community projects prepared, approved, and being implemented
        with a commitment o f about US$2.8 million. The PPAF is provingto be the right
        instrumentto address extreme poverty in the communities outside the irrigation
        network given its targeting effectiveness and its partnership with capable NGOs.
        The mobilization capacity of the PPAF contributed significantly to the emergency
        relief efforts following the earthquake o f October 2005 in NWFP and Jammu &
        Kashmir.

    0   A rapid assessment of ecological and livelihoodconditions of the "dhands" inthe
        vicinity o f the outfall system has progressed less than expected. The consultation
        process on the terms of reference for the study with the Government and partners
        active in the area, the identification o f a source o f financing, and the appointment
        o f qualified consultants took longer than planned. The assessment i s now under
        way, and the first phaseresults will be available in September, 2007.

        Progress has been made in assessing and improving local government flood
        management systems. The assessment was carried in ApriVMay, 2007 and
        discussed with the Government. Also, the district government of Badin, with the
        help of the Bank, has developed a "Contingency Plan to Combat Cyclones and
        Floods" for 2007. A similar plan is under preparation for the Mirpurkhas district.
        While the preparation o f these plans represents an important initiative in
        addressing flood risks and vulnerability, capacity building at the local level will
        remain a long term issue, and the Bank will continue to assist the Government in
        supporting this action over the mediumto long term.

    0   Progress has been made in carrying out an assessment o f the functionality of the
        outfall system as well as inimplementingthe most urgent repairs. The assessment
        was carried out inApriVMay, 2007 and discussed with the Government. Increased
        efforts to repair the damages to the irrigation and drainage infrastructure that
        occurred duringthe floods o f 2003 and 2006 have been made over the last couple


                                               2

       of years by the GoS with a commitment o f US$12.6 million, o f which US$2.5
       million were spent inthe last year. While the risk o f floods has been reduced by
       enlarging the flow capacity o f the outfall drains, the GoS has yet to put in place a
       detailed maintenance program for the drainage network. The maintenance
       program i s expected to be effective by November 2007 and will be supported
       under the Water Sector Improvement Project (WSIP). Detailed plans to improve
       the functioning of the complex drainage infiastructure have also been initiated
       andwill be supported under the WSIP.

    0  Appraisal and negotiations of the Sindh WSIP have been completed in March,
       2007 and Board presentation i s expected in September, 2007. The delays
       experienced between negotiations and Board presentation stem from the required
       clearances o f the negotiated documents from the GoS and the GoP. This process
       has not finalized yet, and approval from Federal authorities i s expected during
       their next meeting in August. Major lessons learned during the last ten years of
       the Bank's involvement in the water sector have been incorporated into project
       design.

7.     Management believes that while immediate actions have beentaken to address the
main issues affecting the area as a consequence of the floods o f 2003 and 2006, flood
risks inthe coastal zone of the Indusriver system will continue to be high. Historically,
these areas have been flooded as part of natural phenomena. Efforts to reduce such risks
need to be sustained through structural and non-structural measures in the mediumand
long term, which are being contemplated under the WSIP and potential follow-up
operations.


ProgressonImmediateand Short TermActions

8.     The Bank's short term actions were selected to provide an immediate response to
the plightof affectedpeople andto address other relatedissues, including:

           Implementation o f the Sindh Coastal Area Development Program (SCAD) in
           southern Sindh, including review o f the social profile o f the population in
           Badin and Thatta districts under the PPAF livelihoods program, with the aim
           o f identifying specific nomadic and other vulnerable groups and addressing
           additional livelihoodsupport issues;

       0   Rapid assessment o f ecological and livelihood conditions in the dhands to
           identify immediate measuresto improve these conditions;

           Rapid assessment o f existing local government flood risk management
           systems to reduce flood damage and vulnerability by building capacity and
           improvingflood risk response;




                                            3

        0    Assessment o f the condition of the right embankment o f the LBOD spinal
             drain and its discharge to the Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD) and
             preparation of a detailedmaintenance plan; and

        0    Timely implementation of the WSIP in order to ensure a rapid startup of the
             technical studies to design measures to improve the performance o f LBOD
             and prepare a comprehensive flood and drainage plan for the left bank o f the
             Indus Riverinsouthern Sindh.




as marketing and micro-finance
services; (c) securing access to,             Box 1. SCAD Implementationin Keti Bunder
and better management of,             Keti Bunderis a small town along the SindhCoast inThatta
(dlarea                resources;    district, with a population of 1,460 persons livingin285
     forming                         households. The majority of the population is engagedin
                                     fishing andthe averagemonthly incomeper householdis about
organizations that are inclusive,    US$70. Only 3 percentof the female population and21percent
well governed, and can operate       of the malepopulation is literate. Inthe lastten years the
in partnership with the public       community has beenaffectedby droughts andfloods. Drinking
and          private      sector;    water is suppliedby tankersfrom anothertown. Expenditure
(e) integrating these        with    on water represents30 percentof the income of the household.
                                     Not surprisingly, the major health issues are waterborne
the    national    economy     by    diseases.
developing       rural    growth     The PPAF, through the Aga KhanPlanning andBuilding
centers; promoting integrated        Service partnerorganization(AKF'BS), is implementing

                   Of                severalprojectswith the active participation ofthe community:
infrastructure,                      safe drinking water; street cleaning; householdlatrines;waste
                                     and stormwater disposal;oxidation ponds andrepairs of the
Construction     O f  productive     existing protection bund.
infrastructure, such as jetties




Financing agreements have been signed over the last year with ten partner organizations
(POs) participating in the SCAD through an informal organization, the Sindh Coastal
Areas Network (SCAN). The network provides a platform for improving the quality o f
life, alleviating poverty and reducing vulnerability in the SCAD area through a
coordinated, cooperative and collaborative effort of all members, local community
organizations and external support agencies. Out o f US$18 million allocated for the
SCAD under the PPAF, US$2.5 million have already been committed. The main
activities beingcarried out are:


                                                 4

         0   The Social Safety Nets Survey has beencompleted;

         0    Social mobilization commenced inJanuary 2007;

         0   A survey has been carried out to map all settlements in the coastal area and
             identify nomadic groups. The survey covers 2,830 settlements and includes
              socio-economic conditions especially in terms of housing, occupation, water
             and sanitation. The maps generated from the spot survey provide a GIS basis
              on which progress can be recorded;

         0   Eighteencommunity infrastructureprojects (service and income improvement
             projects such as water supply and sanitation, roads, latrines, etc.) and seven
              integrated area upgrading projects, which include several community
              infrastructure and income improvement interventions at the village level, have
             been initiated;

         0   The table below summarizes the number o f sub-projects approvedby location.
             Annex 1 provides a breakdown of the types o f projects being implemented
             and Annex 2 describes a CGAP/World BanWPPAF pilot project to link safety
             nets with microfinance; and

         0   The sub-districts (Talukas) along LBOD/KPOD-Badin,                          Golarchi, Tando
             Bag0 and Jati-are          being targeted for early program implementation. Three
             POs are intervening in these areas and 98 projects have been initiated in 36
             villages.



                 Table 1: SCAD Projects by Partner Organization and District2

S. No         Partner           Districts       Amount Approved       Projects      Community       Beneficiaries
           Organization                          Committed (M.Rs)                 Organizations
   1     NRSP                 Badin                            53.48         83                 83        21,580
   2     SPO                  Thatta                         17.736          25                 25          6,500
   3     AKPBS                Thatta                         23.972          43                46         12,000
   4     IET                  Karachi W                        6.506         10                 11          5,120
   5     SCOPE                Malir                              6.5         27                27           8,640
   6     HANDS                Karachi E                        3.587         14                 14          5,040
   7     BRDS                 Badin                            3.601         15                 15         5,400
   8     SAFWCO               Thatta                         19.657          36                 36         9,380
   9     Sindh RSP            Thatta                            1.72          7                  7          1.680
  10   I T R D P              Tharparkar                        18.0         30                 30         71500
 Total I                                                    154.759         290               294         82,840




* TheTable is a revision o f the table that was included inthe Action Plan. Two activities have been added
inthe sectionon"Immediate and Short Term" actions, and some ofthe dates have beenamended for
reasons that are explained inthis report.


                                                       5

10.    Progress o f the SCAD program under PPAF financing i s overall satisfactory
considering its promptness in mobilizing resources and partner organizations starting
June 2006, and its community drivenapproach. While the PPAF covers the whole Sindh
coastal area, targeted interventions are also being implemented specifically to
communities under the direct influence o f LBOD. While the PPAF has yet to show
visible results, the demand-driven approach requires initial investments in social
mobilization prior to income generating activities to ensure sustainability and community
empowerment. The PPAF i s also perceived as being too widely spread. However, when
the SCAD program was conceived, the policy choice was to address poverty issues more
broadly than what would be needed strictly around the LBOD area.

11.    Rapid Assessment of Ecological and Livelihood Conditions in the Dhands.
The dhands study has suffered significant delays due to extensive consultations on the
scope o f the study with the Government and existing organizations active in the area.
Identifyingthe source of financing and appropriate expertise also proved more difficult
than expected. However, the assessment i s now under way. Funding through the Bank-
Netherlands Trust Fundfor Pakistan has been approved, contracts have been signed, and
field work started inmid-June 2007.

12.    The overall study has been divided into three coordinated sub-components.
Component A, to be carried out by the National Institute of Oceanography, will (i) review
the monitoring data concerning the interaction of the dhands wetland system and the
LBOD outfall, including the Tidal Link, (ii)  describe the direct physical impacts on the
wetland system, and (iii) new field data, investigate the intrusion o f marine
                             using
ecosystems into the dhands and model its effects. Component B will assess the status o f
the freshwater ecosystem and its wetland functions and services, including fisheries and
water quality, and identify adverse and favorable trends. Component C will conduct
consultations with local stakeholders in Badin and in and around the dhands, and
undertake a socio economic assessment of the fishing communities directly linked to the
dhands.

13.    Field work, data analysis, and reporting are planned to be completed by mid-
August, 2007. Findings and recommendations will be discussed with stakeholders in a
final series of consultations, including GoS, and the report will be finalized by end o f
September, 2007.

14. Rapid Assessment of Existing Local Government Flood Risk Management
Systems. The rapid assessment was carried out in April/May, 2007 and discussed with
the Government. Badin is one o f the most flood vulnerable areas o f Pakistan. Flooding is
frequent duringthe monsoon season and the period of flood inundation is typically very
long. The region has few natural drains and its vicinity to the Indian border limits the
possibilities o f water disposal. For this reason, the area has low population, with the
exception of transient fisherfolk located near the dhands, who normally move upland
during severe weather. The flooding in this area is a natural occurrence. However, the
floods o f 2003 were particularly severe and evacuation and relief operations had to be
carried out by the Army, the Provincial Relief Committee, and the District Coordination




                                             6

Offices. The area was again hit by floods during2006 and damages and relief operations
occurredprincipally inMirpurkhas district, north of the coastal zone.

15.      Most recently, on June 23, 2007, tropical cyclone Yemyin 03B lashed the coastal
area o f Pakistan. While Karachi was the most affected area, floods were also reported in
the area under LBOD influence. As part of its contingency plan, the GoS organizeda task
force to operate the canal network and reduce the water flows to prevent additional
flooding in lower Sindh. Rohri canal and Nara canal were closed and irrigation officials
reported that the banks o f LBOD, Mirpurkhas main drain and other drains were normal
and under control. The LBOD system was not affected by the cyclone. Under the PPAF
activities, the Sindh Agricultural and Forestry Workers Coordinating Organization
(SAFWCO) has begun social mobilization in the affected areas and implementation o f
relief actions, such as distribution o f food, forage and seeds to the population.

16.      The past experience of the 2003 and 2006 floods was the basis for preparing a
"Contingency Plan to Combat Cyclones and Floods" in2007 by the District Coordination
Officer in Badin. This flood management plan includes: an early warning system; strict
watch o f the LBOD system; and location of refuges and other infrastructure that can be
used in case o f emergencies. It also establishes the role o f different institutions during
emergencies and identifies actions neededto improve the situation o f the people and the
role o f the government andNGOs incases similar to those in2003.

17.      The flood management plan for Badin needs further improvement. The Bank has
identified and discussed with the GoS and the Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority
(SIDA) the approaches that are needed, such as a clear definition of who is responsible
for early alerts and warnings; improvements in the communication network; and
responsibilities o f the different institutions involved in dealing with flood management,
including NGOs. A Bank consultant met with NGOs, including one of the requesters, to
incorporate their ideas and concerns inthe FloodManagement Plan, during a field visit to
lower Sindh on April 20, 2007. The institutional capacity o f SIDA i s expected to be
improved through the capacity building component under WSIP. SIDA i s working to
improve the coordination required to make the Contingency Plan work. Mirpurkhas
district also i s preparing a Flood Management Plan, using the Badin example as a
template (see Annex 3).

18.      While the preparation o f these plans represents a promising beginning in
addressing flood risks and vulnerability, low institutional capacity at the local level keeps
remaining a long term issue, and since the closing of the NDP in 2004 the Bank's
leverage in influencing decision making and investments has considerably reduced.
Government efforts to reduce flood risks and vulnerability in the area can be supported
however through the forthcoming WSIP, which among other things plans to help the
Government examine long term options and solutions to irrigation and drainage issue of
the outfall area.

19. Assessment of the Right Bank of the LBOD Spinal Drain and KPOD. The
assessment was carried out in ApriVMay 2007 and discussed with the Government. The
emergency repair work to restore the functionality of the outfall drains-KPOD            and



                                                7

Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain (DP0D)-was         undertaken during 2004 and 2005 by the GoS,
in association with the 5th Corps of Engineers, Pakistan Army. About 394 cuts and
breaches in drains and 224 cuts in canals were repaired by the Left Bank and Nara Area
Water Boards (AWBs) and further strengthening o f bothbanks o f LBOD and KPOD has
been continued after the 2006 floods. As of May 31, 2007, a total o f Rs.756 million
(US$12.6 million) has been committed inrepairs and reinforcement o f the system; to date
about Rs. 322 million (US$5.3 million) has been spent, US$2.5 million o f which in the
last year. However, SIDA has estimated that a total o f Rs 1,053 million (US$17.55
million) i s still needed to complete the strengthening o f the outfall system (see Annex 4)
and the implementation will take over two years.




                     Figure1. Left Bankof IndusRiver inSouthernSindh
                              (Source: POE Drainage Master Plan)


20. In carrying out repair works and strengthening of drain banks, the discharge
capacity of the KPOD and LBOD spinal drains has been increased to about 9,000 cubic
feet per second (cusecs) as compared to the original design o f 4,400 cusecs. This has
been done by moving the bank out from the service road in the right bank o f the drain
(inspection path) by at least 20 feet and raising its level. The other bank, which does not
have a path for field based inspection, has been raised in most reaches o f the drain.
Finally, the weir controlling the flow to the DPOD has been modified by reducing its
crest level to discharge more water. With these measures, the storm water carrying


                                              8

capacity of the drainage system has been increased significantly, enabling it to handle
larger volumes of water andthus protectingthe area against flooding.

21.   The actions taken by the GoS to strengthen LBOD and KPOD will reduce the risk
of flooding in the area. However, the GoS has yet to put inplace a detailed maintenance
program for the drainage network and this work i s expected to start by November 2007
and will be supported under WSIP. Detailed plans to improve the functioning o f the
complex drainage infrastructure will require long term solution including the need to
evaluate possible new structural options. A comprehensive solution to the flooding
around the left bank o f the Indus and safe disposal o f drainage/flood waters will needto
be developed through the studies envisaged under WSIP, as indicated below. The Bank
provided guidance in the further refining of the flood management plan and the
methodology will also be used for developing a sound Asset Management Plan in LBOD
following the experience usedinPunjab.

22.     Implementationof WSIP Phase-IProject.The WSIP was negotiated inMarch
2007. It was approved by the GoS and the GoP. It will be submitted for approval o f the
Executive Committee o f the National Economic Council in July 2007 and to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors in September 2007. The delays experienced between
negotiations and Board presentation stems from the need to wait for requiredclearances
of the negotiated documents from both the Government o f Sindh and the Government of
Pakistan.

23.     The overarching objective o f the WSIP is to improve the efficiency and
effectiveness o f irrigation water distribution in three AWBs-Ghotki,       Nara and Left
Bank-particularly     with respect to measures o f reliability, equity and user satisfaction.
This would be achieved by: (a) deepening and broadening the institutional reforms that
are already underway in Sindh; (b) improving the irrigation system in a systematic way,
covering key hydraulic infrastructure, main and branch canals, and distributaries and
minors; and (c) enhancing long-term sustainability o f the irrigation system through
participatory irrigation management and developing institutions to improve operation and
maintenance o f the system and cost recovery. Improved water management would leadto
increased agricultural production, employment and incomes from about 1.8 million
hectares or more than 30 percent o f the irrigated area in Sindh, which i s one o f the
poorest regions o fthe country. The WSIP covers the catchment area o f the LBOD.

24.     The WSIP will finance the following components:

        (a)     Community Development and Capacity Building (US$lO million):
        capacity o f SIDA, AWBs, and Farmers' Organizations (FOs) would be
        strengthened under the project, enabling them to perform their responsibilities
        according to the SindhWater Management Ordinance o f 2002. The project would
        strengthen the capacity of FOs to carry out operation and maintenance of the
        irrigation and drainage systems;

        (b)     Rehabilitation and Improvement o f Irrigation and Drainage System
        (US$139.8 million): the main and branch canals, distributariedminors (secondary



                                             9

        level canals) and drainage system in FOs areas would be rehabilitated and
        improved and a modern water measurement and accounting system would be
        installedthroughout the canal systems inthe three AWBs;

        (c)     Management Plans for Major Irrigation & Drainage Infrastructure (US$12
        million): A feasibility study for rehabilitation of the Gudu barrage would be
        prepared and assistance provided to prepare studies for rehabilitation of the
        SukkurandKotribarrages.A regionalmaster planwould be preparedto deal with
        floods and drainage issues on the left bank o f the Indus River and measures
        designedfor improvement o fthe Indusdelta andthe coastal zone;

        (d)     Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project Impact and Environmental
        Management Plan (US$4.2 million): This component would be for monitoring
        and evaluation and supervision of the environmental management and social
        action plans; and

        (e)     Project Coordination, Monitoring, Technical Assistance and Training
        (US$9 million): This component would support project coordination, monitoring
        o f implementation activities, management and supervision o f procurement by an
        independent project management consultant/ procurement agent, and technical
        assistance and training.

25.     Particularly relevant i s Component C of the WSIP, which includes detailed
studies and preparation o f a regional master plan in consultation with stakeholders. This
plan would address flooding and drainage issues in the area on the left bank o f the Indus
River, taking into consideration structural and non-structural measures, including
remedial measures for any outstanding deficiencies in the LBOD and measures for the
retention andor safe disposal of storm and flood water. A separate plan would be
prepared for rehabilitation and improvement o f the delta area, wetlands and coastal zone,
taking into consideration the environmental importance o f the region and its economic
potential, and drawing upon international experience. Feasibility studies would be
completed and detailed designs would be prepared for priority works for implementation
under a future investment project that Sindh may undertake with the assistance of its
development partners.


ProgressonMediumTerm Actions

26.     Flood Management Plan for the Left Bank of the Indus River. A common
understanding has been reached with the Governments o f Sindh and Pakistan regarding
the approach, methodology, and allocation of resources for preparation o f a master plan
to manage flood issues inthe area o f the Indus River and the coastal zone. About US$7
million have been allocated under WSIP to carry out this work, along with preparation o f
feasibility studies and detailed designs o f priority works identified under the plan.
WAPDA has begun studies in the area to determine the need for a structure in KPOD to
control the back flows coming from the Tidal Link and the overall criteria for redesigning
the capacity ofthe outfall system.



                                            10

27.    Coastal Development Program. Under the FA0 Technical Cooperation Program
(FAO-TCP), a mission visited Sindh on December 6-19, 2006 to develop a project
concept note for a Coastal Development Program. While mission's findings were
discussed with the GoS and GoP, the final concept and the scope o f the activities for the
FAO-TCP are still under discussion and are not expected to be finalized before March
2008. Additionally, an Asian Development Bank (ADB) supported project (US$40
million) i s financing mainly demand-driven community infrastructure. The PPAF has
allocated about US$18 million. These are substantive resources for the coastal area,
which counts about two million inhabitants. The coastal development program will need
therefore to ensure alignment of its interventions and also address some o f the issues
identified under the regional planning studies mentioned above. The approach to coastal
development will be finalized duringthe WSIP studies.


Long-TermOutcomes

28.     Inthe context of improving management of irrigation and drainage infrastructure,
services and equitable distribution o f water in Pakistan, the Bank has intensified the
dialogue with all Provinces in an effort to pursue institutional reforms coupled with
infrastructure development. In Punjab, the Irrigation Sector Development Policy Loan
(DPL-II)3 i s actively promoting a new governance agenda in the irrigation sector to
increase accountability and transparency in service provision and farmer participation. In
Sindh, the WSIP would cover 30 percent of the irrigated area in which the Government
has taken action to reform irrigation and drainage institutions, establish AWBs and
develop FOs for irrigation management. The implementation o f WSIP i s a significant
step in addressing the present governance issues in the Province by strengthening the
financial management and procurement systems and pursuing the process o f devolving
irrigation management to the farmer community for greater accountability and
transparency. In Balochistan a small scale irrigation and watershed management project
combined with drought mitigation measures i s being prepared. In NWFP the Bank i s
pursuinga dialogue to sustain the initialreform efforts carried out under the previous on-
farm water management project.

29. An improved institutional framework for water resources management i s also
central to the Bank's ongoing discussions with the GoP on further development o f dams
and water resources infrastructure on the Indus River. Pakistan i s moving steadily to
ensure the sustainable management o f the Indus system; this will include the preparation
and implementation of a comprehensive framework o f policy and institutional reforms
and development plans, all to provide sustainable and equitably-shared benefits to the
people o f Pakistan. This concept has been fully endorsed by key stakeholders at the
highest level in the Government and by most civil society organizations. The challenge
for the Bank and other donors i s to move the process forward in a manner that ensures


 To supportthe Governmentof PunjabMediumTerm Irrigation Sector ReformProgrambegunin2005 to
implement institutional andpolicy reformsto improve their asset managementplans; to make
interprovincial water allocation and distribution more transparent; to decentralizeirrigation managementto
water users associations; andto improve water productivity.


                                                     11

full government ownership at the federal andprovincial levels and leadership inthe water
reformprocess, compliant with international best practice.



Conclusions

30. Implementation o f the five actions under the Action Plan agreed by the Executive
Directors during the discussion o f the findings of the Inspection Panel's Investigation
Report and the Management Report and Recommendation on the PakistanNDP project i s
broadly on track. Although the solution to many o f the poverty, ecological and flood
management issues of the outfall area of Sindh are o f a long term nature and require
management and structural measures, the activities initiated under the Action Plan are an
important step in the right direction. Despite strong support at a high level in the GoS,
weak capacity at the local level will remain a serious issue and will need considerable
strengthening. The Sindh coastal zone and, in particular, the LBOD outfall system will
continue to remain a high-risksubject.

31. Management's assessment i s that addressing the complex socio-ecological and
structural issues affecting this area will continue to be a difficult challenge compounded
by recurrent and adverse weather events. Management will remain actively engaged in
following up on these issues. The NDP project i s now closed, but the Bank will continue
to support the Government through the on-going dialogue, the PPAF, the WSIP and the
coastal zone management initiative under preparation. Management will report again to
the Board on further progress in implementation of the Action Plan and other issues as
needed, inNovember 2007.

32.   As stated inOctober 2006 Report, inManagement's view the Bank was diligent in
the application o f its policies and procedures in this case. The Bank has done its best to
help the Borrower to address two distinct problems with specific inherent complexities:
the technical challenges of an outfall system in southern Sindh presented by LBOD, and
the national reform process challenges taken up by NDP. NDP succeeded in initiating a
process o f critical governance reforms, changing the direction and strategy in the sector
towards decentralization, participatory management and the empowerment o f farmers.
This was a critical step intransforming a governance systemthat was over 100years old.
This process will continue for some time, but the foundation has been securely
established.

33.   In regard to LBOD, with hindsight, the Bank could have made some judgments
differently, especially by calling for more explicit consideration o f risks and tradeoffs in
the context of a participatory planning process duringthe LBODdesign stage, by finding
a way to support the implementation o f the LBOD Environmental Management Plan at a
much earlier stage, and by encouraging and supporting Sindh to undertake the livelihood
diagnostic study inthe coastal areas o f Badin that were not benefiteddirectly by LBOD.
The Government o f Pakistan and Sindh have promptly responded to the flood
emergencies in the outfall area o f LBOD, which as has been repeatedly assessed by
different experts as a flood prone zone.



                                             12

                                     Table 2: Action Plan

              .4cti\ities & Projects             A   B   C    Responsibility  Updated-
                                                                              Schrdiilr
Immediate and Short Term
   ImplementationofLivelihoodImprovement                    PakistanPoverty
   PrograminBadinand ThattaDistricts                        Alleviation Fund 2006-2007
       PhaseI(US$2million)                       J          (PPW             2007-2009
       PhaseI1(US$16million                      J


   SindhWSIP                                     J J J
       Appraisal                                            GoSIGoPISIDA     Nov. 2006
       BoardPresentation                                    WB               Aug. 2007
       Effectiveness                                         GoSIGoPlSIDA    Nov. 2007

   Socio-economicand environmentaldiagnostic     J          WBISIDA          Sep. 2007
   study ofthe dhands andsurroundingareas

   Assessment ofthe conditions ofthe right           J
   embankment ofthe LBOD spinal drain and                    SIDAIWAPDA      July 2007
   KPOD. Preparationof a maintenanceplan.

RapidAssessment ofExistingLocaland                   J       SIDALocal       May 2007
GovernmentFloodRiskManagement Systems.                      Governments.

Medium Term
   FloodManagementMaster Planfor the left        J J         SIDA            2007-2009
   bank ofthe IndusRiver in southern Sindh

   CoastalDevelopmentProgram                     J          WBFAO-TCP        Mar.2008
       Project ConceptNote

Long Tcrm Outcomcs
   Improvedmanagement(O&M) of irrigation
   and drainageinfrastructure;improved               J J GoPIGoSlWB          2006-2009
   service deliveryandgovernance; and
   transparent and moreequitablewater
   allocationand distribution
                                                            GoPIGoSlWB       2009-2016
   Moderninstitutionalframeworkfor Indus         J J J
   Basinwater resourcesmanagement
                                                            GoPIGoSlWB       2009-2016
   Sustainedgovernance reformagenda                  J J
 KEY: A: Povertyand livelihoods, R: Floodrisk, C Threatenedecosystems




                                               13


                                               Annex 2
           PPAF's Sindh CoastalAreas DevelopmentProgram(SCAD)

Introduction

The Sindhcoastal areas have experienced a myriad o f social and economic impacts as a result o f
natural disasters many o f which have occurred in the last decade. Certain communities,
particularly fishermen, have been the most vulnerable, relying on debt and migration as coping
mechanisms. In order to help these vulnerable communities out o f poverty, the PPAF, its
existing/potential partner organizations (POs) working in and near the coastal areas, the World
Bank and the communities discussed the role each can play to implement an integrated
upgrading program for the area. Interactions with communities were conducted through an
immersion process, where representatives from PPAF, the Bank, partner organizations and
consultants spent days and nights inthe homes o f fishing communities, learning what challenges
they face and their hopes and fears. This intensive interaction has helped everyone better
understandwhat needs to be done and how.

Outreach and Partner Organizations

1.      With a view to deepening its outreach in the coastal belt, the PPAF has partnered with
highly regardedcivil society organizations with a track record o f consistently highperformance.
At present there are ten POs (see box) participating in the Sindh Coastal Areas Development
Program (SCAD); inclusion o f several more i s likely in the near future. A formal network, Le.,
Sindh Coastal Areas Network (SCAN) o f these ten POs, has also been formed. Sindh Coastal
Areas Network (SCAN) provides a much needed platform for the exchange of views, experiences and
buildingsynergies to improve the quality of life andreduce vulnerability inthe SCAD program areas.




Program Strategy

The strategy for the SCAD includes: (i)        improving access to basic services including health,
education and drinking water supply and sanitation; (ii)      increasing incomes through improved
crop, fisheries and livestock production, as well as marketing and micro-finance services; (iii)
securing access to, and better management of, coastal area natural resources; (iv) forming viable

community organizations that are inclusive, well governed and can operate in partnership with
the public and private sector; (v) integrating these areas with the national economy by
developing rural growth centers; promoting integrated development o f physical infrastructure,
including construction o f productive infrastructure, such as jetties and wharfs; and developing
transport and mobility, through the construction o f inter and intra-village roads and intermediate
modes o f transport, using infrastructure grants and micro-credit; (vi) promoting technological
innovations, particularly the use o f solar and wind energy for pumping water and generating
electricity; and (vi) reducing physical vulnerability, through the construction o f flood protection
and sea water containment structures and better coping mechanisms o f communities.

Nature of ongoing and planned Interventions
    PhysicalInfrastructure
    0   Developing Rural Growth Centers (Integrated Area UpgradingProjects)
        Reducing PhysicalVulnerability
        Constructing Productive Infrastructure
        Developing Transport and Mobility
        Promoting Technological Innovations
        Integrating Work-Fare Concepts inInfrastructure Projects
    Imurovement o f Healthand Education Services
        Adopting, Upgradingand Operating Government Facilities
        Developing New Community Managed Facilities
    Cauacity Buildingand Social Mobilization
    0   PO StaffTrainings
        Community Trainings
    From Social Safety Nets to Micro-Finance
        Built-inWork-Fare PrograminInfrastructure Development
        Social Safety Nets
        Food Stamps for Participating inCommunity Meetingsand Social Work
        Cash Transfers
       Asset Transfer
    EnvisionedActivities under SCAN
       Promoting mutual learning through a SCAN web page, output specific workshops, and
        exchange visits
        Study tours to relevant success stories o f the region
       Facilitating linkages with various development sector organizations, R&Dinstitutions,
       manufacturers and suppliers o f equipment
       Dissemination o f baseline data, case studies and progress reviews o f projects handledby
       various members
       Dissemination o f best practice case studies and information on innovative products
    0  Publication o f a bi-annual news letter

Progress to Date
   Briefover view o f the activities undertaken
    0   SCAD Action Plan(2007-12) have beenprepared
       Baseline Survey o f 3,300 Settlements Completed

        Delineation of Union Councils boundaries inprogress
        Action Plan for project implementationhas been launched
        Social MobilizationCommenced inJanuary 2007
        Activities have beeninitiated in336 settlements in 11Talukas (17 union councils)
        563 community organizations establishedits PPAF and its Pos, under SCAD target is to
        organize 5,000 communities in3,300 settlements
        3 Healthand Education Facilities Adopted and Improvement ProcessInitiated
        Social SafetyNets Survey Completed
        8 Existing and 2 New POs identifiedfor the Program and Financing Agreements Signed
        Functioning o fthe Sindh Coastal Area Network (SCAN) has developed and disseminated
        a "Constitution of the SCAN" which was adoptedby all POs inKarachi inApril 2007.

    Mapping. All the Coastal Settlements
        A surveyhas beencarried out to map all settlements inthe coastalareas to be coveredby
    the PPAF under the SCAD program. The survey covers about 3,300 settlements and includes
    socio-economic information for Sindh's coastal zones, especially in terms o f housing,
    occupation, water and sanitation (indicators o f poverty). The maps generated from the spot
    survey provide a GIS basis on which more analysis can be undertakenby PPAF at a later
    date, including recording changes and progress in a visual format. The findings have been
    collated and mapping o f coastal settlements has been completed.

InvestmentProgram

The total investmentprogram for the period 2006 - 2011 is given in the table below along with
breakdown of type of programs planned under SCAD (infrastructure, health and education and
capacity building). The total program is US$25.6 million o f which US$3.2 million have been
committed and US$0.7 million have been disbursed, another US$0.7 million are expected to be
disbursed by December 2007 and US$3.2 million June 2008. Annual phasing of the program
over the periodo f2006-11i s also inthe figure below. O f the total plannedinvestmentsabout 78
percent will be for infrastructure, 13 percent for health and Education and 9 percent for capacity
building.




          Description                 Planned             Committed           Disbursed
  Infrastructure                              20.02                 3.05                 0.65
  Health & Education                            3.3 1               0.12                  0.04
  Capacity Building                             2.25                0.03                  0.01
             Total                            25.58                 3.20                  0.70

The investmentprogram is largely focused to the LBOD Backwash area (See Map 1below). The
PPAF i s currently implementingdevelopment activities in336 settlements, around 65 percent o f
which are in the Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) area. Out o f total 218 SCAD Community
Infrastructure Projects, 73 percent are located inLBOD Backwash area. About 113 projects in
nine union councils in LBOD Backwash area (See Table 1 for names, location, village

coordinates, type o f schemes and cost o f projects) area have been completed and 46 projects are
ongoing (given in Table 2). About 10 projects have been completed in areas other than LBOD
Backwash area (Table 3) and 49 projects are ongoing in other areas. Majority o f projects so far
in the LBOD Backwash area have been for safe drinking water supply and sanitation. The
settlements inthis region are very small, scattered and remote and population expressed priority
in safe drinking water supply projects, link roads and improved access to markets and health
facilities.


                         PPAF-SCAD Investment Program (2006 -2011)

  6 00

  5 00

  4 00

  3 00

  2 00

   1 00

  0 00
                          I
               Yr-l       I      Yr-11      1      yr-111               Yr-IV                Yr-V

             2006-07           2007-08      1     2008-09             2009-10               2010-11    ,
                                                                 ~                       ~




                                           Health & Education     Capacity Building
                                                                                    ~




Social Safety Nets Pilot
The PPAF, with support and technical assistance from the Consultative Group to Assist the
Poorest (CGAP), has also embarked on a program o f social safety nets for the Sindh coastal
areas. Detail o f this innovative pilot which can potentially have far reaching impacts for the
extremely poor and destitute are given in the diagram below - an approach also supported by
IFAD. PPAF has been following this approach to target ultra poor. The same approach is used
in LBOD Backwash areas, where some o f the poorest communities in Pakistan are known to
reside. It can be seen that this approach deals with chronic food insecurity (through food aid,
saving services and asset transfer before graduating to skills training and sustainable credit
provisionto help raise people above the poverty line.

                   TARGETINGULTRA POORAPPROACH(SUPPORTEDBY IFAD)
                                             f             Targeting Ultra Poor (TUP)
                                                                 Financial AssistanceUS$] million
                                                                  Period: 30 Months

                                                                  SupportingAgencies
                                                                      '''  CGAP
                                                                           FordFoundation

                                                           '     Outreach/Coverage
                                                                      ..   IFAD


                                                                           110viuages
                                                                           1,000HHs
                                                                           5POs
                            r'

 ChronicMod lnsnsecurftv I
                         J                                       Assistanceper HH
                                                                      ''   Asset transfer: Rs.15,OOO
                                                                           SubsistenceAllowance:
                                                                      .    Rs.18,000 per year
                                                                           Special Health Care:
                                                                           Rs.1,000 per year
                                                                           Trainings: Rs.2,700




Constraints
        The PPAFhas disbursedandor committed over 100percent o f its hnds and therefore, is
faced with financial constraints to accelerate implementation. It i s hoped that once additional
financing for the Social Mobilizationi s approved it would be able to support SCAD prior to
PPAF I11(scheduled to commence infiscal year 2008-2009).

M a p 1 Coverage under the Program
       -                          -- Proiect inLBODBackwash area




                                                       Sindh
                                                       Coastal Rreas
                                                       Development
                                                       Program
                                                       (SCAD)

    2                     0
                          0
    c%-                   z
    9                     0
       7        l-r       0
    N                     *




-
 aC                       0
                          0      0
                                0
  8u                      2    t
 WJ                       ,-.    ;3;
s u                       8     8
CI
3
                           9
                           00   2

  2
  u                        0
                           0

 nt!                       2
-                         -v)

 a  +-+
  E          C
             C             0
             r!            v!
                           -
                           0

 $8          m
             N
    +-++-+        d       -d

         0 0 0
        ziziz
         0 0 0            0
                          zC
         m m m
    +-++-+                -vi


             0
             0            0
                          0
             $            9
             N            d
                          N




W
3




                       +-+

                                                a
                                                8
     E
     ill                                        -0
                                                z8

    0                                  0
    0                                  0       0
                                               0
   2N                                  2       2
                                       - -
                                       N       m


    0
    0                                  0
                                       0       0
   2                                   2       z
                                               0




    0
   z0    5 1 5
         0   0                         8       0
                                       2       09
                                                Q\
    v)  + +
          W v )                        W       W


                                       :
     0                                 0
     0                                          0
     2                                 0        0

                                                m
                                                v!
                                       N
        I

0
z
0    8
     :               0
                     e
                     0                 0
                                       0        0
                                       9        z
                                                0

m    m                                 d        d


     0           +                     3
                     N

s34
0                                      0
    0                                  0        0
   9                                   9        0
     34                                d.       2
                                       N
        I-                                      N




                       .  In In In In In In In In I-



                          I
                          I  II  I    I   I
                                          I   I   I
                                                  I   I
                                                      I
a               m
                a

 T        P
          2
          3-1  VI
               g                   +
         0
         0    0
              0            0
                           0       0     0
                                         0
         2    2            2             9
          W    W           W              %
 I                                 I
         0                         0   0 0      0 0 0
         0    0
         z    0            0
                           0       0   0 0      0 0 0
              2            2       2 1 2 8      21+
                                                VI   VI
                                          In


          0                               0
          0    0
               0           0
                           0              0
          9
 +                                 +
          QI   2           2              z     c4
          W  - - -
               W           v)             W     w w w

          0                0              0
 -
 F I Em   0    8
          'c!  2           0              0

 $ 1 :                     2              :
 V I m                             +
          hl
 +        d    W           3              I



                                   s i z z
 0 0      0    0           0       0 0    0
 0 0      0    0           0       0 0    0

                                   +
 W        5
          m    8           2       d   m
               d           W              W
 I       -- - -
          0
          0    0
               0           0       0 0    0
                           0              0
          8
          9    9                   6
               8           2       8 1h3l 9
 l-                        hl             8




l-r               I  I    I   I   I   I      l-rr
                                                           z
                                                           a
                                                           2
                                            t
          9z                              9z         rA
                                                     a     a
                                                           VI
                                                     2     z
                                                           p?

                  I   I   I   I   I   I
                                  I   I
       W
       v)

TT
44;
m m



v v v :
z x c




U

+


            +
                    0        o c
  '         +-z     0            5
                              o a v
                              N r c

                    0
                    C
                    8
            +       d

               21 ; s
4
E  c c
   2o sc       o
               o  c
                  c 8
n
F           + +     ic


                    C   o c
                    C   o
            + ++    c!
                    C  21r ::
                          c
                        d  r

               a1 ;           ai ;
4
c)             o  c           o  c
                    C
                    C
1              c  c           o  c
E
C
            + +
   3 3
   N N              2cu
                    s::
4
E  8 8                 51 f
                    0   o c   o  c

n
F
                       -r
   N N                  N     51 ;
                              cu
           I                 t




        7-r            5
                        0




                       I     I

                  f
                  t
                .
                   3
                 j
   77-
s2
3cl
-
0
0
2m

0
z xi
0   g o o
      0 0                8 8 8
                         41      B
           ;I
-
m                        -   3 -



               ;
0
z            o c
0            o c

\o '
        3
0
0   0 0 0
    0 0 0
tc
z   a1
    m


0
z
0

hl '
          8 5
   tt    21    f
                        -t-t-t

-    -T-rT-r
   c
   c
3m ga
   6)




   m
   hl




         EW



          C
         fW


r
-
5
3


    3
   i




 c1
 Y
 Ee
 a




 U
 G8
 e

-
 c)
 W
 Ee
 a



 8

 n
 k?




u
3

+            I
+                OI


0
0
   3
\o




             I
   hl




     i     7-


         v)


         m
         N

+               +

                8
     0 0 0
     0 0 0
        2
+ +
   z
   0             o c
   0

   u

   0      +
   0
   2m     I;
          ++
a; 5m           51
   0     s       o c

+                m ;
a( 2
   0      0 0
          0 0




           sv)




           m   6


                ANNEX3

                PAKISTAN
SOCIO-ECONOMICANDENVIRONMENTAL DIAGNOSTIC
         STUDY OF THEBADIN DHANDS




              SUMMARY REPORT
               NOVEMBER
                      12,2007

                                      CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                                Pakistan Rupee         US$l.OO=Rs 60.5




                                    ABBREVIATIONSAND TERMS

AF     Acre feet                                           PLA        Participatory Learning Actions
BOD    Biological oxygen demand                            PRA        Participatory Rural Appraisal
cfs    Cubic feet per second                               PPAF       Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
SCAD   Sindh Coastal Area Development                      PPt        Partsper thousand
CDA    Coastal DevelopmentAuthority                        RD         ReducedDistance
COD    Chemical oxygen demand                              R I S      Ramsar Information Sheet
DPOD   Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain                           SCARP      Salinity Control and ReclamationProject
ha     Hectares                                            SDPI       SustainableDevelopmentPolicy Institute
IUCN   International Union for the Conservations of Nature SIDA       SindhIrrigationandDrainageAuthority
k m 2  Square kilometers                                   WAPDA      Water and Power Development Authority
KPOD   Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain                         WB         World Bank
LBOD   Left Bank Outfall Drain                             WHO        World Health Organization
P d l  Micrograms per liter                                TKN        Total KjeldahlNitrogen
mdl    Milligramsper liter                                 TL         Tidal Link drain
mQs    National Environmental Quality Standards            uc         Union Council
NIO    National Institute of Oceanography                  USEPA      USEnvironmental ProtectionAgency
NRSP   National Rural Support Program



                                                    UNITS

                                              1AF=1,233 .6m3
                                             1000 cfs=28.32m3/s
                                               1acre=0.405ha
                                                1ft=0.3028m
                                  1 RD = lOOOfeet = 0.1894mi = 0.305km
                                      0.1 inlaclday =6.45 d d d a y




November 26,2007                                      ..
                                                      11

                                       TABLEOFCONTENTS

Abbreviationsand Terms                                                     ii
Table of Contents                                                         iii
List of Tables                                                             V

List of Figures                                                            V

Acknowledgments                                                           vi
1    Introduction                                                          1
  1.1      Background                                                      1
  1.2      Objective of the Study                                          2
2    Socio-EconomicContextof theBadin dhands                               2
  2.1      The Region                                                      2
  2.2      Study Methodology                                               3
  2.3      Demographics, Education, Health and Gender                      6
  2.4      Livelihoods and incomes                                         7
  2.5      Infrastructure and Services                                     7
     2.5.1   Houseing, drinking water and sanitation                       8
     2.5.2   Transport, Roadsand Communications                            8
  2.6      Vulnerability and Coping Mechanisms                             8

3    Evolution of theDelta, theLBOD Outfall System and theBadin dhands     9
  3.1      Ongoing Evolution of the IndusDelta                             9
     3.1.1   Sea Encroachmentand LandLoss                                 10
  3.2      The Dhands inBadin District                                    10
  3.3      Construction of the LBOD Outfall System                        12
     3.3.1   Irrigation Development inSindhProvince                       12
     3.3.2   Coping with the Threat of Salinity andWaterlogging.          13
     3.3.3   Key Featuresof LBOD                                          13
     3.3.4   ControversiesConcerning the Tidal Link                       15
  3.4      Performance of the Tidal Linkprior to 1999                     15
     3.4.1   The Tidal Link Monitoring Program                            15
     3.4.2   Summary of Tidal LinkPerformance 1994-1997.                  16
     3.4.3   Impact ofthe May, 1999 Cyclone                               18

  3.53.5.1 Present Relationship of the Outfall System and the Dhands      18
             New Hydraulic Regime Established                             19
4    Status of theDhand Ecosystems                                       21
  4.1     Variations in the Salinity of the Dhands                        21
     4.1.1   Intra-annual changes insalinity.                             23
  4.2     Water Quality and Pollution                                     25


November 26,2007                                  111
                                                  ...

   4.3     The Dhand Ecosystems                                                    31
      4.3.1  Biodiversity andProductivity                                          31
      4.3.2  Implicationsfor the Fishery                                           32
      4.3.3  AvifaunaHabitatandPopulations                                         33
 5    Needs, Trends and Options                                                    35
   5.1     Economic and Social Development                                         35
      5.1.1  Village consultative workshops                                        35
      5.1.2  Summary of the views ofthe affectedvillagers                          36
      5.1.3  District consultations                                                39
   5.2     The Dhand Ecosystems                                                    41
      5.2.1  The BadinDhandsappear to berecovering                                 41
      5.2.2  The recoveryi s tenuous                                               41
      5.2.3  Key issues to be addressedto sustainthe ecosystemand its functions    42
   5.3     Monitoring and Research                                                 42
 6    Study Recommendations                                                        43
   6.1     Overview                                                                43

   6.2     Social and economic development of the people of the region             43
      6.2.1  Linkagesto the PPAF Sindh CoastalArea Development (SCAD) Program      44
      6.2.2  Developinga new strategy                                              44
   6.3     Macro issuesthat need to be addressed                                   45

   6.4     Creating the knowledge base for managing the Badin coastal zone         46
   6.5     Creating a comprehensive flood and hazardriskmanagementplan             47


Annex A         Hydrogeomorphic And Marine EcologicalAssessment
Annex B        Freshwater Ecologicaland Wetland Assessment
Annex C         Socio-Economic Assessment
Annex D         Household Survey Results
Annex E         Summary Reports of the Village Consultative Workshops
Annex F         Summary Reports of the District Consultative Workshops




 November26,2007                                  iv

                                        LISTOFTABLES

Table 1     Tidal Link Salinity Before and After Cyclone "2A"
Table 2     Surface Water Salinity inthe Badin Dhands (1997-2007)
Table 3     Observed Salinity (June-August, 2007)
Table 4     Water Quality Assessment o f Badin Dhands
Table 5     Water Quality Parameters Observed in 1997 Study o f the Dhands
Table 6     Comparison o f 1997 and 2007 Dry Season and Monsoon Season Salinity
Table 7     Ecological Assessment o f the Badin Dhands -Pollution Indicators (June-July,
            2007)
Table 8     Ecological Assessment o f the Badin Dhands -PollutionIndicators (June-July,
            2007)




                                        LISTOFFIGURES

Figure 1    IndusRiver anddeltatoday
Figure 2    Badin Dhands, R a m o f Kutchand IndusDelta
Figure3     LBODandthe study area
Figure4     LinkingLBODto the Arabian Sea
Figure 5    The Tidal Linkandthe Dhands after the 1999 Cyclone
Figure 6    Salinity Profiles o f Tidal Link and KPOD -December
Figure 7    Salinity Profiles o f Tidal Link and KPOD -June
Figure 8    Hypothetical General Patterno f Annual Salinity Variations inthe Badin
           Dhands
Figure 9    Census o f Waterfowl inJubho andNurriLagoons




 November 26,2007                              V


                                      ACKNOWLEDGMENTS


On October 31, 2006, the Executive Directors of the World Bank discussed the findings o f the
Inspection Panel's Investigation Report and the Management Report and Recommendation on the
PakistanNationalDrainage Program(NDP) Project. Management responded to the concerns o f the
Requesters by formulating a comprehensive Action Plan and identifying suitable strategies and
instruments through which the Action Plan can be undertaken. Among the issues raised by the
requesters was the impact that the Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) and its Tidal Link Canal has
had on the four coastal lakes (dhands) in Badin District o f Sindh Province, and on the socio-
economic welfare and livelihoods o f the people living near the dhands especially after the
breakdowns inthe outfall system causedby a major tropical cyclone in 1999.

The thirdo f the five actions plannedinthe immediate and short term component o f the Action Plan
i s a Socio-Economic and Environmental Diagnostic Study o f the Dhands and Surrounding Areas.
The aim o f this diagnostic study was a rapid assessment o f the ecological and livelihood conditions
in the dhands in order to identify immediate measures that could be undertake to improve
livelihoods and ecological conditions. The study was organized and managed by Dr. Walter A.
Garvey who also authored this Summary Report.

The Summary Report was based on the work of three teams of Sindh scientists and specialists that
included field work inBadin and the Dhands carried out between late June and October, 2007:

     (9     Hydrogeomorphic and marine ecological studies were carried out by a team o f
            scientists from the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) led Mr. Syed Moazzam
            Ali (team leader) that included Dr. Samina Kidwai, marine ecologist, and Dr. Tariq
            MasoodAli Khan, meteorologist andphysical oceonographer.
     (ii) The freshwater ecological and fishery assessment was led by Dr. Syed Najam
            Khurshid, ecologist and a team that included Dr. M. A. Mahar, Chairman of the
            Department o f Fisheries, University of Sindh Jamshoro. Dr. S. I.H. Jafri, retired
            professor o f Limnology and Fisheries, University o f Sindh, Jamshoro was senior
            advisor to the team. Water chemistry and pollution studies were carried out at the
            Institute o f Chemistry, Universityo f Karachi.
     (iii) Thesocio-economic assessmentwascarriedoutbytheteamofMs.HamidaMasood
            Shah, social scientist (team leader) and Mr. Syed Asher Ali, social scientists. The team
            was assistedby Mr.Jamal Mustafa Shoro, socio-economist.




November26,2007                                  vi


Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                                      1 INTRODUCTION

1.1 Background

1.       Badin District' i s located inthe extreme southeasternarea o f Sindhprovince. It i s a flat,
very gently sloping landscapethat merges into the easternportiono fthe IndusDelta. This area is
prone to intense rainfall inthe monsoon season and natural calamities that typically cause
widespread shallow flooding that often persists for long periods becauseo fthe poor drainage. In
recent times the area was affected by a cyclone in 1999 followed by an extreme drought that was
experienced throughout the Indus Riverbasin, an earthquake in2001, and extreme rainfall in2003.
Cyclones cause higher thannormal tides and storm surges that result in seawater intrusion across
the coastal plainand impede drainage. The widespread and persistent flooding adversely affects
agriculture and the health andlivelihoods o f people living inand around the coastal zone. It i s a
vulnerable and risky environment inwhich to sustain a livelihood.

2.       The upper part ofBadinDistrict, including some areas very close to the coastal zone,
receives irrigation water from the IndusRiver at the Kotri Barrage. These irrigatedlands primarily
produce rice and sugarcane as well as small amounts o f other cash and subsistencecrops2.
However, Badin is at the tail endof the Indusbasin irrigation systemand suffers from unreliable
irrigation water supply, water shortages, water logging and salinity. About 70% o f the
groundwater inSindhis saline, andthe percentage i s probably higher inmost o f Badin District
especially the southern portionnear the coastal zone.

3.       Badin i s one o fthe poorer districts o f Sindh by most every socio-economic measure      -
health, education, maternalmortality and morbidity, income per capita, access to safe drinking
water, etc. Insouthern Badin there are few pavedroads, limitedelectricity coverage, and
community infrastructure such as schools and clinics are lacking. The major occupations are
fishing, agriculture and livestock. Badinhas some oil fields, six sugarmillsand 12rice husking
millsthat provide employment to about 6-7000persons, a small fraction of the labor force.

4.       Most o f the people who do not own irrigatedland live close to water bodies or lakes and
their sourcesoflivelihoodare fishing, raising livestock3and agricultural labor and other informal
labor when that i s possible. The fisherfolk, known as Mallah, are one o fthe poorest groups inthe
area. One o f the most important water bodies and fisheries inBadin is a group o f four large,
interconnected shallow lakes or dhands locatedinthe coastal zone. These lakes have undergone
drastic changesinthe past 10 years as a result o f the construction o fthe Left Bank Outfall Drain
(LBOD) that passes directly through two of the lakes as well as drought and cyclones. The
consequencesof these changes, their impact on the poor fisherfolk and others who have been
affected andthe prospects for the future are the focus o f this study.
'   District Government Badin & IUCN, Badin: District Vision, A Frameworkfor Sustainable Development,
*   Sin& Pakistan2006
    The area o fBadinDistrict is about 1,715,000 acres ofwhich767,000 acres are cultivable. The net
    croppedarea is about451,000 acres, 58% ofthe cultivablearea, limitedmainlyby the availability of
    irrigation water. Inrecent years the area devotedto the cultivation of sunflowerhas grown substantially
    and is now the third largest cash crop.
    The estimatedlivestock populationin 1998 of 1,140,000 (60% large animals) declinedto 857,500 after
    the 2003 floods due to disease and sale of animals as acopingmechanism(World Bank, 2005)


November 12,2007                                          1

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




1.2    Objective of the Study

5.        The overall aim o f this study is to assess the effects the constructiono f LBOD and its
subsequentbreakdowns have had on the Badin dhands and the people whose livelihoods dependon
them, andto identifyoptions to mitigate these impacts. The study hastwo interrelated immediate
objectives:

          0    Determine extent and severity o f the effects o f damagesto the TL and Cholri Weir and
               their present performance andfunction, onthe people (permanent and transient) living
               near the dhands or inareas that have beendirectly impacted, and formulate a short-
               term and long-term livelihoodassistanceprogram taking into consideration other
               ongoing programs inthe area, inparticular, the Sindh Coastal Area Development
               Program (SCAD) o fthe Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund(PPAF).

          0    Determine the present physical and ecological condition o f the dhands paying
               particular attentionto water quality andhydrology, ecology andbiodiversity, the
               productivity andquality o fthe fishery, and the quality and utilizationo f waterfowl
               habitat, assess the severity and reversibility o f these impacts, formulate measures and
               assess options to stabilize and improvepresent conditions, and formulate a cost-
               effective monitoringprogram that would enable continuingmanagement o f these
               valuable natural resources.
6.        The study is a rapid assessment covering only a portion ofthe 2007 monsoon season (late
June through September), but it is basedinpart on the continuing hydraulic monitoringo f the
LBOD Tidal Link canal, and to a limitedextent the dhands, carried out since 1993 by the National
Institute o f Oceanography (NO) for WAPDA until2004, and presently by SIDA. However, apart
from this hydraulic monitoring(meteorology, tides, seawater movement, currents, channel
hydraulics and bathymetry, etc.) and a single fishery and waterfowl survey o f the dhands carried
out in 1997, there has been no ecologicalmonitoring or study undertakeno f the dhands, and no
assessment o f the population who live near and dependon the dhands nor identification oftheir
development needs and concerns. An important aim o fthis study i s to integrate these three lines o f
investigationinto a singleoverall, holistic assessment o f an economically andsocially important
coastal water body for the first time.

      2      SOCIO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT OF THE BADINDHANDS

2.1    The Region

7.        Badin district i s part o f the Lower IndusPlain formed by the alluvial deposits o f Indus
Riverthrough the ancient Hakra, Nullah and Gungra water courses. Beinga vast alluvialplain, its
landis highlyuniformincharacter and is not diversifiedby hillsor rivers. The southern part ofthe
district i s close to the delta o f the river Indus and the land surface is therefore relatively low in
comparison with the northern half. The drainage system i s grossly inadequate andpoorly
maintained. Consequently, the system does not have the capacity to carry even anominal increase
inprecipitation.Floodingis generatedby canal and salt water from the irrigationand drainage
systems flowing into the area. The delta adjoins the Badin andGolarchi (Shahed Fazil Rahu)
talukas o f BadinDistrict inwhich it has two main creeks namely the Shah Samando and the Sir.




November 12,2007                                           2

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




8.       The climate ofBadinDistrictis moderate. The climate is temperedby the seabreeze,
which blows for 8 months from March to October, making the hot weather tolerable. Rainfall i s
highly erratic with an average ofabout 170mm.The monsoondominates from July to September.
Rainfalli s highlyunpredictable and year without rainfall are quite common.

9.       According to the 1998 national census, the population o f Badinwas 1,136,040 compared to
776,610 in 1981. The population grew by 46.28 percent in 17years which indicates an average
annual growthrate o f 2.26 percent. With this degree of growth, the populationwill double inthe
next 25 years. Almost 90 percent o fthe population speaks Sindhi. The average household size in
the district is 5.3 personsperhouse.

10.      Although there i s no strong tribal or feudal culture, there are various tribes. Important
among them are the Syed, Soomra, Talpur, Leghari, Bhurghri, Memon, Mandhra, Maheri, Ansari,
Sama, Juneja, Sheedi and Mallah. New settlers come mainly from Punjab and Baluchistan.

11.      The localpopulationis predominantly Muslim.Important among the minorities are the
HinduGati) who constitute 18.65 percent ofthewhole. The coastal areacommunities are mainly
occupied by the Mallah and Mandhra clans, which comprise fisher-folk and herderswho rear
camels, goats and cows. The agrarian communities, mainly Talpur, Syed, Memon and Punjabi
castes, live inland andconstitute landowners, sharecroppers,traders and livestock owners.

12.      Agriculture i s the mainstay o f the economy. A number o f lakes and freshwater fishponds
allow some communities, particularly the Mallahs, to engage inthe fishingoccupation. Educated
and skilledpersons are employed inadministrativepositions incompanies inBadinand outside.
The district produces sugarcane, rice, oil and gas and the industriesrelatedto these commodities
recruit the local population.

13.      Badin has many important shrines and historical sites. Monthly and annual congregations
are heldat most o f the religious shrines.

2.2    Study Methodology

14.      This socio economic assessmenthas focused onthe people who livenear the Badin dhands
inthe coastal zone (Pateji, Cholri, SanhroandMehro), whose livelihoods dependonthe resources
located inthat area, and who have been affected by recent natural disasters inthe area including
breakdowns inthe LBOD outfall system (principally the Tidal Link).A combination o f
quantitative and qualitative methods o fresearchwere adopted for collection o f primary data, and
considerable secondary data was collected from government and non-government agencies
includinggovernment departments, local and regional NGOs, CBOs andindividuals. The tools
and methods usedto carry out the socio-economic assessment are explained below.

         (i)       Consultative Meetings/Workshop with Stakeholders at District Level Before
                                                                                           -
                   initiatingthe survey, a district-level consultative meetingwith the stake holders o f
                   Government departments and localNGO representatives was heldinthe office o f
                   District Coordination Officer, Badin. All Executive Directors, District Officers o f
                   district line departments, representatives o f local NGOs attended the meeting (list
                   o fparticipants attached inAnnex F). The scope o fthe study was discussedwith the
                  participants to obtaintechnical inputs and incorporate their opinion where




November 12,2007                                          3

Diagnostic Study of theBadin Dhands




                 necessaryinthe conduct o f the study. DistrictBadin officials provided strong
                 support throughout the study.

       (ii)      DeskReview The Executive Districtofficer provided full support inproviding
                                 -
                 maps and deputeda tapedar to provide as much information as was available. The
                 maps as givenby the revenue departmentwere old and not updated, with the result
                 that it was difficult to locate/mark out all villages on map (many village names and
                 locations have changed but the new names have not been recorded). SIDA also
                 provided maps to aide inthe process.

                 Inaddition, individualmeetingswith Government institutions (DCO, Badin, line
                 departments, WAPDA & SIDA, Director General, Coastal Development Authority
                 (CDA), Director General, National Institute o f Oceanography (NIO), Karachi,
                 NGOs and private organizations (NRSP, BRDS, HANDS, NCHD, LHDP,
                 FHDRO) were also held at Badin. This exercise helped ingathering information
                 about situation o fthe area, ground realities, impact o f livelihoodo f fishermen,
                 LBOD impact and damages through tidal link etc and the steps taken by
                 stakeholders for the resolution o f issue o f the area. Inparticular District Nazim,
                 Naib Nazim, Taluka Nazim and Union Council Nazims were also part o f
                 preliminary discussions that continuedthroughout the study

       (iii)     Meetingwith Kev Informants & Stakeholders Before initiatingthe PLA excersize
                                                                   -
                 andthe household survey, an interactivemeetingsandinformal discussion were
                 heldwith key informants inmore than 58 villages. Personsincluded shopkeepers,
                 social person andresidents, teachers, religious persons, etc.

       (iv)      Participatory Learning.Action (PLA) Exercise Total 8 PLA/PRA exercises were
                                                                    -
                 conducted during July and August inthe area near the four dhands and the Tidal
                 LInk. Themainobjectives ofthePLA exerciseswere collection ofinformation,
                 and selection o f villages for household survey, and verifying location o f villages
                 on maps invillages o f the study area.

                      Interactive Meeting/Informal Discussionwith Key Informants
                      Focus Group Discussion (FGD)
                      Social Mapping o f villages by usingParticipatoryRuralAppraisal (PRA)
                      technique
                 The PLA methodology included, group meetings, drawing ofvillage maps
                 showing all information about infrastructures, gainful employment opportunities,
                 social and cultural status, literacy. Inaddition, in certain villages transect walk
                 was also initiated to collect information. The village people, especially women
                 took active part inPLA exercise and provided insightinto the village situation and
                 past history.

       (v)       Focus Grout, Discussions (FGD) This technique proved highlyuseful in
                                                      -
                 collecting data from the groups sharingthe similar interests, living conditions and
                 livelihoodmeans. Total 20 FGDs were heldindhand villages (list o f villages
                 listedas part of. The FGDsprovided and overview the dhand area andthe existing
                 situation, the location o f villages affected by the Tidal Link, andinformationabout


November 12,2007                                         4

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                 migration o f families andtheir reasons. Informationabout the working o fNGOs
                 (suchas BRDS, LHDP, andNCHD) working inthe area andtheir support or
                 schemes was also collected.

                 InwomenFGDs,information about themothers mortalityrate (number ofwomen
                 diedduringpregnancies) and infants mortality rate were collected. The information
                 about the villagers (male and female) for earningtheir livelihood, kindofjob,
                 location (either at city, village or at dhand) were also collected

       (vi)      Particiuatorv RuralAppraisal (PFL4) - This methodology included, group
                 meetings, drawing ofvillage maps showing all information about infrastructures,
                 gainful employment opportunities, social andcultural status, literacy etc. In
                 addition incertain villages transect walk was also initiated to collect information as
                 best possible way. White sheets were provided to 7-10 persons for drawing the
                 main features o f mainvillages and information o f basic facilities such as school,
                 dispensary, handpumps, watercourse etc. Furthermore, they also drew the
                 surrounding villages. The village people especially the women took active part in
                 PRA exercise andgave insighto f the village situationand past history.

                 0    Social Mapping Since most of the people are illiterate inthe village, social
                                        -
                      mapping which is the technique o f PLA was adopted to gather following
                      information pertaining to mainvillage and its surrounding villages o f the target
                      area.

                 0    Social Historv - The local communities provided the actual information about
                      scatteredvillages surrounding the area. It was found that inthe study area
                      some o f villages have two names. For example, the actual name o f Yameen
                      Jat was Chak 57 inthe revenuerecord. The land inthis village hadbeen
                      allotted to retired army officerdofficials but they sold their lands for different
                      reasons including natural calamites. The village is presently known as Yameen
                      Jat, but sometimes old people still call it Chak 57.

        (vii)    Household Survev To collect specific information, a householdsurvey was
                                       -
                 conducted. Initially pre tested questionnaire was usedto collect household
                 information from each village inthe dhand area. After analysis o fthe information,
                 the questionnaire was reviewedandusedinhousehold survey to collect specific
                 information. A total o f 58 villages and 300+ HHswere covered in the survey. (list
                 o f villages attached as Annexure 1)

                 0    Target Groups The study focused on poor and vulnerable households within
                                       -
                      the study area, and inparticular, villages and households adversely affectedby
                      recent natural disastersincluding the breakdowns inthe Tidal Link,and the
                      resident, transient and seasonalfisherfolk utilizingthe dhands.

                 0    Survev o f Target Villages   -An effort was made to identify the target villages.
                      However, most o f the villages were not at the location as markedon the maps.
                      They either shifted or were reportedly destroyed by recent natural disasters
                      including the heavy rains o f July 2003. The coordinates o f the target villages
                      were locatedby GPS (Annex C, Table C.1).




November 12,2007                                          5

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                  0    Householdsurvey questionnaire -Based on the qualitative data and
                       information gathering outlined above andthe village survey, a preliminary
                       household survey questionnaire was design, pre-tested (about 100
                       questionnaires) and modified. A sample o f 312 households from 54 villages
                       were then surveyed by four teams each consisting o f one man and one
                       women4. The sample was representative interms o f social stratum, vulnerable
                       groups, gender etc.
          (viii)  Village consultative Workshom -Thirteenvillage consultative workshops were
                  held(7 withmenand5 with women) involving74 villages and 669 participants
                  (Annex C, Tables C.l & C.2). The outcomes o f each o f these workshops are
                  summarized inAnnex E includingthe issues andproblems identifiedby the
                  villagers and their suggestedsolutions. The outcomes o f these workshops are
                  discussedbelow inChapter 5.

2.3     Demographics,Education, Healthand Gender

15.       According to the sample population, the proportion o fmales to females is 53 percent to 47
percent while the sex ratio i s 113 (113 males per hundredfemales). This suggeststhat mortality
rates are persistentlyhigher for males than for females. The average family size is between 8 and
9 (based on the sampled population o f 2765 in312 households). Thirty six percent o fmales are
below the age o f 14, roughly the same as the total sampled population. The dependency ratio is
293.52, which means that for every one bread earner, there are about 3 dependents. A total o f 71
percent of females and65 percent of males are reportedly married. The trend o f early mamages is
higher inthe females. The sample population i s characterized by large family sizes, highproportion
o f dependency and a high fertility rates. This suggest a strong needfor reproductivehealth services,
with an emphasis on the provision o f accessible services, rather than awareness-raising only.

16.       Seventy two percent o f the populationreported having no education (58% o fmales and
89% o f females), and 15% reported having primary education. At present 33% o fboys and24% o f
girls are reportedto be enrolled. Since only 5% of boys and 2% ofgirls are reported to be enrolled
inmiddleschool, the drop-out rate appears to bevery high. Educationalservices show that while
there are primary schools available for boys, education facilities for girls are almost non existent.
Often where school rooms have beenbuiltthey have minimal staffing orjust poorly built and
maintainedphysical structures. Among children up to 16years, more than halfo f the boys and
more than 70 percent o f girls are out o f school, and among adult women nearly 90 percent are
illiterate. Factors like lack o f schools, large family size, low income and poverty appears to be
major obstacles inthe attainment o fbasic education and literacy.

17.       Health facilities are almost at zero levelinthe study areawith no network o fbasic units,
clinics, dispensaries and hospitals. The very few that do exist were reportedlyjust physical
structures with little or no staff, equipment o f supplies. Households largely access large
governmentlprivate hospitals located more than 40 kmaway while some government and private
facilities are found within 10 km. Combinedwith poor roads and low transport services, the health
facilities within 10kmare also very hard to access.


     The HHsurvey teams were selectedfrom 95 candidates who repliedto a public advertisementplacedin
     the localnewspaper by the Socio-Economic Assessment team. About one monthwas spent inthe field
     administeringthe questionnaire. Onaverage, 2 HHswere coveredby each data collector inone day.


November 12,2007                                          6

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




18.       Men are the major decisionmakersin all economic, social and family matters having more
authority, while women are clearly precludedand excluded. Duringvillage level consultations it
emergedclearly that the women and girls of the areaare an ignored community andno efforts are
so far visible for their welfare, development and empowerment. Very few girls' schools exist inthe
area, and no maternity home or reproductive services were reported. It was felt that the expertise o f
localwomen inhandicraft was being exploited, since they didnot have much control on rates or
earnings.

2.4     Livelihoods and incomes

19.       Only 60% of males and 11%o f females reportedbeinginvolvedinremunerative wrok,
hence, More than half o f the population is unemployed (about 40 percent male and 87 percent
females). Twenty three percent o f males (3% o f females with an additional 2% inlivestock) were
employed inagriculture, 17% infisheries and 11% ininformal or casual labor (4% o f females).
The highunemployment suggests that the main occupations like agriculture and fishery are not
able to absorb all the people o fworking age andcannot be said to be yielding positive results and
relatedbenefits. The highrate o funemployment and large family size must make it difficult for
families to even meet their subsistence needs.

20.       The main sourcesofhousehold income were reportedto be (57%), fishing (34%) and
livestock (21%). About 70% o f households own livestock, mostly buffalos (54%), goats (47%) and
cows (43%). O fthose who reportedbeingengagedin fishing, about halfwere fishing on Sanhro
Dhand, 35% on Mehro Dhand, 25% on Pateji Dhand and 22% on Cholri Dhand. A majority (69%)
o f the fisherfolk reported catching less than 10 kgper day. About 39% reportedthat they marketed
their fish catch though middlemen, 32% marketedtheir catch directly to the nearest city, 28%
marketed their catch with the help o f a contractor. However most o f the households only own less
than 10 acres o f landwhile average fish catch i s also as low as less than 10kgs per day. O fthe
households reporting monthly income betweenRs 2,501-7,500 per monthi s engagedinagriculture
and fishing. The proportion o fpeople injob/ services and small business i s lower, but the length o f
these professions' goes back to 15-20 years with earnings up to Rs 5,000. The level o f incomes for
females i s even lower, very few are economically active andmost who work are engagedin
livestock and agriculture.

21.       About 61% o fboth males and females above the age o f 13 reportedhaving no income, and
24% reportedearning less than Rs 3000 per month, or less than about Rs 100/day. Nearlyhalf
(46%) o fhouseholds reportedtotal monthly expenditures less than Rs 7,500. The overall level o f
earningindicates that a largemajority of households live at or below subsistencelevel, where they
arejust able to meet their basic needs for food, shelter and clothing for their larger families. Hence,
after meetingfood consumption they are left with little to spendeven on basic needs like health,
utilityandeducational needsofthe family members.The economic status ofthe households can
thusbe definedas very poor - low monthly income, low expendituresand investment on livelihood
improvements and low savings.

2.5     Infrastructure and Services




November 12,2007                                       7

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




2.5.1 Houseing, drinkingwater and sanitation

22.      Ninetyseven percent ofhousesare katcha (39% are made ofmud, and 58% ofwood and
mud). Housing inthe areais o fvery low quality. People are unable to afford stable structures, and
the highwater tables, waterlogging and salinity make these kutcha houses very vulnerable.

23.      Only about one-third o fhouseholds have access to drinkingwater within 2 km, about half
                                                                                           -
o fthose households use handpumps (mostly drawing water from shallow groundwater in or close
to the villages) and the balance obtain drinkingwater from watercourses and canals. Water from
handpumps are reportedly the cleanest for drinkingpurposes while canal water i s consideredunsafe
(smelly,salty and dirty).

24.      There appears to be a lack o f infrastructure for consolidated management o f humanwaste
and waste water disposal. All the houseshave either no sewerage systemor open drains, while only
one house has under groundcovered drains. An overwhelming majority o f households dispose
human waste inopen fields.

2.5.2 Transport,Roads and Communications

25.      Twenty percent ofhouseholds reportedhaving accessto electricity. While the systemof
communications i s not well established inthe area, 51%o f households reportedhaving access to
mobile phones. Most o f the streets and linkroads are katcha and inpoor condition. Dueto the
unavailability o froad and communicationnetwork, the accessibility o f urbanmarkets for
marketing fish and prawn is quite difficult. Duringconsultations participants suggestedthat with
improvedroads, fish culture and agriculture could benefit. Cold storages could be built at Bhugra
Memon, Bedami, Kadhan, Serani and Badin to facilitate storage and movement o f fish and prawn
consignments to urbanmarkets.

2.6    Vulnerability and CopingMechanisms

26.      Primary findings show that households frequently face disasters like rains, floods, and
cyclones, with loss of human life as well as damages o f agriculture, fisheries, livestock and houses.
About 81% o f households reportedexperiencing floods 1-2 times per year, and 91%reported
calamities from heavy rains 1-2 times per year (13%, 3-4 times per year). Nearly half the
households reportedexperiencing flooding due to LBOD. Damages to agriculture were reported
due to floods, rains and cyclones, but damagesto livestock were mainly reporteddue to floods.
Sixty percent reported damages to the fisheries due to cyclones, and53% due to LBOD.

27.      There is no systemfor disaster coping and no plannedmechanisms to handle these
calamities (except local, indigenous mechanisms -nearly all households reporteda highlevel o f
community cooperation incoping with disasters, rains andother emergencies such as accidents and
heath). Forty one percent reportedthat they do nothingbefore a disaster, 22% reportedthey have
no resourcesto make any arrangementbefore a disaster. Very few households were able to
indicate an actual indigenous mechanism to handledisasters.




November 12, 2007                                       8

Diagnostic Study ofthe Badin Dhands




                                 FTHE DELTA, THE LBODOUTFALL SYSTEM
                                   AND THE BADINDHANDS

3.1     OngoingEvolution of the IndusDelta

28.       For many millennia the Indus River carried large volumes o f water and sediment into the
Arabian Sea. This flow was strong enough to pushsea currents during the southwest monsoonup
to 100 miles from the shore. The lndus Riverdelta (Figure 1) was built up by these sediments
transported by the main IndusRiver and numerous distributaries. The IndusRiver discharged into
the sea at different locations along
the coast at different times; for
example, there are indications, for
example, that the mainriver or one
o f its principal distributaries may
have discharged into the Rann o f
Kutch about 100kmeast o f its
present course near Badin at one
time.

29.       Beginning inthe late 1850s
and stretching up to the present,
more than 70% o fthe average
annual flow o f the Indus River and
its tributaries has been stored in
reservoirs and divertedfrom the
riverby barragesor weirs into

canals for irrigatedagriculture. Wh.ile
this has provided aplatformfor
Pakistan's development and enormous economic benefits, it has greatly reduced the quantity o f
sedimenttransported to the delta, and limitedfreshwater flow into the delta to the monsoonseason
inthoseyearswhen flood flows exceeddiversion capacity. As aconsequence,seawaterhas
intrudedinto the active delta and the IndusRiver, reaching about 65 kmupstream at least upto the
Thatta-Sujawal.

30.       The active delta is now confined to a comparatively small areawhere the present Indus
River course enters the Arabian Sea. The remainder o f the delta, stretching south and
southeastward from the present IndusRiver to the Rann o f Kutch i s abandoned. The former
distributaries are moribund and completely filled with sediment.

          0   The abandoneddelta has evolved into a broad, flat, largely barren, salt-mud and salt
              encrusted inter-tidal zone lying between the upland agricultural areas, which slope very
              gradually northand northwestward, and the edge of the sea that i s dissectedby
              numerous small tidal creeks;

          0   The micro-topography of this inter-tidal zone or coastal zone features numerous
              shallow depressionsthat fillwith water from heavy monsoon rainfall, surface runoff
              and drainage from the upland agricultural areas, and storm surges and hightides during
              large monsoon tropical storms.



November 12,2007                                       9

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands

                                                  -"'             ' ' @ '




             The four major brackish lakes or dhands inBadin District located at the extreme
             eastern side o f the delta that are the subject o f this study were formed inthese types o f
             depressions. These Badin dhands are hydraulically connected to the larger Rann of
             Kutch, which has resulted intheir beingpersistently brackish to saline and semi-
             permanent features.

3.1.1 SeaEncroachment and Land Loss

31.     The coast has begunto erode and retreat landwardbecause ofthe reduced sediment flow.
The areao f mangrove forest that once covered the littoral zone has declinedfrom 260,000 to
160,000 ha (1992) becauseofthe increased salinity resultingfrom reduced freshwater flow and
because of over harvesting o f trees for fuel wood and buildingmaterials. The coastal erosion and
loss o fmangrove forests has destroyed the coastal defensesagainst cyclonic storms and storm
surges

32.      The slope o f the inter-tidal zone i s 1in25,000. Hence, small increases in sea level due to
higherthan normal tides andstorm surges are able to penetrate far inland. Moreover, recent
studies have shown that sea levelrise (an increaseinmean sea level) is already occurring along the
Pakistan coast, albeit somewhat smaller than is being experienced globally or elsewhere inthe
Indian Ocean

33.      The combination o f the flat slope o f the inter-tidal zone, sea level rise, andthe ongoing
erosion and destruction o f natural coastal defenses has increased the risk that hightides and storm
surges will penetrate further inlandall along the coast.

34.      Examination o f satellite imagery before aind after the May, 1999 cyclone showed that the
highwater mark or the line offurthest seawater
penetration (the line o f the Highest
Astronomical Tide) that dividesthe upland
agricultural lands from the inter-tidal zone
moved significantly inland. As the condition o f
the Indusdelta and the coastal zone continues to
deteriorate inthe future, the risk o f seawater
intrusionand flooding o f these lands will
steadily increase.

3.2    The DhandsinBadinDistrict

35.      At the easternendofthe Indusdelta in
Sindh's BadinDistrict (between 24-25' Nand
68-69' E) there are four large brackish lakes
(dhands) naturally connected to the Rann o f Kutch, a coastal marsh and lagoon stretching eastward
into the Indian State of Gujarat that i s a wetland of global significance (Figure 2, next page). The
dhands cover an area o f about 70 km2and are formed in a large undulating depression inthe inter-
tidal zone a short distance south and southeast o f the agricultural land inBadin District'. They are



'   The irrigation network extends very close to the north and eastern sides o f the dhands.


November 12,2007                                          10

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dkands




shallow with an average depthranging from about 0.37 to 1.8 m6,very turbid, and their average
water temperature inthe summer monsoon seasonranges from 25 to 33" C.

36.      The extent o fthese dhands would normally vary considerably during the year, and from
year to year: inthe monsoon season (from say May to September), they would expand as they are
filled with rainfall, surface runoff from the north, groundwater discharge, and water flowing from
the similarly filling Rann o f Kutch. Since the general direction o fthe land slope inBadin i s
southeastward, the dhands representeda natural catch basin for storm runoff and sub-surface
drainage from Badin. Whenthe rains typically cease in September or October and evaporation
steadily increases inthe subsequent dry season, the dhands would gradually recede, lose their
connection to the similarly retreating Rann o f Kutch, andinmost years large portions would dry
up. This expansion and recessionprocessis governedby a highlydynamic andcomplex water
balance.

37.      There are no records prior to the mid-1990s but it is likely that the dhands were always
backish or saline because of the pervasive salinity o f the coastal zone andmost o fthe important
components o f the dhands water balance. Rainwater i s o f course without significant salinity, but
storm drainage would likely pick up some salinity as it travels to the dhands from saline upland
soils and the salt-mud and salt crust that dominates the surface o f the coastal zone. Groundwater
discharge, though likely to be a small component because o fthe low gradient and low-permeability


     Since the destruction of Cholri Weir, drainage o f the dhands duringebb tide apparently establishes some
     strong currents particularly inthe passages between the dhands. The NIO marine ecological team noted
     a scour hole near the southern shore o f the passage between Mehro and Sanhro dhand that was 12m
     deep.



Novembev 12,2007                                            11

soils, i s nevertheless saline. The salinity o f the Rann o f Kutch is reportedto be muchgreater than
sea water, as highas 40-60 ppt and these high salinity water waters would also have increased the
salinity o f the dhands. Evaporation dominated the dry season water balance further concentrating
the salts. Hence, the salinity inthe dhands from year to year depended on the volume o f fresh or
slightlybrackishwater it received.

38.        Beginning inthe 1960s, an extensive drainage network was built inthe irrigatedland to the
north, and the terminus of several o fthese major drains were connected to these lakes providing a
significant supply o f comparatively fresh water (of say 1-3 ppt), helpingto stabilize the volume and
extent o f the dhands, moderatingthe overall salinity and helpingto create a valuable fishery and
migratory waterfowl habitat. The 1997 survey o f the dhands reports extensive growth o f
freshwater macrophytes (typhaspp, cyperus spp, etc). Records o f waterfowl populations on these
dhands do not beginuntil the late 1980s,but by that time they hadbecome one o f the most
important wintering waterfowl habitats inthe coastal zone. This change appears to have stimulated
the inwardmigration to the area around the lakes o f fisherfolk from elsewhere in Sindh as well as
increasing numberso f landless people from southern Badin whose livelihooddependedinpart on
fishing.
                                                              I

3.3      Constructionof the LBODOutfall System

39.        This study inpart concerns the current functional or operational relationshipbetween the
Tidal Link canal, a key element o f the LBOD outfall system, and the dhands because it has been
thought that they strongly influence on boththe dhand ecosystems and the livelihoods o fpeople
livingnear and depending on the dhands'. This section discussesthe origin ofthe Tidal Link,its
structural relationship to the dhands, and the controversies that surrounded its design and
construction. Subsequent sections inthis Chapter discuss its operating history inrelation to the
dhands and their current relationship.

3.3.1 Irrigation Development in Sindh Province

40.        Beginning inthe 1930s, barrageswere constructed across the main IndusRiverto divert
the river's flow into a network o f canals to expand irrigated agriculture in Sindh. A total o f about
5.5 mhahave been developed, including 1.75 Mha inBadin District suppliedthrough three canal
networks that beginat the Kotri Barrage, the last barrage on the IndusRiver before the delta and
the sea.

41.        Sindh Province occupies nearly all of the IndusRiverBasin in southern Pakistan and i s the
terminus o f the Indusplain as it reaches the sea. The terrain i s nearly level with a slope southwards
and southeastwardstowards the Rann o f Kutch and the sea that ranges from 1in 15,000 to 1in
20,000. Groundwater tables are highand commonly saline. Only about 30 percent o f the
groundwater in Sindh is usable for agriculture or drinkingwater.




    WAPDA is reported to have initiatedan engineering study o fthe LBOD outfall system, particularly o f
    alternatives to improve safety and reliability under severe conditions in light o fpast operating
    experience, particularly during the 1999 cyclone, which severely damaged the Tidal Link, and the 2003
    heavy rainfall that ledto several damaging breaches inKPOD. This study is expected to be completed
    sometime in2008.


November 12,2007                                           12

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




42.      Drainage i s critical for the success o f Sindh's agriculture and for livelihoods, but drainage
problems are severe. The IndusRiver i s located on aridgeinthe extreme west o f the province and
the flat terrain slopes very gradually southeastwardaway from the river.Hence the IndusRiver
does not function as a natural drain, and the little natural surface drainage that does exist i s
impededby roads, irrigation bunds and canals. Without strenuous efforts to improve and maintain
both surface and sub-surface drainage capacity and functionality, agriculture in southern Sindh i s
under constantthreat of deterioration and livelihoods are vulnerable.
                                                           I   Figure3 LBODand the Study Area
3.3.2 Copingwith the Threatof Salinity
         and Waterlogging.

43.       The riskthat Sindh's irrigated agriculture
would be unsustainable becauseo f the
accumulation o f salt was recognized early inits
development. The Salinity Control and
Reclamation Program (SCARP) was initiated in
the middle 1960sto lower water tables and
remove salt usingtubewells.These worked very
well infresh groundwater areas where the pumped
groundwater couldbe returnedto the canals and
readily usedfor irrigation. But the groundwater in
Sindh i s mostly saline, and the pumpedwater from
these drainage tubewells hadto be evacuated from
the basin. The view that agricultural drainage
water in Sindhwould needto be collected and
evacuatedout o f the basinto the sea was strongly
heldby Pakistani water professionals andpolicy
makers.

44.       Duringthe 1970s, Sindhbeganconstructionofa spinal drain' to collect drainage water
from a portion o f the Nara Canal commandarea (Figure 3 to the right) and convey it about 100
miles southeastwardto the Dhoro Puran, an ancient, moribund Indus River channel near the Thar
desert that empties into the coastal area. In 1980, design studies were initiated for a complete spinal
drain and outfall systemthat could serve about 1.25 million acres o f the Nara Canal command area
incentral Sindhandconvey the saline drainage water to the sea. This systemwas referredto as the
Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD).

3.3.3    Key Features of LBOD

45.      The LBOD Stage Iproject provided drainage tubewells and tile drains to lower the water
table and collect saline water as well as new and remodeled surface drains to collect and transfer
this saline water to anew spinal drain. The accumulated discharge ofthe spinal drain was



'   The term "spinal drain" refers to a drain (sometimes called a trunk drain) that collects drainage water
    from secondary and other drains. Ittypically has very few inlets and is not connected, except throughthe
    drainagenetwork, to farmers' fields.


November 12,2007                                         13

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




connected downstream to two older drains: Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD)~;and the Dhoro
Puran Outfall Drain (DPOD)"             This brought the generally brackish agricultural drainage water
o f LBOD to the edge o f the coastal zone and the
border o f Pakistan andIndia.                                              ng LDUUIO m e Araman >ea          I

46.       Shakoor Dhand and the R a m o f Kutch
lie astride the Indian-Pakistan border. The
Badin dhands lie entirely inPakistan, but are
generally connected to the Ranno f Kutch
especially at hightide. The naturalpatterno f
surface drainage and overland flow, especially
o f storm runoff, from this coastal and near-
coastal zone inBadin District i s south and
southeastward towards the dhands and the Rann
o f Kutch. Hence the natural approach would
have been to direct the LBOD discharge towards
the Rann of Kutch. However, to avoid
discharging LBOD directly into Indiaand into thi                                          rnational wetland,
a Tidal Link Canal was built42 kmsouthwestward across the dhandsand the coastal zone o f Sindh
from KPOD to the nearestactive tidal creek, Shah Samado Creek12(Figure 4).

47.       The Tidal LinkCanal was isolated from the RannofKutch and the dhandsby high
embankments. An weir with a crest height o f 1.403 and length o f 1800 ft, called the Cholri Weir,
was builtwhere the Tidal Link Canal passedthrough Cholri Dhand inorder to attenuatehighwater
levels inthe Tidal Link Canal duringhightide by allowing water to flow into the dhands during
this period, andto protect the dhands from excessive drainage duringlow tidewhen the water
would flow back into the Tidal LinkCanal (because the water level inthe Tidal Linkwas lower
than the crest o f the weir and the water level inthe dhand. Since sea water was not expected to
come closer than about 11kmdownstream o fthe weir at the time o f the designof the Tidal Link,
the negative effects ofthe intrusionof the muchmore saline sea water would also beminimized
(the salinity o f the LBOD discharge flowing down the Tidal Link canal was expected to be inthe
range o f about 5-10 ppt which would not threaten the dhands). The outlet works o f LBOD thus
consisted of the DPOD, which dischargesthrough the Dhoro Puran natural channel into Shakoor


     A trunk drainbuiltto collect saline discharge from numerous small drains inthe commandarea o fthe
     canals that issue from the Kotri Barrage and serve much o f Badin District - and carry this drainage
     discharge into Pateji Dhand and the Ranno f Kutch
lo   An natural channel thought to be a remnant of an ancient IndusRiver distributary channel that flowed
     into Shakoor Dhandnear the Rann o f Kutch
'I   The bifurcation o f the Spinal Drain flow was madejust upstreamo f the connection with KPOD by
     means o f an uncontrolledbroad crested weir located ina side channel excavated inthe left bank so that a
     portion o f the spinal drain discharge duringhighflows when the drain was carrying relatively fresh
     stormwater would be diverted through the Dhoro Puran Link to the Dhoro Puranchannel, a moribund
     natural channel that empties into Shakoor Dhand. This dhand hadbeen a part o fthe R a m o fKutchbut
     land movement during an earthquake hadreduced the connection to conditions o f high water inthe
     dhand. LBOD discharges entering Shakoor Dhandwould flow into the Ranno fKutchinIndiawhen
     water levels were high inthe Shakoor Dhandbut these LBOD flows were expected to be primarily storm
'*   water that is comparatively fresh.
     Shah Samando Creek lies inPakistan, but it is a natural extension o f Sir Creek which forms a part of the
     disputed border with India.


November 12,2007                                          14

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




Dhand,the enlarged KPOD drain, now discharging into the Tidal Link,the Tidal LinkCanal
connected directly to the sea, and the Cholri Weir.

3.3.4    ControversiesConcerning the TidalLink

48.      Many localpeople and Sindhprofessionals expressedseveralbasic concernswith the
overall concept. First, the Tidal Linkwould change the basic direction o fnatural drainage flow in
the region from the southeasttowards the Rannof Kutch, to the southwest across the delta to the
active tidal zone exposing the upper part o f the coastal zone near the dhands and adjacent
agricultural lands to tides, storm surges and seawater intrusion.

49.      Second, the Tidal Linkpasses through Pateji and Cholri dhands which are connected to the
two other dhands, Sanhro and Mehro. The three key functions of these brackish lakes, namely as
an important fishery, as migratory waterfowl habitat, andas the natural drainage catch basin for the
agricultural areas o f southern Badin, might be threatened by the disruption indrainage patterns and
increases insalinity. The natural drainage path o f excess water inthese dhands stemming from
heavy rainfall inBadinwould be blockedby the high embankments o f the Tidal Link threatening
lower Badin with increased flooding. Instead, discharge o f excess water from the dhands would
have to pass over the Cholri Weir into the Tidal Link andthen to the sea via the Tidal Link. This
drainage congestion might cause the backup o f the natural drainage worsening flooding of
agricultural landand settlements. Tidal action inthe Tidal Link could allow seawater to intrude
upstream inthe Tidal Link entering the Dhands to threaten agricultural lands and alter the then
ecologically favorable salinity pattern. These tidal actions inthe Tidal Link near Cholri Dhand
could also result inexcessive drainage of the dhands.

3.4    Performance of the Tidal Link prior to 1999

50.      The Tidal Link canal was builtbetween 1993 and 1995 ina hostile environment that was
subject to strong tides, southwest monsoon wind^'^, and possible cyclones and storm surges. It
was unlined, built using localmaterials excavated from the coastal plain, and didnot include a
controlled inlet or outlet (headworks or regulatory gates). The Tidal Link canal was designedto
be the final element o fthe LBOD system carrying its saline drainage water to the sea via Shah
Samando Creek leadingto Sir Creek (the nearestactive tidal areato LBOD). Since the
performance o fthe Tidal Link would dependon these environmentalconditions includingtides,
sediment movements andmeteorologicalconditions, it was seen as important to monitor its
hydraulic performance under these highlyvariable conditions to ensure that its core fimctions were
effective.

3.4.1    The TidalLink MonitoringProgram

51.      WAPDA (South) through its SCARP MonitoringOrganization (SMO) initiated the
monitoringprogram by means o f a contract with the NationalInstitute o f Oceanography (NIO).
Beginningin2006 the SindhIrrigation andDrainage Authority (SIDA)has assumed support for
the monitoringprogram also through a contract with NIO. The work hasproceeded upto the
present inthree phases



l3  FromApril to September, the predominant average wind direction inthe dhand area is SW (occasionally
    W-SW or S-SW). FromOctober to Marchit is from the N-NE(NIO, 2003)


November 12, 2007                                      15

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




         0   The initial monitoring program supported by WAPDA was camedout from November
             1992 (fieldwork began inMarch 1993) to Dec. 1997 ( the Tidal Link was constructed
             between 1993 and late 1995, and commissioned in 1996)

         0   The program resumedwith WAPDA support inMarch 1999 and continuedto June
             2004

         0   The current phase supported by SIDA began inJune 2006 and i s scheduled to endin
             June 2008.
52.      The parametersmonitoredunderthe program include:

         0   Water level/ Tidal levels Variations

         0   Water Currents
             Water salinity distribution (inthe Tidal Link and the dhands)

         0   SuspendedLoad

         0   Sedimentation and Erosion
             Erosionpatterns

         0   Water Flows during Ebb andFloodTides

         0   Water Discharges

         0   Meteorological observations (Wind speed, Direction, Air temperature, Humidity etc.)

3.4.2 Summary of TidalLink Performance 1994-1997.

53.      The major overall conclusionof the June 1998NIO Rep01-t'~on the monitoringprogram
carried out between March, 1993 and December, 1997 was that the Tidal Link drain was
performing in accordancewith its design and discharging the drain waters efficiently despite the
resistance from inflowing seawater during flood tides and despite some erosion and siltation inthe
Tidal Link channel (Le. there was a net outflow from the Tidal Link to the sea). The Report noted
that there was considerable erosion inthe Tidal Link channel at five different locations occurring
mainly during the strong ebb tides, and that sedimentation was noticeably reducing the depth o f the
channel in at least one 6-7 kmreach of the channel. The monitoring programresults, (NIO 2003)15
that concern the relationshipbetween the Tidal Linkand the dhands include:

         0   The maximum spring tides inthe Tidal Link near the Cholri Dhandin 1997 were 1.89
             inAugust, averaging about 1.6 from Mayto September(thecrest height ofthe Cholri
             Weir was 1.403 m). However the duration ofthe springtide levels greater than the
             crest o f the Cholri Weir averaged only about 2-3 hours. Inthe remaining 18-20 hours
             tide levels were below the level ofthe weir.



l4  NIO, FinalTechnical Report,Hydraulic Monitoring of the TidalLink Drain (LBOD), SCARP
    Monitoring (South) Organization(SMO), Water andPower DevelopmentAuthority, Hyderabad,June,
    1998.
l5  NIO, FinalTechnicalReport, Hydraulic Monitoring of TidalLink Drain, LBOD, April 1999-December
    2002, 2003


November 12,2007                                      16

Diagnostic Study of theBadin Dhands




             Hence, water was flowing from the dhands to the Tidal Link for about 18-20 hours of
             every 24-hour tide cycle. Moreover, flow from the Tidal Link to the Dhands only
             occurred from February to October. Water level data for Cholri Dhandnear the Tidal
             Linkfrom 1995to 1997show itto beremarkably stablevarying only slightlyarounda
             level o f 1.56 m(about 5 ft).

             During1997the averageoutflow from the dhandsto the Tidal Linkwas 3,258 cfs
             while the average inflow was estimated to be 316 cfs. Ifthe surface area o f the dhand
             i s assumedto be the reported value of 70 km2,then the average net outflow was
             equivalent to less than 1inch or about 2 cmper month16over the entire area o f the
             dhands.
             The influence ofthe springtide appearedto be quickly dissipated inCholri Dhand, Le.,
             although tidal fluctuations are experienced at the northern most limits o f Sanhro and
             Mehro dhands", the small inflow from the Tidal Link does not appear to influence
             these areas.
             The salinity o f the Tidal Link water near Cholri Dhandinthe 17months o f 1996-1997
             for which there i s data, generally ranged between 10-15 ppt with the exception o f three
             months (A ril 1996, May 1997 and August 1997) inwhich salinity ranged from about
             25-40 PPtIf: .
             The effect o f salinity enteringthe dhands from the tidal linkwas small, averaging less
             than 1ppt inthe southern and southeasternportions o f Cholri Dhandnearestthe Tidal
             Link,andnegligibleelsewhere.
             Water level fluctuations inthe drains that flow into Sanhro and Mehro Dhands (Karo
             Gungro and FuleliGunnirespectively), and inthe Serani Drainwhich flows into
             KPOD a few kilometersupstream o f the Tidal Link, causedby tidal fluctuations inthe
             Tidal Link,were about 0.70 mor about 2-2.5        ft19. The observed salinity ofthe flow in
             these drains ranged from 1-6 ppt with post-monsoon and winter salinities reaching this
             upper limit.


   Water levelrecordershas not be installedinthe dhands, bathymetricdata for the dhands has notbeen
   updatedsince the early 1980s, andno topographic data is available at the very small contour interval
   neededto analyze drainagepatterns and flooding inthe landsnear the dhands, so there is no way to
   estimatethe volume o fwater that actually drains into the dhands from the Badin area or to estimatethe
   amount to be drainedthroughthe dhands to the Tidal Link. This is unfortunatebecausethis
   determinationwould address the concernsof the peopleliving inthis area, Le., under what conditions
   would drainagebe impeded, and increasedinundationresult, duringtypical Tidal Link operationsinthe
   monsoonseason.
   The beachslope inthese northernareas is extremely low, particularly inSanhro Dhandnear the Zero
   Point village; hence, the inter-tidalzone is wide since evena very small change inwater level would
   manifestitself inalargemovement ofthe water line.
   The observedsalinity o f KPOD drainagewater where it enters the Tidal Link (about 11kmupstreamof
   the Cholri Weir) duringthis same periodrangedbetweenabout 5 and 8 ppt with the exceptiono f one
   month, November 1997, when it reached 10ppt.
   Giventhe generallyvery flat slopes ofthese drains, the extent to which changes ofthis order of
   magnitude inthe water level at the outlet o fthese drains extends upstreamandthe possible effects o f
   such changes inwater levelmight have on upstreamstructures and farm landshouldbe investigated.
   Dischargemeasurements and cross sectionsusedtogether with a simple backwater modelshouldbe
   sufficientto identify where problems if any might exists, andperhaps identify low cost mitigation
   measures.


November 12,2007                                           17

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




3.4.3 Impact of theMay, 1999 Cyclone

54.      InMay 1999an enormous tropical cyclone (Cyclone "2A", May 19-22, 1999) moved
acrossthe Sindh coast centered over Badin. This cyclone causedgreat damage to property, loss o f
life and extensive and prolonged flooding. It also had a dramatic affect on the configuration and
functioning of the Tidal Link".

                   The storm surge andunusually high tide causedby the cyclone ranged from 4.6 to
                   7.2 mas1 traveling inthe same direction as the Tidal Link. Landinthe coastal
                             -
                   zone was inundated from Jati to Badin

                   The Tidal Linkwas severely damagedwith more than two dozen breaches inthe
                   earthen embankments of the Tidal Linkreportedby NIO, and more than 50
                   reported by others. These breachesbeganwhere the Tidal LinkcrossesPateji and
                   Cholri Dhands and continued downstream for more than 17 km. There i s free water
                   exchangenow between the Tidal Link,the adjacent dhands and the R a m o f Kutch
                   over this entire distance.

                   The Cholri Weir hadbeen damagedin 1998 during heavy monsoon rains, and it
                   was completely destroyed by the cyclone (i.e., after the cyclone no hctional
                   barrier existed between the Tidal Link and Cholri Dhand)

                   The salinity ofwater inthe Tidal Linkincreased as shown inTable 1. This
                   elevated salinity could now be traced beyondthe junction o f the Tidal Link and
                   KPOD to a point about 6 kmupstreamo f where Serani Drain enters KPOD.




                                             Before Cyclone2A                    After Cyclone 2A
              Location                   Sept.    Sept.      Sept.       Apr.     Sept.     Sept.  Sept.
                                         1996     1997       1998        I999      I999     2000   2001
Karo Gungro Outfall Drain
(dischargesinto northern Sanhro)         1.25     5.00                    Dry      4.00      Dry    Dry
FeluliGunni Drain
(dischargesinto northern Mehro)          1.00     2.00     Monitoring
                                                            program       Dry       1.I9     Dry   3.50
Serani Ouffall Drain                                       halted and
(dischargesinto KPOD)                    2.00     10.00    resumedin     10.35    32.00      9.30  6.20
RD -55 (adjacentto Cholri)               10.00    10.00    April lgg9 14.65       25.00     37.00  40.00
RD -93 (12 km dls of Cholri)             20.00    18.00                  32.00    35.00     42.50  47.00
RD -125 (22 km dls of Cholri)            25.00    10.00                  42.56    48.00     43.00  50.00




3.5    PresentRelationshipofthe OutfallSystem andthe Dhands




     NIO, Impact of Cyclone "2A on the TidalLinkDrain andAdjacent Areas based on Historical Data
                                  "




November 12, 2007                                      18

Diagnostic Study of theBadin Dhands
                      -   - -           --
I ^ ^ I___^I-    _-_I"            ~       _.




55.          WAPDA resumed the The Tidal Linkmonitoringprogram through NIO from March 1999
to December 2002 underthe NationalDrainage Program (NDP)" . After a brief hiatus between
2003 and 2006 it was resumed by NIO with support from SIDA.

3.5.1 New HydraulicRegime Established

56.          The 1999cyclone brought about major changes inthe functioning of the Tidal Link,and
changes inthe relationship between the Tidal Link and the dhands (Figure 5).




                          Figure5 The Tidal Link and the Dhandsafter 1999

             (i)   Duringmost ofthe year, particularly duringSouthwest monsoon, the effective
                   length o f the Tidal Link Drain for discharges from LBOD has now beenreduced to
                   about 4 km- from KPOD downstream to a point where the first large breach inthe
                   Tidal Link occurs adjacent to Pateji Dhand(Figure 5). Most o f the LBOD
                   discharge into KPOD andthen into the Tidal Link Drain does not reach its
                   intended destination at the coast inShah Somando Creek.

*`   NIO, Hydraulic Monitoring of Tidal Link Drain, LBOD, Final Technical Report, April 1999-December
     2002, SCARPMonitoring Organization,WAPDA (South), Hyderabad, Sindh, 2003


November 12,2007                                         19

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




       (ii)           The influence of highersalinity water includingseawater andwater from the Rann
                      o f Kutchhas increasedwithin the Tidal Link.The salinity profile of the Tidal Link
                      inthemonthsofDecemberandJune, 1999 and2002 respectively,are shownin
                      Figure6 & 7. The markedinfluence of highsalinity inthe Tidal Link can now be
                      traced severalkmupstreamwithin KPODto apoint abovewhere the Serani Drain
               g:     joins KPOD, insteadof a point downstream o f CholriDhandbefore the cyclone;


                               Figure 6 Salinityprofile of Tidal Link and KPOD (December)


                   -.r";                         Cholrf Dhand
                                                                        rL I KPOD
                          30
                          20
                     to 10
                          0
                           -93  -84  -74   -64   -54      -44   -34    -24        -14   -4  6  16 26
                                                                RDs

                                                    1-Dec-99      -Dee02         1

             1                    Figure7 Salinity profile of Tidal Link and KPOD (June)


                     -c.r"
                     ~                                                                               :
                                                 Cholri Dhand
                          30
                          20
                          10
                           0                                                I


                            -93 -84   -74   -64  -54      -44    -34    -24       -14   -4  6  16  26
                                                                RDs
                                                   1-      June-99 -June-02          1


       (iii)          Over most of its length, the Tidal Linkhasbecomea large mixingbowl, including
                      the areawhere it passesthroughthe dhands, with water movingupstreaminthe
                      Tidal Link duringflood tide andmixing freely with the water of the Rannof
                      Kutch,KPOD andthe dhands.

       (iv)           The naturalpassagebetweendhands andthe Ramof Kutch,previouslyblockedby
                      the embankments ofTidal Link-Drain,is nowreopened.

       (v)            With the destructionofthe CholriWeir andthe opening ofmany large breaches,
                      water flows andwater exchangesare now more frequent betweendhands, Tidal
                      LinkDrainandthe adjacentRannofKutch.

       (vi)           The natural drainage patternfromBadinthroughthe dhandsto the Ramof Kutch
                      has now beenre-established. The differenceis that seawater movinginthe system




November 12,2007                                              20

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                  at flood tide i s now a part o f the mix2*,but this seawater does not appear to be the
                  dominant influence on salinity inthe dhands

          (vii)   Drainage from the dhands to the tidal link at ebb tide is strong, and a visible
                  drainage network (having the appearanceo f a typical tidal creek) has formed in
                  Cholri Dhandand to a lesser extent inPateji Dhand (Figure5).

57.       Despite the reopened drainage pathways, the situation ex-ante had not been fully restored
bythe cyclone. Storm surges and unusually hightides can penetrateinto the dhands areamore
easily than under the erstwhile natural conditions (even though the whole coastal zone was
becoming increasingly threatened by such events because o f the diminished coastal defenses), and
the general level of salinity hadrisen.


                  4     STATUSOF THE DHANDECOSYSTEMS23

4.1     Variationsinthe Salinityof the Dhands

58.       One o f the most important indicators o fthe status o f the dhand ecosystem i s the level o f
salinity. While a number o f factors such as pH, temperature, conductivity, dissolved oxygen,
turbidity,nutrientsandpollutionmay strongly influence an ecosystem and its productivity, it is
salinity or the range o f salinity inthe dhands that largely determines the types o f organisms that can
survive and hence the type of ecosystemsthat may exist andthe types o f functions the dhands
could support. The period over which monitoring data i s available present a picture o f
extraordinary variability. These data are summarized below in Table 2.

59.       In1997the average salinity was brackishbutat levels that would support speciesadapted
to these significant but low salinities such as one finds inan estuary. The upper limits o f the range
o f salinity inCholri andPateji Dhands were closer to levels more favorable for marine species.
The very highsalinities in Pateji Dhandreflect the cut-off o f drains that once flowed into this
dhand (Serani and KPOD), low circulationbecausethere i s only a weak connectionto Cholri
Dhand, andhighevaporation.

60.       After the cyclone inMay, 1999as notedabove, the dhands were openly connected through
numerous breaches to the Tidal Linkwhich hadbecome more strongly saline, and to the R a m o f
Kutchwhere salinity was typically greater than that ofseawater (which averages about 33 ppt
along the Sindh coast). The salinity o fthe dhands became elevated to levels above seawater, at
least inthe dry season when observations were made, and remained so from 2001 to at least 2003
(when the monitoring program ceased).

61.       The markedincrease insalinity shown inthe Tidal Link profiles (Figure 6 & 7) andinthe
dhands cannot all be attributedto seawater since the salinity o f the Arabian Sea near Shah
Somando Creek averages about 33 ppt. Inthe absence o f other sources o f highsalinity, the
increasedpenetration o f seawater inthe Tidal Link would likely result in a significant increase in


22   Thispotentiallyhas anot insignificantbenefit-most o fthe organismsinthe Badindhands are ofmarine
     origin, andinparticular,the movement of fish fry, and shrimp larve and other marineorganisms into the
     dhands is facilitatedby this open connection with the sea.
23   A suggestedguidelinefor rapidwetlandassessment is given inAnnex B.



November 12,2007                                           21

 Diagnostic Study of theBadin Dhands




 the salinity o fthe dhands. However, no studies have beencarried out to estimate the proportions of
 different sources o f water that presently form the mixture inthe Tidal Link near Cholri andPateji
 Dhand. The most saline of the possible

 62.      sources is the Ranno f Kutch, and it seems quite likely that water from the Ranno f Kutch
 passing through the Tidal Link into the dhands, inthe absence o f large freshwater flows into the

I                     Table 2 SurfaceWater Salinity inthe Badln Dhands (1997 to 2007)              I
I                          I                                   Salinity(ppt)                       I
        Location              Average and
                                 Range        January      January   December December Average and
                                                                                         Range
                              Jan.leg?June
                                   to            2001       2002        2002     2003  January 2007

 Sanhro Dhand                      7.7                                                    17.3
                                 (6-10.5)        31-40      35-38      40-48    43-48    (15-20)
 SanhrolMehro Dhand
 (lower Mehro Dhand and            6.6
 the passageto Sanhro             (7-11)         35-38      38-42      40-43
 Dhand)

 Mehro Dhand               I                 I   35-38      38-42  I
                                                          ~




 Cholri Dhand


 PatejiDhand


 a: Based on data collected by WAPDA from 178 sampling points analyzed by NIO
 b: The range close to Cholri Weir was 20-32 ppt.

 dhands, i s a major influence on the very high levels of salinity observed between 1999 and2007 in
 both the Tidal Link (above that o f seawater) and the dhands. Satellite imagery often shows the
 northwestern portiono f the Ranno f Kutch to be without water inthe dry season, but recent
 imagery.shows that there are many points along the length o fthe Tidal Link where hyper-saline
 water from the Rann o f Kutch and Sir Creek can enter the Tidal Link.

 63.      The monitoringprogram resumedinJune 2006 (see Section 3.4.1) and the first
 comprehensive sampling o f the dhands was carried out inJanuary 2007. It showed a remarkable
 decrease in salinity inall o f the dhands includingPateji Dhand (Table 2). The overall average
 salinity o f the dhands declined from about 43 ppt to about 17 ppt.

 64.      The first measurementsandobservations of salinity inthe Tidal Link since resumingthe
 monitoring program show little or no change inthe post-cyclone salinity. The principal freshwater
 and moderately brackish inflows to the dhands are the discharge o fthe drains, rainfall and storm
 drainage as overland flow. The period 1999 to 2003 was a continuous periodo f extreme drought in
 the Indus Basin accompanied by shortageso f water inthe irrigationcanal system and little flow in
 the drains. It seems likely therefore that despite the highsalinity inthe Tidal LinkandRann o f
 Kutch, the principle cause ofthe elevated salinity inthe dhands up to 2003 (no measurements are
 available for 2004 and2005) was a significant decrease in freshwater or very low salinity water



 November 12,2007                                              22

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




and higher rainfall.
                                                     Table 3 Observed Salinity (June-August,2007)
4.1.1 Intra-annual changes in salinity.
                                                                      Location                       Salinity

65.      Samplinginthe dhands for salinity                                                               Ppt
                                                     Mehro Dhand                                        3-10
andwater quality was carriedout inlate               Lower Mehro Dhand
June, late July and early August, 2007 by the        And passageto Sanhro Dhand                         4-6.9
marineandfreshwater ecologicalassessment             Sanhro                                            1.4-10
teams for this study as summarized inTable           Tidal Link (includingSerani Drain                 1.2-4.5
3.                                                   Pateji Dhand                                       22.6
                                                     Source: see Tables A.l and 8.3




67.      Evenmore remarkable, the freshwater ecologicalassessmentteam sampledthree stations
inlate June inthenorthernareaofMehro Dhandwhere the FuleliGunnidrain enters the dhand25.
The Team found that within about 1-2 kmo f the shore the salinity ranged from 3 to 10 ppt, but
beyondthis point the salinity was 20 ppt andabove, near and above the upper limit o f salinity
observed by NIO inJanuary. By the last week o f July when the team returnedto the field and the
first week o f August when the NIO marine ecological assessment team had been inthe field, the
salinity o f Sanhro and Mehro dhands had decrease to the levels described above.

68.      This experience suggests a hypothesis concerning how salinity might vary duringthe year
shown schematically inFigure8. The hypothesis is that salinity varies throughout the year ina
cyclical manner dependingon the strength interms o f volume and salinity o f each components o f
the water balance ofthe dhands. The very rapidchange observed inJuly also suggeststhat the
dominant component is rainfall (probably direct on or very near the dhands) -there was prolonged
and intense rainfall inJuly near the Dhands.




24  No sampling by either team was carried out inCholri Dhandbecause o f dangerous currents and poor
     access.
25   The team was driven from the field after sampling these three stations by three days o f incessant rain that
     made the dhands inaccessible.


November 12,2007                                          23

Diagnostic Study of theBadin Dhands




69.      Earlier monitoring data suggestedthat there i s a significant salinity gradient inthe dhands,
with lower salinities inthe upper areas o f Sanhro and Mehro dhands that gradually increases
towards Cholri Dhand. Figure8 and the 2007 sampling data suggest that there i s also a seasonal
shiftthat imposes an overlay onthe gradient between the dhands. Moreover, it appears that this
pattern o f salinity variation i s highlydynamic and varies from year to year dependingon a number
o f exogenous factors such as rainfall and IndusBasin water availabilty that have inherently high
variability.




I                                                 Time



70.      Only a few points are known for 2007 on this hypothetical curve as shown inFigure 8 --
the NIO survey inJanuary, and the two samplings carried out by the study teams. The next NIO
survey would normally take place inDecember 2007 or January 2008, giving a fourth point on the
curve that would be the next dry seasonpeak salinity. Since the conditions for high productivity in
the dhands andthe yield o f the fishery depend on, among other things, the shape o fthis curve, the
timingandduration ofdifferent levels ofsalinity, andthe maximumandminimumlevels of
salinity, a deeper understanding o f these phenomena includingthe water balance would seemto be
essential for future management o f the dhands.

71.      The above discussion does not explain the fall insalinity between December 2003 and
January 2007. Between the surveys o f the dhands carried out inDecember 2002 and December
2003 there was a very heavy montho f rainfall inJuly that causedwidespread flooding inBadin.
The salinity inthe dhands inthe 2003 monsoon seasonmay have declined as depicted inFigure8,
but it didnot apparently cause a decline inthe annual peak salinity (Table 2). Hence, the decline in
peak dry season salinity between December 2003 and January 2007 is most likely to have been
causedby a longer term process inwhich there was a sustained increase infresh or moderately
brackish inflows into the dhands from the drains as water availability inthe IndusBasin irrigation
system increased after the drought.




November 12,2007                                       24

   Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                            Table 4 Water Quality Assessment of the Badin Dhands




I1ITidal Link              3       31.4    6.63        2.7          5.79          2.9       1.06       27.6       -
   Pateji Dhand      II    1     1I 34   II7.04  II   22.6    1I   43.3        I1 26.0   1I 1.21   II   5.2    I10.94 I1
   See Table 8.3, Annex B                                                                                             I

   4.2     Water QualityandPollution

   72.       Water quality samples were taken and analyzed by both the marine and freshwater
   assessment teams as a part o fthe ecological assessment o f the BadinDhands. These data are
   summarized below inTable 4 (see Annexes A & B).

   73.       The most notable water quality characteristic found inthe samples Table 4 is the high
   levels o f nutrients, which are more than sufficient to ensure the productivity o f the dhands interms
   o f the numbers anddiversity of phytoplankton to support a substantial fishery. These highnutrient
   levels have not causedevident eutrophication or excessive growth of algae and other
   phytoplankton, possibly becausethe dhands are so shallow, well mixed and very turbid-light
   penetration measurementswith a Sechi disk duringthe sampling ranged from zero to a few inches.

   74.       Table 5 summarizes the water quality sampling results from the limnologicalz6and
   fisheries2' studies o f the Dhands camed out inJuly to October, 1997, which can be compared in
   part to the results from this study summarized earlier inTable 4. The results are quite similarfor
   those parameters incommon. The range o f concentration o f dissolved oxygen inthe samples
   collectedin Sanhro and Mehro Dhandsby the NIO marine ecological team (Table A.1, Annex A)
   was 4.09-5.78, similar to those reported inthe 1997 study".




   26   Leghari, S.M., Jafii, S.I.H,Mahar, M.A., et al, LimnologicalStudy of Sonharo, Mehro, Pateji and Cholri
        Lakes of District Badin, SindhPakistan,PakistanJournal of Biological Sciences 3(11): 1904-2000.2000
   2'   Jafri, S.I.H., Ali, S.S., Mahar, MA., et al, Fisheries Potential of TidalLink Lakes (District Badin) of
        Sindh Coast (Northern Arabian Sea), PakistanJ. of Zool., vol. 32(4), pp 301-306,2000.
   28   Ifthese 1997studieshadincludedsalinity measurementsinSeptemberandOctober, these datamight
        provide additional points on the hypothetical curve of annual salinity variation shown inFigure 8.


   November 12,2007                                             25

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




75.      Table 6           I
assemblesthe                   Table 5 Water QualityParametersObservedin 1997Study ofthe
available data from                                             Dhands
the 1997 monitoring
program (NIO) and
the limnological
studies (Leghari et al)
for the dry season
(January) andthe
Monsoon season
(July-October)
respectively, and
compares it to the
results o f the 2007
monitoring program
(NIO) and the
sampling inJune,
July and August o f
2007 done under this study. There are o f course many inconsistencies in sampling locations which
make these data only roughly comparable.



recovered, at least interms o f
salinity variation, and perhaps                   Table 6 Comparisonof 1997 and2007

levels, to the conditions that               DrySeason and MonsoonSeason Salinity (ppt)

prevailed in 1997.                                         Sanhro & Mehro           Pateji& Cholri Dhands
                                         Year                  Dhands                  and CholrlWeir

77.      Tables 7 and 8 show the                    Dryhason                     Dryhason        Tcz
results o f the analysis o f the
water quality samples for                 1997          1-11         2.1-5.97       6-20a          8-22.2

various pollution indicators in          2007           8-16         1.4-10.5       16-23          22.6b
Comparisonto Various standards
including WHO drinkingwater           ab:: Rangefor Pateji was 26-50:
                                          One sample in Pateji Dhand only
guidelines, USEPAwater                Source:Table 2; Leghari,et a/,2000; Annexes A & B




78.      Nearly all the freshwater and brackish lakes and water bodies inPakistan are under major
threat from pollution, andsome have already deteriorated to the point that economically and
socially important functions have beenlost or severely degraded. Examples in Sindhinclude
Manchar and DrighLakes. Developingwater quality criteria for freshwater andbrackish lakes and
water bodies inPakistan basedon the use andfunctions o f these water bodies would strengthen
monitoring programs and improve the rationale for stronger enforcement o f current regulation o f
the discharge ofpollutants.




November 12,2007                                           26

DiagnosticStudy of the Badin Dhands




79.      Despite the limitedscope o f the sampling summarized inTables 7 and 8 the analysis
suggests that pollutionmay be an important future concern inthe BadinDhands. Already there is
substantial anecdotal evidence from interviews with fisherfolk (especially near Karo Ghangro
Drain which flows into the north end o f Sanhro Dhand) that pollution is one of their major
concerns. They attribute substantial fishkillsinthe drains and inthe dhandsnear the drain
discharge areato this pollutionas well as numerous healthproblems including skin and gastro-
intestinal diseases. Boththe Karo Ghangro and FuleliGunnidrains are black, septic and fowl
smellingfromthe extreme pollution dischargedbyupstream sugar mills, domestic sewage from the
larger villages and towns, and small scale industries and workshops.




November 12,2007                                      27


r.
0
0
-4


h
0
0
ry


Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




80.    The pollution indicators inTables 7 & 8 highlight several potential issues:

                 Both the biological and organic loads on the dhands from the drains including
                 Serani, Feluli Gunni, Kara Ghangro and KPOD are extremely high. An ambient
                 BOD5 concentration o f 10mg/l in a river or lake would typically cause that water
                 body to be classedas extremelypolluted. The values found inboththe dhands and
                 the drains are an order o fmagnitude greater that that indicator level, and the COD
                 concentration inPateji Dhand i s 100 times that value;

                 BOD andCOD concentrations are commonly a criteria or limit for discharge into
                 water bodies, rather than a criteria or limitfor the water body itself, principally
                 because the natural process o f oxidizingand consuming organic matter reduce
                 these levels inthe water body. What makes this process inducedby highlevels o f
                 BOD or COD loading an important concern i s the highconsumption of oxygen in
                 the water which can severely harm the ecosystem.

                 What is remarkable about the values found inthe dhands i s that while the values of
                 both BOD and COD are very high inthe drains and exceed the Pakistan NEQS,
                 there is very little evidence from the sampling inthe dhands that there is a
                 substantial decline indissolved oxygen inthe dhands resultingfrom the
                 degradation o f this highorganic load. The dissolved oxygen (DO) concentrations
                 inSanhro Dhandreportedby NIO (Annex A, Table A.l) range from 4.09 to 5.78
                 mg/l, well above what one might expect to findwhere BOD and COD loadings are
                 so high. The range o fwater temperatures reportedby NIO for these sampling sites
                 was 31" to 33" C.

                 Nitrate (N03)levels are highand a concern inMehro Dhand, the Tidal Linkand
                 Karo Ghangro drain. While Nitrites (N02) are a more important concern in
                 drinkingwater, nitrites can have serious impact on the fishery by limitingfish
                 growth.

                 As notedearlier the dhands are rich innutrients,particularly phosphorous (as P04)
                 andtotal nitrogen, which support biodiversity, inparticular the growth of
                 phytoplankton that is the base of the food chain for fish and shrimps

                 The analysis of the samples for the presence of pesticide and pesticide residues
                 appears to be inconclusive becauseo f a lack o f sensitivity o f the laboratory
                 methods inview of the very low concentrations at which many pesticides are toxic
                 and harmful.

                 Four potentially toxic metals significantly exceedtypical water quality criteria -
                 cyanide, chromium, lead, and copper. The Pakistan NEQS appear to be basedon
                 the assumption that the receiving water body will have sufficient flow to provide
                 dilution o f these metals to an acceptablelevel. This does not appear to be the case
                 inthe dhands. Unfortunately analysis oftissue samples offish, shrimpsand other
                 organisms was not within the scope of this study. Such analysis shouldbe an
                 urgentpriority for future studies to determine whether the highconcentration of
                 these metals in the water i s beingbio-concentrated into even higher and potentially




November 12,2007                                           30

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                 harmful levels for human consumptionand ecological sustainability inthe tissues
                 o fthe fish andshrimpsbeingtaken from the dhands and marketed commercially

81.      The pollution o f the drains i s rightfully blamed on upstream discharge o f sugar mill wastes.
Over one-half o f the water usedinsugar cane processing2' (about 53%) is discharged as waste
water into nearby drains3'. This effluent i s highinBOD, COD, andtemperature andi s also highly
colored. The waste water i s typically also richinnitrogenous substancesand phosphates. Lead
sub-acetate i s used inanalyzing sugar content. The resultingdrain flow i s black, septic and fowl
smelling. When the Pakistan Rangers controlled the dhands fishery, they stopped the discharge o f
these wastes. This encouraged fish to move upstream in the drains where they were regularly
caught by local fisherfolk. Now that the Rangers control has beenremoved and the fishery is under
the control ofthe fisherfolk through the licensing system, fishcan no longer survive inthe drains
andfishkills are reported bythe fisherfolk where the polluted drains enter the dhands.

82.      However, the sugar millpollutiondoes not explain the highlevels o f toxic metals inthe
drains and the dhands (Table 8). This mustbe coming from various kinds o f small scale industry
and workshops, including tanneries andtextile industriesscattered across Badin Districtwhose
wastewater i s likely discharged directly into the drains or discharged with domestic wastewater.
The highconcentrations oftoxic metals andbiological and possibly pathogenic organisms suggests
that bio-concentration o f these substances inthe food chain within the dhands and within the
commercial species o f fish, shrimp and crabs beingharvested from the dhands may become a
serious economic and possibly public healthproblem. Future water quality monitoring and surveys
o f the dhands should include tissue analysis o f these commercial species and other indicator
species to determine the status and trend o fthis potentially serious threat.

4.3     The DhandEcosystems

4.3.1 Biodiversity and Productivity

83.      The Badin dhands together with the Tidal Link now form a wetland that i s a highly
productive ecosystem. This wetland systemi s estuarine, andit i s the only remaining hctional
estuary in Sindh Province. Datagathered in 1997, and in2007 as a part o f this study, show that
this wetland systemsupports a richbody ofphytoplankton and zooplanktonthat are the primary
producers responsible for energy inthese wetlands and for a broad and complex food web on
which many species o f fish andcrustaceans are totally dependent. Many species o f fish and shrimp
breedandmature inthese wetlands. The highproductivity ofthese wetlands also supports large
numbers ofbirds. The economically important species offish and shrimp are being exploited by
localcommunities and represent important sources o f food as well as a means o f livelihood.

84.      The only previous ecological survey o f the Badin dhandswas carried out from June to
October 1997 (Jafki, 2000 andLeghari, 2000). These studies reportedan abundance of freshwater
macrophytes (17 species inthe freshwater zone o f Sanhro and Mehro dhands) and 114 species o f
algae. These studies also indicatedthat the fish species found inthe dhands were primarily of


29   Akbar, N.M.andKhwaja, M.A.,Study of Effentsfrom SelectedSugar Mills in Pakistan: Potential
     Environmental Health and Economic Consequencesof ExcessivePollution Load, Sustainable
     DevelopmentPolicy Institute (SDPI), June, 2006
30   A sugar millprocessing4000 tonsiday of sugar cane discharges about 1800tonsiday ofwater, or about
     262 cfs ofwastewater (SDPI, 2006).


November 12,2007                                            31

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




marine origin and few (only 5 species) were o f freshwater origin. Duringthat survey the observed
salinity o f the dhands ranged from 5.9 to 22 ppt.

85.       Inthepresent study (2007), whichwas considerably less extensive andcomprehensive, 44
species o f phytoplankton (Annex B, Table B.7) and 14 species o f zooplankton (Table B.8) were
observed inthe Sanhro, Mehro and Pateji dhands and inthe Tidal Link. Twenty species o f fish
(Table B.5) and five species o f crustacieans (Table B.6) were observed including 3 species o f
shrimpandtwo species of crab.

86.       Since the cyclone in 1999 tidal fluctuations are evident throughout the Badin dhands. The
shore o fthe dhands fluctuates daily, and becauseo fthe very gentle slope, large beach areas are
exposed. This change inhabitat has caused significant damage to the extensive macrophytes,
includingtypha (bulrushor cattails) and cyperus (sedges) that were formerly present along the
shore, particularly in Sanhro and Mehro dhands. The speciesphragmites (common reed) i s now
beginningto appearnear where the drains enter the dhands. Longer term and more extensive study
will berequiredto determine what the present trends are and what the implications of this change
inhabitat are.

4.3.2 Implicationsfor theFishery

87.       The Badindhands are rich innutrientswhich support ample biological life. Because o f
their shallow depth(about 2-5 feet), andthe mixing ofwater ofdifferent salinities, they form a
specialized estuarine habitat that is very important for many species o f fish and shrimp. More then
33 species o f fish have beenreportedfrom these lakes o f which 28 species o f fish are o f marine
origin and only five are o f freshwater origin. Out o f these 33 species, 28 are commercially
important. Commonly about 10marine species are commercially harvestedfrom these lakes but
there i s no authentic, long-term data available that shows the quantity o f harvested fish and shrimp.

88.       Despite the smaller numbersobserved in2007, due perhaps to the less extensive sampling,
the results are nevertheless consistent with those in 1997. The 2007 data and field observations
suggest that the biodiversity is now more limitedbut specialized with euryhaline speciesthat are
able to adapt to the highvariability andlevels o f salinity, and is substantial enough at present to
support and sustain a significant subsistencefishery.

89.       This wetland complex is also home to manyhighlyspecialized species particularly those
adapted to the fluctuation o f salinity. For example, mudcrabs are numerous and their size i s also
large incomparison to those are found inthe marine environment. Tilapia (Oreochromis
mossambicus) is commonly a freshwater species but it can tolerate salinity ranging from 3-20 ppt
and appears to be successfully breeding inthese dhands. Some flamingo species (Phoenicopterus
sp) are also adaptedto live inthese saline conditions, where they feed onmicroscopic organisms
sieved with a highlyspecialized curved bill. These species are facing a wide range o f threats:
including climate change, shortage o f freshwater, habitat destruction and pollution.

90.       The shrimp fishery i s the most important commercial activity associatedwith these dhands.
Eightspeciesof shrimpshave beenreportedfrom these dhands and all ofthemare harvested
commercially. Three species o f crab were recordedfrom these lakes but only mudcrab (Scylla
scrratu) i s harvestedcommercially. Many species o f fish use these lakes as nursery ground and
spendoftheir early stage of life inthese wetlands. It appearsthat both inSanhro and Mehro dhands
where canal water, rain and agriculture run-off enters, a zone o f freshwater is created for some time



November 12,2007                                           32

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




and distance, beyondwhich the water o fhigher salinity i s present. This longitudinal salinity
gradient between Sanhro and Mehro dhands and Cholri Dhand3' may play a significant role inthe
breedingandgrowth of commercially important fish andcrustacean species.

91.      More consistent and perhaps expanded monitoring o f the dhands will be required to
determine the relationshipbetween the levels, temporal variation andlongitudinal profile o f salinity
inthe dhands andthe overallproductivity ofthe fishery. Whether the present patterns ofsalinity
actually constrain the fishery or not (i.e., limitthe overall productionto subsistence levels) can only
be determinedover time through such a program. The discussion o fwater quality and pollutionin
the previous section suggests that monitoring ofthe pollutionloads andthe response ofthe dhands
to these loads should become and integral part o fthis monitoring program. The Sindh Fishery
Department does maintain and operate hatcheries inthe Badin area, but there has not beenan effort
to stock the dhands and determine ifthe fishery can be enhancedto higher commercial levels.

4.3.3 Avifauna Habitat and Populations

92.      The avifauna o f the Badindhands is one o f the most impressive concentrations o fwetland
avifauna inSindh. Large numberso fmigrating waterfowl visit these dhands during annual
migrations to and from feeding and breedinggrounds. These flyways are notjust internationalbut
inter-continental. Ineachyear thousands o f waterfowl breeding innorthern Hemispherewinter in
these wetlands. This estuarine wetland complex i s especially important as these wetlands are some
o fthe first water bodies inSindh where these migratory birds arrive.

93.      Birddatawas collectedinJune and July as apart ofthis study (Annex B,Table B.9 &
B.lO). The migratory birdseasondoes notbegininearnestuntilmid-September to mid-October
andlater, but some o fmigratory specieswere observed inthe area. These are mainly birdsthat
were injuredor could not fly due to beingoverweight at the endo f last migratory season. For
example, duringthe June field visit at Mehro dhand, bulky coots were observed. The occurrence o f
certain species o fwaterfowl in summer i s very common. Pelican, shelduck, oyestercatchers and
painted snipes were seen inJune andJuly. Breedingo fblack wing stilt, little terns, whiskered terns
,redwattled lapwings, weaver birds, commonmynahs,bankmynahs,commonbluekingfisher,
piedkingfisher, and white breastedkingfisher was also observed inthe area. Inaddition to
waterfowl species, forest birds o f the surrounding habitat were also observed.

94.      The Sindh Wildlife Department has conducted an annual waterbird census inthe Juboh
lagoon and Nurrilagoon (both are Ramsar sites3*) intermittentlyinthe month o f January since the
early 1980's. The census was conduct inNumLagoonin 1988-1992,2001-2004 andin2005, and
inJuboh Lagoonin 1991,2001-2004 and 2006 (see Annex B, Table B.9). The censusdata are
summarized inFigure 9

31  Duringthe June field survey asalinity gradient was observedina narrowbelt (about 1-2 kmwide) along
    the shore of Mehro Dhand, which is not likely to be o f great significance. By August salinities much
    lower than 10ppt extendedover largeparts of Sanhro andMehroDhand. It is the gradient betweenthis
    extensivearea o fmoderately brackishwater andthe higher salinity water in Cholri and PatejiDhands
    that is ofgreater significance.
32  BothJuboh andNurriLagoonhave beenRamsar Sites since April, 2001. However,the coordinates
    givenfor these sites inthe Ramsar Information Sheets are wrong. NurriLagoon is an extensive
    monsoon season wetlandareato the northof Mehro Dhandlying on both sides ofthe Feluli Guniand
    Mirdrains. At one timeNurriLagoonwas saidto haveone ofthe greatest concentrationsofmigratory
    waterfowl inPakistan.


November 12.2007                                              33

Diagnostic Study ofthe Badin Dhands




                        Figure 9 Censusof Waterfowl in Jubho and Nurri Lagoons



      2o06  n
      2004


      2002


      2000


      1998


      1996


      1994


      1992


      1990


      1988

             0        20,000     40,000    60,000      80,000    100,000    120,000  140,000
                                          No. of BirdsObserved

                                      lmJubho Lagoon 0Nuni Lagoon 1


       (i)       With the exception of 1991, the observed number ofwaterfowl inJubho Lagoon
                 has beenconsistently less than inNurriLagoon

       (ii)      The census data shows an alarming decline inthe number ofbirds inJubho
                 Lagoon, from 21,096 in2001 (half the number observedin 1991) to only 1,480 in
                 2004. There was only a slight recoveryor increase in2006. The number of
                 species observedhas also declinedfrom a range of 23 to 24 in2001-2004, to only
                 five in2006 of which over 80% of the total number ofbirds observed (3,650) were
                 coots (Fulica atva).

       (iii)     The census data for NurriLagoonalso shows a precipitous decline inthe total
                 number ofbirds observedfrom 2001to 2004, but an extraordinaryrecoveryin
                 2006 to over 130,000 birds, exceeding the maximumpreviously observed (94,742
                 in 1989). The number of species observedeach year hasfluctuatedover the period
                 ofrecordbetween 17 and41. The numberobserved in2006 was 24, a little below
                 the average of 31species observedbetween2001 and 2004.




November 12,2007                                         34

Diagnostic Study ofthe Badin Dhands




95.      The Badin dhands are both a staging and wintering area for migratory waterfowl including
important regional migrants such as the flamingo33(mainly Phoenicopterus roseus but also small
numbers o f the Lesser flamingo Phoeniconaias minor). The breeding season o f these birds' starts
after the monsoon season when they shift to their breeding sites inthe Rann o fKutch leaving only
non breeders inthe Badin dhands area. The number o f flamingos observed inboth Jubho andNerri
Lagoons has declinedto about 2-5% of the peak observed inthe 1980s.

96.      Despite the importance of the Badin dhands for both migratory and resident waterfowl, it
has been little studied and there i s no consistent, long term data that would permit one to
understand how different species utilize the wetlands andwhat the significance o f changes in
habitat and changes inthe chemical-biological profile o f the dhands might mean for these species.
Despite the remarkable recovery o fNurriLagoon in2006, the precipitous declines inthe number
o f birds and species since 2001 is likely to be indicative o f important changes inhabitat and
possibly the chemical andbiological profile of the dhands, but the knowledge base does not exist to
determine what these may be, andhence, at present it i s not really possible to develop and
implement a management plan for these wetlands with respect to waterfowl. The recovery inNurri
Lagoonmay be attributable to a return to more normal patterns o f rainfall from the previous years
o f severe drought, but this does not seem to have had the same effect in Jubho Lagoon.

                            5 NEEDS,TRENDSAND OPTIONS

5.1     Economic and Social Development

5.1.1 Villageconsultative workshops

97.      While the results o f the household survey, summarized inChapter 2 provide a convenient
overview o f the people who live and sustain their livelihoods inandnear the dhands, andwho are
most vulnerable to the frequent natural disasters that visit this region, it i s important to bringthe
voices of these people into the present study. Many forcefully said during the various phases o f the
socio-economic assessment component o f this study that no one had ever directly asked their views
before. The consultative workshops are part of a larger methodology to identify the issues and
problems faced by the fishingand agriculture communities whose livingconditions and livelihood
are connected with the LBOD outfall drain (especially the Tidal Link) andthe surrounding four
Dhands Le. Choleri, Pateji, Mehro and Sanhro

98.      Thirteen village based consultative workshops were organized inthe region o f the dhands
as a part o f this study (Annex C, Tables C.l and C.2). At each venue a separate workshop was held
for men and women. Table C.2 o f Annex C identifies the location o f each consultative workshop,




33   Flamingoswere countedinmany thousands inmid~O'S,including40,000 inNurriLagoonin 1989.
     This locallymigrant speciesbreeds inPachhamIslandinthe centre ofthe Ranno f KutchinIndia(an
     area sometimescalled"Flamingo city"). This area contains halfo fthe total worldpopulationof Greater
     Flamingoand the largestsingleassemblageany where inthe speciesrange. These birdsuse the Badin
     dhandsas their resting, roostingandfeeding grounds (these shallow waters are idealfeeding habitatto
     these filter feeders). P. roseus is the predominantspecies, with only smallnumbersofthe Lessor
     flamingo (P.minor) ever havingbeenobserved.


November 12,2007                                              35

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




the numberandnamesofthe villages representedamong the participants, andthe numberof
participant^^^. A total o f about 553 people from 61 villages participated inthe workshops.

99.      The objectives inorganizing the village consultative workshops inconnection with study
were to:

              Briefthe participants about the purpose of conducting o fthe workshop

         0    Understandthe issues and assess the dependency of livelihoodonnaturalresource
              system, especially the dhand wetlands connected to the LBOD (Pateji Dhand) for
              economic survival

         0    Assess the damagesresultingfrom natural calamities and their impact on livelihood
              and resultingcoping mechanism o f the people.

         0    Involvethe local communities inthe process o f issuesidentification and their
              prioritization.
              Documentthe issues and problems inthe light o f group findings
100.     At eachworkshop, the objective, purpose and scopeofthe study was explainedto the
participants and they were given an opportunity to question the study team. The objectives and
organization o f the workshop were explained and the participants were dividedinto two or four
groups (dependingon the overall numbero f parricipants) and each group was asked to debate and
list the key problems and issues intheir area. Eachgroup selectedtheir own leadpersonwho wrote
the outcomes ofthe group discussions on flip charts. Inaddition one facilitator was assignedto
assist each group that didnot have literate personto recordthe outcomes. Whenthe lists were
complete the groups was askedto prioritize the list. The group outcomes were presented ina
plenary sessionand open to discussion by all participants.

5.1.2 Summary of the views of the affected villagers

101.     Summaries o f the outcomes o f each o f the workshops are given inAnnex E. There was
much overlap between the concerns o f the menandwomen's groups, but the women tended to
concentrate most o f their concerns on the expansion of livelihoodopportunities, and a broadrange
o f health and education issues. The concerns o fboth menand women's groups are consolidated
below into six categories o f issues andproblems:

         (i)      Issues relatedto community infrastructure and services. access and transport,
                  safety, and health and education -one could argue from the recordthat these were
                  the core, priority concerns ofthe villagers.

                  0     There i s an almost total lack o f village and community infrastructure including
                        pucca schools, and in some cases no schoolss -the schools that exist lack
                        teachers because o f the access problems, and alternative primary and

34   A complete list o fparticipant names and their village are provided for each consultative workshop inthe
     Final Report o f the socio-economic assessment
35   Though the area lacks a network o f schools, insome places NCHD facilitated schools are functioning.
     There arepacca schools in some villages. InAhmed Rajoo and Bhugra Memon, middle and primary
     schools are functioning whereas inChak No. 84 (Haroon Rajoo) and Golo Mandhro, primary schools are
     functioning. There is also one school supported by Pakistan Rangers at Zero Point.


November 12,2007                                               36

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                      secondary schools are commonly at least 6 to 15 kmaway; the drop out rate
                      from class five and six i s high, andthe literacy rate among girls i s especially
                      low (2-3%);

                 0    health facilities and services -There are few clinics and fewer trained staff,
                      equipment, and medicine^^^; among the health issuescitedwere: none ofthe
                      children under 5 are vaccinated, no female immunization, numerous skin
                      diseases causedinpart bythe polluted drains, water borne diseases especially
                      among children becauseo f the dirty water from water courses or drains, and
                      malaria andTB are prevalent.

                 0    There are no uavedroads, even ones connecting a cluster ofvillages to the
                      main Union Council or District network this at the root o f a great many
                                                                 -
                      problems, including marketingo f fish catch, access for teachers to the villages
                      that do have at least a katcha school, adverse health consequences and great
                      cost when tryingto reach distant health clinics or hospitals that are typically
                       15-35 kmor more from the village (sometimes all the way to Badin), and great
                      difficulty trying escape the consequenceso f frequent natural disasters

                 0    There is no electricity supply anywhere inthe villages inthis regionaround the
                      dhands except villages BhugraMemonand Golo Mandhro
        (ii) Drinkingwatersutmlvwasseenuniformlyasapriorityissue. Infact,throughthe
                 Sindh coastal zone there i s an almost complete absenceo f safe drinkingwater3'.
                 The primary sources ofdrinkingwater are the watercourses (Badin obtains its
                 water supply from the Fuleli Canal which i s polluted), but since this area is at the
                 extreme tail end o f the irrigation systemthere i s often no water inthe watercourses
                 and when there i s it i s polluted andturbid. The alternative source o f drinking
                 water i s the polluted watercourses and drains and the dhands since the groundwater
                 i s too saline to drink. The water purification plants beingprovided by BRDS and
                 other NGOs were seen as a positive development, but the existing ones, commonly
                 targeted towards the larger villages, are too small to serve any but the smallest
                 village

        (iii)    There was animated discussion ofpollution issues inthe drains from two
                 perspectives:


                 0    Itis preventingfish from migrating upthe drains, harminglivestock, damaging
                      the fishery and killing fish inboth the drains and the dhands, and causing
                      rampant weed growth inthe drains




36 There is a Basic HealthUnit (BHU) invillage Ahmed Rajoo coveringapproximately60 villagesof the
   area wherein adispensaryby PakistanRangers was functioning2-3 year back. The infrastructure of
   dispensary is existing.A privatedispensarylocatedinRajaFarmis beingrunbyphilanthropist.A local
   NGO BRDS is facilitating the Dispensarywith Lady HealthWorker (LHW) visiting area once aweek.
   Dueto unavailability o fhospitals andmaternityhome, the mortality rate among women andinfantsis
   high. Moreoverinemergencies the patients are taken to nearby cities payinghugetraveling cost (Rs.
   1500-2000).
37 Villagers at Zero Pointpeople arebuying one gallonofwater @ Rs. lo/- andwater drum (approx. 220
   litres) @ Rs. 800.


November 12,2007                                           37

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                 0    It is causing serioushealthproblems and worsening the drinkingwater supply
                      problem
                      The polluted water has heavily causedto the agricultural lands turningthemin
                      saline on one hand and more importantly destroying the infrastructure
                      includinghomes, roads etc. particularly inmonsoonseason compelling the
                      people to look for refuge.

       (iv)      Both the menand women's groups focused on the needfor greater economic
                 opuortunitv to exuand their livelihoods as well improvements to the fishery and the
                 value added infishing. The participants cited the degradation o fresources,
                 particularly fisheries and agriculture, shortage o f water and pollution as the main
                 causes o funemployment and under-employment. They cited degradation o f the
                 dhands and the damaged Tidal Linkas the main threat to livelihoods. There has
                 been little or no effort to buildsocial capital through the development and training
                 o f community organizations, especially women's self-help groups. The
                 participants notedthat people are not educatedbut they are self-reliant citing the
                 abundance o f fishery and agricultural resources and opportunities before LBOD.

                      Women inparticular focused on the needfor help and support to expand
                      livelihoodouuortunities including emulovment opportunities for themselves
                      and the youth: inthe areao f crafts (embroidery is a common skillmuchin
                      evidence), for example, they expressedthe need for training, materials to
                      upgrade products, assistanceinmarketing and improved market access; they
                      also expressedthe need for assistanceto expand and improve livestock and
                      animal husbandry skills, andfor support to expand rainfed and salt tolerant
                      crop cultivation
                      The mentended to focus on problems with the fisherv and ways to improve
                      both the volume, aualitv and value added:    - Coldstorage (no electricity
                      supply?),improvedmarket access, andjetties to improve and expand access
                      particularly by traders who buy the catch and to increasethe ease and
                      efficiency o fhandlingthe catch were cited. With the improvingroad facility a
                      cold storage could be built at Bhugra Memon (has electricity), Bedami,
                      Kadhan, Serani andBadinto transport the fish and prawninurbanmarket.
                      Some participants said that a number o f fish species have disappeared from the
                      dhands due to sugar millpollution and increased salinity, but anecdotal
                      evidence suggests that the decline in salinity in2007 discussedinSection 4.1
                      had already resulted in increasesinthe size andvolume o fthe valuable shrimp
                      catch.

                 0    Participants, bothmenand women, repeatedly spoke of the lack o f credit and
                      financial resources

       (v)       Issues and views concerning LBOD and the Tidal Link were highlighted but they
                 were by no meansthe predominate issue. These issues reflect the continuing
                 concern that LBOD is at least a part ifnot the primary cause o f severe flooding
                 duringheavy rainand cyclones. Three mainpoints were generally made:




November 12.2007                                          38

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                  0   LBOD shouldbe divertedinto Shakoor Dhand [through DPOD, removing its
                      outflow or discharge from the system] or a protective embankment shouldbe
                      constructed [to prevent intrusion of saline water into the dhands}

                      An embankment or other control structure shouldbebuildnear the China
                      Bridge[RD 85, a few kilometers upstreamo fthe Tidal Linkoutlet to control
                      abnormally high tides, tidal surges and seawater intrusion]

                  0   Backflow inthe drains when there are heavy rains, including Serani drain and
                      LBOD,is causing damage to land, crops, livestock, housing andbelongings          -
                      "rains in2003 playedhavoc becauseof breachesinthe Tidal Link"

                  0   Dueto naturalcalamities and LBODhavoc, the inhabitants findingthe area
                      unsafe migrated to other adjoining districts to have the source o f livelihood.


                  0   Apart from villages around Dhands, there were reportedly other 40-50 villages
                      under the sphere o f20 kminwhich the agricultural lands were affectedby the
                      breaches o f LBOD damages/TL/monsoons (UC-Serani, Kadhan & Raj Malik,
                      Jatti and some other far flung villages o f Bhugra Memon and Ahmad Rajoo
                      UCS).

                  0   Participants reportedthat hunderedso fresidents have migrated due to damages
                      o ftidal link as well as LBOD breaches causedby heavy monssons and
                      cyclones etc. Villageres from boththe UCs (Ahmad Rajo and Bhugra Memon)
                      reportedly migrated to Badin, Thatta and Sanghar.

        (vi)      Safety and security -the adverse impacts and conditions during extreme storms
                  and heavy rains were sited frequently inrelation to many o f the issues noted above.
                  Emergency centers and improved roadaccess were cited as important ways to
                  mitigate some o f these impacts3839.One particularly novel and very practical
                  proposal combinedthe needfor pucca schools and safety -the suggestion was to
                  buildconcrete or block schools elevated offthe ground surface so that the schools
                  and their roofs couldbe usedas refuges during severe storms andheavy rains.
                  Refuges such as this are the most common and inmany cases the most effective
                  measureto reduce loss o f life, belongings and livestock duringextreme storm
                  events in delta regions, particularly where advance warning is not timely and
                  pavedroads are not available to facilitate escape.

5.1.3 District consultations

102.    Two workshops were organized with District and other local officials and representatives
o fNGOs and other civil society organizations including leading citizens. The first was organized
with the assistanceo f the Deputy District Coordination Officer, Badin to familiarize important


38  There is no data on the heightofthe water inthe neighborhoodofthese villages which are located
    northwest,north and northeast ofthe dhands duringthe hightides and stormsurge that occurred as a
    result of the 1999 cyclone nor during the heavy storminJuly 2003. But simulation studiesbasedon new
    topographic data for the regioncould enable estimates ofpotentialflood levels inthis area, andhence,
    howhigh suchbuildingswould haveto beto providethis andpossiblyother dual functions. It is
    doubtfulthat suchbuilding would haveto be morethan about 1-1.5 m above the ground.
39  An effectiveearly warning system, evenwithout improvedroads, couldat least save lives ifnot
    belongings and livestock.


November 12, 2007                                           39

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




district officials with the objectives and scope o f the study and to elicit their support and assistance
incarrying out the study andcollectingdata. This workshop was heldJune20,2007 andwas
attendedby 25 people (a summary o f the outcomes o f this meetingi s given inAnnex F including
the list ofparticipants). The officials were highly supportive, evidenced by their numerous positive
suggestionsand assistanceduring the conduct o fthe study.

103.     The secondDistrict workshop was organized inthe BRDS Committee Room on October 6,
2007. The purpose of this meetingwas to briefofficials on the outcome of the study and to seek
their views on boththe key issues and suggestedsolutions. The workshop was attended by 52
participants, includingthe DistrictNaib Nazim, several Tuluku and Union Council Nazims, key
District official, journalists, representatives o fNGO working inthe region and civil society
representatives. The outcomes o f this workshop are summarized below:

         (i)       Summary of the participants views on the kev issues andproblems

                       The drinkingwater inthe areais unsafe posing danger to life

                   0   Dueto the damageoftidal linkandbreachesinLBODandbackflow of sea
                       water i s causing deterioration in dhandsystemand affecting the surrounding
                       villages and land, crops, livestock and natural species.

                   0   Dueto sugarmills' effluent discharged through Karo Ghunghro drain, Serani
                       drain and other drains, the production o f fish and prawnhave reduced to great
                       extent. Consequently the unemployment infisher folk has raised, compelled
                       themto migrate for the livelihood.

                   0   The Industrial zone of sugarmillshas polluted dhandwater affecting human,
                       (especially infants and women), animal and natural life.
                       Due to cyclones, monsoon and stagnant saline water, the infrastructure o f area
                       has beendamaged. Inthese events, the katcha roadbecome worse resultingin
                       many problems including marketing o f fish catch, earning their livelihood,
                       difficulty inaccess to health clinics, etc.
                       The drinkingwater supply to Badindistrict is from Fuleli canal offiakes from
                       Kotri Barrage, Hyderabad. The canal brings the effluent ofbangle andother
                       industriesfrom this city. This same water i s usedfor domestic purposes in
                       Badin District.

                   0   The basic health facilities particularly mother andchildhealth (MCH) are
                       meager. Thus people are confronting lot of difficulties to reach hospitals in
                       emergency and paying huge cost

         (ii)      Summary o f the particiuants views on the solutions

                   0   Drinking water supply occupied highest place inpriority as givenby
                       stakeholders as well. It was suggestedthat the canal water shouldbe provided
                       throughout year to meet the requirement o f drinkingandirrigationpurpose.

                   0   An alternate solution also came from the participants to install disinfection,
                       filtration and reverse osmosis plants and supply o f water shouldbe ensured
                       from the near by Taluka water supply scheme.




November 12,2007                                            40

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                  0    Measures should be taken to rehabilitate the natural environment for fisher
                       folk.
                       Policy measures shouldbe adopted to stop mixingo f industrial effluent into
                       Fulelicanal at Hyderabad.

                  0    EPA act shouldbe implementedto prevent untreated effluent discharge from
                       sugar mills into the Karo Ghanghro and Serani drains connecting to main tidal
                       linkandLBOD.

                  0    Infrastructuremainly roadshouldbe constructed inthe area for further
                       development.

                  0    LBOD shouldbe divertedinto Shakoor Dhand and protective embankment
                       should be built in order to prevent sea water intrusion into the dhands.

                  0    Proper shelter arrangement shouldbe made for Dhandpeople during monsoon
104.     Whilethe discussion at the workshops focused on awide range ofdevelopment issues in
Badin and the area o f the dhands, including the necessity o f controlling sugar mill wastes to save
the communities from unsafe drinkingwater, there is littledoubt that the participants see the
LBOD outfall system, especially the Tidal Link as a major problem andirritant. The participants
discussedat lengththe problems they view as being causedby LBOD, tidal link and intrusion o f
sea water. Intheir view the LBOD was wrongly designed and the tidal link remains a constant
source o f disturbance for the area. One proposalwas the construction o f a protective embankment
60 feet wide with concrete material to protect the area from abnormal sea tides.

5.2    The DhandEcosystems

5.2.1 TheBadin Dhands appear to be recovering

105.     Taken as a whole, the ecosystem assessment suggests that the BadinDhands are recovering
from the severe impacts o f the 1999 cyclone and the long drought inthe IndusBasin. They are
substantially changed inmany important ways. They are subject to daily tidal fluctuations, the
influx o f high salinity water, and strong drainage outflows during ebb tides inthe Tidal Link. They
are fully exposedto highstorm tides and surges occurring during severe monsoon storms and
cyclones that can bringa large pulse o f sea water. Nevertheless with the resumption o fnormal
rainfall patterns and increased flow inthe drains, salinity has fallen relatively quickly to a favorable
range, and while the biodiversity appearsto be restrictedto an estuarine type that i s adaptedto
these salinity patterns (which would be the normal situation inthe dhands), it also appearsto be
robust and able to support at least a subsistencefishery. While the waterfowl habitat has been
severely damagedthe improvingconditions inthe dhands and a more normal rainfall pattern
appears to have resultedinthe highestrecorded birdcensus ever inthe NurriLagoon.

5.2.2 Therecovery is tenuous

106.     While the recent trendappearsto be very favorable, the accompanying recovery is tenuous
at best. The delicate balanceswithin the dhands are easily tipped inan unfavorable direction as
possibly evidenced by the period o f severe salinity from 2001 to 2004. There are several reasons
for this. First, the total volume o f the dhands i s relatively low, only about 77 Mm3or 62,400 AF




November 12,2007                                             41

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




(or less)40. Hence relatively small changes inthe inflows o f moderately brackish water from the
drains, freshwater from rainfall and stormrunoff, or inflow o f high salinity water from the Tidal
Link,canhave large effects onthe salinity, whichappears to bethe factor controlling the
productivity of the dhands. The evidence from 2004 and 2007 suggeststhat these changes can be
very rapidand prolonged, but that recovery can be equally rapidunder favorable hydrological
conditions despitethe breakdowns inthe Tidal Link.

 107.     Over the longer term, there are two other important threats. Because o f the relatively small
volume o f the dhands, continued pollution o f the drains and its concentration inthe dhands can,
through bio-accumulation, cause serious harmto the commercial fishery. No doubt the strong
drainage that now exists through the Tidal Link has the beneficial effect o f carrying away some o f
the pollutants, but the residual levels o f key pollutants, especially the metals, are already excessive.
The long term effects o f the strong drainage o f Cholri Dhandat low tide and the influxo f sediment
laden water at hightide represent threats whose longterm impact is not possible to discern at this
time. The Tidal Link and the dhands may achieve a new equilibrium, interms o f the physical
characteristics o f the dhands (especially their depthand extent) that i s compatible with sustainable
livelihoods o f the people living around the dhands. But it i s also possible that the dhands will be
gradually filled and drained, eliminating both the fishery andthe waterfowl habitat, by these
processesaided by future monsoon storms and cyclones.

5.2.3 Key issues to be addressed to sustain the ecosystemand itsfunctions

 108.     Sustaining and improvingthe ecosystem hctions o f the Tidal Link-Dhands wetland will
require proactive management o f the processes and factors that most importantly influence those
functions. Inturn, management o f this wetland ecosystem requires a deeper knowledge o f both
those processesand factors andthe underlyingecosystem.

5.3     Monitoring and Research

 109.     Itis noteworthy that there is no ecologicalor socio-economic component inongoing
monitoring program (Chapter 3). It i s focused almost exclusively on the hydraulicfunctions o fthe
Tidal Link(Le., conveying the saline discharge o f LBOD to the Arabian Sea). The secondphase o f
theprogram(1999-2004) was expandedto include salinity ofthe dhands, and for a short time water
levels inthe inflowing drains were monitored once a month. There was no effort to deepenthe
understanding o fthe factors that influence the ecological integrity o f the dhands, their productivity,
nor the people whose livelihoods dependdirectly or indirectly on the economic and environmental
functions and ecological services o f the dhands. The importance o f this is evident from the
discussion inChapter 2 and Section 5.1.



40   The dhands would typically be at their lowestlevel ofthe year near the start of the monsoon season.
     Assume the May level is about 80% of normalor about 62 Mm3. A freshwater inflow ofroughly
     220mm is requiredto restorethe dhands to its normalvolume at the end ofthe monsoonseason(less
     whatever additionalvolume would accumulate from inflows from the Tidal Link,but these o f course
     bringwith them higher salinity). Normal rainfall at Badinaverages only about 150mm. Ifdrain inflows
     are reduced, then only astormsuchas occurred inJuly 2003 (about 125mm fell inthat monthalone)
     couldrestorethe full volume ofthe dhands (an balance additionalsalinity that may inflow from the Tidal
     Link). Itis easy to see how sensitive andvariableis the water balance, andhence the inter-annual
     variationsinsalinity of the dhands, andhowjust a few dry years insuccessioncan leadto a longperiod
     of decline andpossibly slow recovery.


November 12,2007                                             42

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




110.      WAPDA is a national implementing agency concerned with the task o f ensuring the
successful construction and functioning o f the LBOD drainage and outfall system, hence it is not
surprisingthat it shouldfocus the monitoring program on the hydraulic functioning o fthe Tidal
Linkcanal. The lack ofa comprehensive monitoring programwas causedbymanyfactors, buttwo
standout: first, the environmentalmonitoring and management program designedby the LBOD
consultants was not implemented; and second, the lack o f coordination among concerned Sindh
government agencies and WAPDA limited the vision o f what the issues were and hence, what the
monitoring program could and should achieve; i.e., what basic knowledge should it aim to develop,
and what questions should it address. The focus was never on the broader development issues o f
this region as they relate to the dhands and its economically important environmental services, and
more broadly, the coastal zone.


6 STUDY RECOMMENDATIONS

6.1    Overview

111.      The earlier Chapters inthis report outline the current conditions inthe Badin Dhands, and
describe the major factors andprocesses that are most directly influencing the important economic
and social functions o f these dhands. A wide range o f interventions have been suggested by both
the affected people inthe region andDistrict authorities. Most o f these proposals are well
understood andtypical o f interventions being implemented elsewhere inmany areas o f Sindh
today. But the context o f these interventions inthe Sindh coastal zone, andmost particularly inthe
area o f the Badin dhands. i s unique. This i s an area o f highrisk from natural disasters, especially
cyclones and heavy monsoon season storms that cause extensive and damaging floods, inwhich
narrowly conceived, piecemeal interventions appear to have made the risk$even greater.
Moreover, success depends to a significant degree on managing a highly productive and
economically important ecosystem, something with which Sindh has had little experience and even
less success inthe past. This i s so despite the availability o fnecessary scientific and technical
expertise within the Sindh community.

112.      All would agree that a comprehensive strategy is neededrather than isolated piecemeal
interventions. Despite the poor record on coordination among federal, provincial and district level
authorities and agencies inthe past, the coastal zone provides a unique setting inwhich to try to
develop such a comprehensive strategy andto coordinate action among the many governmental and
non-governmental agencies that would be involved inits implementation. The setting and issues
are quite unlike any other in Sindh, and its potential economic importance to Sindh is now being
recognized by the provincial government.

6.2    Social and economic development of the people of the region

113.      The abject and pervasive poverty andlimited livelihoodopportunities of the people living
anddepending on the Badin dhands needs to be addressed. The specific needs identified by the
people (Section 5.1) are neither extravagant nor impractical. But as pointed out above, meeting
these needs may require an innovative strategy and considerable innovation because o f the depth o f
poverty andthe inherent natural risks that exist inthis region. Since the damages and losses cannot
be entirely eliminated, the approach has to take into account fully these risks in designing and
buildingnew infrastructure.




November 12,2007                                            43

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




6.2.1 Linkages to thePPAF Sindh CoastalArea Development (SCAD) Program

114.     The SindhCoastal Areas Development (SCAD) Programhas been established under the
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund( PPAF) with the objective o f rehabilitating the livelihoods of
coastal communities and developing their capacity through integration o f the coastal area
communities with the rest o f the country andeconomy. SCAD includes: (i)       better access to basic
services including health, education and drinkingwater supply and sanitation; (ii)   increasing
incomes through improved crop, fisheries and livestock production, marketing and micro-finance
services; (iii)
              securing access to, and better management o f the coastal areanatural resources; (iv)
forming viable community organizations that are inclusive, well governed and can operate in
partnershipwith public andprivate sector; (v) integrating these areaswith the national space and
economy through developing rural growth centers, integrated development o fphysical
infrastructure including construction o f productive infrastructure, such asjetties and wharfs, and
developingtransport and mobility, through the construction o f inter and intra-village roads and
intermediate modes o f transport through infrastructure grants and micro-credit; (vi) promoting
technological innovations, particularly the use o f solar and wind energy for pumpingo f water and
generation o f electricity; and (vi) reducingphysical vulnerability, through the construction o f flood
protection and sea water containment structures and better coping mechanisms o f communities.

115.     The concept ofthis ongoing, Bank supported program fits very will with the desires and
immediateneeds o f the communities as identified by the 553 people from 71 villages and
settlements who participatedinthe consultative workshops discussed inChapter 5. However, the
initial approach taken by the PPAF's partner organizations, inparticular the NationalRural Support
Program (NRSP) (the largest operating inthe Badin coastal area) has beento focus on community
mobilization, capacity buildingandmicro-finance for micro-enterprise development to expand
livelihood opportunities. The problem i s that the dhandarea communities are too weak to benefit
from such a program. Not only does PPAF have to more strongly focus SCAD on the poorest
dhand area communities but the program strategy needs to be re-thought to reach these poorest o f
the poor.

6.2.2 Developing a new strategy

116.     This new strategy, fully integrated and coordinated with the District and Provincial poverty
andinfrastructure development strategiesandprograms, shouldfocus initially on a grant-based
program (even soft or interest free revolvingcommunity investment funds are beyondthe reach o f
these communities becausethey cannot generate enough income to participate) to address the
community prerequisites that would enable themto take advantageto the current SCAD approach.
This new strategy should focus on two areas:

         (i)     Stabilizing and improving livelihoods -the core o f livelihoods inthese
                 communities i s the fishery supplemented whenever possible by agricultural and
                 informallabor. A major effort is needed, incollaboration with the communities, to
                 manage and upgrade the fishery and relatedinfrastructure and technology. This
                 will require better monitoring and management o f the dhands (it i s not quite clear
                 who's role it i s to manage the dhands, but SIDA would have an important role in
                 sustaining adequateinflow through the drains), improvingaccess to the fishery by
                 helpingthe communities to upgrade their technology and accessto the fishery (e.g.
                 docks and fish landingandprocessing points), experimentation with expanded
                 stocking o f fish andshrimp inthe dhands (including the development o f



November 12,2007                                          44

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                  aquaculture inthe dhands area to produce fish and shrimp larvae to stock the
                  dhands), and pilotingthe use o f solar andlor windpowered fish cooling and storage
                  facilities. There is a risk o f course that the target beneficiaries will be excluded
                  from the benefits o f such an initiative by new migrants and others intent on
                  capturing the benefits. Hence, at the outset new approachesto managing the
                  dhands and the fishery have to be developed incollaboration with the communities
                  to ensure that this does not happen.

         (ii)     Safetv and Securitv and related infrastructure needs -Inthe absence o f improved
                  safety and security from natural risks, there is little incentive for the people inthe
                  dhands areato invest their time and meager resources inimproving their
                  livelihoods or their community infrastructure. Improvedandhardened refuge
                  (where lives andpossessions including livestock can be secured from loss and
                  damage) coupledwith improved all-weather access roads and strengthened early
                  warning systems could greatly improve bothrefuge andescape when natural
                  disasters such as cyclones and severe storms threaten. As suggestedby the
                  villagers themselves, such refuges can be integrated with improved education and
                  health facilities to provide more broad basedcommunity development.

117.     Concentrating on these core needs might provide the necessaryplatform for the dhand
communities to beginto participate more fully inthe PPAF program and to beginintegrating their
livelihoods into the Badin and Sindh economies. However, this innot likely to happen unless
representatives o fthe dhands communities, the UC, Taluka and District authorities, the Provincial
authorities (including, for example, CDA, SIDA and other key agencies), andthe key partner
organizations such as PPAF, NRSP and other NGOsare able to sit together to agree on a strategy,
priorities, a concrete action plan, and financing from multiple sources to ensure that the action plan
goes forward.

6.3     Macro issuesthat need to be addressed

118.     While many o f the proposed interventions require mainly local actions within the area with
support from range o f agencies, the root causes o f the problems are often elsewhere beyond the
direct influence o f local authorities or villagers. The 2005 WB assessment o f the Sindh coastal
zone4', identifiedseveral macro issues that needto be addressedto ensure interventions inthe
Sindhcoastal zone are bothmeaningful and sustainable. Among those most relevantto the
outcome o f this study are:

         (i)      Recognize the uniqueness of the region -a road, a school or other social and
                  economic infrastructure cannot be built andmaintainedinthe same way that it is
                  done inthe relatively safe andhazard free areas o fnorthern Badinwhere the base
                  of community livelihoods is stronger and more secure. As we have suggestedthe
                  needfor a new and differentstrategy needs to berecoginizedand steps take to
                  develop andimplement it.

         (ii)     Freshwater inflows -adequate andreliable inflow o f fresh and mildly brackish
                  water into Badin District and to its coastal zone i s perhaps the most critical factor


41  World Bank,Socio-economic Study andProposalfor Livelihood Improvements: Badin and Thatta
    Districts, Sindh, Pakistan, April, 2005


November 12,2007                                              45

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                  influencing the people o f this region. Access to safe drinkingwater inBadin and
                  the coastal zone dependsentirelyonthe flow ofwater inthe canals anddrains, as
                  does the stability and productivity o f the dhand ecosystem. The long standing
                  dispute among Pakistan's provinces concerning the amount o fIndusRiver water to
                  be allocated to uses below the Kotri Barrage needurgently to be settled, and a
                  significant portion o f this flow needs to be allocated to Badin for drinkingwater
                  and environmentalmanagement. The infrastructure i s inplace to convey this
                  water to the coastal communities and the dhands.

         (iii)    Controllinguollution - as notedearlier BadinDistrict i s not only located at the tail
                  endof the entire IndusBasinirrigation system, butthe direction o fnatural drainage
                  (and hence most water conveyance infrastructure such as canals and drains) in
                  lower Sindh i s generally southeastward towards Badin and the coastal zone. It is
                  not surprisingthen that uncontrolled discharges o f pollution are concentrating in
                  Badin and inparticular inthe dhands, and as has beennoted above this is a
                  loomingthreat to public health and the economic h c t i o n s o fthe dhands. It's o f
                  little value to blame the upper riparian provinces for this situation. The control o f
                  pollution within Sindh, not only from sugar millsbut other industrial sources,
                  would have an enormously beneficial impact on drinkingwater and on the
                  economically valuable coastal zone ecosystems.

6.4     Creating the knowledge base for managing the Badin coastalzone

119.     The paucity o freal data and facts concerning the situationon the ground inthe Badin
coastal zone, and the complex causes o f degradation (and the extent to which this i s occuring or has
occurred) and the relatedrisks, has ledto widely divergent views on what can and shouldbe done
that are often at variance with what little is actually known. The consequenceo f this i s that very
little gets done becauseit i s so difficult to reach a consensuswith confidence that the actions
adopted will lead to real improvements. Inthis void each agency, governmental and non-
governmental, acts inthe context o f its own mandate and narrow objectives and on its own
understandingofthe facts. No comprehensive strategy that addresses and accounts for the
complexities o f the system and ensures that the combination o f actions by different agencies i s
sustainable is possible inthis setting. One essentialrequirement for such a comprehensive strategy
would be agreement on what the overall objectives shouldbe and the creation o f an institutional
framework that together would guide the formulation o f actions by any agency. One would hope
that the newly created SindhCoastal Development Authority (CDA) could fulfill this critical
function.

120.     The ongoing Tidal Linkmonitoring program provides critically needed data and
information, but these are only a part o f what i s needed. The ongoing monitoringprogram does not
provide data and information to understandthe physical interaction o f the dhands and the Tidal
Link,the dhandecosystems, or thedrainagepatterns inthe Badincoastal zone. Noanalyticaltools
have beendeveloped to analyze the response of the system to heavy monsoonrainfall, cyclones,
storm surges and abnormally high tides. This i s crucial to not only understanding the extent and
causes o fthe problems, but to formulating and investing wisely insustainable actions to mitigate
and alleviate boththe damages and the risks. Some o fthe things that are neededurgently include:




November 12,2007                                            46

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




                 The detailed topography ofboththe dhands (the lake bottom) and the surrounding
                 coastal andagricultural lands -because o f the extremely flat terrain, the contour
                 interval needsto be on the order o f 30 to 50 cm;

                 Flow measurement and more frequent monitoring o f inflows to the dhands from
                 the drains and the Tidal Link as well as outflows to the Tidal Link- and
                 monitoring o frainfall inthe immediate area o f the dhands. Quantitative
                 knowledge o f these flows to the dhands, and measurement o f flows and rainfall, i s
                 essential for estimating and eventually managingthe water balance o f the dhands

                 Expandthe present hydro-meterological monitoring capability to make estimates
                 o f evaporation

                 Buildingonthe experience ofthe 1997and2007 ecologicalassessments ofthe
                 dhands, design a longterm program o f limnologicaland ecological monitoringto
                 provide the data neededto understand and manage the dhand ecosystem, the
                 fishery includingits productivity and waterfowl responsesto habitat changes.

                 As apart ofthe continuing program of ecological monitoring and assessment,
                 monitor the physical, chemical, including pollution, and biological quality o f the
                 water inthe dhands and inthe inflowing drains including the Tidal Link.

6.5     Creatinga comprehensiveflood andhazardrisk managementplan

121.     Southern BadinDistrictand the dhands area need a comprehensive planto manage storm
runoff and floods and the risks associatedwith natural disasters such as storm surge and heavy
rainfall. As one can see from the workshops and discussions heldwith local authorities and local
people, much ifnot all the blame for these risks i s placed on the LBOD outfall system. The LBOD
outfall systemmay indeedbe a part o f the problem, but so too i s the destruction o f coastal
defenses, the absence o f an effective drainage network, the lack o f infrastructure to enable escape
and evacuation, andthe lack of an effective early warning system. Hence the problems andthe
complex web o f causes that have resulted insuch widespread loss o f life and property are much
larger inscopethanthe buildingof a barrier inthe Tidal Link or increased diversion o f KPOD
flows towards Shakoor Dhand.

122.     What is needit a systematic and comprehensive planning study o f drainage, flooding and
other natural risks based on the upgraded and modernizedknowledge base discussed above. The
preparation o f such a planwas earlier agreedwith local stakeholders duringpreparation o f the
national Drainage Master Plan (DMP) under which the Kotri drainage sub-basin was taken as one
o fthe detailedcase studies. This approach was also recommended by the World Bank's 2005
Panel o f Experts (POE) assessment o f the situationinthe LBOD outfall system inwhich a number
o f options for addressing some o fthe problems in the region including the Tidal Link and the
dhands were discussed.

123.     The plan shouldaddress issues relatedto surface and sub-surface drainage, waterlogging
and salinity control and flood riskmanagement, and should include appropriate structural and non-
structural options (e.g., flood warning andcommunications, flood proofing (including refuge and
excape) and improvedpreparedness and response systems). Most importantly the planning should
be done with the full participation and consultation with not only the people o fthe agriculturakarea



November 12.2007                                          47

Diagnostic Study of the Badin Dhands




andlocal authorities, but also the people living inthe coastal zone, especially near the dhandswho
are directly affected. This means that the planningand the plan shouldnot be confined to the
physical system, but should include the ecological dimensions andthe socio-economic
development needs and issues o f the region as well.




November 12,2007                                        48


                            Annex 4
        Foodand Agriculture Organizationof UnitedNations




                    UP-DATED REPORT

                              ON

                      ASSESSMENT OF

BADIN AND MIRPURKHAS DISTRICTS FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLAN


                         PreparedBy:

                MuhammadEhsan, Consultant




                      November 19,2007




                       IslamabadOffice

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AWB      Area Water Board
CCB      Community Contract Basis
DCO      District Coordination Officer
ED0      Executive District Officer
F A 0    Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP      Gross domestic Product
GOP      Government of Pakistan
GOS      Government of Sindh
HANDS    Health andNutritionDevelopment Society
HESCO    Hyderabad Electric Supply Company
ICZM     Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IUCN     InternationalUnion for Conservation ofNature andNatural Resources
LBOD     Left Bank Outfall Drain
M A F    Million Acre Feet
NGOs     Non Governmental Organizations
NIO      National Institute of Oceanography
NRSP     National Rural Support Program
OFWM     On FarmWater Management
PEPA     Pakistan Environment Protection Agency
PFF      Pakistan FisherFolk Forum
PMU      Project Management Unit
RBOD     Right Bank Outfall Drain
SCAD     Sindh Coastal Area Development
SCDRP    SindhCoastal RehabilitationProject
SRSP     SindhRural Support Program
SUPARCO  Space andUpper Atmospheric ResearchOrganization
TMA      TehsilMunicipal Administration
WAPDA    Water and Power Development Authority
WSIP     Water Sector Improvement Project

                                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


 A   BACKGROUND             ................................................................................................................         1
 B   INTRODUCTION              .............................................................................................................         3
 C...FLOODEVENTS              ..............................................................................................................         4
        Review of 2003 -Floodand affectedPopulation..........................................................                                        4
        Review of 2006 -Floodand affectedPopulation                                   ..........................................................
        Review of FloodEventsin2007 ...................................................................................                              5
                                                                                                                                                     7
 D . RESPONSETO 2003-FLOOD EVENT                                     ..........................................................................      7
        General...........................................................................................................................           7
        By GoPakistan............................................................................................................... 7
                                                                                                                                                     7
        By International Community .........................................................................................
        Responseby GoSindh inrespect of2003 Event............................................................
                                                                                                                                                     8
        ByNGOs .......................................................................................................................               8
        By UNandits Allied Agencies .....................................................................................                            9
 E                                                                   ..........................................................................      9
 F RESPONSETO 2007-FLOOD EVENT                                                                                                                       9
 G...RESPONSETO 2006-FLOOD EVENT                                     ..........................................................................
     FLOODMANAGEMENT PLANS                                    .................................................................................      9
        Genera1.............................................................................................................................
            ...............................................................................................................................          9
       BadinDistrict ContingencyPlanto combat Cyclones & Floods                                                .................................    10
       MirpurKhas District ContingencyPlanto combatCyclones& Floods......................                                                           11
 H ASSESSMENT OFFLOODMANAGEMENTPLANOFBADINDISTRICT
   .                                                                                                                                          .......11
 I RECOMMENDATIONS
  J
  ..                                       ................................................................................................         13
     CONTINGENCY PLANS TO COMBAT CYCLONES& FLOODS-BADINAND
     MIRPURKHAS DISTRICTS                          .........................................................................................        15


Appendix 1: List of Documents Consulted

Appendix 2: PersonsMet duringJune 2007 Mission

Appendix 3: PersonsMet duringNovember 2007 Mission

Appendix 4: ContingencyPlanto Combat Cyclones & Floods for BadinDistrict

Appendix 5: Contingency Planto Combat Cyclones & Floods for Mirpurkhas
            District


                                                  1


                               UP-DATED ASSESSMENT OF
    BADIN AND MIRPURKHAS DISTRICTS FLOOD MANAGEMENT PLANS


           A.BACKGROUND

1. Messrs Khadim Talpur, Mohammad Ali Shah, Mustafar Talpur, Munawar Hassan Memon,
Iqbal Hyder, Mir Mohammad Buledi, and Najma Junejo on their own behalf and on behalf o f
"others who live in the area known as District Badin, Sindh Pakistan" in the Indus River Basin
submitted a Request for Inspectionto the Inspection Panel of WAPDA on September 10, 2004.
The Requestraised issues most o f which related to the prior LBOD Stage 1Project, which closed
in 1997. The location and component of the LBOD Project is shown in Fig.1. The Requesters
claimed that the LBOD systemwas faulty and they had incurred lossesbecause o f its poor design.
The Requesters claimed that the Bank had failed to observe or had otherwise violated various
provisions o f its own operational Policies and Procedures. They also voiced concerns that the
NDP project would extend the system to serve the entire IndusBasin, adding more effluents from
the upper basin, through aNational Surface Drainage System(NSDS).

2. Although the NDP project as originally conceived in the 1997 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)
was to have laid the groundwork for the NSDS, the concept was subsequentlyrejected as a result
o f extensive studies and reviews. Thus NDP did not extend the LBOD Spinal Drain constructed
under LBOD Stage 1 Project that was closed in 1997. Responding to the claims in the Request
about LBOD, the Management authorizedan investigationthrough a Panel o f Experts.

3.  The Inspection Panel conducted the required investigations. The Panel met with the
Requesters, local authorities and stakeholders including fisher folk, and discussed with
Government o f Sindh (GOS) authorities actions which could be undertaken in the short and
mediumterm to address flood vulnerability and socio-economic and livelihood issues of people
living inclose proximity to LBOD and inthe coastal zone of southern Sindh. The Panel issued its
report outlining the findings o f the investigation. The Management issued its Response in July
2006.

4. One o f the five activities contained in a Short Term Action Plan approved by the Board o f
Executive Directors of the Bank inthe light o f Panel's recommendations is: "Rapid assessment o f
existing local government flood risk management systems to reduce flood damage and
vulnerability by building capacity andimproving flood riskresponse."

                      2




Fig.1- Location and Components of LBODSystem

                                                  3



            B.INTRODUCTION

5.   For carrying out activity "Rapid assessment o f existing local government flood risk
management systems to reduce flood damage and vulnerability by building capacity and
improving flood risk response" services o f a consultant' were retained.

6.    Starting work on April 09, 2007, the consultant studied various reports related to flood
events o f 2003 and 2006 and the damaged causedby them, previously prepared'. The consultant
undertook a mission to site from April 15, 2007 to April 21, 2005. H e visited Karachi,
Hyderabad, Mirpurkhas, Badin, Mirpurkhas Main Drain, LBOD, KPOD and starting point o f
Tidal Linkto learn about the project area andsee repair works accomplished andor on-going, and
to discuss the issues with government officials, technical staff o f the concerned agencies and
Institutes, local government officials, and NGOs3.Government and non-government officials and
technical experts were extremely generous with their time and provided data and background
information and reports to the consultant. The World Bank Islamabad Office, the office o f PC o f
NDP Sindh, the staff and management o f the SindhIrrigationand Drainage Authority (SIDA),the
Chief Engineer and Staff of WAPDA's HyderabadOffice, the Director (Left Bank Canals AWB)
andthe Director (Nara Canal AWB) provided substantive support to the Consultant.

7. Based on the findings o fthe mission, review o f the previous reports and discussions heldwith
the staff and management o f the Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority (SIDA), the Chief
Engineer and Staff of WAPDA's Hyderabad Office, the Director (Left Bank Canals AWB) and
the Director (Nara Canal AWB), DCO Badin, DCO Mirpurkhas, Nazim Badin, Staff and DG of
NIO and representatives o f NGOs, the Consultant prepared the report entitled Assessment o f
                                                                                     'I
Badin and Mirpurkhas Districts Flood Management Plans           It,and submitted it on June 14, 2007.
This report among other things contained a detailed Flood Mangement Plan entitled
"Recommended Contingency Plan to Combat Cyclones & Floods - Badin District'' as Appendix
3, which was based on similar document prepared by the DCO badin but contained some gaps.
Since no such document had been prepared by Mirpukhas district official it was not possible to
prepare a Contingency Plan to Combat Cyclones & Floods for Mirpurkhas District.

8. The services o f the Consultant4 have been again retained to up-date the assessment report
prepared in June 2007, with a particular focus on preparing a Contingency Plan to Combat
Cyclones & Floods for Mirpurkhas District and improving the already preared FMP of Badin
Districts, as desired by the responsible local government o f Badin District and NGOs. The
Consultant undertook a mission to site from November 06, 2007 to November 11, 2007. He
visitedBadin and Mirpurkhas, Badin and met officials and representatives of NGOs to discuss if
they desired any improvement in the "Recommended Contingency Plan to Combat Cyclones &
Floods - Badin District", and get information to prepare a Contingency Plan to Combat Cyclones
& Floods for MirpurkhasDistrict.

9. This report i s updated version o f the report prepared in June 2007 and now contains the
Contingency Plan to Combat Cyclones & Floods for Mirpurkhas District (Appendix 4) beside
some revision inpreviously prepared FMP for Badin District" now entitledI' Contingency Plan to
Combat Cyclones & Floods -BadinDistrict"(Appendix 3).

'Mr.MuhammadEhsan
 List of documents consultedinpreparingthisreportis given inAppendix 1
 A list o forganizationsandofficials metby the consultantis given inAppendix 2.
 Mr.MuhammadEhsan

                                                   4


           C.FLOOD EVENTS

Review of 2003 -Flood and affected Population

10. During the month of July 2003, Nawabshah, Mirpurkhas and Badin districts receivedheavy
rainfalls': Nawabshah (304 mm), Mirpurkhas (192 mm) and Badin (292 mm). The run-off
producedby the rains inNawabshah and Mirpurkhas districts, which includes the catchment area
of LBOD System, enters the surface drains of LBOD System and goes to sea through LBOD
Outfall system. Review of the designof LBOD Outfall system indicates that it has been designed
to cater for a drainage rate of 1.5 cfs / sq. mile which is equivalent to surface drainage rate of 42
mm (1.67 inches) ina month. Rainfallreceivedin25 days of July 2003 was on the average 295
mm,which was 7times the discharge capacity ofLBOD.

11. Consideringthe envisaged run-off factor of 20%, LBOD system received0.286 MAF of the
total quantity of 1.43 MAF produced by the catchment area of LBOD due to rains. In order to
drain out rain water, 2,050 drain inlets, with a capacity 1.8 cfs each, have been provided in the
drains. The design discharge of LBOD Outfall system is thus 4,000 cusecs (7,934 AF/day) but it
can accommodate up to 6,000 cusecs (11,900 AF/day) utilizing the freeboard. At this rate it
would have taken ordinarily 24 days to evacuate this volume of water. In addition, Badin
catchments area of 3.3 million acres receivedabout 300 mmrainfall which also entered inLBOD
System.

12. For expediting evacuation of rain water from their fields the population of Nawab Shah,
Sanghar and Mirpurkhas made cuts in the drains of LBOD system that M e r increasedthe flow
in Outfall Drain. This caused overflowing in the LBOD. The situation further aggravateddue to
flows from canal escapes and breaches that entered LBOD. It is pertinent to note that I&P
Department did not close the inflows to irrigation canals despite the rainfall that worsened the
flow condition inLBOD system which had to carry many times more discharge than the capacity
of drains. High tide in sea and high level in Shakoor Dhand obstructedthe flow, and area in the
vicinity of Badin district suffered badly. It was observed on July 25, 2003 that a discharge of
about 9000 cusecs passed through Spinal Drain in the proximity of RD 159+000. There were
severalbreachesinthe systemparticularly inKPOD. The area flooded is showninFig.1.

13. According to the information provided by the local government of Badin, the monsoon2003
floods affected 390,469 persons in 1,407 villages of Badin district alone. The death toll was 88
persons and 321 injured. The 11,699 houses were destroyedwhile 21,063 houses were partially
damaged. 9,110 heads of cattle were lost and 229,931 acres of cropped land was affected. In
response, the authorities established 100 relief camps inthe affected areas for reliefoperationand
23,650 persons were provided food and shelter for more than a month. Table 1gives the names
andpopulationbadly affectedby 2003 floods.




 Metreological Records of rainfall

                                               5




                     Table 1:Villages andPopulationBadlyAffected by 2003 Floods




             Khamoon Mallah-I1
             ShadmanLund
                                          225
    5    I   Haji Hajjam                  200
    6    I   HanifMallah                  275
    7        Gaji Mallah                   150
                                                        J    i
    8        Yousuf Mallah                 175
    9        Ramzan Sheedi                 51
    10       Jumoon Mallah                204
    l1       Faqir     Mohammed
             Mallah                        118
    12       IbrahimMallah                 107
    l3       Master    Allah  Bux          85
             Mallah                                        44       Natho Bajeer
    14
1            Haii AhmedMallah              93           I 4 5     I RamzanChandio        I
                                                        I         I                      I      84    I

    l5 Talpur
          I  Gul       Mohammed           357              46       KhamisoDhandhal            48
                                                                                                       ~




    16   I   Ramzan Khaskheli             230              47       Ahmed Notiar               120
                                                           48       Natho Jamali               42
                                  I     - z
    18       BahadurKhanLund       1      300              49       Allah Dino Notiar          36
    19       Pir Bux Mandhro               104             50       Pinyo Mallah               90
1   20    1IIYousufBhatti                  138             51       Sahbdino Jat               180
             Mohammed       Hassan                      1         I LakhadinoNotiar      1            I
    21   I   Mandhro                       96              52                                  60

    22   I   Juri0 Mallah                  180             53       BeerMallah                 90
    23   I   HajiRaboo                     50              54       KhanDal                    48
                                                           55       Haji Sujawal Jat           60
                                                           56     I Behdmi                     840
                                                           57     I Allah Rakhio Jat           150

                                                           59       MuradMalir                1,406
                                                           60     11Pate1Qasim Dal             900




Review of 2006 -Flood and affected Population

 14. Similar to the event of unusual rains generated flood during the month o f July 2003, there
was a flood event again in the LBOD project area in April 2006. There were intensive rains the
particulars o fwhich are given inTable 2.

                                                  6




                  Sr. No.           Taluka                            Rainfall (mm)
                      1.            Badin                                  298
                     2.             Matli                                  231
                      3.            Talhar                                 205
                I    4.     I       S.F. Rahu                       I       110          I
                      5.            Tando Bag0                              144
                      6.            dirpurkhas
                                    x                                       272
                      7.            vigri                                   J V L
                I                                                   I
                      8.    1       Jhudo                           I       150          I
                      9.            Kot Ghulam Muhammad                     207
                     10.            Sindhri                                 281
                     11.            H.B.Mari                                273

15. Besides sheet flows caused by the intensive rains, again the population made cuts in the
drains of LBOD system for expediting evacuation of rain water from their fields that increased
the flow inOutfall Drain. This causednot only the overflowing andbreaches inthe LBOD but the
breaches and overtoppingalso occurred in other main drains, branch drains and sub-drains of the
LBOD System. Another significant phenomenon that occurredwas headingup ofwater upstream
of pipe culverts which have been designed to carry much less discharge than occurs due to heavy
rains and cuts made by farmers. This causedbreachesinthe banks upstream, notable ofthese was
at RD 350 culvert bridge across MMD, which caused breach in the left bank of MMD that
threatened Mirpurkhas city. In order to safely pass the flow in the reach RD 245 to RD 500 of
SpinalDrainofLBOD System earthen and gunny bag dowels were constructedinemergency.

16. Breachoccurred in LBOD Spinal Drainat RD-435 NIP that affectedvillages; (i)        Haji Khalid
Bhurgri; (ii) Qasim Bhurgri; (iii) Younis Talpur. Local people made cuts in the
               Haji                        Nawab
embankment of MMDto obtain relief from flooding, which subsequently convertedinto breaches
at RD-117 IP, RD-151 NIP, RD-152.5 IP, RD-189 IP, RD-202 IP, RD-216 IP & RD-219 NIP
affecting the villages Ran0 Ramdhan. Overtopping in MMD at RD-201 to 208, RD-213 to 217,
RD-231to 236 affectedthe villages; (i)    Chounrow Bhurgri; (ii) sheer Gorchani; (iii)
                                                                 Gul                        Minvah
Gorchani; (iv); Khalid Leghari; (v) Syed Ali Nawaz Shah; and (vi) Muhammad KhanBanglani.
Breach in Mirpurkhas MainDrain MMD at RD-354 caused flooding inthe entire area of Taluka
Hussain Bux Marri. The District Administration of Mirpurkhas sought the help of Pak Army
teams and IPD staff to take remedialmeasuresfor repairing washed away embankment of MMD
between RD-350 to RD-357 in order to save Mirpurkhas city. The breaches at RD-62 & 63 of
Sanghar Main Drain (SMD) affected the village Khuda Bux Rajar and areas surrounding areas
Sanghar Sugar Mill. Upward action of Dhoro Puran Outfall Drain seriously affected Aliani
village andRoshanAbad near Jhudo.

17. It is pertinent to notethat the event of 2006-Flooding did not impact Badin district as severely
as it happened during 2003-flooding. This is due to diligent work carried out by Army in filling
breaches immediately after the occurrence of 2003-flooding, and later inrestorationwork camed
out by AWBLBC that is still inprogress.

                                                  7


 Review of FloodEventsin2007

18. During2007, the cyclone Yemyin 03B threatened to hit the southern coastal areas of Sindh
but it diverted and hit the coastal areas o f Balochistanon June 23, 2007, causing severe damages
in Balochistan and areas in the proximity of Karachi. There were heavy rains in Badin District
andadjoining areas but due to the preparedness andrapidresponseo fthe GoS, no major damages
occurred in Badin. The LBOD system capably handled the water flows inthe area. N o breach in
any o f the drain inLBOD systemhas been reported. N o emergent work was requiredto be camed
out.

19. The representatives of NGOs confirmed that there was no noticeable flooding or cyclone
event during 2007. Except for the following three communities, no populationeither was asked or
moved, who moved on their own for seeking shelter, and returned to their homes just after one
day:

     (i)     a small population from nearby villages inproximity o f Kaden town shiftedto Kaden
             Camp;
     (ii)    a small population from nearby villages shifted to Seerani town; and
     (iii)   the residents ofBaihdimi village shiftedto Golarchi.

            D.RESPONSETO 2003-FLOODEVENT

General

20. Immediately after the flooding occurred in July 2003, the Federal Government as well as
Provincial Governments launched a massive relief operation. International community also
provided help in that the Governments o f Switzerland (through SDC), Japan and Greece donated
cash and relief items to the Government o f Pakistan for flood affectees. Several indigenous and
international NGOs participated in relief operations during and immediately after the flooding
event of 2003.

By GoPakistan

21. The President andthe Prime Minister separately visited the affected areas after the occurrence
o f the flooding in 2003. The Government o f Pakistan provided grant o f PKR 100 million for
undertaking rehabilitation in the flood affected areas. The Government o f Punjab provided grant
o f PKR 50 million for the Sindh province for undertaking rehabilitation in the flood affected
areas.

22. National Rural Support Programme (NRSP) provided relief assistance to the affected people
belonging to its Community Organizations. It has also provided food rations to 514 households
and cooked food in relief camps in Golarchi Taluka to 2,175 persons and medical assistance to
affected population.

Responseby GoSindhinrespect of 2003 Event

23. In view o f the devastating damages caused by the flooding in 2003, the Sindh Government
declared emergency and established a fund for relief operation contributing 50 million Rs from
resources o f Sindh Government. A Provincial Relief Committee was constituted to review the
losses caused by the heavy rain and floods in the province, especially the damages to life and
property in the districts o f Badin, Thatta and Tharparkar. The Provincial Relief Committee and

                                                   8


District Coordination offices were made responsible for the relief operations; affected families
were provided tents, blankets and various food items, such as flour, pulses, cooking oil, sugar,
tea, milk powder, etc. GoSingh arranged evacuation o f marooned people by employing various
government agencies including the Pakistan Army. The flood-affected victims were provided
shelter at relief camps set up at the premises o fvarious schools and other government buildings.

24. Nara Canal AWB and Left Bank Canal AWB provided technical assistance and support to
various agencies involved in relief operation. They carried out emergency restoration works for
the danaged irrigation and drainage networks in order to clear the floodwater and assured the
availability o f canal water inthe area. Usingmachinery and equipment available inLower Sindh
Mechanical Division major breaches in irrigation and drainage networks were pluggedin order to
safeguard the people and valuable property including standing crops, buildings, roads network
and others infrastructure.

25. Later on, a detailed assessment o f losses and structural damage to LBOD and irrigation
networks was prepared in order to restore the damaged infrastructure. Several schemes were
prepared and implementedto restore the damagedinfrastructure.

26. It was decided by GoSindh that the families o f the victims (dead), who were bread-earners,
would be givenRs. 100,000 eachwhile other families would be given Rs. 50,000.

By InternationalCommunity

27. The Government o f Switzerland, through SDC, provided US$ 36,700 for rehabilitation work
inDaduand Tharparkar districts. The Government of Japan donated cash grant ofUS$ 10,000 to
the Government ofPakistan, which was inaddition to the relief items worth US$ 160,000 handed
over to the Sindh Government. The Government o f Greece donated relief items worth US$
57,000 to the Government o f Pakistan for flood affectees.

 By NGOs

28. In order to meet the immediate needs o f the flood-affected population o f Badin, Thatta and
Dadu districts, the International NGO Forum comprising o f Islamic Relief, SCF-UK and
OXFAM-GB, Action Aid, Catholic Relief Service, Concern Pakistan and Church World Service
jointly contributing funds to provide food and non-food packages inthe relief camps and affected
people in villages. These packages consisted o f essential food items, water purifiers with
containers, hygiene kits and cooking utensils. SCF-UK provided food to Tharparkar through
Thardeep Rural Development Programme (TRDP) and to Badin through Strengthening
Participatory Organization (SPO). Concern Pakistan distributed tents worth EUR 40,000 (US$
45,610) in Badin through the Church World Service. Focus Humanitarian Assistance provided
food assistance to five hundred families for seven days as well as mosquito coils and water
purification tablets to these families for ten days.

29. The Pakistan Red Crescent Society (PRCS) provided blankets and medical camps usingUS$
50,000 contributed by ICRC. PRCS had allocated US$ 50,000 from its own resources for relief
work in Sindh and Balochistan provinces. Inaddition, PRCS received donations: (i) 50,000
                                                                                       US$
from USAID for emergency food supplies to the affectees in Sindh; and (ii)    US$ 50,000 from the
Chinese Red Cross. These funds were used to provide food, health and shelter to the affectees in
both the provinces.

                                                  9


By UNand its Allied Agencies

30. The UNICEF deliveredJerry Cans o f drinkingwater andwater purification tablets worth US$
40,000. Tents purchasedby UNDP from funds allocated by OCHA (US$ 50,000) were distributed
to the affectees in Badin. UNDP provided another amount o f US$ 50,000 for coordination,
monitoring and logistics support o f relief activities in Sindh. WFP procured and distributedfood
supplies (400 tones wheat flour and 100 tones edible oil) worth US$ 200,000 for 240,000
beneficiaries inThatta, Badin, and Tharparkar districts. Halfo f the food supplies were distributed
in Badin, being the worst affected district. WHO also provided 50,000 water purification tablets
and 50,000 packets o f ORS worth US$ 15,000.

           E.RESPONSE TO 2006-FLOODEVENT

31. Duringthe event o f 2006, GoSindh carried out relief operation in the affected areas similar to
the one carried out in response to the event of 2003 flooding. Since the damage during 2006
flooding was relatively on lesser scale than the 2003 event the relief operation was all indigenous
effort. GoSingh arranged evacuation o f marooned people by employing various government
agencies including the Pakistan Army. The flood-affected had to be provided shelter at relief
camps set up at the premises of various schools and other government buildings. Affected
families were provided tents, various food items, such as flour, pulses, cooking oil, sugar, tea,
milkpowder, etc.

           F.RESPONSETO 2007-FLOODEVENT

32. Since there was no significant damage caused by flooding in Badin and Mirpurkas districts
there was no need for any response. It is, however, worth mentioning that both the general public
and responsible government organizations were ready to tackle any adverse situation. DCO's
office informed that for the information about the cyclone Yemyin 03B and later about the rains
the population in remote areas was itself proactive and contacted the DCO's office and other
organizations. The availability V-Wireless Telephone System introduced by PTCL was o f great
help in accessing remote areas for early warning. DCO's office used this utility to communicate
with remote areas very effectively andefficiently.

           G. FLOODMANAGEMENT PLANS

General

33. Pakistan has had a long history o f repeated localized and widespread flooding. Much o f
Pakistan is a flood prone region, with steep upper catchments and the potential for highintensity
rainfall. The flood problem has been exacerbated by the progressive denudation of river
catchments and the general deterioration o f river channels from significantly reduced flows
during non-flood seasons because of increased diversion from the rivers. Despite reservoir
construction and major investments in flood protection, there remains a considerable flood
hazard. The capacities o f the dams to attenuate flooding and regulate river flows are being
reduced by siltation.

34. Floodingmainly impacts on three areas o f the country:

35. The main riverine areas adjacent to the Indus and its tributaries (the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi,
Sutlej and Kabul) where annual floods are used for irrigation. These areas are heavily populated
and suffer catastrophic damage due to highintensity floods;

                                                   10


36. High torrent affected areas where intense local rainfall on steep, largely denuded
mountainsides can cause major flash floods. Such floods cause immense damage due to erosion
and inundation o f agricultural and populated lands and to communications and urban
infrastructure. large and sudden deposits o f sediment from hill torrents near the confluence with
major rivers may change hydraulic and morphological conditions locally in the main river,
adversely affecting flooding and erosion conditions; and

37. Areas o f poor drainage where water ponds inagricultural and urban areas as a result o f heavy
summer (monsoon) rainfall;

38. Generally, Pakistan is impacted by the high floods in main riverine areas adjacent to the
Indus and its tributaries every year during the Kharif season. These high floods cause severe
damage to public infrastructure, private property, humanlife, crops and livestock, as happened in
1950, 1955, 1957, 1973, 1976, 1978, 1988, 1992 and 1995. Due to expectation o f this category o f
flooding every year, the local administrations o f the respective districts and other related
departments in the vicinity o f riverine areas prepared Flood Management Plans containing
Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in 1980s to combat these floods. These Flood
Management Plans have evolved into effective instruments for providing relief to population
affected by a flood event. District Administrations generally deal with the non-structural
measures to mitigate the effect o f floods while the IrrigationDepartments o f the concerned areas
deal with up-keepo f the flood protection infrastructure to avoid or minimize flooding.

39. The flooding that occurred in Badin area during 2003 and Mirpurkhas in 2006 was of the
category mentioned under bullet three above. Although the Badin area had witnessed rain water
floods in the years 1959, 1961, 1962, 1964, 1967, 1970, 1973, 1976 & 1979 but these were
relatively o f much less severity than that o f 2003 flooding. The flooding in Badin area was not
expected to be recurrent event every year, as during the forty years (1959 and 2000) only about a
dozen times the noticeable flooding due to rains occurred. The area usedto remain under water
from 2 to 3 months due to poor drainage.This inundation usedto spoil crops inthe vastly affected
area, sub-merging hundreds o f villages and displacing thousands o f people. The inundation o f
area for months was a fact accepted without much o f a complaint. Due to the fact that the
flooding was an accepted norm and o f the magnitude much less than that occurred during 2003,
preparation of a FloodManagement Plan containing SOPs prior to the 2003 event o f flooding had
not been considered necessary. The gravity o f the situation became noticeable after the 1998
cyclone but the flooding in 2003 due to unprecedented rains prompted preparation o f a Plan to
combat an emergency. Otherwise, the effects o f the floods were mitigated with spurred reaction,
as no formal FloodManagement Plan existed.

Badin District Contingency Plan to combat Cyclones & Floods

40. District Coordination Officer, Badin prepared a Flood Management Plan after the 2003
flooding event inyear 2004 prior to monsoon season to combat situation similar to that occurred
in 2003. It was reported to be have been updated every year. The updated version of this
document is entitled "Contingency Plan to combat Cyclones & Flood I Rain 2007". This Flood
Management Plan i s specific to the requirement o f Badin District and was prepared keeping in
view the lessons learnt during the 2003 flooding. As explained in para 44, the Contingency Plan
prepared for Badin District gives only non-structural measures (flood warning systems, laws and
regulations, and readiness for providing the relief measures to the affected population). It was
found that the "Contingency Plan to combat Cyclones & Flood I Rain 2007" has been circulated
to the key responsible officers o f the district. During the meetingwith representatives o f 4 NGOs
on April 20,2004, the Bank Consultant saw its copy with one o fthe representatives.

                                                   11


Mirpur KhasDistrictContingencyPlanto combat Cyclones & Floods

41. Mirpurkhas had not prepared a Flood Management Plan as o f June 2007 when the district
administration (DCO) informed that a Flood Management Plan similar to the one prepared for
Badin District would soon be prepared. As happened after the 2003 event, the effects o f the flood
event of 2006 were mitigated with spurredreaction, as no formal FloodManagement Plan existed
for the Mirpurkhas District.

           H. ASSESSMENT OFFLOODMANAGEMENT PLANOFBADIN
               DISTRICT

42. Damaging effects o f flooding are as fol1ow:s

         Loss and damage to public infrastructure;
         Loss o f private property;
         Loss o f crop or reduction inyields o f crop;
         Loss o f human life and livestock; and
         Spreado f water borne diseases.

43. The purpose o f a Flood Management Plan for an area i s to prevent and/or minimize the
damaging effects o f floods. Therefore a good plan should contain preventing measures and
mitigation measures prior to and after the damage caused by a flooding. For minimizing the
damaging effects o f a flood two types o f measures are necessary; (i)     Structural (flood protection
works); and (ii)  Non-structural (flood warning systems, laws and regulations, and readiness for
providing the relief measures to the affected population).       Structural measures are meant to
prevent or minimize the damaging effect by keeping the flood water away from the populous
areas and safe passage o f the flood water to the disposal areas or facilities.

44. The Contingency Plan ,prepared by the DCO, for Badin District gave the background o f 2003
flooding and informed about the inadequacy o f structural measures as those existed. However, it
did not include the structural measures but suggested addressing the structural deficiencies. It
gave only non-structural measures (flood warning systems, laws and regulations, and readiness
for providingthe reliefmeasures to the affected population).

45. It mainly focused on preparedness for providing relief measures in the event o f a flooding,
including flood warning system, evacuation o f marooned population and the temporary shelter.
The plancontained the narration o f the lessons learnt from 2003 Flood Event, which formed the
basis o fthe preparednessplan.

46. It stated that the early warning o f cyclones and heavy rains would be communicated through
Radio, T V and Police wireless system. The Plan didnot mention as to who would be responsible
for issuingthe Early Warning. It was learnt that NIO carried out research development connected
with tides and do publish the reports containing information about the tides. But the
Meteorological Department was responsible to track down cyclones and the cloud systems
producing heavy rains. Logically, the Meteorological Department should be the one to issue the
early warning and they do as per their SOP but it was not mentioned inthe Plan. There is a small
meteorological station inBadin supervised by ajunior official. This station monitors the rain fall
as it occurs but i s not in a position to issue the early warning. Accordingly, a clear source for
receiving the early warning neededto be mentionedinthe plan along with the official responsible
inthe DistrictAdministration to communicate the early warning to the remotest possible areas in
Badin district i.e. the villages and settlements near the coast line such as; Shaikareyo etc. These

                                                 12


settlements are remote and prone to suffer the most in case o f a flooding, and have no TVs or
radio receivers. It is time consuming to reach these places. It was learnt `Tapedars' were the last
link to pass on the information that, being revenue collecting staff, are not popular and not
considered credible. Therefore, there must be a foolproof way to provide the information to the
populationinremote areas intime, which i s considered credible by them.

47. The mechanism to declare the emergency was stated in the Plan, and establishing control
rooms at District level, Taluka level along with the telephone numbers o f the concerned officials
were given. There was mention o f Relief Commissioner's Office in Hyderabad along with his
telephone numberbut the role o f the Relief Commissioner was not defined.

48. The duties o f the concerned XENDrainage, RevenueDepartment, Education Department (for
providing school buildings for the relief camps), Health Department, Taluka Muncipal
Administration, Agriculture Department, Civil Defense, HESCO, telephone Department,
Southern Gas Company, W&S Department, DPO-Badin and ED0 (Community Development)
were given inthe Plan. Also mentionedinthe Plan were roles o f EdhiWelfare Trust and Pakistan
Army. But the roles at unioncouncil and/or village levelwere not indicated.

49. The Contingency Plan included the list o f school buildings and number o f rooms in them
along with their capacities to accommodate displaced persons. It also includes the list o f `DEHs'
(villages) and their population, organized taluka-wise along with the names o f the concerned
`Tapedars'. But the list o f DEHsmost vulnerable to flood risks was not prepared.

50. The Flood Management Plan did not indicate details as to where the population o f specific
`Dehs'would be given shelter in case o fneed.

51. Duringthe 2003 event, the hygienic conditions in schools where shelter was provided became
bad, safe drinking water became short in supply and inadequate latrines made overall
environmental conditions as intolerable. An officer spending money from the Government
Exchequer to provide food during 2003 event was reported to have to face a lot o f inquiriesand
embarrassment after the event inBadin District. For the future, the Secretary Government o f Sind
Food Department needs to be requested to direct Director Food and Deputy Director to make
prior arrangement o f supply from Karachi and Hyderabad at the time o f need / emergency. But
the logistic indicating the quantities of food, safe drinking water, medicines etc., and the budget
for the same was not indicated inthe Plan.

52. Although the induction o f NGOs and other philanthropic was implied in the Flood
Management Plan but the detailed mechanism to organize and implement the participation by
them was not indicated. It was informed by the representatives of the NGOs that during the 2003
relief operation there was no Disaster management Committee formed, which ifhad been formed
including co-opted representatives from private sector and/or NGOs could have provided better
guidance and arrangements particularly towards shortages o f food items etc. There was no
provisionfor forming such a committee inthe FloodManagement Plan.

53. The Flood Management Plan rightly pointed out the need for strict watch on the LBOD
drains, which i s virtually non-existent even now. This i s subject o f O&M o f LBOD System.
SIDA needs to look into it to improve the situation.

                                                   13


            I.RECOMMENDATIONS

54. There is need to have a comprehensive Flood Management Plan for Badin and Mirpurkhas
districts including structural measures. In this connection, Government o f Pakistan has approved
a PC-I1 for an amount o f Rs. 41 Million for carrying out the Feasibility Studies by retaining
services o f consultants to identify and mitigate the problem in LBOD Outfall and Badin Area
Drainage System. The TOR for carrying out these Feasibility Studies have been prepared by
participation o f stakeholders. WAPDA, as the implementing agency o f this PC 11, has retainedthe
services of the Consultants who have already submitted the Inception Report. The recently
approved Project of Water Sector Improvement Program (WSIP), which would be implemented
with the World Bank's financial assistance, among other things, "[. .]" will support the
                                                                             .
preparation of a comprehensive flood management plan for the Left Bank o f the Indus River in
Sindh including the Indus delta and coastal areas. This regional drainage master plan, agreedwith
local stakeholders during preparation o f the national Drainage Master Plan, will encompass both
surface drainage, sub-surface drainage, water logging and salinity control and flood risk
management, and will include appropriate structural and non-structural options (e.g., flood
warning and communications, flood proofing and improved preparednessand response systems).
Planning and infrastructure management capacity will be built and the capacity o f local
authorities will be strengthened. A modern, world-class knowledge base will be developed with
appropriate analytical tools and information management systems to support planning, operations
and management. The detailed design would be prepared andmade ready for implementation of
the priority works identifiedunder the master plan under a future investment project that Sindh
may undertake with the assistance o f its development partners"[. ..]".The duplication between
studies initiated by WAPDA to find a sustainable solution to the flooding problem o f surface
drainage system o f LBOD by determining deficiencies in the existing LBOD Drainage System
and finding remedial measures and those envisaged in WSIP, if any, should be sorted out. There
should be clear delineation o f responsibilities and coordinationbetween WAPDA and SIDA.

55. The Government o f Pakistan has formed a National Disaster Management Authority. So far
this organization is not known to have involved in disaster management activities related to
coastal ares o f Sindh Province. It would be appropriate to have participation o f this newly formed
institution inpreparing FloodManagement Plan for the Left Bank o f the Indus River.

56. WAPDA South must coordinate at appropriate level with GoSindh as well as consult other
stakeholders in carrying out the Feasibility Studies through services o f consultants to identify and
mitigate the problem in LBOD Outfall and Badin Area Drainage System. For preparing a
comprehensive DMP there shall be need for stakeholder participation, as has been done in
preparingthe DMP for Kotri.

57. In the interim the following actions are recommended for improving the existing local
government flood riskmanagement systems to reduce flood damage and vulnerability by building
capacity and improvingflood riskresponse:

    (i)       A system for ensuring the communication of early warning that is considered
              credible and clearly understood by the population prone to adverse effects of flooding
              needs to be established. A clear methodology should be framed to communicate
              warnings generated by the Meteorological Department in the shortest possible time,
              describing the SOPS o f the departments, officials involved along with their
              responsibilities and logistics for implementing the system.

                                          14


(ii)  Routine vigilance through out the year and special vigilance during the Kharif season
      in respect of all drains in the LBOD System should be incorporated in the Flood
      Management Plan. This aspect i s to be dealt as part o f O&M activities to be carried
      out by the concerned AWBs. SIDA in association with AWBs should prepare
      Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for carrying out proper O&M o f the surface
      drains o f LBOD System. The O&M Manual (in 5 Volumes) prepared by WAPDA in
      1991 and criteria used by IPD for computing M&R yardstick should provide the
      foundation to preparethe requisite SOP.

(iii) As the schools are used to give shelter, the primary purposes of school buildingsto
      provide education to children is jeopardized due to deterioration using those as
      residential buildings that require substantial repairs afterwards but generally are not
      carried out due to limited budget available with W&S Department. Instead of
      immediately rushing the affected population to school building to provide shelter,
      which i s itself a time consuming process (convincing people to move and to arrange
      transport and boats) it will be a good option to provide/construct shelters in the
      vulnerable villages. It is there recommended to provide shelters alternate to school
      buildings. This alternative could be constructing elevated earthen plate-forms close to
      each o f DEHs so that the affected population can stay near to their properties but at a
      higher elevation above the expected highest water level o f flooding. There would be
      need, however, for the land to construct these elevated earthen plat-forms. As per the
      discussions held with the representatives of NGOs met, this can be done with
      community participation basis (CCB). The community can contribute piece o f land
      while investment may be arrangement from an on-going project. It is considered that
      area required per person would be of the order o f 2.5 m2to 3 m2per person. The plat-
      forms would be on the average about 2m high and can have wooden or steel trusses
      to install temporary covers such as tarpaulin. Ifconstructed on CCB, the up-keep and
      maintenance can be carried out by the community. Duringthe dry season these plate-
      forms can be usedfor community functions such marriage ceremonies etc. A total o f
      61 villages in2003 and about 10villages in2006 were severely affected. Considering
      these villages prone to risk of flooding again and adding a few more, a total number
      o f 80 villages would perhaps require these plat-forms. But the number should be
      determinedby consultation with the concerned communities.

(iv)  The list o f `Dehs' most vulnerable to flood risks needs to be prepared, and shown on
      a map indicating roads to establish evacuation paths. These `Dehs' should receive the
      early warning o f an emergent event at the top priority.

(v)   The preparedness at village level needs to be reflected. The personnel relating
      villages can be informed as to where to contact in case o f emergency, and also
      trained to initiate measuresto save themselves from a big catastrophe.

(vi)  Itwas learnt that a provision of stockpile edibles, medicines andclean drinkingwater
      for three days i s maintained but during 2003 it took some 15 days for the affected
      population to return to their place. Adequate quantum o f needed edibles, medicines
      and clean drinking water are to be determined, and stockpiles maintained as part o f
      the FloodManagement Plan. And, adequatebudget allocation should be provided for
      this purpose as part ofthe FloodManagement Plan.

(vii) There should be a provision for forming a Disaster Management Committee, which
      may include co-opted representatives from private sector and/or NGOs in addition to

                                                                    .
                                                  15


             the government functionaries for providing better guidance and arrangements in the
             FloodManagement.

            J. CONTINGENCY PLANS TO COMBAT CYCLONES & FLOODS-
               BADINAND MIRPURKHAS DISTRICTS

58. Buildingon the Contingency Planto combat cyclones and floods for Badin and incorporating
the above observations an implementable Contingency Plan was prepared, the contents of which
were included inAppendix 3 o f the report prepared inJune 2007. This recommended contingency
planto combat cyclones and floods for Badinwas provided to SIDA, DCO's office and NGOs for
review and making suggestions to improve it. During the November 2007 mission NGOs
provided a further list o f vulnerable villages, which has been appendedto the Plan. The finalized
"Contingency Planto Combat Cyclones & Floods for Badin District" i s giveninAppendix 4.

59. The Flood Management Plan for Mirpurkhas District had not beenprepared as o f June 2007.
DCO Mirpurkhas promised to prepare one on the same basis as that o f recommended FMP for
Badin district. In order to facilitate its preparation the Consultant prepared a Draft plan with
blanks for the missinginformation. Ifthose blanks were filled the FMP would have been ready.
The District Administration did prepare andprovided a FMP prepared by them to the Consultant
during the November 2007 Mission. This plan did not use the Draft sent to them prior to the
mission and contained some gaps. The missing information was obtained during the November
2007 mission. Using the plan and information provided by DCO's office during the November
2007 missionTontingencyPlan to Combat Cyclones & Floods for Mirpurkhas District" has been
prepared, andis giveninAppendix 5.

60. It is recommended that these contingency plans are usedby the respective local governments
in hture and up-dated every year. It will be necessary to share these plans with all the
organizations who have indicated to have a role in combating the cyclones and floods usingthes
plans. It will be also very helpfulifthese plans are sharedwith reptedNGOs ofboth districts.


                    16




          APPENDICES



Available on Website www.worldbank.orP.Dk


                         Annex 5
    Food and Agriculture Organizationof UnitedNations




                 UP-DATED REPORT

                           ON

                   ASSESSMENT OF

PRESENT CONDITION OF LBODAND KPODAFTER REPAIR

      WORKS AND FURTHER WORKS NEEDED




                      PreparedBy:

             MuhammadEhsan, Consultant




                   November 13,2007




                    IslamabadOffice

                                1




         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB      Asian DevelopmentBank
AWB      Area Water Board
DCO      District Coordination Officer
DPOD     Dhoro PuranOutfall Drain
ED0      Executive District Officer
FA0      FoodandAgricultureOrganization
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GOP      Government of Pakistan
GOS      Government of Sindh
HANDS    Health andNutrition DevelopmentSociety
ICZM     IntegratedCoastalZone Management
IUCN     International Union for ConservationofNature andNaturalResources
KPOD     Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain
LBOD     Left Bank Outfall Drain
MAF      MillionAcre Feet
M&R      Maintenance and Repairs
MMD      Mirpurkhas MainDrain
NGOs     NonGovernmentalOrganizations
NIO      National Institute of Oceanography
NRSP     National Rural SupportProgram
OFWM     On FarmWater Management
PEPA     PakistanEnvironment ProtectionAgency
PFF      PakistanFisherFolk Forum
PMU      ProjectManagementUnit
RBOD     Right Bank Outfall Drain
SCDRP    Sindh CoastalRehabilitation Project
SRSP     Sindh Rural SupportProgram
SUPARCO  Space andUpperAtmospheric ResearchOrganization
TMA      Tehsil Municipal Administration
WAPDA    Water and Power DevelopmentAuthority
WSIP     Water Sector ImprovementProject

                                                           11




                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS


A         BACKGROUND            .....................................................................................................          1
B         INTRODUCTION             ..................................................................................................          4
C...      FLOODS   ..................................................................................................................          5
       .                        Floodand                                                                                                       5
     2. Review of 2006 .Floodandits effect on LBOD......................................................
      1 Review of 2003 . its effect on LBOD.....................................................

      3 2007 .Monsoon and its effect on LBOD ...............................................................
       .                                                                                                                                       9
                                                                                                                                              11
D.        REPAIRWORKS CARRIEDOUT AFTERFLOODEVENTS                                                                      .....................  11
       .
     2. Works carried out by Left Bank Canals AWB (2005-07) ......................................
      1 RepairWorks carried out by PakistanAmy after 2003 Flooding .........................                                                  11
                                                                                                                                              12
      3 Works Carried out by Nara CanalAWB ................................................................
       .                                                                                                                                      18
E.        PRESENTCONDITIONOF LBOD                                   ..................................................................        18
      1. LBOD SpinalDrain................................................................................................                     18
     2 KadhanPateji Outfall Drain (KPOD) .....................................................................                                18
      3 Dhoro PuranOutfall Drain (DPOD) ......................................................................
       ..                                                                                                                                     19
     4. Other MainDrains, Branch Drains and Sub-Drains of LBOD System.................. 19
F.        FURTHERWORKSREQUIREDTO BEDONEFORSURFACEDRAINS20
      1. General................................................................................................................... 20
     2 Descriptionof CivilWorks neededas per Rehabilitation Plan (June 2007) ..........23
       .
G.        ACTIVITIES FORSUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONTO THE PROBLEMOF
          FLOODING      ..........................................................................................................            24

     2. Studies EnvisagedinWSIP ....................................................................................
      1. Studies Initiated...................................................................................................... 24
                                                                                                                                             26
      3 Needfor Coordinating Studies ...............................................................................
       .                                                                                                                                     26
H.        O&MOF LBOD            ...................................................................................................          27

     2 WAPDA ProducedManuals...................................................................................
      1 General ...................................................................................................................
       ...                                                                                                                                    27
                                                                                                                                             27

     4. Current BudgetAllocations ....................................................................................
      3 Criteria for O&M of Drains....................................................................................                       27
                                                                                                                                             28
      5. RecommendedPractice of O&M ............................................................................                             28
      6 Needfor UpdatingO&M Yardsticks......................................................................
       .                                                                                                                                     29
I         CONCLUSIONS           ...................................................................................................          29
J
..        RECOMMENDATIONS                      .....................................................................................         30

                                 ...
                                 111



ANNEX 1: InventoryofLBOD SurfaceDrainageSystem

ANNEX 2: ProposedRehabilitatiodRestoration of LBOD Surface Drainage
         System

ANNEX 3: Requirementof Annual M&R Cost of LBOD Surface Drainage
         System

ANNEX 4: PersonsMet duringApril 2007 Mission

ANNEX 5: Persons Met duringNovember 2007 Mission

ANNEX 6: List of DocumentsConsulted

                                                1


                              UP-DATED ASSESSMENT OF
         PRESENT CONDITION OF LBOD AND KPOD AFTER REPAIR
                      WORKS AND FURTHER WORKS NEEDED

                                 A.     BACKGROUND

1.    On September 10, 2004, the World Bank's Inspection Panel (the Panel) registered a
Request for Inspection, submitted by Khadim Talpur, Mohammad Ali Shah, Mustafar Talpur,
Munawar Hassan Memon, Iqbal Hyder, Mir Mohammad Buledi, and Najma Junejo on their
own behalf and on behalf of "others who live in the area known as District Badin, Sindh
Pakistan" in the Indus River Basin (Requesters). Many o f the issues raised in the Request
related to the LBOD Stage 1 Project, co financed by the Bank with ADB and other donors,
which had closed in 1997. Fig. 1gives the location and components o f the LBOD System. The
Requesters claimed that the LBOD system was faulty and they had incurred losses because o f
its poor design. The Requesters claimed that the Bank had failed to observe or had otherwise
violated various provisions o f its own operational Policies and Procedures. They also voiced
concerns that the NDP project would extend the system to serve the entire Indus Basin, adding
more effluents from the upper basin, through a National Surface Drainage System (NSDS).

2.    The Executive Directors and the President o f IDA were notified on September 17, 2004
by the Panel of receipt of the Request. Responding to the claims in the Request the
Management authorized an investigation.

3.    The Inspection Panel conducted the required investigation. The Panel met with the
Requesters, local authorities and stakeholders including fisher folk, and discussed with
Government o f Sindh (GOS) authorities actions which could be undertaken in the short and
medium term to address flood vulnerability and socio-economic and livelihoodissues of people
living inclose proximity to LBOD and inthe coastal zone of southern Sindh. The Panel issued
its report outlining the findings of the investigation. The Management issued its Response in
July 2006.

4.    Although the NDP project as originally conceived in the 1997 Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) was to have laid the groundwork for the NSDS, the concept was subsequently rejected
as a result o f extensive studies and reviews.No extension o f the LBOD spinal drain to join a
national surface drainage systemwas done under the NDPproject.

5.    In the light of Panel's recommendations the Board of Executive Directors of the Bank
approved a Short TermAction Plan, which consists o f five activities:

            Implementation ofthe Coastal Area Development Program (CADP) insouthern
            Sindh

            Rapidassessment o f ecological and livelihoodconditions inthe dhandsto identify
            immediate measuresto improve livelihoods andecological conditions

            Rapidassessment of existing local government flood riskmanagement systems to
            reduce flood damage and vulnerability by building capacity and improving flood
            riskresponse

                                      2


  Assessment o f the condition o f the right embankment o f the LBOD spinal drain
  and KPOD andpreparation o f a detailed maintenance plan

e Processing o f the Water Sector Improvement Project (WSIP) inorder to ensure a
  rapidstartup o fthe technical studies to design measures to improve the
  performance of LBOD and prepare a comprehensive flood and drainage planfor
 the left bankofthe IndusRiverinsouthern Sindh.

                      3


Fig.1- Location and Components of LBODSystem

                                                     4


                                     B.     INTRODUCTION

6.     For carrying out activity indicated under bullet point 4 in para 5 above relating to
'Assessment of the condition o f the right embankment o f the LBOD spinal drain and KPOD
and preparation o f a detailed maintenance plan' services o f a consultant', were retained.

7.     Starting work on April 09, 2007, the Consultant studied various reports previously
prepared'. The Consultant undertook a mission to site from April 15, 2007 to April 21, 2007.
H e visited Karachi, Hyderabad, Mirpurkhas, Badin, Mirpurkhas Main Drain, LBOD, KPOD
and starting point o f Tidal Link to learn about the project area and see repair works
accomplished and/or on-going, and to discuss the issues with government officials, technical
staff o f the concerned agencies and Institutes, local government officials, and NGOs3.It was
not possible to inspect the Tidal Link beyond its starting point without a boat due to virtually
non-existent IP. Based on the findings o f the mission, review o f the previous reports and
discussions held with the staff and management o f the Sindh Imgation and Drainage Authority
(SIDA), the Chief Engineer and Staff of WAPDA's HyderabadOffice, the Director (Left Bank
Canals AWB) and the Director (Nara Canal AWB), the Consultant prepared the report entitled
'IAssessment o f Present Condition o f LBOD and KPOD after Recent Repair Works and
Further Works Needed", and submitted it on June 06, 2007. This report among other things
contained a detailed Plan o f civil works (Annex 3) needed to restore the damaged and
deteriorated surface drainage system o f LBOD to its designedparameters and proposed M&R
yardstick (Annex 2) for preparing annual budget for carrying out the routine M&R activities to
prevent accumulation of maintenance. The report also contained the recommendations for the
actions requiredby Go Sindh, SIDA, AWBs and others.

8.     The services o fthe Consultant4have been again retained to up-date the assessment report
prepared inJune 2007. The Consultant undertook a mission to site from November 06, 2007 to
November 11, 2007. H e visited Karachi, Hyderabad, Mirpurkhas, Badin, LBOD between
RD159 and RD 305 and KPOD between RD 84 and RD 159 to learn about the current status o f
repair works accomplished and/or on-going, nature o f events that took place during monsoon
seaon, and to discuss the issues with govemment officials, technical staff o f the concerned
agenciesand Institutes, local government officials, and NGOs.

9.     Like the last mission in April 2007, the government and non-government officials and
technical experts were extremely generous with their time and provided data and background
information. The staff and management o f the SindhIrrigationand Drainage Authority (SIDA),
the Director (Left Bank Canals AWB), the Director (Nara Canal AWB), the Team Leader o f
the Consultants engaged by WAPDA for carrying out the feasibility studies o f various solutions
to the problems o f LBOD and NGOs' provided substantive support to the Consultant. The
Consultant i s gratefid to all these officials and experts for their hospitality and assistance. This
report gives the up-datedassessment o fpresent condition o f LBOD and KPOD.




 Mr.MuhammadEhsan
 List o f documents consulted inpreparing this report is given inAnnex 6
 List o forganizations and officials met by the consultant i s given inAnnex 4.
 Mr.MuhammadEhsan
 List o f organizations and officials met by the consultant is given inAnnex 5

                                                 5


                                 C.     FLOODS

1. Reviewof2003 -Flood andits effect on LBOD

10.    During the month of July 2003, Nawabshah, Mirpurkhas and Badin districts received
heavy rainfalls6:Nawabshah (304 mm), Mirpurkhas (192 mm) and Badin (292 mm). The run-
off produced by the rains in these districts, which includes the catchment area of LBOD
System, enters the surface drains o f LBOD System and goes to sea through LBOD Outfall
system. Fig. 2 shows the schematic diagram o f LBOD System and its outfall. Review o f the
design o f LBOD Outfall system indicates that it has been designed to cater for a drainage rate
o f 1.5 cfs / sq. mile which is equivalent to surface drainage rate o f 42 mm (1.67 inches) in a
month. Rainfall received in 25 days o f July 2003 was on the average 295 mm, which was 7
times the discharge capacity of LBOD.

11.    Considering the envisaged run-off factor o f 20%, LBOD system received 0.286 MAF of
the total quantity o f 1.43 MAF produced by the catchment area o f LBOD due to rains. Inorder
to drain out rainwater, 2,050 drain inlets, with a capacity o f 1.8 cfs each, have been provided in
the drains. The design discharge o f LBOD Outfall system i s thus 4,000 cusecs (7,934 AF/day)
but it can accommodate upto 6,000 cusecs (11,900 AF/day) utilizingthe freeboard. At this rate
it would have taken ordinarily 24 days to evacuate this volume of water. In addition, Badin
catchment area o f 3.3 million acres received 300 mm rainfall which also entered in LBOD
System.

12.    For expediting evacuation o f rain water from their fields the farmers of Nawab Shah,
Sanghar and Mirpurkhas made cuts in the drains o f LBOD system that further increased the
flow in Outfall Drain. This caused overflowing inthe LBOD. The situation further aggravated
due to flows from canal escapes and breaches that entered LBOD. It is pertinent to note that
I&P Department didnot close the inflows to irrigationcanals despite the rainfall that worsened
the flow condition in LBOD system which had to carry many times more discharge than the
capacity o f drains. Hightide in sea and high level in Shakoor Dhand obstructed the flow, and
area in the vicinity of Badin district suffered badly. It was observed on July 25, 2003 that a
discharge o f about 9,000 cusecs passedthrough Spinal Drain inthe proximity o f RD 159+000.

13.    The 2003 floods were thus causedby a combination of factors: i)Rainfallinthe area; ii)
water coming to the area by the canals in the left bank below Kotri (total of more than 40,000
cusecs) iii)Drainage water o f the record storm in the month; iv) drainage water coming from
the upper Nara basin carried by LBOD; v) the connection of the upper DPOD basin to the
LBOD system; v) high sea levels and surge caused by the storm which blocked the direct
discharge o f the water and raised the levels in the KPOD and LBOD; vi) DPOD emergency
flood way did not function as per design. Plates 1 to 4 show condition o f the flow in LBOD
andinundation o fareaduring2003 Flood.
                                    -




 MeteorologicalRecords ofrainfall

                                     6


                Fig.2 - Schematic Diagram of LBOD System




                                        LBOD SPINAL DRAIN




                                       KOTRI DRAIN




    SINDH DHANDS

    Sanhro & Mehro)


SEA


                        RANN OF KUTCH

7

           Plate 3: Inundation causedby 2003-Flood




Plate 4: KPOD at RD 50 after receding of Water, Inundation Visible

                                              9


14.    There were several breaches in the system particularly in LBOD and KPOD. List of
breaches that were pluggedby SIDA is given inthe Table 1.

                   Table 1:Listof Breaches inLBOD and KPOD (July 2003)

       Sr. No.     Location                                               Breach
                                                             (RD)       Width (Ft)
          1.       Shadi Large (LBOD)                         182           35
          2.       Kazi Qudus village (LBOD)                  165           130
          3.       Kazi Qudus village (LBOD)                  163           50
          4.       Kazi Qudus village (LBOD)                  162           100
          5.       Shadi large(LBOD)                          170           45
          6.       Vidhri Chak (KPOD)                         158           80
          7.       Vidhri Chak (KPOD)                         158           30
                   Vidhri Chak (KPOD)                         158           50
      I   8.
          9.      IVillage Mukhtiar (LBOD)                I   277     I     40       I
          10.      Village RahimNotkani (LBOD)                279           55
          11       Village Mehrab Chandio (LBOD)              285           50
          12       Near VRB (LBOD)                            295           25


2.  Review of 2006 Flood andits effect on LBOD
                        -
15.    Similarto the event of 2003-flood that occurreddue to unusual rains during July 2003,
there was another flood event in the LBOD project area in April 2006. There were intensive
rains inthe Lower Sindhas indicatedinthe Table 2:



        S r . ~ o .1       Taluka                               Rainfall(mm)
           1.              Badin                                      298
           2.              Matli                                     231
           3.              Talhar                                    205
           4.              S.F. Rahu                                  110
           5.              Tando Bag0                                 144
           6.              Mirpurkhas                                272
           7.              Digri                                      362
           8.              Jhudo                                      150
           9.              Kot Ghulam Muhammad                       207
          10.              Sindhri                                   281
          11.              H.B.Mari                                  273

16.    Besides sheet flows causedby the intensiverains entering the drainage system, the local
farmers again made cuts inthe drains of LBOD system for expediting evacuationof rain water

                                               10


from their fields that increasedthe flow inthe Outfall Drain. This not only caused overflowing
and breaches in the LBOD but also breaches and overtopping occurred in other main drains,
branch drains and sub-drains of the LBOD System. However, no water came to the area by the
canals inthe left bankbelow Kotri during the 2006 Event.

17.   It is pertinent to note that the event of 2006-Flooding did not impact Badin district as
severely as it happened during 2003-flooding. This is due to diligent work initially carried out
by Army in filling breaches immediately after the occurrence of 2003-flooding, and later in
restorationwork carriedout by AWBLBC that is still inprogress.

18.   Another significant phenomenon, however, that occurred was heading up of water
upstream of pipe culvert bridges which had been designed to carry much less discharge than
occurs due to heavy rains and cuts made by farmers. This caused breaches in the banks
upstream, notable of these was at RD 350 culvert bridge across MMD, which caused breachin
the left bank of MMD that threatened Mirpurkhas city. In order to safely pass the flow in the
reach RD 245 to RD 500 of Spinal Drain of LBOD System, earthen and gunny bag dowels
were constructed in emergency. The major breaches that occurred due to flooding are given
Table 3.


    I    Table 3: Listof Overtopping andBreachesin LBOD System (April 2006)

     Sr. No.   INatureand Location                               I        (W              I
                                                                    NIP           IP
               I



         1.     Several Overtoppinginthe reach                     212-235
         2.     Overtopping inLBOD                                               225
         3.     SeveralOvertopping inthe reach                                248-296

    -    4.     SeveralOvertopping inthe reach                     270-298

         5.     SeveralOvertopping inthe reach                                298-300
         6.     Several Overtoppinginthe reach                     304-306    304-306
         7.     OvertoppinginLBOD                                    362
         8.     Overtopping inLBOD                                  43 1
         9.     Overtopping inLBOD                                   443
         10.    OvertoppinginLBOD                                    449
         11.    OvertoppinginLBOD                                   455
         12.    OvertoppinginLBOD                                   479


         1.     Mirpurkhas MainDrain(MMD)                            52
         2.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain(MMD)                           117         117
         3.     Mirpurkhas Main Drain(MMD)                           151
         4.     MirpurkhasMainDrain(MMD)                                        152.5

                                             11



      Sr. No.  Nature and Location                             I         (W            I
                                                                   NIP          IP
         5.    Mirpurkhas MainDrain (MMD)                                      189
         6.    Mirpurkhas MainDrain (MMD)                                      202
         7.    Mirpurkhas MainDrain (MMD)                                      216
         8.    Mirpurkhas MainDrain (MMD)                          219
         9.    Mirpurkhas MainDrain (MMD)
               Mirpurkhas MainDrain (MMD)


         1.    BreachinLBOD                                        435
         2.    Mirpurkhas MainDrain(MMD)                                     350-357
         3.    Sanghar MainDrain (SMD)                            62-63


3. 2007 Monsoonanditseffect onLBOD
           -
19.    During 2007, the cyclone Yemyin 03B threatened to hit the southern coastal areas of
Sindh but it divertedandhit the coastal areas of Balochistan on June 23, 2007, causing severe
damages in Balochistan and areas inthe proximity o f Karachi. There were heavy rains inBadin
District and adjoining areas but due to the preparedness and rapid response of the GoS, no
major damages occurred in Badin. The LBOD system capably handled the water flows in the
area. From the gauge records of the KPOD, it was inferred that a maximum flow o f 4,000
cusecs passed through KPOD. N o breach in any o f the drain in LBOD system has been
reported. No emergent work was required to be camed out.

20.   Due to rains, however, localized erosions (gharas) occurred at several locations on the
NIP andIP o f LBOD and KPOD where the earthwork had beencompletedto raise the banks by
about 5ft.

                              D.      REPAIR WORKS CARRIED OUT AFTER
                                      FLOODEVENTS

1. RepairWorks carriedoutbyPakistanArmy after 2003 Flooding

21.   After the 2003 floods, Rs.50 million were provided by WAPDA from the balance loan
amount o f the LBOD project in order to cope with immediate post flood situation. The
emergent works to restore functioning of the outfall drains (KPOD and DPOD) were executed
during the year 2004-05 inassociation with 5 Corps EngineersPakistan Army inthe following
locations:

            Weir at RD 159 of KPOD: Inorder to pass more flow in DPOD to reduce
            passing of flow of the magnitude that passed in July 2003 through KPOD,
            the weir was slashedso as to lower it by 2 ft.

                                              12


           KPOD, RD 25 to RD (-) 5: The earthwork has been carried out to restore
           Inspection Path (IP) in this reach. Also, the stone pitching inthe reach RD
           (-)5 to RD (+) 1.030 has been provided on the outer slope of the
           embankment to counter the wave action o fhighwater that may be caused by
           hightides that can come from the direction of Cholri Dhanddue to collapse
           of the Cholri weir. The site was visited on April 17, 2007 and the works
           were noticedto be inreasonably good condition.

           KPOD, RD 60 to RD 50: The earthwork has been carried out to restore
           Inspection Path (IP) in this reach. N o stone pitching has been provided on
           the outer slope of the embankment. The site was visited on April 17, 2007
           and the work was noticed to be inreasonably good condition.

        0  KPOD, RD 60 to RD 52: The earthwork has been carried out to restore
           Non-inspection Path (NIP) in this reach. No stone pitching has been
           provided on the outer slope of the embankment. The site was visited on
           April 17,2007 and the work was noticedto be inreasonably condition.

           Seerani Branch Drain RD.O.0 to RD.16: It was envisaged to restore Seerani
           Branch Drain. Also plannedwas the stone pitching along outer slope of IP
           side. The work has beencompleted.

           KPOD RD 0 to RD 84 (Both NIP &IP): The repairs to 10 pipe outlets were
           carried out.

        0  Repairs to 4 bridges at RD 27, RD 58, RD 77 and RD 84 o f KPOD were
           carried out.

           KPOD RD 0 to RD 84 (Both NIP &IP):                 16 new pipe outlets were
           constructed.


2.  Works carried out by LeftBankCanalsAWB (2005-07)

22.  Left Bank Canals AWB prepared PSDP schemes for execution during the period 2005-
07 inorder to strengthen both banks of LBOD from RD 204 to RD 159, and KPOD invarious
reaches. The status of completion as of November 08, 2007 on the awardedcontracts, when the
Consultantvisited site, i s given inTable 4.

      TABLE 4: StatusofWorks Carriedout by Left BankCanalsAWB (2005-07)
                                                              Expenditure
No.   Descriptionof Scheme                  Contract Amount    As ofEnd      Status of
                                                (Rs.M)         November     completion
                                                              2007 (Rs.M)
 1.   Earthwork for IP of KPOD RD                13.19             13.19    Work
      (-)5 to RD(-) 10, andstone                                            Completed

                                       13


                                                     Expenditure
No. Descriptionof Scheme             Contract Amount  As of End  Status of
                                         (Rs.M)      November    completion
-                                                    2007 (Rs. M)

-   pitching onouter.
2.  Earthwork for IP of KPOD RD           13.17          10.50   Work
    (-) 10to RD(-) 15, andstone                                  Substantially
    pitching on outer.                                           completed
3.  Earthwork of guide bank               16.03           0.00   Work not yet
    KPOD RD 0     - RD4,  andstone                               starteddue to
    pitching on outer and inner                                  lack of funds
    sides of the guide bank.
4.  Earthwork of guide bank               15.24           0.00   Work not yet
    KPOD RD4      - RD  8, and stone                              starteddue to
    pitching on outer andinner                                   lack of funds
    sides of the guide bank.
-
 5. Earthwork for NIP of KPOD              5.65           5.65   Work
    RD5 RD 15, andstone
          -                                                      Completed
    pitching on outer.
 6. Earthwork for NIP of KPOD             11.65          10.60   Work
    RD5 - RD0, stone pitching on                                  Substantially
    outer and constructionof 5 Nos.                              completed
    Pipe Inlets at: (i)
                      RD 1; (ii) RD
    2; (iii) (iv) RD20; and
           RD12;

-   (v) RD24.
 7. Earthwork for IP of KPOD RD           13.73          13.73   Work
    25 50, RD 60 - 85 and RD98-
       -                                                         Completed
-   108.
 8. Earthwork for IP of KPOD RD           12.18          12.18   Work
    115- 129, RD 146- 159 and                                    Completed
    stone pitching at RD23
    opposite outfall bridge of
    Lowari BranchDrain.
 9. Earthwork for NIP of KPOD             20.70          21.52   Work
    RD 15-52 andRD60-85.                                         Completed
-
10. Earthwork for NIP of KPOD             22.75          22.75   Work
    RD 85  -  159.                                               Completed
-
11. Earthwork for IP of LBOD              12.29          12.76   Work
    Spinal, RD 159-204.                                          Completed
12. Earthwork for NIP of LBOD             13.12          13.12   Work
    Spinal, RD 159-204.                                          Completed
13. Repairs to 2 bridges at RD 109         1.83            1.83  Work
-   and RD 122 of KPOD                                           Completed

                                             14


                                                                Expenditure
No.    Descriptionof Scheme              Contract Amount          As of End     Statusof
                                              (Rs.M)             November       completion
                                                                2007 (Rs.M)
 14.   Repairs to 2 bridges at RD 146             1.70                 1.70     Work
       and RD 159 o f KPOD                                                      Completed
 15.   Construction o f 5 Nos. New                1.46                 1.21     Work
       Inlet Structures along KPOD                                              completed.
 16.   Repairs o f 15 Nos. Inlet                  4.45                 4.44     Work
       Structures along KPOD                                                    completed.
 17.   Constructiono f 5 Nos. New                 1.46                 1.21     Work
       Inlet Structures along LBOD                                              completed.
 18.   Repairs o f 8 Nos. Inlet                   1.73                 1.68     Work
       Structures along KPOD                                                    completed.


23.   The InspectionPath (IP) ofKPOD and LBOD inthe reach RD(-) 15 to RD204 hasbeen
converted into bermby off-setting the IP by at least 20 feet and constructing the new IP 5 feet
above this berm. Similarly, the Non Inspection Path (NIP) o f KPOD and LBOD in the reach
RD (-) 15 to RD 204 has been raised by converting the old NIP into bermby off-setting the
new NIP by at least 20 feet and constructing the IP 5 feet above this berm. In this manner the
flow carrying capacities o f LBOD and KPOD have been increased to cater for unusual flows
similar to those that occurred in 2003 and 2006. But this has been done arbitrarily without
hydrological analysis and re-visiting operational criteria o f drains in the LBOD system to
establish the credible maximum discharge, which should be subject o f envisaged studies to be
carried out by the consultants being engaged by WAPDA. Nevertheless, the aforementioned
works which are substantially completed can stand in good stead in case o f need to cope with
unusual flows. Plates 5 and 6 show condition o f KPOD between RD 84 and RD 159. Since the
earthworkwas not compactedusing rollers but is consolidatedonly by the tractor-trolley
used to haul material,there have occurred localized erosions (gharas) in new IP and NIP
embankmentsduringthe monsoon season. Obviously, these 'gharas'needto be repaired.

                         15




Plate 5: View ofNIP of KPOD near RD 90 (Nov. 08,2007)

                                               16


24.    The Left Bank Canals AWB also prepared schemes for execution during 2006-07 in
order to re-sectionthe prism and strengthenboth banks of LBOD Spinal between RD 204 to
RD 305.5 and Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD) from RD 30 to RD 254. The status of
completion as of November 08, 2007 on these schemes, when the Consultant visited site, is
given inTable 4.

                    TABLE 5: PSDP Schemes inLeftBank CanalsAWB

No.     Descriptionof Scheme                            EstimatedCost       Statusof
                                                        (Rs.M)             Completion
1.      Re-sectioning, raising and strengtheningIP            8.23         Work Completed
        &NIP of LBOD Spinal, RD 204-220.
2.      Re-sectioning, raising and strengtheningIP            8.19         Work Completed
        &NIP of LBOD Spinal, RD 220 - 255.
3.      Re-sectioning, raising and strengtheningIP            8.14         Work Completed
        &NIP of LBOD Spinal, RD 255-270.
4.      Re-sectioning,raising and strengtheningIP             6.74         Work Completed
        &NIP of LBOD Spinal, RD270-305.5.
5.      Re-sectioning, raising and strengtheningboth          8.53         Work Completed
        banks ofMMD,RD 30-60.
6.      Re-sectioning, raising and strengtheningboth          8.58         Work Completed
        banks ofMMD,RD 60-90.
7.      Re-sectioning, raising and strengtheningboth          8.04         Work Completed
        banks of MMD,RD 90 - 120.
8.      Re-sectioning, raising and strengtheningboth          8.50         Work Completed
        banks of MMD,RD 120-150.
9.      Re-sectioning, raising and strengtheningboth          8.85         Work Completed
        banks of MMD,RD 150-180.
10.     Re-sectioning, raising and strengtheningboth          8.58         Work Completed
        banks of MMD,RD 180-200.
11.     Re-sectioning,raising and strengtheningboth           8.78         Work Completed
        banksofMMD,RD200 - 225.
12.     Re-sectioning,raising and strengtheningboth           8.84         Work Completed
        banksof MMD,RD225 -254.


25.    The Inspection Path (IP) of LBOD in the reach RD 204 to RD 305 has been converted
into bermby off-setting the IP by at least 20 feet and constructingthe new IP 5 feet above this
berm. Similarly, the Non Inspection Path (NIP) of LBOD in the reach RD 204 to RD 305 has
been raisedby converting the old NIP into bermby off-setting the new NIP by at least 20 feet
and constructing the IP 5 feet above this berm. In this manner the flow carrying capacities of
LBOD and KPOD have beenincreasedto cater for unusualflows similar to those that occurred
in2003 and2006. Similar to what has been done on KPOD andLBOD betweenRD (-)15 and
RD204, this hasbeendone arbitrarily without hydrological analysisandre-visitingoperational
criteria of drains in the LBOD system to establish the credible maximum discharge, which
should be subject of envisaged studies to be carried out by the consultants being engaged by
WAPDA. Nevertheless, the aforementionedworks which are substantially completedcan stand
in good stead in case of need to cope with unusual flows. Plates 7 and 8 show condition of
LBOD upstreamand downstreamof RD 305

                         17




Plate 7: View of LBODDownstreamofRD 305 (Nov. 08, 2007)




Plate 8: View ofLBOD UpstreamofRD305 (Nov. 08,2007)

                                                18


3.   Works Carriedout by Nara CanalAWB

26.    After the event ofApril 2006 flooding inthe area, Nara Canal AWB also prepared PSDP
schemes in order to re-section the prism and strengthen banks o f the drains in its jurisdiction;
West Nawab Shah Main Drain (WNSMD) and its sub-systems, East Nawab Shah Main Drain
(ENSMD) and its sub-drains, Sanghar Main Drain (SMD) and its sub- drains including Makhi
Branch Drain and its two sub-drains, Sinjharo Branch Drainand its sub-drains, Patoyun Branch
Drain and its two sub-drains and c. However, except for the scheme relating to Mirpurkhas
Main Drain (MMD) and its sub-drains from RD 254 to RD 365 no other scheme was
undertaken due to lack o f funds.

27.    Duringthe April 2007 mission, the Consultant visited the site of breach that occurred in
MMD between RD 350 and RD 357 due to heading up of water upstream of pipe culvert
located at RD 350. It was noted that bed clearance and repairs to banks in the reach RD 350 -
357 was in progress. Although an additional pipe had been added to the original single pipe
after the event o f 2003 flooding but it did not prevent the breach. The Consultant suggestedto
the concerned XEN and the AEN to provide further additions to the two existingpipes inorder
to prevent breach again at upstream o f this location during the impending monsoon season to
save Mirpurkhas city. During the November 2007 mission, the concerned XEN Drainage
informed that scheme relating to Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD) and its sub-drains from RD
254 to RD 365 had been completed

                                 E.     PRESENT CONDITION OF LBOD

1. LBODSpinalDrain

28.    The repair works between RD 159 to RD305 o f LBOD both on the IP side (Right Bank)
andNIP (Let Bank) are substantially completed. The Inspection Path (IP) has been converted
into berm by off-setting the IP by at least 20 feet and constructing the new IP 5 feet above this
berm. Similarly, the Non InspectionPath (NIP) inthis reach has been raised, converting the old
NIP into berm by off-setting the new NIP by at least 20 feet, constructing the IP 5 feet above
this berm. Inthis mannerthe flow carrying capacity ofLBOD inthis reach (RD 159to RD305)
has beenincreased to about 9000 cusecs to cater for the flows similar to those reported to have
occurred in2003 and 2006.

29.    There had been breaches and overtopping in the reach RD 305 to RD 480 during the
flood event o f April 2006. Thus, there i s needto re-sectionand strengthenbanksof Spinal
LBODup to RD 480 andupstream.But, due to non-provision of funds inthe 2007-08 PSDP
budget no scheme could be undertaken. Despite the fact the LBC AWB made a request for
allocating Rs. 816 million under PSDP the funds were not provided due to the fact all funds
were diverted to mitigate the devastating effect o f flooding in central Sindh on account o f 13
breachesthat occurred inFP bundnear ShahdadKot due to heavy rains

2.   KadhanPatejiOutfallDrain (KPOD)

30.    The repair works on KPOD, both on the IP side (Right Bank) and NIP (Let Bank) have
been completed between RD (-) 5 to RD 159. The Inspection Path (IP) o f KPOD in the reach
RD (-) 5 to RD 159 has been converted into bennby off-setting the IP by at least 20 feet and
constructing the new IP 5 feet above this berm. Similarly, the Non Inspection Path (NIP) has
been raisedibeing raised by converting the old NIP into berm by off-setting the new NIP by at
least 20 feet and constructingnew NIP 5 feet above this berm. Inthis manner the flow carrying

                                              19


capacity o f KPOD in the reach between RD (-) 5 to RD 159 has been increased to cater for
unusual flows similar to those that occurred in 2003 and 2006 (reportedly maximum o f over
8,000 cusecs during 2003). The KPOD is in a reasonably good condition to safely pass flows
similar to those occurred in 2003 and 2006. There i s no immediate need to carry out more
works on KPOD (except routine maintenance) until such time as the credible maximum
discharge is established by hydrological analysis and re-visiting operational criteria of
drains in the LBOD system, which studies are on-going by the consultants engaged by
WAPDA.

3. DhoroPuranOutfallDrain(DPOD)

31.   After the 2003 flood event, the weir at RD 159 o f KPOD was slashed to lower it by 2 ft
in order to pass more flow in DPOD to reduce the flow of the magnitude that passed inJuly
2003 through KPOD. Plat 9 shows the lowered weir. No significant repair work has been
carried out on DPOD itself, as none was considered emergent after flood events in 2003 and
2006. There may be need to carry out works on DPOD after the credible maximum
discharge expected to flow through it is established by hydrological analysis, re-visiting
operational criteria of drains in the LBOD system and the problem of back flows in
certain conditions and other flow retarding conditions in DPOD that do exist, which
studies are to be carried out by the consultants engaged by WAPDA.




4.   OtherMainDrains,BranchDrainsand Sub-DrainsofLBODSystem

32.   Except for closing breachesno special work is reportedto have been carried out on other
Main Drains, Branch Drains and Sub-Drains o f LBOD System after the flood event o f 2003.

                                                 20


After the flood event o f April 2006, the banks o f MMDwere repaired and strengthened both by
Nara Canal AWB and Left Bank Canals AWB in the reaches located in their respective
jurisdictions. Due to inadequate funds available for M&R, e.g. allocations o f only Rs. 4.55
million and Rs. 4.85 million were made during 2005-06 and 2006-07 respectively for surface
drains o f Nawabshah Division, all drains in this division are expected to be in need o f major
intervention to address the deferred maintenance to restore their designcapacities. The situation
inother divisions is not expected to be differentthan that ofNawabshah Division for the same
reason o fpaucity o f funds for carrying out routine maintenance.

                                   F.     FURTHERWORKS REQUIREDTO BE
                                          DONEFORSURFACEDRAINS

 1. General

33.    During the events o f flooding in 2003 and 2006, the surface drains o f the LBOD
Drainage System, for reasons stated in Sections C.1 andC.2 above hadto pass discharges much
higher than their respective safe carrying capacities. During the 2006 flood the banks o f the
drains were overtopped due to heading up o f water upstream o f pipe culvert bridges having
lesser capacity than safe carrying capacity o f the drain even at lower discharges e.g. at RD 350
o f MMD. The flooding caused breaches in the banks, water passed over berms etc. This
required not only closing o f breaches but raising and strengthening o f banks of the drains
particularly the Spinal LBOD, KPOD and MMD to cope with the discharges similar in
magnitude that occurred in2003 shouldthose occurred again.

34.    Although there had been an investment o f over 2,500 million Rupees under NDB but
most of it (70%) was incurred on the `Remodeling o f Nara Canal' and Commissioning of
Jamrao Twin Canal, 19% on the rehabilitation o f drains related to drainage systems all other
than those in LBOD System, 7% on lining o f some 200 Water Courses and 3% on the
procurement o f Electrical and Mechanical equipment for LBOD System. Out o f the eight
performance contracts awarded for O&M o f scavengerwells, interceptor drains, subsurface and
surface drains o f the LBOD Project in Sindh for 5 years, only two performance contracts were
for surface drains o f Sanghar and Nawabshah systems (total cost Rs. 82 million). Thus, the
money spent under NDB on procuring civil works (through Performance Contracts only) for
rehabilitation o f surface drains in the LBOD System was only nominal. There i s deferred
maintenance in the prisms o f drains. Until such time as the condition surveys are carried out it
is not possible to identify the areas that would be more affected when the designparameters are
exceeded. It is therefore considered appropriate to restore capacities o f all main drains, branch
drains and sub-drains as well as their banks to the designed parameters along their entire
lengths to insure safe fhctioning o f the System.

35.    As was pointed out by the POE, it is emphasized that the monitoringprogramis essential
to have a final LBOD Drainage System and Outfall System that can work according to the
identified objectives. Due to complexity o f the situation POE recommended an adaptive
approach in order to learn at the same time the structures are built. This approach needs to be
adopted to determine the nature andextent o f long term works by hydrological analysis andre-
visiting operational criteria o f drains inthe LBOD systemand the consensus o f all stakeholders
after consultation. Pursuing this approach there is need to formulate an interimplan (keepingin
view as to what has been done so far after 2003 flooding) to carry out the works necessary to
ensure a safe function o f the system, until such time as the nature andextent o f long term works
i s established by hydrological analysis and re-visiting operational criteria o f drains in the

                                               21


LBOD systemand the consensus o f all stakeholders after consultation, inventory o f the surface
drains hasbeenprepared.

36.    For preparing this interim plan, an inventory o f LBOD surface drains was compiled
initially using the information contained in an Index Plan o f LBOD provided by Director, Left
Bank Canals AWB and "Operation and Maintenance Manual, Volume 3, The Surface Drainage
System(December 1991)". The lengths ofmost o fthe drains giveninthe inventory were scaled
from the AWB map. Wherever available the design discharges o f the drains were indicated but
substantial information had to be filled in this inventory relating to respective design
discharges. Nevertheless, the information on lengths o f the drains was sufficient to prepare the
proposed plan o f rehabilitatiodrestoration o f LBOD Surface Drainage System, part o f which
has been implemented and some parts are on-going with the funds provided to SIDA under
PSDP. Later, WAPDA's office at Hyderabad was contacted again during the month o f May
2007. WAPDA provided the information that has been used to up-date the inventory. The up-
dated inventory i s given inAnnex 1.

37.    For estimating the cost o f the works required to be implemented, unit rates per RD of
each o f the three types o f the drains have been established using the costs o f the completed
works and on-going works. Inthe case o f sub-drains it was assessed that those would require
50% o f the unit cost for main drains while the branch drains would require 75% o f the unit cost
of main drains. Due to narrowing of section o f spinal LBOD upstream of RD 305, it was
assessed that the cost per unit length will be about 60% o f the cost incurred on KPOD and
LBOD main drains inthe downstream reaches. The units rates usedare: (i)     Rs. 305,400 per RD
o f LBOD in reach RD 305-815; (ii) 306,700 per RD o f other main drains such as MMD.
                                      Rs.
SMD etc.; (iii) 230,000 per RD of branch drains; and (iv) Rs. 153,350 per RD of sub-
                 Rs.
drains. The proposed plan o f rehabilitatiodrestoration o f LBOD Surface Drainage System,
prepared inJune 2007, is giveninAnnex 2, while the summary is given inTable 6.


    t-




Ccl
0 1



      +

      I


                                                23



2.   Descriptionof CivilWorks neededas per RehabilitationPlan(June 2007)

38.    DPOD: No significant repair work has been carried out on DPOD itself, as none was
considered emergent after flood events in 2003 and 2006. In order to ensure safe functioning o f
DPOD there i s need to carry out detail condition survey o f its banks and cross-sections to frame a
scheme for strengtheningo f banks and adequacy o f the prism to carry 2,000 cusecs particularly
after the slashing o f the weir at RD 159.

39.    KPOD:All works envisaged for ensuring safe passage of flows through KPOD similar to
those occurred in 2003 and 2006 have been either with funds provided under PSDP. For the
nature o f works carried out see para 23. The scheme (s) for the remaining works that relate to its 4
branch drains needto be prepared and completed by end o f year 2007-08.

40.    LBOD: The works in the reach RD 159         -  305 have been completed. For the nature of
works carried out see para 21. There i s need to re-section and strengthen banks o f Spinal LBOD
up to RD 480 and upstream. The accumulated maintenance in the 15 sub-drains and Shadi
Bahadur Branch Drain out falling directly in Spinal LBOD is also required to he addressed. The
proposedplan includes the works pertaining to these drains.

41.    Other Drains:The proposed planincludes works for other main drains, branch drains and
sub-drains inorder to re-section and strengthen banks of these drains.

42.    ImprovingOutfallSystem: Inorder to formulate a strategy to address the wide range of
challenges of dynamic problems o f LBOD Outfall Systemand achieve objective o f improving the
hnctioning of Outfall System, POE has indicated several structural alternatives in their report
including: (i) "A" Construction of a regulating structure at the junction o f KPOD andthe Tidal
Link; (ii) "B"&"C"  - - Constructiono f two control structures at the bifurcation o f the Spinal Drain,
one in KPOD and the second in DPOD; (iii)      "D"&"E"    - Measures to protect the Kotri Drains by
diversion o f the Kotri drains that enter (or all o f them as before) towards Pateji Dhand, and
possibly Mehro Dhand; and (iv) "E" - Control of Tidal Link access to the Dhands - the most
important but complex situation. Although the construction of outfall control structures to
improve functioning o f the Outfall System i s included in this plan', as the construction o f these
structures is considered necessary to arrest intrusion o f sea water and have flexible control over
flows into DPOD andKPOD, but the location o f the regulating structure at the junction o f KPOD
and the Tidal Link shouldbe determined after comprehensive and thorough studies.

43.    The cost o f total interim plan o f rehabilitatiodrestoration i s o f the order o f Rs. 1,809
million (June 2007). An amount o f Rs. 64 million were provided by WAPDA (Rs. 50 million out
o f the remaining loan amount available with them); and source o f balance amount o f Rs. 14
million i s not known. The Government o f Sindh committed Rs. 692 million under PSDP. Thus
thetotal funds committed so far are Rs. 756 million. The balance amount ofRs. 1,053 millionhas
to be ear marked from some other source. The information about availability o f funds in
GoSindh's hture budgets i s not known. As o f end of FY 2006-07, the cumulative expenditure o f
Rs. 289 million was incurred, with the maximum spending of about Rs. 123 million during FY
2006-07. It is pertinent to mention that the amount requiredduring the FY 2007-08 was Rs. 1,088
million. The envisaged expenditure of Rs. 1,088 million during FY 2007-08 seemed a large target
but could be met with proper spade work i.e. preparation of annual work plans, immediate
condition survey o f the drains by respective Drainage Divisions of the two concerned AWBs,

* Item 14inTable 6.

                                                 24


preparation of schemes, timely award o f contracts and allocation o f required amount in the
budget.

44.   N o work has been carried out during the current FY 2007-08 due to non availability of
funds. Request for special allocation and release of Rs 816 million was made to the Federal
Government. There was devastating damage in the central Sindh due to 13 breaches in FP Bund
near Shahdad Kot. Federal Government allocated Rs. 1,500 million for repairing FP bund and
mitigating damage caused elsewhere due to these breaches. Federal Government stated that no
further allocation was available beyond Rs. 1,500 million during the FY 2007-08 for Sindh
Province. As such, the request for Rs. 816 million for spending on the LBOD system was turned
down. CM, SindhDr. Arbab Rahimvisited Golarchi, Badin and Tando Bag0 on August 27,2007
and instructed desilting o f branch and tributary drains o f LBOD System inthese areas. A special
allocation o f Rs. 138 million in this regardwas made (Rs. 80 million for LBC AWB and Rs. 58
million for AWB Nara canal). However, no money has been reportedreleased so far.

45.   As aresult ofnot carrying out restoration works as envisaged inthe interimplan, there will
beneedto re-visit this planandrevise scheduling ofthe plannedworks.

                                 G.      ACTIVITIES FOR SUSTAINABLESOLUTION
                                         TO THE PROBLEMOF FLOODING

46.   The activities that needto be carried out to determine sustainable solution to the problem o f
flooding o f surface drainage system o f LBOD involve the following:

        0    Determine deficiencies in the existing LBOD Drainage System and find remedial
             measures;

        0    Carry out studies to determine the preferred revised design o f the outfall system,
             considering the alternative proposals identifiedby the World Bank POE to reduce the
             flood risk problems and the impact o f the discharge o f saline effluent; and

        0    Establish an effective O&M program for the surface drains and outfall system o f
             LBOD;

1. StudiesInitiated

47.   Government o f Pakistan approved a PC-I1 for an amount o f Rs. 41 million for carrying out
the Feasibility Studies by retaining services of consultants to identify and mitigate the problem in
LBOD Outfall and Badin Area Drainage System. WAPDA has been given the responsibility to
procure and supervise these consulting services. WAPDA has retained the services o f a joint
venture o f consulting firms to carry out the requisite studies, as per TOR described inpara 48.

48.   WAPDA prepared the TOR and sent those to SIDA and IPD for consultation. IPD arranged
a meeting on January 11, 2007, attendedby the following, to discuss and finalize these TOR:

        (i) RaisKhairMuhammadBurgari(ChairmanNCAWBMirpurkhas);
        (ii)MuhammadHashimDal(ChairmanLBCAWBBadin);
        (iii)Mr.KhairMuhammadJunejo(NotableAgriculturist);
        (iv) Major (R) Omer FarooqAhmed Khan (member LBC-AWB Badin);
        (v)    Muhammad Moosa Mehndhro (UC Nazim Bhugra Memon);
        (vi) Mr.Noor AhmedBhurgri,TalukaNazimKGM;

                                                25


      (vii) Syed Mumtaz Ali Shah, DCO Mirpurkhas;
      (viii) Mr.Allah Dito Shar, DCO Sanghar;
      (ix) Mr.Agha Aijaz Ahmed Khan, Managing Director SIDA Hyderabad;
      (x)    Mr.Atta MuhammadSoomro, ChiefEngineer,RightBank Sukkur; and
      (xi) Mr.GhulamMustafaDahri, Director NaraCanalAWB Mipurkhas.

49.  The above mentioned participants suggestedchanges in the TOR circulated by WAPDA.
The scope of work included in the approved TOR, also endorsed by participant o f the above
meeting(para 48), is as follows:

      (9     To undertake a comprehensive study, conforming to the international standards, o f
             LBOD System, must cover the following aspects.

        e    To examine the existing and required surface and subsurface water drainage
             capacity o fthe present <ystemo f LBOD outfall drains and its collector drains.

        e    The system needs to be enhanced in order to carry out taking saline and storm
             water inthe event o f maximumrains.

        e    Estimation for upcoming maximum saline effluent and storm water to be handled
             under worst scenario (historical rainfall intensity lover 300 mm rainfall) and
             evacuation o f storm water should be possible within a maximum period o f three to
             fivelthree days.

        e    To determine the deficiencies inthe systeminrelation to the desired capacity o f the
             system.

        e    The other options for disposal of the drainage effluent1 surface runoff through an
             outfall aligned in a North-south direction may also be considered, because one
             reason for failure o fthe tidal linki s its alignment inan East-West direction.

        e    To suggest the appropriate structure at suitable place and related items o f work
             necessitated to stop further scoring I intrusion o f sea water in between RD.0 to
             RD.(-)22 o f KPOD.

        e    Analysis o f the present lines/ alignments o f outfall drains and study o f pre-
             inception o f LBOD and natural drains/Dhoras and subject the best option to carry
             the stodsaline effluent smoothly into sea.

        e    Analytically determine parameters for redesigning o f the entire LBOD Stage-I
             system and maximumpermissible effluent and run-offrecommended to be handled
             by the system.

        0    Analyse financial effects o f various options highlightingthe recommended option
             inrelationto benefits.

       (ii)Re-design entire LBOD System, including outfall drains, to provide for the
             following:

                   Rainfallintensity o f 75 mmwith a return period o f 50 years.

                                                 26




               0    Rainfallintensity o f 150 mmwith a returnperiod o f 50 years.

                    Historical rainfall/ more than 300 mm.

        (iii)Prepare the PC-1 Pro-forma [as modified by the Planning Commission]
               incorporating each one o f the above mentioned options for approval and
               implementation.

        (iv)   Suggestions of stake holders may also be considered before finalizing the study for
               redesign o f LBOD system.

         (v)   Assess the damages caused to the entire LBOD system and people o f the area etc,
               due to alleged defective designing ofLBOD system.

         (vi)  The environmental aspects o f entire project may also be assessed and mitigation
               measuresmay be suggested.

         (vii) The study of disposal o f storm water into sea through Dhoro Puran Drain and
               activation o f other natural drains as source o f smooth transportation may also be
               conducted.

50.   The studies have been started. The consultants have already submitted the Inception
Report. The MidTerm i s planned for submission in January 2008 while the studies to determine
thepreferredsolution are planned for completion by endofJune 2008.

2.   Studies EnvisagedinWSIP

51.   The recently approved Project o f Water Sector Improvement Program (WSIP), which
would be implemented with the World Bank's financial assistance, among other things, "[.      ..I"
will support the preparation o f a comprehensive flood management plan for the Left Bank o f the
Indus River in Sindh including the Indus delta and coastal areas. This regional drainage master
plan, agreedwith local stakeholders during preparation o f the national Drainage Master Plan, will
encompass both surface drainage, sub-surface drainage, water logging and salinity control and
flood risk management, and will include appropriate structural and non-structural options (e.g.,
flood warning and communications, flood proofing and improved preparedness and response
systems). Planning and infrastructure management capacity will be built and the capacity of local
authorities will be strengthened. A modern, world-class knowledge base will be developed with
appropriate analytical tools and information management systems to support planning, operations
and management. The detailed design would be prepared and made ready for implementation o f
the priority works identified under the master plan under a future investment project that Sindh
may undertake with the assistanceo f its development partners"[. ..I".

3.   Needfor CoordinatingStudies

52.   The SIDA would be the primary project implementing agency for WISP. As per PAD of
WSIP, "[.  ..]"SIDA  would also be responsible for preparation o f the master plan for flood and
drainage management on the left bank o f the Indusriver and plans for delta area and costal zone
(Component C2) in coordination with other concerned provincial and federal agencies, and
collaborate in future project preparation (Component E2) and technical assistance, training and
strategic studies (component E3) "[. ..I".  There is thus need to establish coordination between

                                                 27


WAPDA and SIDA to streamline the modality o f undertaking required studies so that: (i)    there is
no duplication o f the activities among various agencies involved in studies; (ii)all studies are
coordinated at a proper level; and (iii) solutions found are acceptable to all stake holders.
                                        the

                                 H. O&MOFLBOD

1. General

53.     O&M of the surface drains in LBOD system has been below par mainly due to two
reasons; (i)inadequate funding; and (ii)    un-smooth handing over o f the system to GoSindh     -
handedover by WAPDA in 1993-94, returnedto WAPDA in 1994 and again handed over to Go
Sindh in 2002 which accepted it with reservations. Immediately after the take-over by GoSindh,
there was an unusual flooding event in 2003. From that time onwards instead of routine O&M
activities repairs and strengthening o f drain embankments are beingcarried out with O&M funds
as well as special budgeting provided by Federal Government and GoSindh. There has been no
standard operating procedure (SOP) invogue for carrying out O&M activities.

2.   WAPDA ProducedManuals

54.     The Consultants of WAPDA on LBOD Stage IProject produced procedures for O&M of
LBOD System in five (5) volumes o f the document entitled "Operation and Maintenance
Manual", Volume 3 pertains to the Surface Drainage System, which gives organization, operation
procedures, maintenance needs, equipment provide by the Project for O&M activities
(presumably also handed over to IPD, Sindh) and reporting Forms. N o annual budget estimate or
yardsticks have beenincludedsuggestedinthis Manual. The list o f equipmentavailable for O&M
activities, was supposed to be located at designated places indicated in Volume 5 o f the Manual
entitled"Equipment and Workshop". Most ofthis equipment is now reportedto be out oforder.

3.   Criteriafor O&M of Drains

55.     The procedure contained in Volume 3 o f WAPDA produced O&M Manual, however, is
different from the IPD procedure indicated by the criteria of the yardsticks for O&M of surface
drains prepared by IPD inNovember 1988, which i s as described below.

             1" surgrassing o f IP o fmain and branchdrains ina year;

             Excavation by Dragline considering that Branch Drain required bed clearance after
             every fifthyear;

             Excavation by Excavator considering that Sub Drains will require bed clearance in
             alternate year;

             Weed clearance (branch & sub-drains) considering that all categories o f drain require
             weed clearance every year as weed grows with flourish;

             Bankworks (all categories) manually by tractors considering wear and tear o f 0.5 ft
             every fifth year;

             Repair to structures @ Rs: 5OO/structures (VRB, DRB, VRC, RC, WCA, Siphon,
             SWI);

                                                  28


    (vii)    R&M of Vehicle considering 3 vehicles running 1500 K M S (1000 miles) per month
             at Rs. 3/- per K M S inclusive o fmajor and minor repair; and

    (viii)   Rs.30,000 for miscellaneous items ofworks.

56.   Based on the above criteria the yardstick o f Rs. 7,585/mile, Rs. 11,378/mile and Rs.
15,17O/mile of main drain, branch drain and sub-drain respectively had been computed on the
basis o f the then Schedule o f Rates (1988). The mile in this context means 5 R D s (5000ft). It i s
pertinent to note that this yardstick does not include the supervision charges i.e. salaries and
allowances of XENs, AENs, SENs and regular vigilance staff (Baildars, etc) required through out
the year. Also not included in this yardstick is the special additional temporary vigilance staff
required in Kharif (Monsoon) season. This is perhaps the reason for engaging `Abklani' labour
reported to be hiredat the rate o f Rs. 1,250 per month, which i s below par the minimumwages o f
Government for Grade 1 employees.

4.   Current BudgetAllocations

57.   The annual budget allocations are made without regard to any yardstick and inflation, and
are grossly inadequate. A total amount o f Rs. 9.301 million has been allocated in FY 2007-08 for
M&R of the entire LBOD system, out of which small amounts of Rs. 2.3 million and Rs. 1.3
million for LBC AWB and Nara Canal AWB respectively have been released to-date.                The
budget allocations for M&R need to be made realistic based on the prevailing Schedule o f Rates
and logicalrequirementfor carrying out proper O&M activities.

5.   RecommendedPracticeof O&M

58.   There i s need to develop improved and cost effective Standard Operating Procedures
(SOP) for O&M of surface drains o f LBOD System in the interimperiod till such time as the
LBOD System is revamped after detailed studies. This should take in to account operating
procedures so as to keep the flows indrains to as low as possible.

59.   Inaddition, the criteria for routine maintenance should be made realistic so as to keep the
drains inreasonably safe conditions to withstand effects o fpossible highflows.

60.   Before the beginning o f the fiscal year, in consultationwith the beneficiaries (FOs, District
Governments, etc.) the annual work plans for M&R should be preparedby the XEN concerned o f
the Drainage Division using the information provided by the concerned sub-engineer/AEN. These
should be basedon the unit works assumedin the approved Yardsticks or any inspection made to
establish need for special/emergent repairs. The concerned Director, AWB should approve these
annual work plans. The work plans should not be only in the form o f lists o f works but should
have objective o f carrying out M&R activities as envisaged by the unit works on which the
Yardsticks are based. This will avoid possibility o f accumulationo f M&R works incase the funds
are adequately provided.

61.   For procurement o f M&R works through contracting, there in need for timely preparation
o fbiddingdocuments and award o f contracts.

62.   The key player in supervising M&R works during execution by the contractors i s the
concerned sub-engineer. Inorder to enable the sub-engineer to frequently supervise several M&R
works simultaneously on-going (normally the case) official transport to the sub-engineer

                                                 29


(motorcycle) to visit remotely located sites should be available. AENs and XENs should also
make codal checks on the implementation o f M&R works.

6. Need for UpdatingO&MYardsticks

63.   Without changing the existing criteria for computing the O&M yardstick, as an interimstep
to provide for effective O&M activities, it is necessaryto immediately up-date the financial costs
o f O&M works taking into account the inflation. At the rate o f lO%/year, the up-dated yardstick
works out to be Rs. 42,170 /mile, Rs. 63,260 /mile and Rs. 84,340 /mile o f main drain, branch
drain and sub-drain respectively. It i s important to point out that administratively 6.5% inflation
per year is allowed but the realistic inflation works to be 10% to match the market prices. Based
on the aforementioned yardstick the annual budget requirement for each of the surface drain has
been computed, which are given in Annex 3. There shall, however, be need to revise the
criteria for computing the yardstick to include the missing items such as the cost of routine
vigilance through out the year and special vigilance during the Kharif season, and also
taking into consideration prevailing market rates to make it realistic.

                                 I. CONCLUSIONS

64.   Following conclusions are made in respect o f assessment of present condition o f LBOD
and KPOD after recent repair works, further works needed and preparation o f a detailed
maintenance plan.

            The emergent works to restore functioning o f the outfall drains (KPOD and DPOD)
            were executed during the year 2004-05 in association with 5 Corps Engineers
            Pakistan Army.

            The strengtheningofboth banks of LBOD from RD 159to RD305, and KPOD from
            RD(-)22 to RD 159was found to have beencompleted.

            The re-sectioning and strengthening o f banks o f Mirpurkhas Main Drain (MMD)
            from RD 254 to RD 365 have been completed.

            The requisite re-sectioning and strengthening o f remaining length (RD 305 to RD
            815) o f LBOD Spinal and all other main drains, branch drains and sub-drains remains
            to be undertaken.

            A total investment o f the order of Rs. 1,809 million (June 2007) is needed for
            rehabilitatiodrestorationo f surface drains o f LBOD System. So far the total funds
            committed are Rs. 756 million consisting o f an amount o f Rs. 64 millionprovided for
            emergent works in year 2004-05 that included Rs. 50 million out o f the remaining
            LBOD loan and Rs. 14 million, source unknown) and Rs. 692 under PSDP o f
            GoSindh. The balance amount o f Rs. 1,053 Million has to be ear marked from some
            source. As o f end o f FY 2006-07, the cumulative expenditure o f Rs. 289
            million was incurred, with the maximum spending of about Rs. 123 million
            during FY 2006-07. It is pertinent to mentionthat the amount required during
            the FY 2007-08 was Rs. 1,088 million. The envisaged expenditure of Rs.
            1,088 million during FY 2007-08 seemed a large target but could be met with
            proper spade work.

                                                 30


   (vi)     As the construction of an outfall control structure across KPOD is considered
            necessary to arrest intrusion o f sea water, its construction i s included in this plan. In
            view o f the huge investment involved and experience o f failure o f Cholri Weir it is
            necessaryto determine its location after comprehensive and thorough studies.

   (vii)    There is a need to find a sustainable solution to the flooding problem of surface
            drainage system o f LBOD by determining deficiencies in the existing LBOD
            Drainage System and finding remedialmeasures.

    (viii)  No Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) are invogue for carrying out proper O&M
            o f the surface drains o f LBOD System. As a result, there i s damage to drains during
            monsoon season and ad hock allocation o f meager budget for O&M activities
            compounds the problem. There i s thus need to establish a professionalO&M program
            for the surface drains andoutfall system o f LBOD that should be fully funded.

                                 J.      RECOMMENDATIONS

65.    Following actions are recommended for: (i)    ensuring safe functioning o f the system; until
such time as the nature and extent o f sustainable solution to flooding problem o f surface drainage
system of LBOD is established, (ii) O&M of the surface drains of LBOD system; and (iii)
                                       proper
find the nature and extent of sustainable solution to flooding problem of surface drainage system


            Since the earthwork in the reach RD (-) 22 to RD 159 o f KPOD and the reach RD
            305 to RD 159 o f LBOD has not been compacted using rollers but i s consolidated
            only by the tractor-trolley used to haul material, rain-cuts (`gharas') and other
            deformation inthe strengthenedbanks needto be repaired.

            GoSindh needs to ensure that adequate funds are allocated in the budget during F Y
            2007-08 and 2008-09 for implementing the schemes to re-section and strengthen
            remaining length (RD 305 to RD 815) o f LBOD Spinal drain and all other main
            drains, branch drains and sub-drains.

            Inorder to carry out re-sectioning and strengtheningof remaining length (RD 305 to
            RD 815) o f LBOD Spinal drain and all other main drains, branch drains and sub-
            drains, responsible Drainage Divisions o f the two concerned AWBs should start
            undertakingcondition survey of the drains, prepare schemes and tender documents
            for award o f contracts as soon as the funds are provided to them.

            The duplication between studies initiated by WAPDA to find a sustainable solution
            to the flooding problem o f surface drainage system o f LBOD by determining
            deficiencies in the existing LBOD Drainage System and finding remedial measures
            and those envisaged inWSIP should be sorted out. There should be clear delineation
            o fresponsibilitiesand coordinationo f WAPDA and SIDA.

            SIDA in association with AWBs should prepare Standard Operating Procedures
            (SOP) for carrying out proper O&M o f the surface drains o f LBOD System. The
            O&M Manual (in 5 Volumes) prepared by WAPDA in 1991 and criteria usedby IPD
            for computing M&R yardstick should provide the foundation to prepare the requisite
            SOP and corresponding realistic yardstick.

                                            31


(vi)  Due to ad hock allocation of meager budget for O&M activities the problem of
      damage to drains during monsoon season i s compounded. There i s thus need to
      establish a professional O&M program for the surface drains and outfall system of
      LBOD that should be fully funded.

(vii) It is necessaryto immediately up-date the financial costs of O&M works taking into
      account the inflation. At the rate o f lO%,/year, the up-dated yardstick works out to be
      Rs. 42,170 /mile, Rs. 63,260 /mile and Rs. 84,340 /mile of main drain, branch drain
      and sub-drain respectively as compared to the present yardsticks of Rs. 7,585/mile,
      Rs. 11,378/mile and Rs. 15,17O/mile of main drain, branch drain and sub-drain
      respectively.


                     32




          ANNEXURES

Available on website www.wor1dbank.org.pk


            33




         Annex 6

WorldBankResponseLetterto IRN


The World Bank                                                          1818 H Street N.W.              (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONEfRUCTlONAND DEVELOPMENT                     Washington,D.C. 20433           CableAddress: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCMTION                                      U.S.A.                          Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                           November2,2007

            Mr.Ghulam Talpur
            H# IO St. 17, F-6'3
            GPO Box No 2943
            Islamabad
            PAKISTAN

            Ms Ann-Katherin Schneider
            InternationalRiversNetwork (IRN)
             1847 Berkley Way
            Berkley CA 94702
            U.S.A.


            Dear Mr. Talpur and Ms. Schneider,

                                             Subject: Pakistan National Drainage Program


            Thank you for taking the time to meet with the me and my colleagues in Washingtonon October 18th, and
            for the frank discsissionon the follow up that the Requestersand IRNare conductingofthe Bank's Action
            Plan in response to the National DrainageProgram(NDP) InspectionPanelcase. We welcomethe role that
            you can play in nlonitoring progressonthe ground in the implementationofthe Action Planand would like
            to maintainopen channels of communication with you.

            We would like to provide some clarifications with regardto the issues discussed in the meeting, many of
            which were also raised in the brochure, "ShatteredLfe, Broken Promises",which you provided to us when
            we met, and which we understandhas been circulatedto selectedpartieswithin the Bank and members of
            the Board.

            1.        "TheAction Plan does not address the root causes of the disaster in Sindh, which is thefad&
                      design of the Lefr Bank Oulfall Drain (LBOD) drainagedisposalsystem"

            We understandthat you are concernedthat while!the Action Plan includesa numberof actionsthat will
            benefit the communities and address some oftheir concerns, until suchtime as the fundamental structureof
            the Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) drainage system is addressed, the people inthe area will be at risk of
            flooding, andthat you do not see any actionsto address this fundamentalissue.

            The LBOD projectwas implementedfrom 1984to 1997. Internationallyand locally recognized
            engineeringandconsultancy firms were hired to study irrigation anddrainage problemsaffecting the area
            and make recommendations on how to address these issues. At that time, the LBODlTidal Link
            arrangement was determinedby the relevant authorities in Pakistanto be the most appropriatesolution. As
            a result, millions of peoplebenefitedfrom reclaimingand cultivating formerly barrenland. It is also clear
            that poverty and cnvironmentalissues cover a wide entire coastal area. This is a large, highly complex and
            interrelatedphysical system with long-standingsocialand environmental issues.

            In this context, it is prudentto resist going for quick fixes or actingon the basis ofanecdotal evidence.
           There are a number of engineeringsolutions that havebeen suggestedfor the longerterm drainage issues in
            LBOD. As you agreed in the meeting, it would be unwisefor the authoritiesto prematurelyimplementany
            aii? of th?solutionswithim 3deq1131~study nndconsultnlion. Oneofthi. benefitsfrcini NDP wns thc
           development of a new more participatoryand integrated approachto the planning of drainage solutions.


                                               RCA 248423. UWUI 64145 UIFAX (202) 477-6391

Mr.Ghulam Talpur                                       -2-                                  November2,2007


The Acton Plan includes(funded through the Sindh Water Sector ImprovementProject -WSIP) a careful
review of complex hydrological, environmental,and socialaspects as a basis for decision-makinggoing
forward. It would be prematureto include in the Action Planat this stage any specific solution to this issue.
It is our expectationthat after the relevant studies havebeen completed, and the various stakeholders
consulted, the relevantPakistaniauthoritieswill decide on a suitable arrangement for the long term
drainageneeds for the Left Bank.

 Inthe interim, the Action Plan includes short term measuresto mitigate flooding risks and their impact in
the area, as discussedbelow.

2.        "Thevulnerabiliry of the villagersin the LBOD affected areas has not been reduced"

Vulnerability is a chronic problem in this flood-pronearea and cannot be eliminated inthe short term. A
number of measureshave howeverbeencompletedunder the Action Plan, which are already having an
impact in reducingthe level of vulnerability: These include:

           The Badin Local Governmenthas developeda Flood Managementscheme and a Contingency
           Plan. This mainly comprises "soft" flood management and information actions to warn people of
           pendinbfloods and to mitigate their impact;
           The breaches in the drainage system causedby cyclones (in 2003 and 2006) have beenrepaired;
           The flow capacity ofthe outfall drains has beensignificantly enhancedfrom 4,400 cusecs to
           9,000 cusecs by widening the drain, and strengthening andraising its banks, and the Government
           is continuously working on strengtheningthe banksto avoid flooding in the vicinity of drains;
           and
           The managementresponsibilitieswith respectto the monitoring and operationo fthe irrigation
           and divmion system has beenagreedbetweenSIDA, Governmento f Sindh and WAPDA.

3.        "Thelivelihoodprogramof theAction Plan does not target theaffected villagesand they
          received only one-thirdof thetotalfinancialassistance offered"

The livelihoodscomponent is not limited to any specific area, but has beendesigned to address livelihood
issues in the coastal area where poverty is pervasiveand severe. One ofthe positive outcomes from the
InspectionPanel Drocesswas to increaseawareness ofthe extreme povertyand difficult living conditions
alongthe whole ofthe coastal area. Hencethe broad design ofthis program. However, we have also
committedto ensure that an appropriateamount ofresourcesfrom this programgoes to the villages in close
proximity to the LBOD infrastructureand to the Dhands.Ofthe 336 projectsthat have been approvedby
the Poverty Alleviation Fund(PAF), about 1 13 are located in the villages of the Tehsils of Badin, Golarchi,
Tando Bago and Diplo surroundingthe Dhands, the Tidal Link and the KPOD area, consistent with the
overall approach beingpursuedby the program. A mapshowingapproximatelocationsof projectsis
attached.A list ofthese projects, with the village name and the partner NGO, is also attached.

4.        "Theecologicalcomponent of theproject, thedhandstudy, isinadequate and has not been
          completed"

The Dhand Study is about two months behind schedule. Initial delays were incurred in an effort to have
consultations on the Terms of Reference(TOR) with the various partnersand in putting inplacecontractual
arrangements.The field work is now completedand the report for the study is due end ofNovember2007.
The purpose of the study is to better understandthe socio-ecologicaldynamicsof the area and how it fits in
the overall schernt of the functioning o fthe drainage andtidal system. As noted below, this work has been
conducted with sirong participation ofthe people living close to these dhands. You noted in our meeting
that this was just the study, andasked why we did not includeengineeringsolutionsto alter the water flows
and returnthe fresh water balance back to the dhands.For similar reasons as set out above, it would be
imprudentto conmit to a particular engineeringsolutionabsent these backgroundstudies and the overall
view o f the drain.iy6 of the Left Rank.

Mr.GhulamTalpur                                        -3-                                    November2,2007


5.        "TheAction Plan was notprepared in consultation with the Requesters"

In additionto numerousvisits to the area by both Management and the Task Team, all of which included
discussions with affected communities,a specific meetingwas organizedon September20,2006 in
Karachito discus ithe main elements of the Action Planand gather comments with the Requesters.The
meetingwas chai-edby the Additional Chief SecretaryGovernmentof Sindh. Mr. Talpur was invited to the
meetingbut as he notedwhen we met, he was not able to attend. Sincethe Inspection Panel Report hadnot
been discussedby our Board, andthe Action Planthus hadnot yet beenapproved, the Bank hadno
authority to disclose or formally discusseither document at that stage. Nevertheless, the meeting
constructively discussed the main issues and the areas ofpossibleintervention.

6.        "TheAction Plan isnot being Implemented in consultation with the affected people"

One ofthe importantelements ofthe Action Plan is the livelihoods component, which is being
implemented through the PAF. The PAF works throughPartner Organizations(mostly NGOs) with an
establishedmethodology that builds on social mobilization and Community Driven Development.Partner
Organizationswork in direct consultationwith the various communitiesto developand implement
projects.Anotherimportant component of the Action Plan is the DhandStudy. In conductingthe underlying
ecologicaland livelihood assessments, 13 workshops were carriedout betweenJuly and September 2007 in
some 57 villages locatedin the vicinity of the Dhandswith 553 registeredparticipants.As notedabove, the
background studi:s for the long term drainage needs of the Left Bank also have a significant participatory
component.

7.        "The WSIPproject has a different focus than the LBOD/NDPproject and targets different
         issues"

The WSlP project was designed to have a broader focus on water management issues in Sindh and not
solely to address LBOD or Tidal Link relateddrainage issues. However,since the project was being
prepared at the same time as the Action Plan, it was agreed to include in the WSlP the studies neededto
preparea master dan for the area on the Left Bank ofthe Indus, the delta and the coastaIzone which would
help inexaminingstructuralandnon-structuraloptionsto address drainage issues. The project has now
beenapproved by the Board in line with what was agreed under the Action Plan.

We intendto report back to our Boardon progress in implementingthe Action Plan in lateNovemberor
early Decemberc.fthis year. After discussion with the Board, our status report will be postedon the Bank's
Pakistan Sindh Water website.

We remainavailable for further clarifications and discussions concerningimplementationofthe Board
appriwed ACtiLsJi Plan. For your information we are also postingthis letteT on our web site, with a link to
our report. In view of its interestinthis matter, we are also copyingthis letter to the Chair of the Inspection
Panel, and will be copying members ofour Boardon a case by case basis, should they have any questions
about the issues raisedin your report.


                                                                     fF-
                                                                    Sincerely,



                                                                   Jo   Roome
                                                                Operat&    Director
                                                                South Asia Region



cc:      Werner ilzne, Chairperson, Inspectioni%imd
         Shuja Shah, World Bank ExecutiveDirector for Pakistan



3

I




 D


