INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                                        1818HStreet, N.W.        Telephone. (202) 458-5200
                                                            Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                            U.S.A                    Email.ipanel@worldbank.org



     EdithBrownWeiss
     Chairperson

                                                                               IPNREQUEST RQ04/5

                                                                                September 17,2004


         MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES OF THE
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                     SUBJECT: Requestfor Inspection
                        PAKISTAN: NationalDrainageProgramProject
                                        (Credit No. 2999-PAK)


             Please be advised that on September 10, 2004, the Inspection Panel (the `Panel')
     received a Request for Inspection (the `Request') related to the above-mentioned Project. The
     Panel registered the Request for Inspection inthe Panel's Register on September 17, 2004, as
     provided inparagraph 17 o f the Panel's Operating Procedures. It also delivered a copy of the
     Request to the President of IDA pursuant to paragraph 17 o f the IDA Resolution that
     established the Panel. Enclosed for your informationare:

             (1) a copy o f the Notice o f Registration; and
             (2) a copy o f the transmittal Memorandumto the President.




     Enclosures

    INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
    INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
    THE INSPECTIONPANEL                              1818 HStreet, N.W.                  Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                     Washington, D.C. 20433              Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                     U.S.A.                              Email:ipanel@worldbank.org




     IPNREQUEST RQ04/5



                                                                                      September 17,2004




                               NOTICEOFREGISTRATION



                                   Re: Requestfor Inspection
                    PAKISTAN: NationalDrainageProgramProject
                                     (Credit No. 2999-PAK)



On September 10, 2004, the Inspection Panel (the `Panel') received a Request for
Inspection, dated September 9, 2004 (the `Request') related to the above-referenced
Project. The Request was submitted by Khadim Talpur, Mohammad Ali Shah, Mustafa
Talpur, Munawar Hassan Memon, Iqbal Hyder, Mir Mohammad Buledi, and Najma
Junejo on their own behalf and on behalf of "others who live in the area known as district
Badin, Sindh Pakistan" inthe IndusRiver Basin.'

The Requesters claim that they have suffered, or are likely to suffer, "material harm and
losses of livelihood' as a result of the above-referenced Project which is partly financed by
an International Development Association (IDA) Credit of US$285 million equivalent.

According to the Development Credit Agreement, "[tlhe objective of the Project is to
assist the Borrower and the Provinces in implementing the first phase of the National
Drainage Program [NDP], which is designed to restore environmentally-sound irrigated
agriculture, inter alia, through the minimization of saline drainable surplus and the
eventual evacuation of all saline drainable surplus to the sea, and to that end: (a) to
promote the carrying out of policy and institutional reforms in the water sector; (b) to
strengthen drainage and irrigation research and sector planning capabilities; and (c) to




 The Request was received electronically. Prior to Registration, the Panel received a hard copy of the
Request with over 2,000 original signatures.



                                                                                                            1

finance investments in drainage and irrigation infrastructure."2 The Project has three
 components: (i)    drainage and irrigation institutional reforms; (ii)       drainage and irrigation
 research and sector planning; and (iii)       drainage and irrigation infrastructure investment
 projects, covering over 5 million hectares.

 According to the Request, more than 50 villages inthe district Badin, SindhProvince, will
 suffer the permanentthreat o f flooding from the disposal of upstream saline effluents ifthe
 existing Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD) system - which they allege i s faulty is further    -
 expanded under the NDP. The Requesters claim that the "overflowing, breaches, and sea
 intrusion during 2003 rains" have already caused the death o f 30 people, damaged
 thousands of houses, and destroyed thousands of acres of agricultural crops.

 The Requesters allege that the Project did not take into consideration the possible
 displacement o f people caused by overflowing o f the drainage system during monsoon
rainy seasons. They further claim that they already "sacrijked" land during the
 construction o f LBOD and that the expansion o f drains under the NDP will entail the
 `(forceful acquisition of land," which "will ruin our livelihood base."

 They also claim that the National Surface Drainage System (NSDS), which is "centered on
the northwards extension of the LBOD as a spinal drain," and the use o f the disposal
 system through the Tidal Link is not sustainable, because the Tidal Link's failure has
already caused the loss of thousands o f acres o f land. The Requesters further state that the
"super engineering ideas [that] have been usedagainst the naturalflows" are causing them
harm, while the "alternate project options or disposal systems, which are historical
natural disposal systems, have been ignored."

The Requesters claim that "[tlheproposed drainage network will badly affect the already
degraded environment of Indus Delta." They state that the absence o f fresh water, whichi s
essential for coastal forests and marine life, and the disposal of "toxic drainage efluents
will destroy the remaining resources of marine fisheries and mangrove forests." The
Requesters further state that the drainage effluent contains not only saline sub-soil water
but also residual traces of pesticides, fertilizer, and industrialwaste accumulated along the
way.

The Requesters claim that because of the effect of tidal flows from the sea, the flow of
effluent inthe drainage systemis blockedtwice ineach daily cycle, andthat this blockage
causes the effluent to seep into both sides o f the Kadhan Pateji Outfall Drain (KPOD) up
to a distance o f RD110 (110,000 feet),3 which "negatively effects [sic] ground water
quality, which is a single drinking source, thus causingsevere impact on human health."

The Requesters claim that the NDP will cause the destruction o f two Dhands (coastal
wetlands), the Narreri lagoon and the Jubho lagoon, which are protected by the Ramsar
Convention on Wetlands o f International Importance for their "signijkancefor migratory
birds and other signipcant biodiversity and ecosystem values." The Requesters state that
Pakistan is a party to the Ramsar Convention, and allege that the Project violates Bank

* Development  Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic o fPakistan and the International
Development Association. December 16, 1997.Schedule 2.
3 According to the Request, ReducedDistance is measuredat one RD=lOOO feet.



                                                                                                    2

 Policy because it disregards Pakistan's "requirements under international environmental
 treaties and agreements." They further consider that the failure of the Tidal Link and the
 Choleri weir (an 1800 feet long concrete-crested weir along the Choleri Dhand) to
 moderate water levels "has caused severe damage to the ecosystem, habitat and fish
 catch" o f these Dhands and adversely affected the "livelihood resources to the forty
 villages of jshermen having a 12000-I5000 population and living around these water
 bodies.''

 According to the Requesters, the majority of the coastal communities belong to the
Mallah, which they assert are classified as "indigenous people" with a close attachment to
 ancestral territories and a distinct identity. The Requesters state that these people, who live
 in more than 60 villages and have a population of 25,000, are "marginalized and
 vulnerable." They also state that the Mallah are "engaged in jshing at both sea and
 contiguous wetlands" and will be adversely affected by the Project. Furthermore, the
Requesters claim that this community has suffered"sign2iJicantchanges in the lives of [its]
people," specifically during a cyclone in 1999 and monsoonrains during 2003, and that in
both events the Tidal Link and KPOD "inundated their villages, damaged houses and
somefamilies even lost theirfamily members."

The Requesters claim that the districts of Thatta and Badin "have been a rich cultural
location due to the vicinity of sea as well as the Indus Delta." They state that the Tidal
Link and KPOD are already affecting very important sites in Badin, including "the
monuments of saint Shaikh Kirhiyo Bhandari, the historical site of Roopa Mari and thari,
these both sites were the important town of the dynasty of Soomra ruler in Sindh (IO51 to
1351)." They also state that "[tlhe KPOD isjustpassing through the ident2iJied 4 km area
of Roopa Mari, where the soomra rulers have their capital. The tomb of Dodo Soomro the
last ruler of Soomradynasty is also located there." The Requesters also claim that "[s]ome
of these archeological sites have been explored and other has been just identiJied by
several historians and archeologists." The Requesters fear that, as a result o f the Project,
what remains o f the cultural and historical sites of the Soomra dynasty will be destroyed.

The Requesters claim that the "local communities, and especially the affected people of
coastal belt, have been kept entirely unaware about the plans of NDP and its
environmental assessments." They further state that the Project "planning process
remained the business of a few bureaucrats and donors while project implementation
remained non-transparent and hence failed to obtain informed consent or meaningfiul
participation since the inception." The Requesters claim that they "were entirely unaware
of the NDP until the rains of 2003, when they were informed that more effluents would be
added to the existing LBOD system." They also claim that they have protested "since the
inception of the project" and have "attempted several times to approach local
implementing agencies as well as World Bank oficials to discuss [their] concerns
regarding NDP," but that they havereceivedno response.

Finally, the Requesters call for "the World Bank Inspection Panel [to] undertake an
independent investigation into the policy violations in this project and recommend, in
consultation with affected people, measures for bringing it into compliance and for
correcting the harm that has been caused by policy violations."




                                                                                               3

The Requestersclaim that "the Bank hasfailed to observe or has otherwise violated"
various provisions of its own operational Policies and Procedures, including:

        OD 4.01                         EnvironmentalAssessment
        OP 4.04                         Natural Habitats
        OD 4.20                         Indigenous People
        OD 4.30                         InvoluntaryResettlement
        OPN 11.03                       Management of Cultural Property

All communications with the Requesters in connection with the Request will be sent until
furthernoticeto Mr.MustafaTalpur at the addresseslistedbelow.

In accordance with paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures (the `Operating
Procedures'), Iam notifying you that Ihave, on September 17, 2004, which i s also the date
of the dispatch of this notice, registeredthis Request inthe Inspection Panel Register.

In accordance with paragraph 18 of the IDA Resolutions that established the Panel (the
`Resolution'), paragraphs 2 and 8 of the "Conclusions of the Board's SecondReview of the
Inspection Panel" (the `1999 Clarifications'), and paragraph 18 (d) of the Operating
Procedures, Bank Management must provide the Panel, no later than October 19, 2004,
with written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply, with the Bank's relevant
policies and procedures inrelation to the above-referenced Project. The subject matter that
Management must deal with in a response to the Request i s set out in paragraphs 3 and 4
of the 1999 Clarifications.

After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 [of the Resolution] and
shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should
be investigated."

The Requesthas been assignedIPNRequestNumber RQ04/5.


                                     Yours sincerely,




                                   EdithBrownWeiss
                                       Chairperson




                                                                                            4

Mr.Mustafa Talpur
C/O ActionAid Pakistan
H# 10,St. 17,F-813
IslamabadPakistan

Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
President
International Development Association
Room MC12-750

The Executive Directors and Alternates
InternationalDevelopment Association




                                          5


 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                        1818 HStreet, Y W       Telephone (202) 458-5200
                                                            Washington, D C 20433   Fax (202) 522-0916
                                                                                    Email ipanel@worldbankorg

 EdithBrownWeiss
 Chairperson




                                                                        IPNREQUEST RQ04/5

                                                                          September 17,2004


                      MEMORANDUMTO THEPRESIDENTOF THE
                THE INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION




                                   Requestfor Inspection
                    PAKISTAN: NationalDrainageProgramProject
                                   (Credit No. 2999-PAK)



        In accordance with paragraph 17 of IDA Resolution that established the InspectionPanel
(the `Resolution') and paragraph 17 of the Inspection Panel's Operating Procedures (the
 `Operating Procedures'), Ihereby notify you that on September 10, 2004, the Inspection Panel
(the `Panel') received a Request for Inspection (the `Request') related to the above-referenced
Project.

        IhaveonSeptember17,2004,whichisalsothedateofthedispatchofthisnotice,
registered the Request in the Inspection PanelRegister. Enclosedare:

        1. copy of the Notice of Registration; and
        2. copy of the Requestfor Inspection

       In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the
"Conclusioizs of the Board`s Second Review of the Inspection Panel" (the `1999 Clarifications'),
and paragraph 18 (d) of the Operating Procedures, Bank Management i s hereby notified that it
must provide the Panel, no later than October 19, 2004, with written evidence that it has
complied, or intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies and procedures in relation to the
above-referenced Projects. The subject matter the Management must deal with in a response to
the Requestis set out in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the 1999 Clarifications.

        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 of the Resolution, "detemzine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be investigated."

        The Request has been assignedIPNRequest Number RQ04/5.




                                                  c          i



Enclosures:

 Request for Inspection
 Notice of Registration


TO:     Mr.James D.Wolfensohn
        President
       International Development Association
       RoomMC12-750

        [by hand against confirmation]

CC:    The ExecutiveDirectors andAlternates
       International DevelopmentAssociation




                                             2

