                                                  Document of
                                               The World Bank




                                                                                    Report No: ICR0000372



                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                                  (IDA-29990)

                                                      ON A

                                                     CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 198.4 MILLION
                                  (US$ 126.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                        TO

                                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                                      FOR A

                                   NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROJECT


                                                  May 18, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Pakistan Country Unit
South Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank Group authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)                At ICR (December 2006)
      At Appraisal (September 1997)                       US$1 = Rs 60.97
      US$1 = Rs 40.62


                              FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER

                                        1 July to 30 June

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

Abiana      Water Charges                         IRC        Institutional Reform Consultants
ADB         Asian Development Bank                IWASRI     International Waterlogging and Salinity
                                                             Research Institute
AWB         Area Water Board                      JBIC       Japan Bank of International Cooperation
Borrower    Government of Pakistan                km         kilometre
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy           LBOD       Left Bank Outfall Drain
DMP         Drainage Master Plan                  M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
DSEA        Drainage Sector Environmental         Ma         Million Acres
            Assessment
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment       MTR        Mid-term Review
EPA         Environmental Protection Agency       MW&P       Ministry of Water and Power
ERR         Economic Rate of Return               NCB        National Competitive Bidding
FGW         Fresh Groundwater                     NWFP       North West Frontier Province
FLAR        Framework for Land Acquisition        O&M        Operation and Maintenance
            and Resettlement
FO          Farmers' Organization                 OECF       Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
                                                             (Japan)
FPCC        Federal Project Coordination          OFWM-      On-Farm Water Management Directorate
            Committee
FPSC        Federal Project Steering Committee PA            Participating Agency
GCA         Gross Commanded Area                  PAD        Provincial Agriculture Department
GOP         Government of Pakistan (the           PID        Provincial Irrigation Department
            Borrower)
Government Federal or Provincial Government       PIDA       Provincial Irrigation and Drainage
                                                             Authority
IBIS        Indus Basin Irrigation System         PIM        Participatory Irrigation Management
ICB         International Competitive Bidding     RBM        River Basin Management
ICR         Implementation Completion Report      SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
IDA         International Development             SGW        Saline Groundwater
            Association
IDC         Interest during Construction          WAPDA      Water and Power Development Authority
IPOE        International Panel of Experts

              Vice President:                Praful Patel
              Country Director:              Yusupha B. Crookes
              Sector Director:               Constance Bernard, SASSD
              Sector Manager:                Adolfo Brizzi, SASSD
              Task Team Leaders:             Manuel Contijoch, SASSD,
                                             Usman Qamar, SASSD




                                               ii

                                                    PAKISTAN

           NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM (NDP) PROJECT

                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                       (IDA Credit 2999-PAK)


                                       TABLE OF CONTENTS


Abbreviations and Acronyms.................................................................................................ii

1. Project Data ......................................................................................................................... 1

2. Principal Performance Ratings.......................................................................................... 1

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry................ 2

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs ............................................................................ 4

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome............................................... 12

6. Sustainability ..................................................................................................................... 13

7. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance........................................................... 14

8. Lessons Learned................................................................................................................ 15

9. Partners' Comments ......................................................................................................... 16

10. Additional Information................................................................................................... 17



ANNEXES

1. Key Performance Indicators ........................................................................................... 20

2. Project Costs and Financing............................................................................................ 27

3. Economic Costs and Benefits .......................................................................................... 30

4. Bank Inputs....................................................................................................................... 36

5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components................................ 38

6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance................................................................ 38

7. List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................................ 39

8. Borrower's Report ........................................................................................................... 41


Map #: IBRD 27854




                                                               iii

Project ID: P010500                                                    Project Name: National Drainage Program
                                                                       Project

Team Leader: Manuel Contijoch                                          TL Unit: SASAR/SASSD

ICR Type: Core ICR                                                     Report Date: May 8, 2007




1. Project Data

               Name: National Drainage Program (NDP) Project                   L/C/TF Number: Cr. 2999-PAK
 Country/Department: Pakistan/South Asia Sustainable Development                        Region: South Asia
    Sector/sub-sector: Agriculture/Irrigation & Drainage


KEY DATES
                                                                             Original             Revised/Actual
            PCD:      05/21/1993                                Effective:   03/16/1998           02/25/1998
         Appraisal    10/25/1995                                   MTR:      04/07/2000           04/06/2001
          Approval    11/04/1997                                Closing:     12/31/2004           12/31/2004


          Borrower/Implementing Agency:        Government of Pakistan ­ Water and Power Development
                                               Authority (WAPDA) and four Provincial Governments
                          Other Partners:      Asian Development Bank; Japan Bank for International
                                               Cooperation (JBIC)


STAFF                               Current                             At Appraisal
Vice President:                     Praful Patel                        Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager:                    John Wall                           Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager:                     Adolfo Brizzi                       Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:                 Manuel Contijoch                    M.J. Wambia
ICR Primary Author                   Manuel Contijoch and Usman Qamar1

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                                                   Outcome: Unsatisfactory
                                             Sustainability: Uncertain
                         Institutional Development Impact: Modest
                                         Bank Performance: Unsatisfactory
                                    Borrower Performance: Unsatisfactory

                                                           QAG (if available)            ICR
                                       Quality at Entry: Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory
                          Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes




1Draft ICR was prepared by FAO/CP--Team lead by Mr. Azad Azad with the participation of Messrs. Fernando
   Gonzalez and Aslam Rasheed.


                                                           1

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1     Background

3.1.1   The drainage crisis. The Indus Basin has flat topography, porous soils, and semi-arid climate
with high evaporation. In such an environment, irrigation without drainage leads inevitably to rising
water tables and eventual salinity. An effective drainage system is essential to sustain
environmentally-sound irrigated agriculture. Yet even under these circumstances, it is possible, and
economically rational, to postpone the provision of drainage while expanding the irrigation network.
This is what Pakistan had chosen to do. Unlike the irrigation network, which is contiguous, Pakistan's
drainage network was by sharp contrast scanty and not interconnected. Much of the drainage effluent
was either retained in the basin or disposed into the rivers and canals. The consequence of operating a
vast and interconnected irrigation system for decades without adequate drainage had been the gradual
rising of the water table and associated salinity. By the 1960s, the loss of agricultural land to water
logging and salinity substantially exceeded the amount of new land brought under irrigation expansion
schemes during the same period. Water logging and salinity became the principal threats to the
sustainability of irrigated agriculture in Pakistan with 37.6 percent of the Gross Commanded Area
(GCA) waterlogged2, of which 15 percent was severely waterlogged3. And, 14 percent of the surface
was saline4, of which 6 percent was severely saline5.

3.1.2   Impact of Water logging and Salinity. The rise of groundwater table to near the surface in
saline groundwater (SGW) areas, and the consequent soil salinization became serious environmental
problems. The impact of salinity on agricultural productivity was severe: a 25 percent reduction in the
production of Pakistan's major crops was attributed by many experts and the Borrower to soil salinity
alone. In the Sindh Province where the problem was much more severe, the Borrower estimated that
the impact was closer to 40-60 percent in SGW areas. The critical threshold at which salinity begins
to affect the productivity of agricultural land varies by crop. Similarly, the impacts of waterlogging on
yields are startling. High groundwater tables inhibit root growth and reduce yields. As the depth to
water table decreases to within 5 feet, yields of all major crops begin to decline rapidly. At 0 to 0.8
feet depth-to-water table, yields are only 2 percent of the normal for cotton, 9 percent for sugar, and 21
percent for wheat. In addition, there are serious environmental and poverty impacts associated with
water logging and salinity.

3.2     Original Objective:

3.2.1   The goal of the NDP Project was to implement the first phase of the Government of Pakistan`s
(GOP's) National Drainage Program, which was designed to minimize saline drainable surplus water
and thereby facilitate the eventual evacuation of all saline drainable surplus water from the Indus
Basin to the Arabian Sea, thus restoring environmentally sound irrigated agriculture in Pakistan.

3.2.2   The objectives of the project were to improve the efficiency of the irrigation and drainage
system in Pakistan, and ensure its sustainability by: (i) establishing an appropriate policy environment
and institutional framework, and strengthening the capacity of sector institutions (i.e. carrying out the
first phase of policy and institutional reforms in the water sector); (ii) improving sector policies and
planning; (iii) strengthening the technical foundations and knowledge base of irrigation and drainage;
and (iv) improving the irrigation and drainage infrastructure.

3.2.3   The project was in line with GOP's 8th Five-Year Plan (1993-1998) for the water sector, which
emphasized protection of agricultural lands against the onslaught of water logging and salinity. In


2       Water table shallower than 10 feet. The critical threshold at which the water table begins to affect the productivity
        of agricultural land is about 8 feet.
3       Water table shallower than 5 feet. Irrigated agriculture is only marginally viable at this water table.
4       Electrical conductivity of 8-15 ECe.
5       Electrical conductivity of above 15 ECe.


                                                             2

doing so the project sought to support the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective of reducing
poverty, in rural areas affected by water logging and salinity. The project also sought to implement
GOP's Irrigation and Drainage Strategy formulated in 19946 that envisaged establishing an efficient
and self-sustaining irrigation and drainage service delivery system.

3.2.4    While the objectives were clear and central to socioeconomic development, they were overly
ambitious. The project scope was also overly ambitious. Firstly, achieving the stated objectives
entailed major governance, policy and institutional reforms and the transformation of a century-old
irrigation governance system. Government water institutions in Pakistan (both at the Federal and
Provincial levels) had not made the transition from the era of development and construction to the era
where management of resources and services is the primary challenge. The formal service delivery
structures for irrigation were exclusively large public sector agencies, which operated with little
accountability to their users, and with little transparency. While starting the transition away from this
old model to modern service delivery architecture was a high priority, accomplishing this within the
life of a six year project, which also sought to support major investments in infrastructure, was a
daunting task. The SAR correctly identified some project risks, but mitigation measures provide to be
inadequate or too late. Methods for implementing key steps proved neither effective nor robust, being
easily by-passed; and assessment of institutional preparedness was over-optimistic.

3.3      Revised Objective:

3.3.1    There was no revision of project objectives, which remained unchanged.

3.4      Original Components:

3.4.1    The project had four components as articulated in the staff appraisal report (SAR).

        (i) Sector Planning and Research (US$26 million - 3.3% of total project cost).

        (ii) Institutional Reforms (US$57.7 million - 7.4% of total cost) of the Water and Power
              Development Authority's (WAPDA) Water Wing, and four Provincial Irrigation
              Departments. Despite the relatively small financial allocation this component was
              intended to be the most important of the project.

        (iii) Investments (US$683 million - 87% of total) in (a) off-farm drainage; (b) on-farm
              drainage including surface and tile drains, improvement of watercourses (2000), and
              transfer of existing tubewells to beneficiaries; (c) rehabilitation/modernization of
              irrigation systems; (d) O&M through performance contracts with the private sector; and
              (d) preparation of investment projects.

        (iv) Program Coordination and Supervision (US$18.5 million - 2.3% of total) involving
              establishment of: (a) an overall program coordination and monitoring unit (i.e. Federal
              Project Steering Committee); and (b) WAPDA and Provincial NDP cells.

3.5      Revised Components:

3.5.1    While there was no formal revision of the project components, the scope of the investment
component, was substantially curtailed and the nature of drainage investments was limited to
rehabilitation (with few new investments), primarily because the implementing agencies were
reluctant to comply with the Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement (FLAR) agreed as part
of the project. The emphasis of the project also shifted towards irrigation investments and one large
canal remodelling projects was included in the project. Substantial amounts ($146.7 Million) from the


6        The strategy is summarized in Report No. 11884-PAK: Pakistan Irrigation and Drainage: Issues and Options; The
World Bank, March 25, 1994.


                                                         3

IDA Credit and the ADB loan were diverted to the Drought Emergency Recovery Assistance (DERA)
program.

3.5.2    The SAR monitoring indicators were inadequate to determine progress, particularly on
institutional development. This reflects a lack of good Bank-wide guidance on appropriate indicators
for the sector and for institutional development objectives. For this project, baseline values and better
indicators were needed not only for physical progress (e.g. number of farmer organizations
established), but also on the "software" aspects of the reform (e.g., changes in performance standards
by project organization).

3.6      Quality at Entry

3.6.1        Overall quality at entry is considered unsatisfactory. While the project incorporated
lessons from past drainage projects in Pakistan and advocated a "programmatic approach" as opposed
to a "project approach" to drainage investments with a view to providing more flexibility in
implementation, the overall project design was overly complex and ambitious and had several
shortcomings. Firstly, the strategy of seeking to dispose the saline drainage effluent to the Arabian sea
precluded focus on evolving solutions based on integrated irrigation and drainage management and
identification of options for local disposal of drainage effluents (e.g. evaporation basins). This mode of
drainage disposal was played down based on the experience under poorly designed and located
evaporation ponds under one past project (SCARP VI).             Successful experience elsewhere (e.g.
Australia) was not taken into account and formulation of incentives for drainage management did not
receive attention. Secondly, seeking to move forward an agenda of policy and institutional reforms as
well as investments simultaneously in four provinces (each with widely varying degrees of absorptive
capacity and commitment to the reforms) and in WAPDA, was a tall order. In retrospect, a drainage
project envisaging a major civil works component was not the right vehicle for implementing reforms
that sought to improve irrigation service delivery. A more focused irrigation project would probably
have been a more appropriate vehicle for irrigation service delivery reform. Thirdly, some key
features of the 1994 Strategy were not incorporated in the project design. The emphasis was on
organizations (PIDAs, AWBs and FOs), not on incentives and instruments. Transparency of water
entitlements and incentives for developing water markets advocated in the strategy was not explicitly
included in the reform agenda. As a consequence, these important aspects did not receive the
importance they deserved during implementation. Fourthly, the project design did not address issues
of change management that should have accompanied interventions involving a major reduction in the
role of the public sector entities (e.g. dealing with redundancies arising out of greater decentralization
and handover of irrigation management to farmers). Fifthly, inadequate attention was given to
preparing the investment component and bringing it to a state of readiness for the first two years of
project implementation. When the project started the only investments ready for implementation were
the incomplete canals remodelling contracts awarded under the LBOD Project. Sixthly, the absence of
a country wide drainage master plan made the identification, preparation and design of sub-projects a
difficult and slow process. Finally, the decision to categorize the project as a "B" rather than an "A"
was questionable although this was in line with the prevailing practice of "big Bs" at that time.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1      Outcome/Achievement of Objective:

4.1.1    Overall achievement of objectives is rated as unsatisfactory. The assessment of achievement
of each objective is summarized below. The performance indicators included in the SAR were not
systematically monitored and there have been no independent evaluations that might have helped
judge more precisely the project's achievements. Achievement of development objectives is
summarized below.




                                                     4

                          Objectives/Components                   Relevance     Outcome
            1. Establish an appropriate policy environment and
            institutional framework, and strengthen capacity of
            sector institutions
                                                                    High     Unsatisfactory
             Institutional reforms
            WAPDA Water Wings
             Provincial Irrigation Departments
            2 and 3. Improve sector policies and planning and
            strengthen the technical foundations of and
            knowledge base on irrigation and drainage
                                                                    High   Moderatly statisfactory
             Sector planing and research
             Sector planing and policy studies
             Research programs
            4. Improve the irrigation and drainage infrastructure
            network
             Investments
             Off-farm drainage                                      High     Unsatisfactory
             On-farm drainage
             Irrigation systems
             Operation and Maintenance



4.1.2   Objective # 1. At ICR this objective was only partially achieved in the Sindh Province and
not achieved in the other provinces, although all provinces had passed supporting legislation to
transform and decentralize the irrigation service delivery architecture in to a three tier system of
governance, comprising an autonomous irrigation and drainage authority at the provincial level, area
water boards (AWBs) at the main canal level, and farmer organizations (FOs) at the distributary canal
level.

4.1.3   Sindh established an autonomous Sindh Irrigation and Drainage Authority (SIDA), "notified"
three AWBs, and established 150 FOs, with whom irrigation and drainage management transfer
agreements were concluded. Subsequently Sindh also approved a Water Management Ordinance in
2002, which besides clarifying jurisdictions of each agency as well as composition, processes and
procedures, also envisaged establishment of an Irrigation and Drainage Regulatory Authority. While
these early actions represented GOSindh's commitment to the reform, subsequently the required
enabling environment for allowing these fledgling institutions to develop and operate smoothly was
not established. SIDA remained more or less fully under the Irrigation and Power Department
administrative control. Four out of five Managing Directors of SIDA were retired or current Chief
Engineers of the IPD with little incentive to make SIDA a truly autonomous organization and move
forward the reform process. Barring a few exceptions, where the AWBs acted in the true spirit of the
reform (e.g. closing direct outlets and preparing water distribution plans in a consultation with FOs),
the AWBs were only a new name for the IPD Circles with all staff and the institutional culture
remaining under the direct control of the IPD. The FOs represented a major change in the irrigation
service delivery setup and improved performance on collection of water charges and achieved
improved equity in water distribution. However, the good performance was not sustained, primarily
because IPD remained apprehensive about the impact of the reform on its own future. Efforts to build
FO capacity remained weak.

4.1.4   In Punjab, a good start was made. Thanks to the existence of reform champions in IPD, when
in Pakistan, the first ever IMT agreements were signed with three FOs in Bahawalnagar. However,
following the last change in government and departure of reform champions from the scene, the new
IPD leadership decided to fundamentally change the course of reform and in effect largely reversed
earlier gains. Although the Punjab Irrigation and Drainage Authority had been established (at least on
paper) its role was changed to that of a "facilitator" of reform rather than being the replacement of the
IPD as envisaged in the PIDA Act. The Lower Chenab Canal AWB, which was initially intended to be


                                                            5

an autonomous body at the main canal level (comprising of an executive board of management,
specialized professionals hired from the market, and a board comprising of FOs' representatives to
oversee and guide policies) was deemphasized and its operationalization was postponed till FOs were
established on all distributary canals. However, the most fundamental change was the introduction of
the concept of "joint management" of distributary canals by FOs and IPD, with key responsibilities
resting with IPD. In effect this meant delaying actual IMTs indefinitely and keeping FOs largely
ineffective. Although numerous Khaal panchayats-KPs (water users associations at the tertiary level)
and Nehri panchayats-NPs (FOs or federations of NPs) at the distributary canal level were formed,
there was no delegation of responsibilities for O&M or abiana collection. Abiana assessment and
collection responsibility remained with the IPD and Revenue Department, making FOs largely
meaningless7.

4.1.5    In NWFP, which traditionally mirrors developments in Punjab in the irrigation sector, the
reforms followed a similar course as in Punjab. Although NWF PIDA (or FIDA), an AWB in the
Lower Swat Canal command and some FOs were established, few real changes took place. Concerted
efforts under the NWFP on Farm Water Management Project, which also supported NDP reform
objectives, ultimately led to the first IMT agreement with FOs. However, responsibility for O&M and
assessment and collection of abiana was not delegated to FOs during the currency of the IDA Credit.
Unlike other provinces, Balochistan faced relatively limited drainage problems and had participated in
NDP primarily to improve its irrigation infrastructure. Moreover, Balochistan's drainage disposal
depended on development of downstream drainage infrastructure in Sindh. Given the overall slow
progress on NDP investments and initial reluctance by GOP to allow irrigation investments under the
NDP, Balochistan opted out of the project. Subsequently, when Sindh agreed to receive drainage
effluent from Balochistan and irrigation investments were accepted as part of NDP, Balochistan
decided to rejoin the project. However, by then it was rather late to move forward the institutional
reform agenda within the life of the IDA Credit.

4.1.6    Institutional reform of the WAPDA's Water Wing envisaged under the Project consisted of:
(a) strategic reorientation to focus on inter-Provincial (i.e. federal) roles, mandates, and functions,
including river basin management; (b) streamlining to improve capacity utilization, operational
efficiency and effectiveness; (c) capacity building, including aspects related to public participation,
financial management, and information systems; and (d) training. The project implementation period
coincided with the restructuring of WAPDA's Power Wing, involving separation and decentralization
of generation, transmission and distribution functions. The Water Wing was also charged with the task
of preparing the future vision of water resources and hydro-power development ­ the Vision 2025.
Consequently, the reforms envisaged under the NDP were side lined. However, as part of the overall
restructuring the Water Wing under went a sizable reduction and the officer to staff ratio in the Water
Wing was brought down from 1:18 in 1992 to 1:7 in 2004. WAPDA got out of the business of acting
as the implementing agency for the Provinces for drainage projects with the exception of a few large
intra-province projects. Other aspects of the reform program envisaged under the NDP were not
pursued.

4.1.7    Objectives # 2 and 3: improving sector policies and planning; and strengthening the technical
foundations and knowledge base of irrigation and drainage. These objectives have been partially
achieved. Seven major sector planning and policy studies were completed, including two high profile
outputs: a draft National Water Policy (NWP), and a Drainage Master Plan (DMP) for the country.
However, the policy agenda addressed did not include some of the generic issues in the sector, for
example, separation of institutional responsibilities for policy making and sector planning from
regulation and service delivery.

4.1.8    The objective of strengthening the technical foundation and knowledge base of irrigation and
drainage was largely met. About four hundred technical research papers covering a range of irrigation


7  Towards the end of 2004 (when the IDA Credit was about to close), however, a new reform minded leadership emerged
   in Punjab and the irrigation reform process was revived in earnest with major achievements.


                                                             6

drainage issues were published, numerous workshops/symposia on key technical issues were held,
study tours and visits were organized, and small grants were given to support students pursuing Ph.Ds
in various water disciplines.

4.1.9   Objectives # 4: improving the irrigation and drainage infrastructure. While the progress in
meeting this objective was modest, The objective of improving irrigation/drainage infrastructure has
not been met due to the slow pace of investment. However, the project has generally improved the
performance of schemes through: (i) extension of their useful life; and (ii) reduction of leakages and
repair of water control structures.

4.1.10 The project is generating sizeable economic benefits which have a direct and significant
impact on poverty. Average income in the project area (Pilot command areas in each province) has
gone up by more than 6% in real terms during project implementation. The benefits are particularly
noticeable in areas where the subprojects have been completed. By a conservative estimate, one
million hectare of farmland has benefited. The subprojects have also indirectly benefited the
neighbouring farmers by preventing their land from being waterlogged.

4.2     Outputs by Components:

4.2.1   Component 1 (Sector Planning and Research) is rated moderately satisfactory. The
component provided capacity building and technical assistance for: (i) studies to improve sector
policies; (ii) sector planning studies and (iii) feasibility studies for high priority projects to be financed
under NDP or for other projects.        The research subcomponent supported two broad initiatives:
(i) major research programs; and (ii) small grants programs. It was envisaged that sector planning,
policy and research studies would start early and be completed by December 2003, but most have been
completed in December 2004. The Ministry of Water and Power (MW&P) is seeking approval of the
Cabinet for formally adopting the NWP. The DMP is the major planning effort supported by the
project and includes the preparation of drainage atlas. It was completed in 2006. The Pre-feasibility
Study of National Surface Drainage System (NSDS) was prepared three years later than planned and
reviewed by an International Panel of Experts (IPOE). The feasibility study of the NSDS was dropped
at the IPOE's recommendation. For the follow-up project GOP and the Bank have followed a different
strategy and prepared a number of feasibility studies for projects to be implemented on provincial
level. The soil salinity survey of 16.7 million ha has been completed.

4.2.2   The primary concern over the NWP and other policy statements is that they have not been
translated into action. They are neither supported by institutional structures and mechanisms, such as
enabling legislation, nor by supporting economic incentives. There are also a number of issues which
are not touched by the policy statements. These include: (a) water entitlements, inter-sectoral and
inter-provincial conflicts for water use - the extent to which these exist, their context, and the
machinery for resolving them; (b) the quality of hydrological information and the extent to which it
might need to be upgraded for conflict resolution purposes; and (c) environmental, social and poverty
issues. While there are references to pollution problems, solutions are not mentioned; nor is there any
discussion on poverty and social effects of the drainage effluent, environmental flows and sea water
intrusion.

4.2.3   The research subcomponent largely achieved its objective, by a significant increase in the
knowledge base and capacity building in land and water management. It provided a wide range of
dissemination opportunities and outreach to staff, academics and farmers. Approved research
proposals and Ph.D. grants mainly aimed at reduced drainable surplus and safe disposal of saline
effluent.

4.2.4   Component 2 (Institutional Reforms) is rated unsatisfactory. The NDP launched a
nationwide program of institutional and policy reforms to involve farmers and the private sector in
operation, maintenance and management of irrigation and drainage infrastructure. The aim was (a) to
establish autonomous organizations with a three-tiered decentralized institutional setup comprising



                                                      7

Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authorities (PIDAs), Area Water Boards (AWBs) and Farmer
Organization (FOs) in each province; (b) to turn the responsibility for irrigation O&M of distributaries
and minor canals and Abiana collection over to FOs; and (c) to streamline and reduce the costs of the
decentralized organization of PIDAs, AWBs, and FOs, and to improve their functioning and
sustainability; and (d) to build up the capacity of the PIDAs, AWBs and FOs.

                                                                                   Collection of
                                                                     IDMT signed
                                    Number of Area     Number of                     Water
                          PIDAs                                        with FOs;
             Provinces             Water Boards and       FOs                      charges in
                          created                                     Number and
                                      Service Area     established                  FO areas
                                                                       area (ha)
                                                                                   with IDMT
          Sindh             1998    3 (1.8 million ha)     196       164 (581,500)  Improved
          Punjab            1998      1(660,000 ha)         23        23 (178,700)  not done
          NWFP              1997      1 (53,800 ha)         24          6 (7,000)   not done
          Balochistan       1998            -               -               -           -

               Total                5 (2.9 million ha)     243       193 (767,200)



4.2.5    The ICR finds that (a) most AWBs are not yet operational and there are no water allocation
committees as per the legal instruments; (b) IDMT does not guarantee irrigation service to FOs;
(c) AWBs and FOs do not have the authority to disburse Abiana collected by them on maintenance of
their canals; (d) there is no integrated management responsibility and accountability is weak. The
exception was in Sindh, where the active role of the NDP Cell and its institutional relation with the
Planning and Development office helped to strengthen the role of the FOs and AWBs.

4.2.6 In Sindh the Left Bank Canals AWB, with the support of SIDA and the IPD, closed several
illegal outlets in Akram Wah, which served an area of about 20,000 ha. For the first time in several
years the tail end farmers have received water. Sindh the leading province under NDP is also
consolidating the reform process under the Water Sector Improvement Project, presently under final
stage of preparation. In Punjab progress initially was slow, but at the end of 2004 it has shown high
commitment for implementing the institutional reforms. In 2005-06, Punjab has moved forward in the
reform process through the Irrigation Sector Development Policy Loan. In Balochistan and NWFP
there is little progress in the implementation of the institutional reform.

4.2.7    WAPDA has made some administrative restructuring in the Water Wing. Some capacity
building has taken place in financial management, information systems, environmental monitoring and
through acquisition of GIS capabilities.

4.2.8    Component 3 (Investments) is rated unsatisfactory. The component had only limited
achievements, which include: (i) completion of remaining works of Left Bank Outfall Drain such as
remodelling of Nara canal (capacity: 368 m3/s and a command area of one million hectares) and
commissioning of Twin Jamaro canal (capacity: 162 m3/s and command area of 375,000 ha);
(ii) rehabilitation of drainage in Sindh (command area 1.1 million ha); (iii) a crash program for
desiltation of irrigation and drainage in Punjab, NWFP and Balochistan (command area of 435,000
ha); (iv) award of eight O&M performance contracts for various components of the drainage system in
Sindh (command area 516,000 ha); and (v) preparation of a pipeline of subprojects in the off-farm
investment category; a large number of the projects prepared under the project are being implemented
under other programs and projects. The repair works have generally improved the performance of
drainage and irrigation schemes.

4.2.9    No new off-farm projects were undertaken because of implementing agency reluctance to
follow the Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement (FLAR) agreed at appraisal. On-farm
drainage "could not be implemented due to absence of FOs in the affected areas". The subcomponent
for "modernization of irrigation systems" was not implemented. The investment component was



                                                      8

delayed due to several factors including identification of new projects, surveys, government's approval
procedures, and the lengthy preparation of design and tender documents. The surveys were not
included in the scope of work of the Engineering and Design Consultants and had to be arranged by
the Implementing Agencies. Punjab relied on their in-house teams; Sindh used private contractors and
NWFP contracted out the surveys to WAPDA's P&I Division. The surveys were often delayed and at
times inaccurate. Changing priorities and frequent additions and deletions of schemes by the provinces
resulted in too many revisions of Rolling Plans and unproductive appraisal by the consultants and
further delayed the implementation of the project. Quality of civil works has been generally
satisfactory. It should be noted that for having such diverse small and large civil works contracts no
reports were available on construction quality.

4.2.10 Out of 157 contracts of civil works, only 62 subprojects (39 percent) could be completed by
the closing date of IDA Credit. The remaining 95 subprojects are likely to be completed with the
assistance ADB, JBIC and from the government's own sources before December 2006.

4.2.11 O&M through Performance Contracts. This subcomponent supported O&M of selected
drainage facilities through five years' contracts awarded to the private sector. Eight performance
contracts were awarded for O&M of scavenger wells, interceptor drains, subsurface and surface drains
of the LBOD Project in Sindh. The experience from these contracts has been reasonably satisfactory.
The expenditure on all contracts except for those for Scavenger Wells Sanghar and Tile Drain
Mirpurkhas was less than PID standard costs8. It was envisaged that costs would be recovered from the
beneficiaries, but no such recovery has taken place. Other provinces did not award any O&M contract
despite provision in the SAR.

4.2.12 Pipeline of investment projects. A total of 186 feasibility reports were prepared by the
Consultants. About 158 of these subprojects either have been, are being, or are likely to be
implemented in the remaining two years of NDP. The remaining 28 subprojects were either dropped
or shifted to other programs. The new provincial projects prepared under NDP include (i) a project in
Sindh for improvement of irrigation and drainage over an area of about 1.8 million ha,; (ii) a
feasibility study for rehabilitation of the Taunsa Barrage in the Punjab; (iii) rehabilitation of LCC East
Canal; and (iv) preparation of a Balochistan small irrigation schemes project for possible IDA funding.

4.2.13 Consultants. The project included heavy consultancy inputs (estimated at credit closure to be
about 15,052 person-months, of which 942 person-months international), covering: (i) NDP Design
and Engineering Supervision; (ii) sector planning and policy studies; (iii) financial management and
information systems; (iv) assistance to the provinces in institutional reforms; (v) social design and
environmental; (vi) monitoring and evaluation and (vii) other individual long- and short-term
consultancies e.g. for training, development communications, editorial specialists, panels of experts,
accounting and auditing. Overall the consultants suffered from the lack of counterpart agencies at
provincial level. There was too much consultancy too soon, the tasks were too large, and there were
frequent modifications to project design, to the topics to be covered and to the area to be covered, a lack of
harmonisation between the review mission's advice and instructions, donor's expectations and release of
funds. Work programme authorizations and consultant payments were sometimes delayed.

4.2.14 The Design and Engineering Supervision Consultants were assigned the responsibility to act as
Engineer for all contracts on behalf of the employers. Planned inputs totalled 8,596 person months
(672 international, 7,924 local including 2,000 person months of client-seconded staff from PIDs). By
IDA credit closure about 11,242 person months (472 international and 11,183 local) were used. The
works done under NDP primarily covered rehabilitation of canals, drains and structures through a
large number of small contracts spread over the provinces. The nature of work i.e. "deferred
maintenance of which mainly desilting works" did not warrant that the consultant act as Engineer and
could have been more economically carried out by the concerned PIDs/PIDAs with the assistance of


8  This could be because of the competition in the private sector but it may also be partially due to reduction in drainable
   surplus because of the drought conditions.


                                                             9

the consultants. The consultancy assignment was complicated by not assigning the survey works to the
consultants.

4.2.15 Land Acquisition and Resettlement. During negotiations WAPDA and the provinces
confirmed that all land acquisition, involuntary displacement, subsequent resettlement and
rehabilitation caused by the project, would be in accordance with the FLAR agreed between the
Borrower, provinces and IDA. The implementing agencies proved reluctant to follow the agreed
FLAR, whereas the Bank insisted on strict adherence to it. As a result no new projects were
undertaken.

4.2.16 Environmental Impact Assessment. The project's positive environmental impact was limited
by the reduced investments in drainage/irrigation subprojects. It has helped reduce drainable surplus
through drain rehabilitated and improvement of watercourses as well as allowing more equitable
distribution of water through canal rehabilitation and watercourse improvement. Farmers have reduced
pumping and use of saline water. Drainage and watercourse improvements will also have health
benefits from less malaria and lower fly populations, since stagnant swampy areas have been drained.

4.2.17 Comprehensive guidelines for environmental scoping and screening of investment projects
were prepared in 1998. The screening criteria included national laws and regulations, site
environmental requirements, protection of natural and socio-cultural environment, and resettlement
issues. All the subprojects (mainly deferred maintenance) implemented under NDP conformed to
these criteria; and no subprojects were included without a disposal strategy for the drainage effluent.
The sub-projects directly funded by IDA are limited to rehabilitation and remodelling of the existing
drains and canals in Sindh and Punjab Provinces. Taking a wider view of environmental issues in the
drainage sector, various studies and missions supported by the Bank have reviewed the NSDS
therefore the NDP have adopted distributed drainage management options as opposed to reliance on
trans-basin drainage highways.

4.2.18 Under NDP an Environmental Management Framework is being developed with ADB
assistance. Implementation of the Environment Management Plans (EMPs) for the CRBIP and the
LBOD projects has started. Stakeholder workshops were held on the EMPs of both CRBIP and
LBOD, the EMPs revised, incorporating workshop recommendations and ADB has approved their
implementation. The negative impacts on the coastal wetlands were not addressed by the project.


4.2.19 Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return. Re-evaluation of economic benefits follows
the methodology used at SAR. Actual project expenditures have been adjusted to 2005 constant
prices, as detailed in Annex 3. In the SAR, the economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at 21%
for the overall project; surface drain; Sindh 29%, Punjab and NWFP 15%; and watercourse
improvement in Sindh 30%. The revised estimates at ICR are overall project 15%; surface drain;
NWFP 12%, Punjab 14% and Sindh 16%; and watercourse improvement in Punjab 15% and Sindh
13%. Net present value of the project comes to Rs 876 million as compared to Rs 7,775 million
estimated at SAR (See Annex 3).

4.2.20 At IDA credit closure the benefited area is estimated at 1.053 million ha (2.6 million acres).
The NDP so far created employment of about 330,000 person days per year at full development
through increases in cropping area and related activities of growing and harvesting crops. In addition,
during its implementation it provided employment directly to about 5,000 persons and indirectly to
about 7,500 persons including short term employment for technical and non-technical personnel.
Through the implementation of about 400 subprojects for de-silting of drains and canals, NDP has
benefited mostly the poor sector of the farming community, which is concentrated in waterlogged and
saline groundwater areas at the tail ends of schemes. A further positive impact on poverty will occur
through more equitable distribution of irrigation water.




                                                   10

4.2.21 Financial Rate of Return. SAR did a farm budget analysis for different types of projects on
the basis of a one-hectare farm model only in Sindh. Cost of production, gross income, and net income
per one-hectare farm have been re-estimated at ICR. Results of farm budget analysis suggest an
increase in income of 5 to 8% in subprojects completed or likely to be completed. The impact of
watercourse improvement results in a 5% farm income increase in Sindh against the 8% anticipated at
appraisal. Increase in the farm income due to rapid rehabilitation and de-silting of canals is estimated
as 5% in Punjab and 7% in NWFP and Balochistan. The model for calculating ERR has been
replicated by replacing the benefits and costs with the financial values. The overall project FIRR is
estimated as 13.5% and the NPV as Rs 475 million.

4.2.23 Institutional Development Impact is rated as modest. The main concept of NDP was to
transfer I&D construction and O&M from the PIDs to a three-layered system of new autonomous
entities and to transform WAPDA into a river basin management organization in charge of inter-
provincial programs. NDP has created an environment for discussion of the problems of the IBIS and
has helped reach a consensus at the highest government level on the need for reforms to support
sustainable economic development. While these are encouraging reforms at the grass root level has
been much slower than expected. The present status of the reforms is as follows:

         · Regulatory acts. All provinces have passed legislation to enable formation of PIDAs as
               the prime agent of change and to promote the establishment of AWBs and the formation
               of FOs. The AWBs (at least one in each province) are to be established on a pilot basis
               and should achieve self-sufficiency over a 7-10 year period. The FOs are to operate and
               maintain the distributaries and minors within the pilot AWBs and collect water charges
               (abiana) from farmers. Contracts are to be made between AWB and FOs to regulate the
               water services. Sindh enacted a Water Management Ordinance in October 2002 that
               defines the roles and responsibilities of these organizations and in also makes provision
               for creation of a Regulatory Authority (i.e. not yet established) to regulate irrigation,
               drainage and flood protection.

         · Changes in organizational structure. The main change proposed by NDP is replacing
               the PIDs vertical bureaucratic structure with the three-layer autonomous, self-sufficient,
               participatory structure. This change is slowly taking place in the provinces.

         · Reform in the management process is mainly about the collection of abiana. At
               present provincial revenue departments collect the abiana and funds from the province
               treasury are made available to the PIDs. The NDP model empowers FOs to collect
               abiana, to retain 40% for O&M within its jurisdiction and to transfer the remaining 60%
               to the AWB. Sindh is the only province that started to use this model under NDP. Rules
               for spending funds collected are still pending.

         · The incentive framework has had little attention in NDP. In fact the reform is creating
               insecurity, uncertainty, and concerns especially amongst PIDs staff. There is also
               resistance to social mobilization and formation of FOs.

         · Skills development. NDP has provided a wide range of dissemination opportunities and
               outreach both to the professional community and farmers.

4.2.24 In spite of these achievements consistent delays and failure to take minimum required actions
to have functional PIDAs and AWBs even in the pilot areas, raise serious doubts about the sense of
ownership and the real commitment of PIDs to NDP's basic strategy and reform program, and on the
ability or willingness of the provinces and the PIDs to make the crucial moves to implement the
reforms. PIDAs remain empty shells as they have few staff and PIDs remain in control of the systems,
continuing to function as in the past. Opponents of reforms claim that the NDP reforms have failed,
but it is also true that PIDs have failed to reform.




                                                      11

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1      Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency: A number of
natural phenomena had a bearing on the project: (i) The record storms of a cyclone in 1998 and 2002
resulted in extensive flooding in the lower parts of the coastal areas; (ii) the persistent drought for over
4 years reduced the waterlogged area and emphasis shifted towards increasing irrigation supplies
instead of drainage; (iii) following the change of government in 1999 the project virtually remained on
hold for more than a year during its review and reformulation by the new government; and
(iv) different modalities of donor funding and different closing dates of various donors negatively
affected the project performance.

5.2      Factors Generally Subject to Government Control include: (i) provincial procurement
procedures included preparation and approval of the PCI by their PDWP for each and every
scheme/subproject, which was time consuming. Provincial governments use their Composite Schedule
of Rates (CSR) as the basis for cost estimates when awarding contracts. This resulted in further delays
in cases where bids which reflected current market prices were over 10 to 15% higher than the
departmental estimates. In such cases the contracts were never awarded or delayed while the PC-1 was
revised and a fresh approval sought. This issue was ultimately taken up by the Federal Program
Steering Committee (FPSC) in mid-2003 when a premium above the CSR was recommended by FPSC
and subsequently adopted by the Provinces to ease the situation; (ii) there was reluctance in
government circles to follow the agreed FLAR, which delayed the subprojects requiring land
acquisition, and in many cases precluded their implementation.

5.3      Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control: (i) Absence of a First Year's
Program in all provinces except Sindh. No projects, except the remaining works of Nara canal in
Sindh, were ready for implementation in the initial stages of NDP. Project preparation activity started
only in 1998 and initially only the leftover works could be implemented and no new subprojects could
be implemented in the first year. (ii) Changing priorities and frequent additions and deletions of
schemes by the Provinces resulted in too many revisions of "rolling plans", unproductive preparation
of subprojects by consultants and implementation delays. (iii) Although commitment to institutional
reform remains present at the highest level progress has remained slow. The PIDAs and AWBs are not
functioning effectively and do not have administrative and financial authority to carry out their
assigned tasks. Delayed formation of FOs slowed execution of on-farm works. (iv) Balochistan opted
out of NDP in March 2001 as it did not have a proper outfall for its drainage effluent. The province
rejoined in August 2003 when it was decided that the effluent from the Province will be disposed of
through Sindh.

5.4      Costs and Financing: The table below provides a summary of the costs by main components.
Further details are provided in Annex 2.


                                                         Appraisal       Actual/Latest

                 Project Cost by Component               Estimate           Estimate        Percentage of

                                                       (US$ million)          (US$            Appraisal
                                                                           million)***
  A.    Sector Planning & Research                          25.70               9.50             37
  B.    Institutional Reforms                               57.70              16.69             29
  C.    Investments                                        683.10             173.45             25
  D.    Programme Coordination and Supervision*             18.50              26.88            145

        Total Project Costs**                              785.00             226.51             29
   * It includes interest during construction
  ** Including all co-financiers, government and beneficiaries
  *** December 2004.




                                                    12

5.5      Of the total expenditure IDA financed US$ 126.6 million. At closure about 99.9% of the
Credit/Loan amount had been disbursed. An amount of US$ 146.7 million was disbursed to Drought
Emergency Relief Assistance (DERA) Project9.


6. Sustainability

6.1      Rationale for Sustainability Rating: While sustainability of the project was dubious during
implementation, at the end of the project Sindh and Punjab province have made significant
commitments towards implementation of the reform process. In Punjab, the on-going programmatic
development loan is supporting significant changes in the acid management, service delivery, and
water distribution and entitlements as well as in on-farm irrigation activities.                       In Sindh, the
consolidation of the three areas of the Water Board will be financed by the WSIP (Water Sector
Improvement Project) which is presently at the negotiation stage. In conclusion, the sustainability of
NDP is uncertain.

6.1.1    Sustainability is difficult to rate, particularly as the project is not yet complete. Sustainability
will depend on a regular and systematic O&M program, cost recovery (especially, recovery of O&M10
cost) and institutional capabilities. At present, all these three seem uncertain and sustainability is
therefore appears unlikely. Irrigation management transfer to FOs is only part of the sustainability
equation - provision of adequate11 and timely funding for O&M of drainage and irrigation systems
continues to be a problem and there are still few incentives for farmers to pay abiana because the
irrigation and drainage systems are in bad condition and irrigation service delivery is generally
unsatisfactory.

6.1.2    Pollution of both surface and groundwater is becoming a serious sustainability issue. The main
sources of water pollution in order of their magnitude are the municipal effluent, industrial waste,
fertilizer and pesticides, solid wastes, disposal of saline agricultural effluent and seawater intrusion.

6.1.3    To ensure sustainability the project rightly proposed addressing three interconnected aspects
that threaten sustainability of the IBIS: (i) reduction of water logging and salinity, especially in Sindh
(the most affected province), (ii) appropriate O&M and (iii) environmental management actions.
Although there are encouraging results in several areas, (environmental management actions for
example) water logging has only marginally declined, financial sustainability for O&M is not ensured
and the organizations are not robust enough to continue working properly without the project. It is by
no means clear what would the source of funding for the continued operation of the NDP cells.
Consequently, future employment of the current personnel is not by any means guaranteed either.

6.1.4    An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) framework has been prepared by consultants
financed by ADB. It provides a basis for developing a work plan (wetland protection, pollution and
water resources management. There are some other positive actions that are bringing awareness and
dissemination of information about the environmental problems and the need for Pakistan to address
them now. New environmental cells are working in WAPDA and PIDAs in Sindh and Punjab. In
Sindh the Water Sector Improvement Project will continue the IPOE review of the outfall system of
LBOD and prepare a strategy to secure the functioning of the outfall system.




9   US$100 million in December 2001 and US$35 million in October 2004. Furthermore, at closure of the Credit
    the unspent credit amount has been disbursed for DERA imports.
10  O&M cost: includes normal operation costs, normal maintenance costs, overheads of staff, space and vehicles and
    equipment as well as depreciation to include costs of asset replacement/depreciation.
11  Pakistan Public Expenditure Management: Volume II Accelerated Development of Water Resources and Irrigated
    Agriculture, April 2003, The World Bank.


                                                             13

6.2      Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations:

6.2.1    Plans of Operation are needed for regular operation of the subprojects and institutions once the
present funding from ADB and JBIC is no longer available. In Sindh the incremental costs of SIDA
were being financed under IDA credit. The Government of Sindh has decided to finance the
incremental costs of SIDA through Provincial ADP. In Punjab the PID has appointed consultants to
supervise the ongoing contracts as well as any other works that are to be implemented in the future and
it has also undertaken to finance the cost of the Provincial NDP Cell. In NWFP the IDA credit
financed the incremental cost of the NWFPIDA. The NWFP government is considering seeking
support from the ongoing IDA-assisted NWFP OFWM Project.

6.2.2    Punjab Government has made a significant effort to provide required O&M budget and has
prepared a detailed asset management plan. The other provincial governments have not allocated
adequate funds for O&M of irrigation and drainage infrastructure. Unless adequate funds are provided
for O&M, sustainability of the irrigation and drainage systems will remain uncertain. If the current
inadequate funding continues, the lives of the subprojects will shorten and a deferred-maintenance
project will again be required in 5 years time.

6.2.3    Following Punjab's example, there is a need to prepare an inventory of irrigation and drainage
and a strategy for asset management, which should form part of the transfer agreements. It should be
ensured that completion reports and as built drawings of civil works not yet submitted to AWB are
made available to them. For the success of the institutional reforms and sustainability of the irrigation
and drainage system it is necessary that plans of operation are prepared and implemented for all
AWBs.


7. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank

7.1      Lending: NDP preparation process was focused mainly in bringing in the institutional reform
to the irrigation sector in Pakistan. Project design and preparation process over an extended period
helped build consensus. The project has absorbed over 220 staff weeks of Bank staff time to date and
took almost four years to prepare. Bank performance in instituting and maintaining a dialogue with
GOP on institutional reforms and water sector policy was timely. Subsequently, too much emphasis
was given, both in design and initial supervision, to the urgency to carry out institutional reforms.
Some of the risks involved in the project were correctly identified in the SAR but the mitigation
measures have proved to be either inadequate or not taken in a timely manner. The preparation process
overlook the legacy issues from the previous LBOD project and did not pay sufficient attention to
consultation and environmental mitigation, particularly in the coastal areas. NDP was the major
instrument to support the irrigation sector in Pakistan, but for almost ten years did not provide the
investments urgently required to maintain the irrigation infrastructure in Pakistan. The name of the
project did not contribute to communicate the real nature and objective of the project.

7.2      Supervision: Supervision missions were strong in technical, engineering, financial and
institutional competence but ultimately ineffective in bringing the institutional component to a
successful conclusion and so attaining the project's primary development objective. The main problem
was the institutional transformation of PIDs where the Bank team's supervision task was made very
difficult by an apparent lack of leadership and ownership of the institutional transformation by GOP,
throughout the implementation period. With benefit of hindsight it would have helped to have had a
legal specialist at the project start to find with the PIDs the best pragmatic way to provide the
necessary legal basis for PIDAs. Bank performance in carrying out a lengthy and detailed MTR and
launching two IPOEs to review the NSDS study and the DMP was fully satisfactory. More attention
should have been given during supervision to monitoring and evaluation. Also, the supervision reports
have been quite silent on construction quality. Having such diverse small and large civil works



                                                  14

contracts construction quality is an important implementation issue with a significant bearing on the
results.

7.3     Overall Bank Performance: Overall Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory.

Borrower

7.4     Preparation: Ownership and commitment were clearly established at the federal level (e.g.
MW&P and WAPDA) and at the highest political level, in part through the personal involvement of
the President. Passage of the PIDA Acts in all four provinces demonstrates this commitment.

7.5     Government      Implementation     Performance:      Implementation      performance     has    been
unsatisfactory due to lengthy approval and procurement procedures, use of CSR and reluctance to
follow the agreed FLAR.

7.6     Implementing Agencies: Overall the performance of the implementing agencies has been
unsatisfactory. WAPDA did not make use of the Project Preparation Facility to prepare a portfolio of
projects for implementation in the initial stages. The frequent priority changes, additions and deletions
of schemes by the provinces impeded successful implementation. Institutional reform moved at a very
slow pace. The withdrawal of Balochistan and its subsequent re-entry into the project caused
unnecessary confusion. Very little attention was paid throughout the project to M&E. Reasonable
progress has been achieved in Sindh both in institutional reforms and investments through the efforts
of the NDP Cell. Similarly the pace of reforms and investments has recently picked up in the Punjab.

7.7     Overall Borrower Performance: This is to be rated unsatisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

8.1     The following lessons can be drawn from a review of the project implementation experience:

        · Good sector work prior to appraisal and coordination between donors can be very
             valuable in assisting governments to embark on correct, but politically difficult sector
             policies. Planning processes must utilize a more consultative and participatory process in
             which all risks and options as well as tradeoffs are made explicit and considered by
             stakeholders and policy makers jointly. A broad planning framework that includes direct
             beneficiaries and those who could be potentially impacted by a project, or a series of
             projects, should be the basis for both consultation and plan formulation. Both planning and
             the subsequent operation and maintenance of drainage and flood management programs
             must be knowledge-based, with the acquisition and use of data, research and study central to
             the entire development process.

        · Strong environmental work is needed for implementing complex projects.
             Environmental objectives and the intrinsic and human environmental values that are
             important for the livelihoods of direct and indirect beneficiaries need to be an integral part of
             the framework for formulating plans, designing projects and evaluating tradeoffs and risks.

        · Keep it simple and I&D programs or projects should be handled at provincial level.
             The number of implementing or participating provinces, agencies and organizations with
             different conditions and political economies complicated implementation and made it
             difficult and time-consuming to reach agreements on key issues. The institutions that
             ultimately own the infrastructure and be responsible for its operation and maintenance
             must be the ones who manage the planning and design of the infrastructure.




                                                     15

         · Continuing government commitment is crucial for smooth project implementation.
              During implementation the commitment from different participants varied. The federal
              government stopped NDP implementation for a year and a half, Balochistan withdrew
              from NDP for more than a year and there was reluctance to follow the agreed FLAR,
              which delayed subprojects requiring land acquisition, and in many instances precluded
              their implementation. More realistic assessments and assurances are needed about long-
              term government commitment.

         · Champions are needed for reforms. Experience from the project confirms previous
              Bank lessons about the importance of having a champion.

         · Capacity building is essential. The project also showed the time and effort needed to
              build capacity of new as well as existing organizations. The extensive use of consultants
              cannot solve all the problems in the absence of clear counterparts. The works done under
              NDP primarily covered rehabilitation of canals, drains and structures through a large
              number of small contracts spread over the provinces. The nature of work i.e. "deferred
              maintenance of which mainly desilting works" did not warrant a consultant to act as
              Engineer and could have been more economically carried out by the concerned
              PIDs/PIDAs with the assistance of the consultants.

         · Approval and procurement procedures should facilitate implementation. Preparation
              and approval of the PCI of each and every scheme/subproject took considerable time.
              Also the estimated costs on the basis of the Composite Schedule of Rates did not match
              market prices.      The issues of the approval and procurement procedures need
              rationalization to facilitate smooth implementation of future projects.

         · Better targeted and more quantity-oriented system of M&E is required. A baseline
              survey is needed to appreciate the incremental impact of project-induced changes. A
              better system of M&E can bring more timely adjustment to the implementation plan and
              more timely corrective action agreed with all stakeholders.


9. Partners' Comments

9.1.     Partners' comments on NDP Performance were received from ADB and JBIC.                  ADB
concurred on the assessment of the Project's outcome. Sustainability of interventions, including
institutional reforms and investment components, is unlikely. The institutional reforms, which were
the primary objective, will not be achieved under NDP. The institutional development impact is
questionable, except in Sindh. The investment component was restricted to defer maintenance works,
mostly desiltation of canals and drains. ADB decided to extend the closing period of the project to
allow for the completion of environmental studies and mitigation plans. JBIC provided the following
comment: "based on the fact of the slow progress of institutional reform, JBIC executed SAPI
(Special Assistance for Project Implementation) in 2003. Since then, the reform has been accelerated,
and 85 farmers' organization and the Area Water Board in Lower Chenab Canal East have been
created by December 2005.

         (a) Borrower/implementing agency: Borrower's contribution to the ICR is attached as Annex
         8.

         (b) Cofinanciers: ADB and JBIC have extended the closing period of their NDP loans
         through 31th of December, 2006 and are presently preparing their ICRs.




                                                    16

10. Additional Information

10.1     In September 2004 the Bank's Inspection Panel received a request from a group of organized
citizens of Sindh for inspection related to NDP on the following grounds:

         a)    Increased flooding due to collapse of Cholri Weir and damage to the Tidal Link causing
               ecological and environmental impacts in lower Badin District and resulting in livelihood
               impacts on fishing communities and damage to cultural properties.

         b)    Fear that extension of LBOD under the NDP project, through the construction of a
               National Surface Drainage System (NSDS), would result in excess flows with the
               potential risk of floods leading to loss of cultivated land and involuntary resettlement of
               the population.

         c)    Lack of attention paid to environmental issues and consultation with local communities
               during NDP project preparation and noncompliance with the Bank's disclosure and
               environmental guidelines.

10.2     The Inspection Panel Report. The Panel reported that the NDP Project established the
"groundwork for construction of a major northward extension of the LBOD," and inherited the related
task of responding to the environmental and social implications of LBOD. This was based in turn on
the Panel's finding that NDP depended on the functionality of LBOD because certain elements of the
LBOD were completed under NDP. The Panel found shortcomings in the NDP environmental
assessment (EA) and that NDP supervision failed to respond with timely corrective measures to the
emerging problems of LBOD and its socio-economic impacts. The Panel found that the LBOD project
failed and that its design was faulty, underestimating inherent and extreme meteorological risks. This
contributed to the breakdown of the LBOD outfall system and the suffering of local people in lower
Badin District. The Panel also found that the LBOD project paid little attention to impacts on the
environmentally important coastal dhands. The Panel Report suggested that the Bank took only
sporadic notice of these issues in its supervision reports, and was slow to respond to the eventual
damage to the LBOD system and its impacts in part because it failed to assign appropriate expertise.

The Panel found that the Bank was not in compliance with several of its policies and procedures
during the preparation and implementation of NDP, including Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01),
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04), Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20), Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30),
and Project Supervision (OD/OP/BP 13.05).

10.3     In Management's view the Bank was diligent in the application of its policies and procedures
during implementation of NDP. The Bank has endeavored to assist the Borrower to address two
distinct problems with specific inherent complexities: the technical challenges of an outfall system in
southern Sindh presented by LBOD, and the national reform process challenges taken up by NDP.
Management has responded to the concerns of the Requesters, incorporating these concerns into its
dialogue with Government of Sindh (GOS), formulating a comprehensive Action Plan and identifying
suitable strategies and instruments through which timely implementation of the Action Plan can be
undertaken. The lessons from the Bank's long experience in the sector in Pakistan, and the LBOD and
NDP projects, together with the strategic directions of the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
have been incorporated into the Action Plan. The Management response to the Inspection Panel report
can be reviewed in report INSP/R2004-0007/4. The most relevant points raised are:


        a)     Many of the issues raised in the request relate to the Left Bank Outfall Drain (LBOD)
               Stage 1 Project, which closed in 1997. NDP and LBOD projects are not directly linked
               and have different development objectives and outcomes.

        b)     No extension of the LBOD spinal drain to join a national surface drainage system was
               done under the NDP project. The NSDS concept was rejected following extensive
               studies and reviews. No investments under the NDP project have exacerbated flooding



                                                    17

                nor led to increased land loss due to erosion. No damage was caused to cultural
                properties and no involuntary resettlement was caused. The 2003 flood was an
                exceptional natural event which caused severe damage to the low areas of Sindh.

         c)     The Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment DSEA (1993) was accepted as
                Environmental Impact Assessment EIA for the NDP Project because it provides a
                strategic overview of the environmental issues of the drainage sector in line with the
                scope of the project. Further safeguards were built into the design of the subprojects
                involving robust social and environmental screening. Consultations were held during
                the project preparation phase with representative NGOs, FOs and Community Based
                Organizations to define the overall program and to outline the consultation and
                appraisal criteria and process for individual subprojects. During implementation the
                physical interventions were limited to rehabilitation of existing infrastructure.
                Management acknowledges that a full environmental assessment during the period
                1994-1995 could have provided an added framework within which to consider the
                potential cumulative environmental impacts of the continued development of the
                drainage system.

While a poverty-targeted intervention is certainly needed in the lower Badin area, WB management
believes that the implementation of the NDP project has neither worsened the plight of the people
living near the dhands, nor is it the right instrument for such intervention.

10.4     Since the Request for Inspection was made in September 2004, the Bank has taken two
important actions that established the foundation for the Action Plan:

         · First, implementation of a USD18.0 million program to strengthen livelihoods in the
             coastal talukas of Badin and Thatta Districts has been launched through the PPAF, based
             on a Bank diagnostic study of livelihoods in the coastal areas of Sindh; and

         · Second, at the request of the GOS, the Bank sent a POE mission to assess the various
             proposals and options to improve the security and performance of LBOD. This resulted in
             agreement with the GOS on a program of comprehensive flood and drainage management
             planning and feasibility studies that would lead to programs and projects suitable for
             support by the Bank and Sindh's other donor partners.

10.5     Action Plan approved by the Board in October 31, 2006. The core issue in the Panel's report
is the continued vulnerability of and the adverse impacts on the population and livelihoods in lower
Badin, particularly the poor and most vulnerable people in and near the dhands. The Bank's short-term
actions are selected to provide an immediate response to the plight of these people and to address the
related issues.

         · One of the actions under the PPAF livelihoods program is to review the social profile of
             the population in Badin and Thatta districts, with the aim of identifying specific nomadic
             and other vulnerable groups and addressing additional livelihood support issues.

         · The Bank and Sindh authorities have discussed and agreed that the scope of the new
             WSIP12 will include a comprehensive flood and drainage management plan for the left
             bank of the Indus River in southern Sindh. Since the WSIP project will be the primary
             instrument for developing a specific flood management plan for the area of concern to the



12This project would improve water productivity and water use efficiency by deepening and strengthening the
    reform program, particularly the Farmers' Organizations (FOs) and Area Water Boards (AWBs); undertake
    investments to rehabilitate and remodel irrigation and drainage facilities down to the watercourse level; build
    capacity; support the development of a knowledge base for water and flood management; and prepare a
    comprehensive flood management plan for the left bank of the Indus River in Sindh.


                                                        18

            Requesters, completion of the processing of the WSIP project has been made a high
            priority.

        · A third immediate response is a socio-economic and environmental diagnostic study of
            the dhands area during the next dry season, similar to the socio-economic study in Badin
            and Thatta Districts. The aim will be to better understand the impacts on the dhands, and
            determine how the ongoing PPAF livelihoods program or other new interventions can be
            deployed to benefit the people and ecosystems in and near the dhands.

10.6    Medium-Term Actions. These include preparation of a comprehensive flood risk management
and drainage plan for the left bank of the Indus River in Sindh encompassing Badin District, and
planning studies leading to a program for the sustainable management of the coastal zone and Indus
Delta, which face special problems ranging from sea water intrusion to global climate change and
accelerated sea level rise. The delta is at the very tail end of the entire Indus system and modification
of upstream flows, extractions for agriculture and urban supply, maintenance of flows for
environmental purposes, inflows of drainage water and industrial and agricultural pollution have all
had negative impacts on this sensitive area and its populations. These technical planning studies are
intended to lead to specific projects and programs that are suitable for support by the Bank and
Sindh's other donor partners.

10.7    Long-Term Actions ­ Strategic Partnership with Pakistan in the Water Sector. The Bank's
strategic partnership with Pakistan in the water sector stretches back nearly 50 years. Both the CAS
(2006-2009) and the CWRAS (2009-2016) (Annex 6) provide guidance for the Bank's ongoing
engagement. The Bank's CWRAS articulates the major challenges for Pakistan if it is to achieve
sustainable development in the water sector. These include developing a world-class knowledge-based
capacity for adaptive resource management and service delivery; a financially feasible approach to
maintaining and modernizing existing infrastructure and building needed new water infrastructure;
establishing a modern institutional framework; and plotting a principled and pragmatic path for
implementing this reform agenda over the coming decades.




                                                    19

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators


      Outcome / Impact
          Indicators                   Projected in SAR                  Actual/Latest Estimate

 · Strengthen the technical   · Development of improved           · 12 Major Research studies
 foundations of and           technology on irrigation and        completed by 12/2004
 knowledge base on irrigation drainage:                           Some of the Research topics
 and drainage                      12 Major Research Programs     included:
                              completed by 6/2004                 1.   Use of brackish drainage water
                                   10 research proposals prepared for agriculture and forestry
                              under Small Grants Program and      2.   Dissemination of salinity and
                              approved by Research Advisory       water management technologies
                              Committee by 6/2004                 3.   Collaborative on farm pipe
                                                                  drainage
                                                                  4.   Management of small-scale
                                                                  water logging and salinity problems.
                                                                  5.   Root zone salinity management
                                                                  with skimming wells.
                                                                  · 16 PhD grants given under Small
                                                                  Grants Program. 7 PhDs completed, 8
                                                                  would continue beyond Jan 2005 one
                                                                  dropped.
                              · Increased awareness of improved   · About four hundred technical
                              technology and design issues and    research papers were published and
                              Wider application of improved       workshops and symposia were held,
                              technology and in design of new     which included:
                              projects and operation of existing  1.   Three National drainage
                              infrastructure:                     seminars.
                                   20 research papers             2.  Two National Drought
                              disseminated (under Small Grants    Symposium and World Water Day
                              Program) to technical audiences by  3.   Six Regional Farmers
                              6/2004                              Workshops
                                                                  4.   Two Training workshops on
                                                                  Model application
                                                                  5.  Twenty Four Farmers days in
                                                                  ongoing research studies.
                                                                  6.  Two       Research      Launching
                                                                  Workshops
                                                                  NDP helped to change the strategy of
                                                                  the Drainage Sector in Pakistan,
                                                                  which was initially focused in the
                                                                  NSDS. Now an integrated analysis
                                                                  will be adopted of water resource
                                                                  management issues in 20 drainage
                                                                  basins.
                              · General Manager (Monitoring and   · General Manager (Monitoring and
                              Research) appointed                 Research) not appointed.




                                                 20

Outcome/Impact Indicators            Projected in SAR                    Actual/Latest Estimate

· Improve sector policies   · Policy reforms and master/sector    · Seven Sector Policy Studies and
and planning                strategies adopted by the Borrower    Six Sector Planning studies were
                            and/or the Provinces and              completed/initiated under the Project.
                            Improvement in policies,              National Water Policy was prepared
                            procedures, and planning for water    and submitted for approval to the
                            sector projects: through satisfactory federal cabinet. An apex body for the
                            completion of 10 Sector Planning      water sector is likely to be established
                            and Policy Studies by 6/2004          to oversee the development of water
                                                                  sector.
                                                                  · Draft Drainage Master Plan was
                                                                  prepared and reviewed by
                                                                  International Panel of Experts. This
                                                                  would form the basis for a drainage
                                                                  sector strategy for the country. The
                                                                  Drainage Atlas is an excellent
                                                                  publication that may be of great help
                                                                  in investigating existing drainage,
                                                                  water logging and salinity situations.
                            · Pipeline of Investment Projects     · A Pre-feasibility Study of NSDS
                            with satisfactory Feasibility studies was prepared and reviewed by
                            and Pipeline of Investment Projects   International Panel of Experts,
                            with satisfactory environmental,      Feasibility study was dropped on
                            resettlement, social design, and IEC  POE's recommendations. The strategy
                            campaigns.                            of the Drainage Sector in Pakistan,
                                                                  which was initially focused in the
                                                                  NSDS will change to an integrated
                                                                  analysis of water resource
                                                                  management issues in 20 drainage
                                                                  basins.
                                     Feasibility Study of         · 4 feasibility studies for major
                            National surface Drainage System      projects were prepared. In addition a
                            completed by 12/2002.                 large number of appraisal reports and
                                  5 Feasibility studies           tender documents were prepared,
                            satisfactorily completed by 6/2004    which would be implemented under
                                                                  other programs and projects. These
                                                                  include:
                                                                  1.   Water Sector Improvement
                                                                  Project Sindh
                                                                  2.   Small scale Irrigation
                                                                  Improvement Project in Balochistan.
                                                                  3.   Rehabilitation of Taunsa Barrage
                                                                  in the Punjab.
                                                                  4.   Rehabilitation of LCC east Canal
                                                                  in Punjab.
                                  Number of EIAs, RAPs, SAs,      · 188 Social and environmental
                            IEC Campaigns commenced               screening reports sub projects were
                                                                  prepared. EIA of one big project of
                                                                  LCC east in Punjab was prepared.
                                                                  ADB is financing preparation of an
                                                                  Environmental Management Plan.




                                                   21

Outcome/Impact Indicators                Projected in SAR                    Actual/Latest Estimate

· Strategic reorientation,     · WAPDA's             progress     on  · Reforms for WAPDA's Water
strengthen capacity and        developing and managing the water      Wing have not been effectively
improve efficiency of          resources of the Indus Basin beyond    implemented. The training
WAPDA                          construction (e.g.: extent to which    component remained deficient. An
                               WAPDA has brought basin-focus on       Environmental Monitoring Cell has
                               monitoring and evaluation, water       been established in WAPDA under
                               resources planning, groundwater and    the Project. Some capacity building
                               surface       water      management,   has taken place in financial
                               environmental management related       management, and information
                               to     irrigation    and     drainage, systems as well as through
                               participatory   and    social  aspects acquisition of GIS capabilities.
                               relating to irrigation and drainage,   WAPDA has undertaken some
                               financial planning for irrigation and  administrative restructuring in the
                               drainage, etc.)                        Water Wing through an internal
                                                                      process.
                               · WAPDA's withdrawal from intra-       · WAPDA has not withdrawn
                               provincial irrigation and drainage     completely from intra-provincial
                                                                      irrigation and drainage projects and is
                                                                      implementing some intra-provincial
                                                                      irrigation and drainage projects under
                                                                      its Vision 2025 Program e.g. Greater
                                                                      Thal Canal, Katchi Canal and Rainee
                                                                      Canal.
                               · Improvement of internal processes    · WAPDA has introduced limited
                               and procedures, including              internal processes and procedures
                               decentralization in WAPDA              including decentralization.
                               · Reduction in administrative costs    · WAPDA            has     undertaken
                               of WAPDA (target not specified)        administrative restructuring in the
                                                                      Water Wing through an internal
                                                                      process.
· Decentralization and         · Area managed by decentralized        · Performance has been mixed in
management transfer of         institutions such as PIDAs, AWBs       different provinces. In December
irrigation and drainage system and FOs.                               2004, overall PIDAs have been
in Provinces, and strengthen      4 Area Water Boards (1 in each      established in all provinces; 5 AWBs
capacity and improve           Province) established and              (3 in Sindh, 1 each in Punjab and
efficiency of decentralized    functioning by January 1 1999.         NWFP have been formed and 243
institutions                   (target area not specified)            FOs established. The AWBs cover an
                                  Increase in Farmers Organizations   area of 2.9 million ha; 193 FOs
                               formed and functional ((target         covering an area of 767,200 ha have
                               number not specified)                  signed IDMT.

                                                                         Sindh: SIDA was established in
                                                                      1998 and at present has jurisdiction
                                                                      over 3 Area Water Boards (AWBs),
                                                                      which have a Culturable Command
                                                                      Area CCA of 1.8 Mha about 35% of
                                                                      the CCA in the province. 196 FOs
                                                                      covering an area of 645,000 ha have
                                                                      been registered. 164 FOs covering an
                                                                      area of 581,500 ha have taken over
                                                                      the responsibility for operation and
                                                                      maintenance of their distributaries
                                                                      and minors and collection of abiana.
                                                                         Punjab: PIDA was established in
                                                                      1998. FOs covering an area of
                                                                      178,700 ha have been established and
                                                                      management transferred to them. One


                                                    22

Outcome/Impact Indicators           Projected in SAR                     Actual/Latest Estimate

                                                                 Pilot Area Water Board (AWB)
                                                                 covering an area of 660,000 ha has
                                                                 been notified and would be functional
                                                                 by December 2005 by that time
                                                                 additional 69 FOs would be formed
                                                                 in the remaining area of AWB and
                                                                 take over management of the
                                                                 distributary/minor canals.
                                                                    NWFP: NWFPIDA was
                                                                 established in 1997 and one Pilot
                                                                 AWB (CCA 53,800 ha) has been
                                                                 notified but is not fully functional.
                                                                 Against the target of 116 FOs in the
                                                                 Pilot AWB, 24 FOs have been
                                                                 established and transfer agreement
                                                                 signed with 19 FOs. Six FOs have
                                                                 taken over management of about
                                                                 7,000 ha and are responsible for
                                                                 collection of abiana.
                                                                    Balochistan: An AWB for Pat
                                                                 Feeder and Khirthar Canals was
                                                                 notified in August 1998 however it is
                                                                 not functional. No FOs were formed.
                          · Reduction in subsidies provided to   · There is no visible reduction in
                          PIDAs, AWBs, & FOs                     subsidies to PIDAs, AWBs, & FOs.
                          · Cost reduction achieved by PIDAs,    · No visible cost reduction has
                          AWBs and FOs                           been achieved by PIDAs, AWBs and
                                                                 FOs
                          · Increases in revenues achieved by    · Abiana collection has been
                          PIDAs, AWBs and FOs                    undertaken by 116 FOs in Sindh and
                                                                 23 FOs in Punjab and 6 FOs in
                                                                 NWFP. It is too early to draw any
                                                                 conclusions but it is reported by
                                                                 SIDA that the revenue assessment
                                                                 and collection has shown
                                                                 encouraging results.
                          · % of budget of PIDAs, AWBs and       · No significant change has taken
                          FOs spent on O&M works                 place in increasing the budget spent
                                                                 on O&M works.
                          · % of budget of PIDAs, AWBs and       · No significant change has taken
                          FOs spend on staffing and              place in spending on staffing and
                          establishment costs                    establishment costs, which still
                                                                 consume the highest percentage of
                                                                 O&M budgets.
                          · Extent of improvement in             · Some improvement in service
                          provision and quality of client        delivery is reported in some FO areas
                          services by PIDAs, AWBs and FOs.       in Sindh. Some illegal outlets have
                          Indicators would include delivery      been closed which served an area of
                          efficiency of water, delivery of water about 20,000 ha. For the first time in
                          to tail-enders, effective functioning  three years the tail end farmers are
                          of canals and drains (% performing     reported have received water in some
                          to designed levels), extent of         FOs in Left Bank Canal AWB in
                          customer satisfaction with services    Sindh. A sense of frustration seems
                          provided, etc.                         to be building up among the FOs;
                                                                 firstly because despite frequent
                                                                 promises no canal improvement
                                                                 works were undertaken and secondly
                                                                 on some FOs the large land holders


                                                23

Outcome/Impact Indicators           Projected in SAR                    Actual/Latest Estimate

                                                                 have not only not joined the FOs but
                                                                 also are making excessive
                                                                 withdrawals over and above their
                                                                 entitlements.
                          · Extent of transparency in financial  · The envisaged level of
                           and operational performance of        transparency in financial and
                           PIDAs, AWBs and FOs                   operational performance of PIDAs,
                                                                 AWBs has not been achieved. In
                                                                 Sindh the rules for utilization of
                                                                 funds by the AWBs have been
                                                                 prepared and are awaiting approval
                                                                 of the Government of Sindh.
                          · Improvement of internal processes    · The Provincial Irrigation and
                           and procedures, including             Drainage Authorities and Area Water
                           decentralization in PIDAs and AWBs    Boards are not functioning
                                                                 effectively and do not have
                                                                 administrative and financial authority
                                                                 to carry out their assigned tasks and
                                                                 are dependent on the respective
                                                                 irrigation departments. The FOs need
                                                                 adequate capacity building to enable
                                                                 them to undertake their assigned
                                                                 responsibilities
· Improve irrigation and  · Area of waterlogged land (i.e.,      · The trends of annually increasing
drainage infrastructure    watertable depth compared to          waterlogged areas have come to a
network                    baseline situation e.g., % of Area    halt and in large parts of the basin are
                           waterlogged, with watertable 0-5      even on the reverse mainly due to the
                           feet, 5-10 feet, 10-15 feet, and more prevailing drought conditions of the
                           than 15 feet)                         last 4 - 5 years. The water logging is
                                                                 mainly dependent on canal supplies
                                                                 and usually the effect of increased or
                                                                 decreased supplies is observed in the
                                                                 following year. Because of drought it
                                                                 is not possible to correctly estimate
                                                                 the effect of NDP in reducing
                                                                 waterlogging.
                          · Area of saline land                  · The saline area has reduced
                                                                 substantially in all Provinces due to
                                                                 better water distribution, operation of
                                                                 groundwater tubewells, accelerated
                                                                 program for drainage maintenance
                                                                 and     particularly   the    extended
                                                                 drought.
                          · Area and % of land requiring         · All the drainage sub-projects
                           drainage provided with adequate and   implemented under the Project
                           functioning surface and sub-surface   mainly covered deferred maintenance
                           drainage.                             and no new drainage projects were
                                                                 implemented due to IAs' reluctance
                                                                 to follow the agreed FLAR. Under
                                                                 the Project following interventions
                                                                 were made:
                          · Km of off-farm surface drains        · 6,368 km of surface drains
                           constructed or rehabilitated (target   (benefited area 789,600 ha)
                           length not specified)                 rehabilitated; 1,239 Km of surface
                                                                 drains were desilted (benefited area
                                                                 176,300 ha)
                          · Km of on-farm surface drains         · 1 km
                           constructed or rehabilitated(target


                                                24

Outcome/Impact Indicators                  Projected in SAR                   Actual/Latest Estimate

                                 length not specified)
                                 · 2000 watercourses improved          · 527 watercourses improved; 500 in
                                                                       Punjab and 27 in Sindh, which
                                                                       benefited an area of 87,300 ha.
                                 · Area on which tile drains installed · Nil
                                 and functioning (target area not
                                 specified)
                                 · 5 canal commands modernized         · No canals were modernized


                                 Km of canals rehabilitated (target    · 2,008 km of canals (benefited area
                                 length not specified)                 729,000 ha) rehabilitated; 11,525 km
                                                                       of canals desilted (benefited area
                                                                       176,300 ha); 9 km length of canals
                                                                       lined (benefited area 2,220 ha) and
                                                                       76 canal structures rehabilitated.
                                 · Area on which O&M was carried       · O&M provided through
                                 out efficiently through contracts     Performance contracts in an area of
                                 awarded to the private sector (target 516,000 ha;
                                 area not specified)
                                 · ERR of completed Investment         · Overall 15%
                                 Projects                              · Surface drain rehab
                                                                       1. NWFP 12%
                                                                       2. Punjab 14%
                                                                       3. Sindh 16%
                                                                       · Watercourse Improvement
                                                                       1. Punjab 15%
                                                                       2. Sindh 13 %
                                                                       · Rapid rehabilitation/desilting of
                                                                       Canals
                                                                       1. NWFP 13%
                                                                       2. Punjab 13%
                                                                       3. Balochistan 12%
                                 · Increases in cropping intensities   · Yield levels will be maintained.
                                 and yields resulting from reduced     No increase in cropped area.
                                 waterlogging and salinity
· Minimize drainable             · Quantity of salt (and % of total    · The additional works for
surplus; and facilitate eventual drainable surplus) being drained to   evacuation of all saline drainable
evacuation of saline drainable   the sea (target % not specified)      surpluses from the Indus Basin to the
surplus from the Indus Basin                                           Arabian Sea have been constructed.
to the sea                                                             DMP was prepared by the
                                                                       government where alternative options
                                                                       for the future needs of agricultural
                                                                       drainage as an integrated component
                                                                       of water management are being
                                                                       compared.
                                 · Area and % of land requiring        · No new drainage projects were
                                 drainage connected to a proper and    implemented due to IAs' reluctance
                                 functioning outfall (target area not  to follow the agreed FLAR as such
                                 specified)                            no additional area requiring drainage
                                                                       was connected to a proper and
                                                                       functioning outfall.
· Increased        employment    · Many direct employment benefits     · The project is estimated to have
opportunities                    during construction and employment    created direct employment for about
                                 for about 16,600 farmers after        5,000 people/per year and indirect
                                 completion.                           employment for about 7,500
                                                                       people/year during implementation



                                                      25

Outcome/Impact Indicators               Projected in SAR                   Actual/Latest Estimate

                                                                     and would provide employment for
                                                                     about 1,300 farmers after completion.

· Assist in poverty           · Assist in poverty alleviation        · The project is estimated to have
reduction and distribution of  through increased agricultural        provided 5.5% increase in the income
benefits.                      production, farm incomes, and         of about 81,000 farm families.
                               providing additional employment       · Implementation of nearly 400 sub
                               opportunities.                        projects    for   desilting    benefited
                                                                     mostly the poor who were at the tail
                                                                     end of the systems and were not
                                                                     getting irrigation supplies.
· Positive Fiscal Impact      · Fiscal impacts were expected in      · In Punjab 1,239 SCARP tubewells
                               capital and recurrent budgets at both have been transferred to farmers,
                               provincial and federal levels.        which result in saving of Rs 557
                                                                     million /year in electricity bill of PID.
                                                                     · The additional annual revenue to
                                                                     the government is estimated as about
                                                                     Rs 20 million in Punjab, Rs56 million
                                                                     in Sindh, Rs 4 million in NWFP and
                                                                     Rs 2 million in Balochistan.




                                                   26

 Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

               2a. Project Cost by Component December 2004 (in US$ million equivalent)


                        Project Cost by Component                   Appraisal Actual/Latest    Percentage
                                                                    Estimate    Estimate       of Appraisal
       A. Sector Planning & Research
             Sector Planning and Policy Studies                       10.40        7.04             68
             Research Programs                                        15.30        2.46             16
             Subtotal                                                 25.70        9.50             37

       B.    Institutional Reforms
             Institutional Program for WAPDA Water Wing               31.40        0.09              0
             Institutional Programme for PIDs                         26.30       16.60             63
             Subtotal                                                 57.70       16.69             29

       C. Investments
             Off-farm Drainage                                        426.60      31.22              7
             On-farm Drainage                                         92.60        3.76              4
             Irrigation system                                        91.80       95.15            104
             Operation and maintenance                                72.10       43.31             60
             Subtotal                                                 683.10      173.45            25

       D. Programme Coordination and Supervision*                     18.50       26.88            145

                            Total Project Costs**                     785.00      226.51            29


     * It includes interest during construction
     **Including all co-financiers, government and beneficiaries



2b. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) - US$ million equivalent

     Expenditure Category1/                                    Procurement Method
                                                ICB             NCB           Other        N.B.F.         Total
1. Civil Works                                 123.1            66.6          17.3         323.7          530.7
                                               (97.4)           (47.5)        (8.4)         (0.0)         (153.3)
2. Equipment and Vehicles                       15.9             2.4           0.4          16.7           35.4
                                               (12.7)           (1.9)         (0.3)         (0.0)         (14.9)
3. Consultants                                                                78.6           8.2           86.8
                                                                              (78.6)        (0.0)         (78.6)
4. Research                                                                   14.2                         14.2
                                                                              (14.2)                      (14.2)
5. Training                                                                                 12.9           12.9
                                                                                            (0.0)          (0.0)
6. Incremental Staff & Operating                                              26.6          10.2           36.8
                                                                              (24.0)        (0.0)         (24.0)
7. Others2/                                                                                 68.2           68.2
                                                                                            (0.0)          (0.0)
Total                                          139.0            69.0          137.1        439.9           785.0
                                              (110.1)           (49.4)       (125.5)        (0.0)        (285.0)

 ICB = International Competitive Bidding; NCB = National Competitive Bidding; NBF = Not Bank Group Financed
 1/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
 2/ Includes land acquisition and interest during construction.




                                                              27

       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (December 2004 Estimate) - US$ million
                                                       equivalent

      Expenditure Category1/                                 Procurement Method
                                              ICB              NCB            OTHER      2/      N.B.F.          Total
 1. Civil Works                               33.4             102.6             0.0                             136.0
                                             (29.7)           (31.9)             (0.0)                           (61.6)
 2. Equipment and Vehicles                     -                 -               1.31                             1.3
                                               -                 -              (0.75)                           (0.7)
 3. Consultants                              30.10               -                  -                            30.1
                                            (29.03)              -                  -                            (29.0)
 4. Research3/                                 -               1.82              7.68                             9.5
                                               -              (1.801)           (7.339)                          (9.1)
 5. Training  3/                               -                 -               2.11                             2.1
                                               -                 -                  -                              -
 6. Incremental Staff &                        -               4.14              29.55                           33.7
                                               -              (3.734)          (21.454)                          (25.2)
 7. Others  4/                                 -                 -               13.83                           13.8
                                               -                 -              (1.117)                          (1.1)
 Total                                       63.49            108.55            54.48               -            226.5
                                            (58.75)           (37.45)           (30.67)             -           (126.9)


 ICB = International Competitive Bidding; NCB = National Competitive Bidding; NBF = Not Bank Group Financed

1/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
2/ Includes civil works, vehicles and equipment procured through national shopping, training and contract staff.
3/ Research and training include also some consultancy costs.
4/ Interest during construction.
Note: Land acquisition did not take place.




                                                           28

                                     2c. Project Financing by Components (in US$ million equivalent) December 2004


            Component                            Appraisal Estimate 1/                      Actual/Latest Estimate                    Percentage of Appraisal

                                     Govt.     FOs       IDA    ADB     OECF2/    Govt.      FOs    IDA      ADB    JBIC     Govt.     FOs     IDA     ADB     JBIC


Sector Planning & Research
Sector Planning and Policy Studies      -        -       10.4     -        -       0.10      0.00   6.64      0.00   0.00      -         -     66.7      -        -
Research Programs                       -        -       15.3     -        -       0.05      0.00   2.20      0.21   0.00      -         -     14.4      -        -
Subtotal                                -        -       25.7     -        -       0.2        -     8.84      0.2      -       -         -     35.6      -        -


Institutional Reforms
Institutional Program for WAPDA
Water Wing                             2.6       -       19.0    6.7      3.1      0.01      0.00   0.08      0.00   0.00      0.4       -      0.4      -        -
Institutional Programme for PIDs       1.6      0.4       8.5    5.9      9.9      1.14      0.00   13.15     0.20   2.11     71.4       -     154.7    3.3     21.3
Subtotal                               4.2      0.4      27.5   12.6      13.0     1.2        -     13.2      0.2    2.1      27.5       -      48.1    1.5     16.2


Investments
Off-farm Drainage                     178.9      -       89.4   87.2      71.1     4.64      0.00   13.25     4.07   9.26      2.6       -      14.8    4.7     13.0
On-farm Drainage                      15.8     25.3      33.2    7.6      10.8     0.51      0.73   0.44      0.00   2.09      3.2      2.9     1.3      -      19.3
Irrigation system                     17.4      2.3      57.3    9.6      5.2     14.16      0.60   46.56     2.14  31.69     81.4     26.2     81.3   22.3    609.4
Operation and maintenance              8.9      4.1      39.1   20.0       -       3.25      0.00   36.59     3.48   0.00     36.5       -      93.6   17.4       -
Subtotal                              221.0    31.7     219.0  124.4      87.1     22.5      1.3    96.8      9.7    43.0     10.2      4.2     44.2    7.8     49.4


Program Coordination and
Supervision  3/                        2.7       -       12.7    3.0       -      18.33      0.00   7.65      0.47   0.43    678.9       -      60.2   15.7       -


       Total                          227.9    32.1     284.9  140.0      100.1    42.2      1.3    126.6     10.6   45.6     18.5      4.2     44.5    7.5     45.5


1/ Out of the IDA NDP funds, firstly on December 6, 2201 US$100 million and secondly on October 13, 2004 US$35 million were transferred to Drought Emergency Relief
   Assistance (DERA) Project, the revised allocation for the NDP comes to US$136.928 million.
2/ OECF: Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan) is now JBIC: Japan Bank for International Cooperation.



                                                                                29

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                      A. Methodology and Expected Returns Foreseen at Appraisal

1.             NDP has identified more than 38 projects of drainage tubewells, 9,939 km of different
types of new drains and 13,706 km of rehabilitation and remodelling of exiting drains. Economic
viability of the NDP was demonstrated by evaluating projects under different scenarios separately at
micro and macro levels. The analysis has been done as an indicative type, assuming that a large
number of similar-nature projects would be undertaken during the NDP implementation. The
condition for selection of the project was that the projects with the EIRR equal or more than 15%
would be funded under the NDP.

2.             Based on the potential Investment Projects in the pipeline, the NDP was expected to
benefit 16,660 farmers directly, and the entire irrigated agriculture sector indirectly, by reclaiming
abandoned land, rehabilitating existing lands, and potentially improving drainage in about 13.5 million
acres. Increase in the productivity was estimated by about 2% for the entire IBIS command areas, and
by 20% for the tail end farmers.

3.             The benefits were estimated by identifying the agro-climatic zones of the potential
projects13 and classifying them with respect to watertable depth14. Analysis in the appraisal followed
the standard methodology and determined the feasibility of different types of interventions, which are
traditionally undertaken for addressing the drainage problems.

4.             It was anticipated that yield per hectare per cropping season would increase for the same
crop variety under the "with project" situation because of protection against intrusion of saline water
and improved drainage conditions. The expected variation in the yields and cropping intensity was
estimated on the past experience of drainage projects in Pakistan. Historical gross margins of crops for
different watertable depth classes in different agro-climatic zones were used for computing the project
benefits. The major economic benefits were considered as; (i) variations in cropping patterns and yield
levels; (ii) degree of surface flooding and its frequency; (iii) extent of water logging; and (iv) available
irrigation supplies. The incremental benefits were envisaged avoiding reduced loss in agricultural land,
availability of increased cultivable land due to reduced salinity and water logging, lower crop losses
due to reduced flooding, and improved crop yields.

5.             The analysis was done under with and without Project conditions and period of analysis
was taken as 30 years, including project implementation period as 5 years. O&M was considered on
the basis of historical trends. The analysis was done at 1997 prices using a standard conversion factor
of 0.9 and an opportunity cost of capital as 12%.

6.             The ERRs of the various types of investment projects have a span of wide range. The
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) for the potential projects was then estimated ranged from
9.5%% to above 50% (minimum as 9.5% for SCAR VI Evaporation Ponds and maximum above 50%
for Transition of FGW Tubewells in Sindh and NWFP).

ICR Estimation Methodology

7.             SAR methodology was applied to available data in order to update expected project
returns. The analysis has been done at actual costs at the level of 2005 prices. A majority of the data
used is obtained from the NDP Consultants and from the appraisal reports prepared by the project
implementing agencies. The collected data has also been rationalized through a pilot visit of the ICR
mission in the project area, by interviewing the beneficiaries and discussing the level of benefits with

13  The agro-climatic zones have been defined in all the provinces at Pakistan level: for Punjab, rice-wheat Zone; cotton-
    wheat zone; Sindh, rice-wheat north, cotton-wheat south; NWFP mixed cropping zone.
14  The productivity of land is defined into four classes with respect to water table depth: Class I; over 150 cm, Class II =
    120-150 cm, Class III = 75-120 cm, Class IV = 0-75 cm.

the various stakeholders. Similar to the SAR, the financial and economic analysis has been done for
the model drainage interventions rather than for the aggregated total:

              -      Surface Drainage
              -      Lining Watercourses
              -      Rapid Rehabilitation/De-silting of Canals and Drains


Quantifiable Benefits

8.            Incremental crop production benefits attributable to the subprojects arise from:
(a) lowering of the groundwatertable in the command area of the subprojects; (b) reduction in crop
damages due to reduced surface flooding after rainfall events; (c) reduction in the extent of land
abandoned due to water logging; (d) additional water availability resulting from on-farm schemes and
off farm (watercourse improvement) subprojects (e) canal lining; and (f) strengthening of earthen
embankments of unlined canals and drains.


Key Parameters

9.            The analysis has adopted other key parameters including; (i) prices of outputs and inputs
of an farm-gate prices prevailing in 2005 used at constant prices; (ii) opportunity cost of capital at
12%; (iii) economic life of 30 years; (iv) one year lag for incremental production with five year period
of full development; (v) direct benefits accrue only from the new or reclaimed area; (vi) economic
prices of agricultural commodities are derived on import parity basis for wheat, sugarcane and
fertilizers, whereas export parity prices have been calculated for rice and cotton; (vii) duties and taxes
are not accounted for in the calculation; (viii) standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 has been used
for eliminating the distortion factor in the project investment costs and the O&M costs.



                                 B. Evaluation of Investment Projects

Surface Drainage

10.           Actual Watertable Depths. The table below shows the variation in the groundwater
table during 1996-2002.

                                   Actual Water Depth (% of land)
       Depths (m)           1995     1996      1997       1998     1999     2000     2001      2002

          <1.5 m           29.9     29.9       31.3     29.6     26.6      19.3     15.1       4.1
         1.5 ­ 3 m         25.5     27.3       27.3     25.0     23.7      21.4     17.4       16.6
           > 3 m           44.6     42.7       41.4     45.3     49.7      59.4     67.4       79.0
       Source: Borrowers' Project Completion Report ­ Table A3-1.



11.           It is clear from the above table that the rising trend of groundwater table in the project
area continued unabated until 1998. The extent of highly waterlogged area (watertable 1.5 m)
increased from 29.9% to 31.3% in 1997. Onwards, as the implementation of project components
advanced, the watertable started to decline as a result of reduced groundwater recharge after
rehabilitation of existing drains and construction of new drains- - groundwater intercepted by surface
drains in areas with shallow watertable. Lower than average rainfall during 1998-2000 also
contributed to the rapid decline of the watertable.



                                                     31

12.           Lowering of Groundwater Table. A number of research studies carried out under
different projects, and the two studies undertaken for the
NDP15 have clearly demonstrated that as the groundwater
table rises and reaches depth of less than one meter, crop
yields decreases substantially. The figure given here
illustrates the affect of rising groundwater level on the
volume of crop yields. The economic analysis presented
in SAR also explains that the future yields may decline
from their current levels to zero, under without project
condition. A conservative approach has been taken at
ICR assuming no increase in the cropping area and 50%
reduction in the yield level occurs under the without
project scenario. The present yield level is assumed to be maintained under with project situation.


Improvement of Watercourses

13.           Only 27 watercourses in Sindh were improved against the target of 750 watercourses in
SGW area of Nara Canal Command and Khairpur East. Besides, nearly 500 water watercourses were
improved in Punjab. Benefits of lining of watercourses have yielded approximately equivalent to 25%
increase in annual water availability compared to without project situation16. As such the additional
water available will meet a higher proportion of full crop water requirements, resulting in higher
yields. However, it has been generally observed that farmers tend to use additional water for planting
more area. For the purpose of financial and economic analysis, a conservative assumption has been
made in assuming 25% increase in water availability at the farm gate. It would lead to a 10 % increase
in the annual cropping intensity17. No change in cropping pattern or yield has been assumed. Possible
yield increases has also not been taken into account in the financial and economic analysis.


Rapid Rehabilitation/De-Silting of Canals and Drains

14.           Except in Sindh, de-silting of canals and drains was done in all other three provinces. It
covered CCA of 393,000 acres in NWFP, 750,000 acres in Punjab and 599,445 acres in Balochistan.
De-silting of canals and drains was not anticipated at appraisal which resulted in better equity and
enhanced irrigation water supply at farm gate particularly to the farms at tail end. For the financial and
economic analysis, a ten percent increase in the cropped area of the one-fourth (farms at tail end) of
the CCA is assumed.


Rehabilitation of Tubewells and Evaporation Ponds

15.           None of such type of project, envisaged at appraisal, could be implemented during NDP
period (of which the SAR estimated IRRs 9.5% to more than 50%).




15 The two studies undertaken for NDP were: (i) Efficacy of past Drainage Investment, and (ii) Promoting Private
   Investment in Drainage Sector.
16 A number of studies have proved 20-35% increase in water availability after the lining of water courses. A study carried
   out on crop yields by the International Water Management Institute (IWMI) indicates that after the project, various cops
   met 30% to 60% of their full water requirement.
17 ICR of FESS witnessed 10% increase in intensity in the Project area (IDA Credit 2410 Pak) due to improvement of
   watercourses.


                                                          32

Rehabilitation and Modernization of Canal Commands

16.            Except lining of 8.94 km of three canals, nothing was done out of the works anticipated at
appraisal for the modernization of the canal commands. Thus the benefits of water saving, crop losses
averted due to reduction in canal breaches as a result of lining and strengthening of earthen
embankments have not been quantified.

Non Quantifiable Benefits

17.            A number of benefits which could not be quantified due to lack of suitable data are
obvious at the completion of ongoing part of the NDP. Firstly, the following non-quantifiable benefits
are attributable to the project: (i) reduction in O&M costs for building and roads in low-lying areas
that were prone to flooding after rainfall events; (ii) environmental improvements reflected by reduced
water logging and surface flooding; (iii) improved equity of distribution of water; (iv) improved state
of inspection paths along the drains and canals, which has improved access and reduced transport
costs; and (v) expected improved O&M of canals where farmer organizations have been assigned this
responsibility.

18.            Secondly, there are number of other non-quantifiable benefits arising from the sector
planning and policy studies conducted under the NDP. These include: (i) many guidelines and lessons
learned that have been provided on how to improve the irrigation efficiency under waterlogged and
rising soil salinity conditions; and (ii) the cost efficiencies in drainage and canal lining works that will
be possible in future projects due to the findings assembled in the policy studies carried out under the
NDP.

Investment and O&M Costs

19.            These include the cost of major and minor civil works of the subprojects on actual basis
and other administration and engineering costs on prorate basis. All costs except price contingencies,
taxes and duties, are included in the analysis. Investment costs are converted to border prices using
SCF. Average O&M costs have been assumed by the mission as Rs 165 per acre (Rs 457 per ha) in
case of surface drains, Rs 100 per acre (Rs 250 per ha) in case of water course improvement and
rehabilitation and de-silting of canals and drains.

20.            The re-evaluation of the ERR for different type of investment projects/subprojects of
NDP, comparing with SAR is summarized below:

                              Benefited   Investment  O&M
        Description                                             Cost (Rs Per Ha)       EIRR %        NPV (Rs M)
                                Area        Cost      Cost

                                 Ha         Rs M      Rs M    Investment   O&M      SAR 1/    ICR   SAR     ICR
 Surface Drainage
 -  NWFP                         49,076          61.8   27.4       1,259      558      14.5    12.2  n.a.      2
 -  Punjab                      288,672       1,326.7  132.0       4,596      457      14.5    14.4   179    242
 -  Sindh                       451,791       1,086.5  206.5       2,405      457      20.0    16.3 1,194    525

 Watercourse Improvement
 -  Punjab                       82,310         306.6   18.8       3,725      229     n.a      14.8  n.a.     71
 -  Sindh                          4,917         20.2    1.3       4,107      274      29.8    12.5     2      1

 Rapid Rehabilitation/De-Silting of Canals
 -  NWFP                         39,761          62.9    9.4       1,583      237     n.a      13.2  n.a      12
 -  Punjab                       75,880         140.9   21.1       1,857      279     n.a      13.0  n.a      21
 - Balochistan                   60,648          82.7   12.4       1,364      205     n.a      12.3  n.a       3
          Overall             1,053,056       3,088.4  429.0       2,933      407     21.3     15.0 7,775    876
  1/ A list of EIRRs presented in SAR is illustrative and for the potential projects, most of which have not been
   undertaken during the NDP implementation.




                                                       33

21.         Differences between SAR and ICR estimates arise mainly due to the gap between the
expected large quantum of physical works and consequently more quantifiable benefits considered at
appraisal, whereas, comparatively small sized subprojects have been implemented under NDP, and
many of the foreseen at appraisal have not been undertaken. Per hectare investment cost of surface
drainage in Punjab is higher than the other two provinces, because Punjab has provided new structures
in the subprojects of surface drains. The ERR in Sindh is lower as compared to SAR because SAR
captured full benefits with structures and crossing on the drains. The ERR for the improvement of
watercourses in Sindh is also lower because the anticipated benefits at SAR could not be materialized.

22.         Out of 157 contracts of civil works, only 62 subprojects (39%) could be completed by the
closing date of IDA Credit (December 31, 2004). The remaining 95 subprojects would be completed
with the assistance of other financers, ADB, JBIC and from the government's own sources18 before
December 2006. The financial progress also remained very slow and only US$226 million (29%) are
likely to be spent against total target of US$785 million, over the period of 8.5 years instead of
planned period of 6.5 years, as was anticipated at appraisal (for US$785 million). Moreover, it is too
early to assess the impact of works done under NDP, as a substantial part of the civil works is
underway and would be completed up till December 2006, with the financing of balance amount
through ADB, JBIC and from the borrower's own sources.


Sensitivity Analysis

23.         Following scenarios has been tested for the sensitivity analysis:

                                  Scenario                                 ERR
            1. Benefits decrease by 10%                                   12.6%
            2. O&M suspended                                                9.2%
            3. Useful life of structure reduced to 30 years               13.8%



Financial Analysis

24.         Financial Analysis of the project has been estimated by re-calculating the IRR using the
values of costs and benefits in financial terms and by replicating the model used for the economic
analysis. The Financial Rate of Return (FIRR) for the overall project comes to 13.5%. The NPV
comes to Rs 475 million at 12% discount rate.

Farm Income Impact

25.         At appraisal, illustrative farm budget analysis for one hectare farms were prepared for
various types of investment projects only for Sindh province, indicating an increase in farm income by
6% in canal command areas, 8.5% in the area of watercourse lining and 128% in areas of surface
drains. The ICR re-estimated one hectare typical farm budgets suggests average increase of about in
the income of farmers in the areas of subprojects. The results are shown in the table below:




18 Source: Borrower's Project Completion Report Annex-9.


                                                      34

   Description                              SAR (Rs/ha)                      ICR (Rs/ha)
                                 Fwout     Fwith   Incr. % Incr. Fwout     Fwith     Incr.  % Incr.
   Watercourse Improvement

   -  Punjab                       n.a       n.a    n.a    n.a    24,995   25,987      991      4.0
   -  Sindh                      12,099     13,123  1,024    8.5 14,418    15,453    1,036      7.2

   Rapid Rehabilitation/De-Silting of Canals

   -  NWFP                         n.a       n.a    n.a    n.a    10,386   11,067      682      6.6
   -  Punjab                       n.a       n.a    n.a    n.a    25,495   26,873    1,377      5.4
   - Balochistan                   n.a       n.a    n.a    n.a    13,230   14,110      880      6.7
   FWout =Future Without, FWith=Future With

Employment Impact

26.          The project created employment of about 330,000 man days per year. During the
implementation, the NDP provided employment directly to 5,000 people and indirectly to 7,500
people including short term employment to technical and non technical persons.

Poverty Reduction Impact

27.          Farm level analysis indicates that NDP would provide an average increase of about 6% in
the income of beneficiaries estimated about 81,000 farm families.

Distribution of Benefits

28.          Implementing of nearly 400 subprojects for de-silting of drains and canals, NDP has
benefited mostly the poor sector of farming community who are concentrated in waterlogged and
saline groundwater areas and the tail ends.

Fiscal Impact

29.          Punjab has transferred the O&M liability of 1,239 SCARP tubewells to the farmers and
saved about Rs 557 million per annum. Out of these 849 tubewells were replaced by the farmers into
small size of tubewells, as such the WAPDA would also save a substantial amount of electricity,
which could be dispatched to other consumers increasing more economic activities. Reduction in
abiana collection due to slippage of these tubewell from the public hands to the private farmers would
have no significant effect on the estimated savings. In addition, with the increase of cropping area,
revenue of government would be increased estimated for Punjab about Rs 21 million per annum, for
Sindh Rs 56 million per annum, for Balochistan Rs 2 million and for NWFP Rs 4 million per annum.




                                                   35

 Annex 4. Bank Input

 (a) Missions:

  Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty
                                         (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)                   Performance Rating

       Month/Year                   Count                    Specialty                Implementation        Development
                                                                                         Progress            Objective
Identification/Preparation
         7/8/1993                     7        2 Irr. Eng. FMS, Anthro, Proj
                                               2 Irr. Eng. FMS, Anthro, Agri.
         2/4/1994                     6        Econ. Irr. Advisor
         5/15/1994                    3        2 Irr. Eng. Water
         7/28/1994                    7        2 Irr. Eng. FMS, Anthro, Proj
Pre-Appraisal
        12/22/1994                    7        2 Irr. Eng. FMS, Anthro, Proj
         7/20/1995                   10        Joint WB/ADB/JBIC mission
Appraisal
        11/23/1995                    6        Irr. Eng. FMS, Legal, 2 Eco. Env.

Pre-Board Review
                                               2 FMS, 3 Irr., Proj. Comm., Inst.,
          8/15/97                    13        Proc. NGO, Resett.
Supervision
                                               2 Irr. Eng., 3 FMS, 1 Proc., 1 Disb.
         3/3/1998                    10        1 NGO, 1 Anthro., 1 Proj.                      S                   S

         8/20/1998                    6        2 Irr. Eng.1 Proj. 2 Resett., 1 FMS            S                  HS
                                               2 Irr. Eng., 1 Agri Eco. 1 Social, 1
         3/30/1999                    8        Drainage, 1 Disb. 1 Proj. Proc.                S                   S

         6/30/1999                    4        1 FMS, 1 Agr. 1 Eco., 1 Proc. 1
                                               Proj.                                          S                  HS

                                               1 Agri. Eco., 1 Irr. Eng., 2 Proc., 1
         6/5/2000                     8        Resett., 2 Disb., 1 FMS                        S                   S

         4/6/2001                              Joint WB/ADB/JBIC mission                     NA                  NA
         4/7/2001                     3        2 FMS, 1 Disb.                                NA                  NA
         7/8/2001                     1        Inst.                                          S                   S
        11/15/2002                             Joint WB/ADB/JBIC mission                      S                   S

         7/31/2003                    8        2 Agri. Eco. 3 Irri. Eng. 2 FMS, 1
                                               Water                                         U                   U

         6/24/2004                    3        1 Water, 1 Rural, 1 Agri.                     U                   U
        12/22/2004                    9        2 Irr., Env., 3 FMS, 2 Proc., Water           U                   U
ICR

         5/20/2005                    4        1 Irr. Eng., 1 Water, 1 Agr. Eco. 1
                                               Inst.
   NA = Not Available.

   Irr Eng = Irrigation Engineer, Disb = Disbursement Analyst, Agri. = Agriculturist, Agr. Eco = Agricultural
   Economist, Anthro = Anthropologist, Proj.= Project Analyst, NGO = NGO Specialist, Resett. = Resettlement
   Specialist, FMS = Financial Management Specialist, Drain = Drainage Advisor, Agri. Eco = Agricultural
   Economist, FMS = Financial Management Specialist, Water = Water Resources Specialist, Rural = Rural Dev.
   Specialist, Inst = Institutional Dev. Specialist, Ecolo = Ecologist, Env. = Environmental Specialist, Planner =
   Planner, Rural = Rural Development Specialist




                                                             36

(b) Staff
                                           Actual/Latest Estimates
      Stage of Project Cycle              No. Staff
                                            Weeks             US$'000

Identification/Preparation1/                        225                799
Appraisal/Negotiation                             n.av.               n.av.
Supervision   1/                                    434              2,329
ICR                                                  20                110
Total                                               679              3,238

Note 1/ there are many figures for the cost of identification/preparation and supervision. The budget was either
not recorded or managed.




                                                         37

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)



                                                           Rating
 Macro policies                                            M
 Sector policies                                           M
 Physical                                                  M
 Financial                                                 M
 Institutional Development                                 M
 Environmental                                             N
 Social
 Poverty Reduction                                         M
          Gender                                           N
 Private sector development                                M
 Public sector management                                  M



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)



6.1 Bank performance                                             Rating

Lending                                                          U
Supervision                                                      S
Overall                                                          U

6.2 Borrower performance                                         Rating

Preparation                                                      S
Gov't implementation performance                                 U
Implementing agency performance                                  U
Overall                                                          U




                                                           38

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Forms 590, PSRs and Aide Memoirs of Supervision Missions, 1998 to 2004. The World Bank.
    Including the WB QAC reports on Quality at Entry Assessment and the report on quality of
    supervision.

2. National Drainage Program: Staff Appraisal Report, NDP September 1997, The World Bank

3. National Drainage Program: Implementation Volume I to Staff Appraisal Report, November
    1997, The World Bank

4. National Drainage Program: Implementation Volume II to Staff Appraisal Report,
    November 1997, The World Bank

5. National Drainage Program Project: Legal Documents, December 1997, The World Bank

6. Pakistan Public Expenditure Management: Volume II Accelerated Development of Water
    Resources and Irrigated Agriculture, April 2003, The World Bank

7. National Drainage Program Project: Completion Report, April 2005, Pakistan Drainage
    Consultants

8. National Drainage Program: Implementation Completion Report, April 2005, Provincial
    Coordination Cell, NDP Punjab

9. National Drainage Program: Borrower Evaluation Report, May 2005, Provincial Coordination
    Cell, NDP NWFP

10. Pakistan: Drainage Sector Environmental Assessment - National Drainage Programme,
    June 1993 prepared by National Engineering Services Pakistan (Pvt.) Limited and Mott
    MacDonald International Limited

11. Feasibility Study, National Drainage Programme I, May 1995 prepared by National
    Engineering Services Pakistan (Pvt.) Limited and Mott MacDonald International Limited

12. National Drainage Program: Impact Evaluation of Desilting of Canals and Rehabilitation of
    Structures During Annual Canal Closure of 1998-1999, Pakistan Drainage Consultants

13. National Drainage Program: Draft Impact Evaluation Report for Desilting of Canals and
    Drains Pat Feeder Canal and Drainage Circle, Dera Murad Jamali, 1999, Pakistan Drainage
    Consultants

14. Punjab Irrigation Systems Improvement Project: Draft Final Report, October 1999, Pakistan
    Drainage Consultants

15. National Water Policy: Final Report, Background Information and the Policy, January 2003,
    Associated Consulting Engineers and Halcrow


16. National Drainage Program: Executive Summary of Pre-feasibility Study of National
    Surface Drainage System, May 2003, Indus Associated Consultants and Louis Berger
    International




                                                 39

17. National Drainage Program Project: Special Assistance for Project Implementation, July
    2003, The JBIC

18. Left Bank Outfall Drain Stage-I Project (CR. 1532-PAK): Implementation Completion
    Report, June 1998, The World Bank

19. Effect of Direct Outlets on Water Distribution in the Nara Canal Command Area, November
    2003, IRC Sindh

20. Pakistan: Sindh Water Resources Management, Issues and Options, December 2003, FAO
    TCI.

21. Pakistan: National Drainage Program Project. Management Report and Recommendation
    in Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report.




                                               40

Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation

                                BORROWERS EVALUATION

      OF NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAMME UNDER IDA CREDIT
                                           NO.2999-PAK


1.       Project Data

The Pakistan National Drainage Programme (NDP) Project is a mix of physical works, institutional and
policy reforms, research and planning studies in drainage, and initiating changes in legal and
regulatory framework to allow farmers' participation. Some of these components are of a non-physical
nature and indirectly affect the direct benefits that are expected to accrue from the investment
component only. Interventions to be targeted under the investment component are expected to
provide drainage relief to the irrigated areas by reducing flooding from excess surface water and
controlling water logging and salinity, as well as secure better protection of adjacent wetlands.

In addition to direct benefits the programme will have substantial indirect benefits towards the
improvement of environment and socio-economic conditions. The institutional reforms will also have
positive long-term effect on sustainability of the irrigation and drainage systems.

i)       NDP Components

             a.     Sector Planning and Research Component
             b.     Institutional Reforms Component
             c.     Investment Component
             d.     Programme Coordination and Supervision
                    Component

Project activities commenced on January 01, 1998. The value of activities to be carried out during the
first stage of the Project (1998 until 2004) was estimated to reach approximately US Dollars 785
million. A summary breakdown of this cost (estimates 1997) is given in the table below:


             Component / Activity                                     Estimated Cost in      Percentage of
                                                                         US$ Million          Total Cost
      1      Investment Component                                          699.21                89.1%
      2      Institutional Reform Component                                 34.88                4.4%
      3      Sector Planning and Research Component                         26.60                3.4%
      4      Programme Coordination & Supervision                           24.31                3.1%
             Total Cost                                                    785.00               100.0%

The Sector Planning & Research Component, Institutional Reform Component, and the Investment
Component are discussed under Item 2 below.

ii)      Project Consultants
The services of following consultants were utilized:

           a.     Consultants for Engineering, Design and Supervision (EDS) Services
           b.     Finance, Accounting and Information System (FAIS) Consultants



                                                      41

             c.     Institutional Reform Consultants.
             d.     Research Studies Consultants (Research Advisors)
             e.     Training Consultants
             f.     External Auditors
             g.     Policy and Planning Studies Consultants
             h.     Individual Consultants

 iii)     Review of NDP by Special Committee
A Special Committee constituted by GOP in 2001 extensively reviewed NDP and re-structured the
Project at a revised/reduced outlay of Rs. 25,050 Million excluding Balochistan who opted out of NDP
at that time owning to lack of drainage options available for the effluents of Balochistan. The President
of Pakistan approved the recommendations of the Special Committee in September 2002 and the
Project activities re-started. The re-structured Investment Component stood reduced from Rs. 25,060
Million to Rs. 19,800 Million for three provinces. Balochistan re-joined the NDP in September 2003.

vi)       Revised PC-I
The revised PC-I proforma of the NDP was cleared by CDWP for approval of ECNEC at an overall
cost of Rs. 29,374 Million. Since then following important changes have taken place:

          · Closure of IDA Credit on 31-12-2004.
          · The investment component of the Programme has been revised/finalized by the Provinces
               as per the direction of the FPSC and the Bank to make it realistic. The provinces have re-
               structured their investment portfolios, which can be completed during the remaining period
               of the Programme. The total cost of investment portfolios has been assessed at 17,724
               Million.
          · The Sector Planning and Research Component has completed on 31-12-2004.
          · The revised PC-I had the closing date of Programme as 31-12-2005. On the request of
               Provinces, the FPSC has recommended the closing date as 31-12-2006.
In view of the above, the cost of the Revised PC-I may reduce from Rs. 29,374 Million to Rs. 24,778.7
Million (or even lesser due to negligible/no physical activities so far this year in Sindh and Balochistan)
for consideration and approval by ECNEC.

v)        Financial Progress at 31.12.2004



                                                                                               Million US$

                                                                              Project
                                          InstitutionalResearch &           Coordinatio  NDP      Total
                                           Reforms       Sector   Investment            Escrow
                                                        Planning               n and            Utilization
                                                                            Supervision Account


NDP Management Cell                              2.024  7.034         30.1724.349          0.048    43.627

Govt. of Punjab - P.C. Punjab                    2.037  0.069         14.0270.716             -     16.849

Govt. of Sindh - P.C. Sindh                      9.220          -     43.7550.834             -     53.809

Chief Engineer Wapda (W) South                      -           -      6.623           -      -      6.623

Govt. of NWFP - P.C. NWFP                        0.267          -      1.0370.418             -      1.722

Govt. of Balochistan - P.C. Balochistan          0.134          -      2.0600.071             -      2.265

Federal Coordinator - Islamabad                     -   1.801             - 0.177             -      1.978

                                             13.682       8.904     97.674       6.565   0.048  126.873

                    Percentage Utilization    11%          7%        77%                 5%




                                                         42

vi)      Financial Progress Vs Actual Allocation
In terms of loan provision versus loan utilization, as given below, the performance has been highly
satisfactory in all four components. The physical targets of NDP-I are, however, yet to be
accomplished. The disparity of financial allocations vis-à-vis physical targets is due to the reason that
IDA had made minimal interim loan allocations against the huge & tentative physical targets. Besides,
a large sum of US$212 million was put under the "Unallocated" category for future needs, as & when
required. However, much of this amount (about US$158 million) was diverted during end of the year
2001 to the DERA Project.

   Sr. #                            Agencies                               Million Rs.
i           GOP                                                                    1,130
ii          Punjab                                                                   400
iii         Sindh                                                                    537
iv          NWFP                                                                     109
v           Balochistan                                                               78
vi          ADB through adjustment in its existing portfolio                         329
vii         Diversion of funds from WB-funded WSIP (Water Sector                   1,033
            Improvement Project in Sindh) currently under
            negotiation
                                                                  Total            3,616
*Savings transferred to DERA Project

 vii)    Reprogramming of NDP due to Closure of IDA Credit

The expiry of IDA Credit on 31-12-2004 affected following on-going NDP activities:Programme
                    Coordination
            b.      Institutional Reforms.
            c.      Investment Component in Sindh
            d.      Consultants for EDS Services for Works
            e.      Financial Consultants
            f.      External Auditors

The overall impact of the above activities till completion of NDP-I on 31-12-2006 is estimated to be Rs.
3,616 million. A special meeting held on January 28, 2005 under the chairmanship of Secretary,
Ministry of Water and Power, GOP, Islamabad        with   the  provincial  Secretaries    of   IPDs   for
Reprogramming of NDP decided to share the above cost in a following manner:



      Sr. #                            Agencies                               Million Rs.
   i          GOP                                                                    1,130
   ii         Punjab                                                                    400
   iii        Sindh                                                                     537
   iv         NWFP                                                                      109
   v          Balochistan                                                                78
   vi         ADB through adjustment in its existing portfolio                          329
   vii        Diversion of funds from WB-funded WSIP (Water Sector                   1,033
              Improvement Project in Sindh) currently under
              negotiation
                                                                     Total           3,616




                                                   43

2.       Principal Performance Ratings

i)       Sector Planning and Research Component
This component was designed for completion during early years of NDP-I so that results of the
Planning, Policy and Research Studies could be applied for the preparation of a pipeline of high
priority projects to be financed under NDP or other projects. Most of these Studies were delayed. As a
result, the outcome/benefit of these Studies has not been applied so far appropriately. Moreover, the
approval of "National Water Policy (NWP)" is still pending. Besides providing clear guidelines on
important water issues, NWP will also advice for improving the existing insufficient cost recovery
system. The feasibility study of National Surface Drainage System (NSDS) was converted into pre-
feasibility on the advice of a province. Later, it was unanimously decided by the Borrower, the Bank
and the provinces to prepare a Drainage Master Plan (DMP) of the Indus Basin, which will determine
the need & effectiveness of NSDS. The study on DMP is still going on and it is expected for
completion by December 2005. The initial results of DMP indicate that basin-wise NSDS is no more a
good/feasible option for the disposal of drainage effluent. The DMP endorses disposal of effluent into
sub-basins separately. Hence, the basic objective of NDP for carrying away the drainage effluent from
the Indus basin into the sea looks illusive.

ii)      Institutional Reforms

A.       Institutional Reforms in WAPDA Water Wing
It was agreed by the Borrower during the loan negotiations with the Donor that the role of WAPDA's
Water Wing would eventually be limited to inter-provincial functions. The progress of Water Wing on
developing and managing the water resources of the Indus Basin beyond construction (inter-provincial
functions) remained satisfactory. The sizable reduction in administrative costs was witnessed as the
office-staff ratio was brought down from 1:18 in 1992 to 1:7 in 2004. Under Standard Operating
Procedures (SOP) adopted by WAPDA in 2001, extensive training of Water Wing staff is being carried
out every year (Figures given separately in the Performance Indicators Sheet). The capacity building of
its departments through IDA Credit and own/other sources remained continued.

B.       Institutional Reforms in the Provinces
The institutional reforms in the provinces were aimed at decentralization and management transfer of
the irrigation and drainage system from PIDs to a multi-tier system of autonomous institutions with
clearly defined roles and responsibilities within the system; and with a firm commitment to phase out
subsidies for O&M in seven to ten years. It was also agreed between the Borrower and IDA that if the
NDP-I is successfully implemented, it would be followed by the proposed National Irrigation Program
(NIP) which is under preparation. On the other hand, if the pace of the reforms is slow due to the lack
of government commitment, implementation constraints, or resistance for real change, the financial
commitments under NDP would be scaled back or cancelled altogether after the MTR or 2-3 years.

After the enactment of PIDAs by the provincial governments, the PIDAs and Pilot AWBs were
notified/established and the process of formation of FOs started. Except Sindh, the process of
decentralization and management transfer has remained slow in other provinces. Even the institutions
formed in Sindh are far from being considered as real physical entities which are likely to remain
sustainable in future. The progress under I/reforms was quite slow during early years of NDP-I.
Eventually, IDA on the request of the Borrower diverted a large sum out of NDP Credit during end of
the year 2001 to the DERA Project.

It is unfortunate that despite considering NDP as a high-risk programme due to its complex nature,
NDP-I was given a short period of 2-3 years to prove its success under I/reforms, notwithstanding the
financial impact of I/reforms which is about 4% only.

iii)     Investment Component
A huge outlay of US$699 million was earmarked for construction of physical works of irrigation and
drainage in the following manner:




                                                   44

                                                                                   Million US$
          Sr. No.                          DESCRIPTION                                   Cost

              1      Off-Farm Drainage                                                   426.6

              2      On-Farm Drainage                                                     92.6

              3      Rehabilitation and Modernization of Irrigation Systems               91.8

              4      O&M through Performance Contracts                                    72.1

              5      Others                                                               16.1

                                               Total Investment Component                699.2


The size of the investment portfolio was over-designed as compared with the capacity of the
implementing agencies. Besides, it contains a tentative list of physical works for implementation, which
is subject to changes/revisions in accordance with the requirements of the Provinces. In line with their
changing requirements, the Provinces made revisions in the investment portfolios. Hence, a large
number of the sub-projects at the various levels of design, appraisal and feasibility were dropped, and
new sub-projects added to cater to the needs of the provinces. This exercise consumed considerable
time in the preparation of new schemes by the EDS Consultants. In view of the low utilization of funds,
the Bank supported the provinces to undertake non-core physical activities like Crash Programme and
Incremental O&M Programme during 1998-99.Except On-Farm sub-component that is yet to be taken
up, the pace of physical activities has gained momentum especially in the Punjab. Although the
physical targets are not likely to be met, still substantial progress is foreseen by end of December
2006 in three provinces. Balochistan may succeed in executing a few small schemes.

In view of the foregoing discussion, the Principal Performance Ratings of the Project under IDA Credit
as on December 31, 2004 are summarized in the following table:

           Element              ORIGINAL           ACTUAL                        COMMENTS


    Outcome                    Satisfactory      Satisfactory       For       attaining        sustainability,

    Sustainability             Likely            Likely             extraordinary efforts & commitments of
                                                                    the concerned agencies are required.
         Institutional         Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Cost recovery of O&M is also required
    Development Impact                                              to come into effect without further
                                                                    delay.
    Bank Performance           Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           -

    Borrower Performance       Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           -

    Quality at Entry           Satisfactory      Un-                Programme approach did not prove
                                                 Satisfactory       successful. Linkage of progress under
                                                                    I/Reforms with the implementation of
                                                                    physical    works      under      Invest.
                                                                    Component was also a deterrent factor.
    Project at Risk at Any     Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           -
    Time

3.       Assessment of Development Objective & Design and Quality at Entry

The objectives of the Project are to improve the efficiency of the irrigation and drainage system in
Pakistan, and ensure its sustainability, through:

i.  Establishing an appropriate policy environment and institutional framework, and strengthening
    capacity of sector institutions (i.e., carrying out the first phase of policy and institutional reforms in
    the water sector);
ii.      Improving sector policies and planning;
iii.     Strengthening the technical foundations of and knowledge base on irrigation and drainage;
         and
iv.      Improving the irrigation and drainage infrastructure network.


                                                      45

All these initial objectives and related Project Components remained unchanged. However, a number of
new sub-components were added during the course of the Project to the original sub-components
resulting from objective iv):

        · Check / delay action Dams in Balochistan;
        · Lining of Canals in Balochistan to conserve irrigation water;
        · Drainage and irrigation rehabilitation works in FATA and Northern areas;
        · Incremental O&M works in all provinces; and
        · Environmental mitigation works to improve sub-basin environmental conditions by
              recycling of drainage effluent by treatment or water management system modifications.


               .1.1.1 Addition of new sub-components diluted the basic objective of the Project.
               The drought conditions prevailing in the country during 2000-2002 changed the
               priorities of the implementing agencies from the execution of drainage sub-
               projects to irrigation sub-projects.


               .1.1.2 i.   Quality At Entry (Project Design)

The quality at entry i.e. Project design as set forth in SAR was ambitious. For example:

        · Programme approach, which requires completion of inter-component activities before a
              physical work under the investment component can be initiated.
        · Over-design of the Project is another major hurdle. Setting out a huge investment targets
              for newly notified/established PIDAs was even beyond the capacity of old & well-
              established IPDs.
        · The provinces were not taken into confidence during design of the Project who are the
              main executing agencies.
        · Linkage of progress under Reforms (4% of the Project Cost) with the implementation of
              physical works under Invest. Component (89% of the Project Cost) was a setback for the
              implementation agencies.

4.      Achievement of Development Objectives and Outputs

i)       Sector Planning and Research

The Sector Planning and Policy Studies have been completed under NDP. The most significant of
these is the draft National Water Policy (NWP). The Ministry of Water and Power has submitted the
NWP for approval to the Cabinet for formally adopting the NWP and establishing an apex body for the
water sector. Another major planning effort supported under the NDP is the Master Drainage Plan
(MDP). The draft final report of the MDP has been reviewed by a joint national and international panel
of experts (POE), which has given guidance for revisions and further work. The DMP Drainage Master
Plan was completed in December 2005 as agreed with the Government.

Altogether fourteen research contracts were awarded under the NDP. Ten of these contracts were
completed by the credit closing date; three would be completed in 2005, and one has been dropped.
Sixteen PhD research grants were awarded. Five have been completed, thesis for two are under
review: eight would continue beyond January 2005 and one has been dropped. About four hundred
technical research papers were published under NDP and eighteen workshops/symposia were held.

ii)      Institutional Reforms

The major reform program in NDP involves decentralization and management transfer of irrigation and
drainage O&M responsibilities through the creation of autonomous and self-supporting irrigation and
drainage entities. The Project was only partially successful in establishing an appropriate policy
environment and institutional framework. The implementation of the institutional reforms has been
quite slow.




                                                     46

Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authorities have been established in all provinces and are functional
in Sindh, Punjab and NWFP. Three Canal Area Water Boards have been established in Sindh; one
has been notified in Punjab but is likely to become functional at the end of 2005 and one AWB is
functional in NWFP. By the end of 2004, the project organized 223 FOs (196 in Sindh, 3 in Punjab and
24 in NWFP) covering an area of approximately two million ha in which farmers are now responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation system.

iii)     Investment

Against the SAR targets, the limited achievement of this component are: (i) completion of remaining
works of Left Bank Outfall Drain such as remodeling of Nara canal and commissioning of Twin Jamrao
canal: (ii) rehabilitation of drainage systems in Sindh: (iii) a crash program for desiltation of irrigation
and drainage canal in Punjab, NWFP and Balochistan: (iv) award to eight O&M Performance contracts
for various components of LBOD in Sindh; and (v) preparation of a substantial pipeline of sub projects
in the off-farm investment category. The repair works have generally improved the performance of
drainage and irrigation schemes through: (i) extension of the useful life of existing irrigation and
drainage schemes; and (ii) reduction of leakages and repair of water control structures; Drainage
improvements have also mitigated flooding caused by direct rainfall.

5.        Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

         i)   The investment component of NDP contains a tentative list of physical works for
               implementation, which is subject to changes/revisions in accordance with the
               requirements of the Provinces. In line with their changing requirements, the Provinces
               made revisions in the investment portfolios. Hence, a large number of the sub-projects at
               the various levels of design, appraisal and feasibility were dropped, and new sub-projects
               added to cater to the needs of the provinces. This exercise consumed considerable time
               in the preparation of new schemes by the EDS Consultants.
         ii) The persistent drought conditions during 2000 to 2002 lowered the ground watertable.
               Hence, the saline and waterlogged areas were brought under cultivation. Due to the
               drought conditions, the priorities from undertaking new drainage sub-projects to O&M of
               irrigation & drainage sub-projects (deferred O&M) were changed. This change required re-
               working of new sub-projects & delayed the implementation of physical works.
         iii) The works under On-Farm sub-component could not be taken up due to slow process of
               formation & empowerment of Farmers Organizations (FOs).
         iv) The size of the investment portfolio was over-designed as compared with the capacity of
               the implementing agencies.
         v) The Provincial Governments use their Composite Schedule of Rates (CSR) as the basis
               for award of contracts. This resulted in delays in cases where the bids that reflected the
               current market prices were higher by 10-15 % of the departmental estimate (PC-Is).
               Subject matter was referred to the Federal Programme Steering Committee (FPSC) in mid
               2003 when a premium above the CSR was recommended by FPSC and subsequently
               adopted by the provinces to ease the situation.
         vi) Re-approval of sub-projects (already approved under umbrella PC-I of NDP) by the
               competent authorities in the provinces delayed the implementation of investment
               component. A committee was empowered to approve those sub-projects that were
               already approved & identified under umbrella PC-I of Flood Protection Sector Project
               (FPSP-I&II). Similar arrangements would have accelerated the implementation in NDP.
         vii) NDP was designed for implementation in Indus Basin Irrigation System, which covers only
               10% of the total irrigated area of Balochistan. Balochistan's withdrawal from the Project
               and its re-entry after 2½ years adversely affected the progress in the province.
         viii) The up front cost model for community cold not get support due to lack of information
               available with Project entities on benefits of investments.
         ix) No uniformity among the Provinces regarding approval of sub-projects.
         x) Different and lengthy procurement policies of different Donors.
         xi) Significant differences between the land acquisition procedures proposed under FLAR
               (Framework for Land Acquisition and Resettlement) and those adopted by the provinces.
               Delays in payment for land acquisition affected the implementation of sub-projects.




                                                     47

6.    Sustainability

i)    Financial sustainability is yet to be termed as satisfactory for the Pakistan irrigation and
      drainage sector as cost recovery of the O&M has remained inadequate in spite of periodic
      increases in abiana (water rate) collection. In line with the new strategy for water resources
      development, NDP aims to improve the efficiency of the irrigation and drainage system and
      ensure its sustainability through, inter alia, institutional reforms aimed at establishing
      decentralized, efficient and participatory institutions for financing, management and O&M.
ii)   Keeping in view the fact that current project is Phase-1 of a 25-years programme, and that
      scheduled completion is 1 and 1/2 years from now, the extraordinary efforts & commitments
      of the concerned agencies are needed for attaining the targeted sustainability under the
      institutional reforms.
iii)  The process of implementing of the restructured investment component has gained
      momentum, especially in the Punjab. It is expected that substantial completion of the physical
      works will be achieved by the end of NDP-I in December 2006.
iv)   Major drainage works completed in Sindh have been maintained successfully through O&M
      Performance Contracts out of IDA Credit. There are no indications from either the provincial
      government or other donors for allocation of funds for continuity of O&M in future. The AWBs
      and FOs, formed and empowered to collect abiana, are still young to maintain the system and
      becoming self-sustaining. The situation in other provinces regarding sustainability of AWBs
      and FOs is even more precarious.

7.    Bank and Borrower Performance

7A.   Bank's Performance

i)    The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) rated the Project as "high reward-high risk". The Bank's
      analysis in the SAR warranted Bank's explicit support for at least during the initial years of
      implementation of NDP-I to mitigate the risks. On the contrary, the Bank categorized the
      Project as "Problematic" and its performance as "Unsatisfactory" within three years of its
      implementation because the overall achievements were much lower than originally envisaged.
      Much of the Credit was diverted to DERA.
ii)   The major reason behind the slow progress was the linkage of Institutional reforms (4% of
      NDP Cost) with the investment component (89% of NDP Cost). This was the basic design
      flaw, and remained the detrimental factor during the life of NDP-I.
iii)  The Bank on the request of the Borrower (GOP) transferred (without the consent of provincial
      governments i.e. the main stakeholders) SDR 78.5 Million out of SDR 198.6 Million NDP
      Credit during end of year 2001 to DERA Project. The Bank informed during its Mid-Term
      Review (MTR) Mission in November 2002 that IDA was unlikely to grant an extension in the
      Credit closing date. This decision must have been taken due to the fact that Bank did not
      foresee any balance/unspent amount left at the end of December 2004. Another Bank Mission
      that visited Pakistan in 2003 noted in its Aide-Memoire that while implementation has picked
      up in the last 6 months, the performance was still rated as "Unsatisfactory". This rating
      actually sealed any hope for extension in the closure of IDA Credit on 31-12-2004 in spite of
      availability of un-spent amount of over US$30 million.
iv)   The Bank supported the provinces to undertake non-core activities like Crash Programme and
      Incremental O&M Programme during 1998-99 due to the low utilization of funds in the
      beginning of NDP.
v)    The NDP Project was designed on the guidelines of the Bank. Instead of allowing enough
      time to the newly established institutions to perform, the Bank put the Project under the
      category of `Unsatisfactory' within three years of its start.
vi)   The loan agreements of three donors envisage their coordination for smooth implementation
      of thickly knitted activities of the Project. No such coordinated effort from the donors was
      witnessed. While the other Donors (JBIC and ADB) having lesser stakes in the Project agreed
      to extend their loan closing dates till 31-12-2006, IDA went out of NDP on 31-12-2004.
vii)  The Bank's performance has been satisfactory as far as loan disbursement is concerned;
      however the non-uniform approach on the extension of the project completion date and the
      loan expiry falls short of Borrower's expectation on co-ordination among donors.




                                                  48

7B.      Borrower's Performance

i)       Programme Approach and Slow Progress under Institutional Reforms
NDP is under execution on a Programme approach instead of a Project approach. This approach, first
of its kind, required following actions:

          · Establishment & functioning of the Provincial Coordination (PC) Cells in the Planning and
              Development Departments for smooth transitioning of Provincial Irrigation Departments
              (PIDs) into Provincial Irrigation & Drainage Authorities (PIDAs).
          · Establishment & functioning of PIDAs, AWBs, FOs in the provinces.
          · Capacity building of these institutions, and Water Wing of WAPDA.

Initial years of the implementation of the Programme witnessed slow progress due to establishment of
PC Cells & PIDAs, mobilization of Engineering, Design, and Supervision (EDS) Consultants and,
Finance, Accounting and Information System (FAIS) Consultants. The progress picked up in the later
half of the Project implementation period.

ii)      Over-Design of Investment Component
The size of the investment portfolio was over-designed as compared with the capacity of the
implementing agencies. It kept the implementation agencies under pressure because the progress
achieved Vs targets always remained negligible and not appreciable.

iii)     Linkage of Implementation of On-Farm Works with Progress under I/Reforms
The implementation of physical works of "On-Farm sub-component" was linked with the progress
under the Institutional Reforms by the Provinces. Since the process of formation & empowerment of
Farmers Organizations (FOs) remained slow, the works under On-Farm sub-component could not be
taken up.

iv)      Reviews of NDP by Various Agencies including Special Committee
The President of Pakistan put a hold on NDP activities during 2001 and constituted a Special
Committee to probe the causes of slow implementation. The Special Committee presented its report in
2002, and the ban was lifted. The implementation of physical activities remained at standstill during
the aforementioned period.

v)       Drought Conditions during 2000-2002
The persistent drought conditions during 2000 to 2002 lowered the ground watertable. Hence, the
saline and waterlogged areas were brought under cultivation. Due to the drought conditions, the
priorities from undertaking drainage sub-projects to irrigation sub-projects were made. This factor
slowed down the implementation of physical works.

vi)      Non-Updating of Provincial Composite Schedule of Rates
The Provincial P&D Departments use their Composite Schedule of Rates (CSR) as the basis for
award of contracts. This resulted in delays in cases where the bids that reflected the current market
prices were higher by more than 15 % of the departmental estimate. The process took considerable
time. The matter was referred to the Federal Programme Steering Committee (FPSC) in mid 2003
when a premium above the CSR was recommended by FPSC and subsequently adopted by the
provinces to ease the situation.

vii)     Non-uniform Approach on the Extension of the Project Completion Date
Non-uniform approach on the extension of the Project completion date and the loans' expiry falls short
of the Borrower's expectations on coordination among Donors, though Bank's supervision of the
Project as well as Overall Bank Performance has been satisfactory.

viii)    Balochistan
Balochistan's remaining out of NDP for about 2 years hampered progress in that area.

ix)      Future Arrangements
Seen as the first phase of a 25-year Programme, the Borrower's preparation has been satisfactory.
The Government has effectively managed the Project through regular review and guidance by the
Federal Programme Steering Committee. Progress on institutional reforms has been good in one



                                                     49

province. In others it varied from nothing to appreciable. The Project is still ongoing and will be
completed in December 2006. Given the present impetus, the overall performance is likely to become
satisfactory.

8.       Relationship between the Borrower and the Bank

The successful completion of any Project largely depends on the better relationship between the
Borrower and the Bank. Under NDP Project, the relationship of the Borrower itself as well as its
implementing agencies i.e. WAPDA & the provincial agencies with all three donors (IDA, JBIC and
ADB) has remained very warm & cordial throughout the life of the Project. The regular Bank Missions
that visited the Project provided guidelines for better performance as well as reminded the
implementation agencies of possible risks involved, and their remedies. The Bank also came to the
rescue of the Borrower during drought in the country from 2000 to 2002, and agreed to divert un-
utilized funds out of NDP for DERA Project. However, the Bank did not accede to the Borrower's
request for extension of IDA Credit on at least two accounts; no further funds available under IDA
Credit No. 2999-Pak for NDP, and in the Bank's view, the performance of the Project was "un-
satisfactory".

9.       Lessons Learnt

         i)     The centralized EDS Consultancy was engaged for the Investment Component to be
                implemented by the provinces. The centralized EDS Consultancy was amended on
                the behest of the provinces and the Consultant was made answerable to five clients,
                which made coordination and uniformity of sub-project preparation and design
                activities, vital in case of a programme approach, difficult. Separate EDS Consultants
                should have been in place for the provinces from the very start.
         ii)    Project approach with specific work plans, with implementation responsibility resting
                on a single entity, should be preferred.
         iii)   WAPDA should be brought back into the development of large intra-provincial
                irrigation & drainage projects in view of its expertise and experience.
         iv)    The demonstration of extraordinary efforts & commitments of the provincial
                governments is imperative for the success of PIDAs, AWBs and FOs. They should be
                empowered to work independently within their own jurisdictions, without the
                interference of IPDs.
         v)     Cost recovery of O&M is also required to come into effect without further delay for
                sustainability of the newly formed institutions.
         vi)    More cautious approach is required in introduction of the reforms. The institutional
                reforms under NDP were somewhat over ambitious and to some extent resulted in a
                slow down of investment. The process should preferably be gradual and started from
                the lower tiers instead of doing it from top in one go. Institutional Reforms may be
                accompanied by modest amount of investment package to act as catalyst for the
                formation of new institutional. Once the institutions are in place the pace of investment
                will be accelerated, as the new institutions will tap into new sources of financing.
         vii)   The decentralization of the operation and maintenance of distributaries and minor
                level irrigation systems to the FOs is a valid concept and is enthusiastically accepted
                by the FOs. NDP is an excellent demonstration of this concept.
         viii)  The Irrigation and Power Departments need to build their capacities to handle large
                water sector projects by themselves.
         ix)    The Project where change management is involved, a continuous and constant
                political commitment is necessary.
         x)     Social mobilization process may be undertaken through NGOs/reputed support
                organizations instead of government organizations.




                                                    50

51

            TURKMENISTAN                                                           74°                                                      70°                       71°                                                       72°                                              73°                                                   74°
                         UZBEKISTAN            TAJIKISTAN                                           CHINA                                                                                                      t River
             36°                                                                              36°                                                                                                                                 Upper Swat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           23
                                                                                        Approx.
                                                                                     Line of Control                                                                                                                            24
                       AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                            Canal
                                                                      N.W.F.P.         JAMMU                                                                                       Kabul                   SwaLow er  Swat
                                                                                                                                                                                                  R.                            Canal                                                                                                                                                 34°
                                                                                          AND                                                                                                                                                           TARBELA
                                                                                                                                             PAKISTAN
                                                                  ISLAMABAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JAMMU &
                                                                                      KASHMIR

                      Area                                                                                    34°                                                                                                                                            DAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           26                                                                                                                       KASHMIR
             32°     of Map                                                                   32°                       NATIONAL DRAINAGE                                                                          Kabul     R.C.
                                                                      PUNJAB                                                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                   PROGRAM (NDP) PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Approximate
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ISLAMABAD
                                          P A K I S T A N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Line of Control

                       BALOCHISTAN                                                                             IRRIGATED AREA PROVIDED WITH
             28°                                                                              28°                                                                                   Kohat
                                                                                                                       AND IN NEED OF DRAINAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SALAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DAM

                                            SINDH                             INDIA                                                 IN THE INDUS BASIN                                                                                                                                              MANGLA                                                                            33°

                                                                                                              33°                                                                                                                      Soan    River                                                   DAM

             24°  Arabian                                                                     24°
                    Sea
             62°                     66°                       70°                  74°                                                                                                                                                                                   RANGE                                    Upper    Jhelum   Gujrat
                                         68°                                                     69°                                                                                                   River           JINNAH                                                                    RASUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BARRAGE                                                                  BARRAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SALT                                                                                                            MARALA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mianwali                                              River                                 1                C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BARRAGE

                                                                                                                                                                                CHASHMA
                                                            AREAS COVERED BY DRAINAGE:                                                                                          BARRAGE                                                                                                                                               KHANKI                           3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HEADWORKS
                                                              SURFACE DRAINAGE                                                                                                                                        C.
                                                                                                                                                 N . W . F . P .                                                        J. Link                                                                                                                                                       32°
                                                              SUB SURFACE DRAINAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
                                                                                                                                                                                 22                                                                                        2                   Canal                        R.Q                       bCanal
             32°                                            AREAS IN NEED OF DRAINAGE:                                                                                                                                                                                                                     River      nab C.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Che       .Link             hC ena       RAVI
                                                              SURFACE DRAINAGE                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jhelum                                                  reppU      SYPHON

                                                              SUB SURFACE DRAINAGE                                                                                                                                                                                          Lower                             Lower
                                                                                                                                                                                                          21
                                                            AREAS WHERE DEPTH TO WATER TABLE <5 FEET                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lahore                  r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIve
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ch    Faisalabad                                                          7

                                        20                  CANAL COMMAND AREAS                                                                                               s                   Canal                                                                            Bran                            BALLOKI                                                        Beas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5           BARRAGE
                                                            CANAL COMMAND AREA BOUNDARIES                                                                                 Indu                Thal                                                                            Jhang                                                                   8
                                                            (PROSPECTIVE AREA WATER BOARDS)                                                                                                                                     ERT                                   Chenab


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TRIMMU                                                                                        B.S.                                               31°

                                                            MAJOR RIVERS                                                                                                                                              DES          BARRAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LinkI S.LinkI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              B.
             31°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Canal                                           FEROZEPUR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BARRAGE
                                                            MAIN CANAL, BRANCHES AND RIVERS                                                                                                                                             20                   Haveli                                River
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lower  Bari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I
                                                            OUTFALL DRAINS                                                                                                                                THAL                                 6               lanaC                     Ravi                                            9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sahiwal
                                                            OUTFALL DRAINS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                     Canal                                                             10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                r                                                                                  Dipalpur    Canal
                                                            OUTFALL DRAINS PROPOSED                                                                                                                                           pu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.                                                                                          SULEIMANKE
                                                            SYPHONS, BARRAGES                                                                                      TAUNSA                             T.P.              Rang                                                                                                                          BARRAGE
                                                                                                                                                                  BARRAGE                                   Lin   k                                  S.
                                                            SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .                               11

                                                            NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                           19                      Multan                    Link       Canal                          River                                                                              30°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12                                     Vihari
                                                            PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                         M                                   lan
             30°                                                                                                                                                                          uz                                           Pakpattan                     ISLAM                                 Canal
                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                            Sutlej
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BARRAGE                       wah  Br.h

                                                                                                                                                                          18         hragraffa                         SidhnaiCa              MAILSI                                          Fordt ordwa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   F     14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SYPHON                                             Eas
                                                                                                                                                                                    C                                      Canal       13

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          15

                                       0    20                40     60          80      100 Kilometers                                                                                                          Mailsi                          Bahawal             Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Evaporation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ponds
                                                                                                                                                                          PUNJNAD                                                      Bahawalpur
                                                                                                                                                                           BARRAGE                                                  16
                                       0       20                     40                60                    80         100 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      29°

             29°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information

                                                                                                                                                                         l                                            P U N J A B                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank

                                                                                                                                                                      Cana                                                                                                                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                    ad
                                                                                                                                                               Punjn     17


                                                                                                42                                                                    Rahimyar Khan
                     MAIN NARA VALLEY                                                                                                     28           GUDU
                                     DRAIN (MNVD)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CANAL COMMAND
                                                                                   Canal                         Jacabadad                            BARRAGE
                                                                                                                                                                         Evaporation                                                                                                                                                                                                  28°
                                                                                                                                                                              Ponds                                                                                                                                               PUNJAB
             28°                                                      Kirthar    43                        N.W.           30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1        Upper Jhelum Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2        Lower Jhelum Canal
                                                                                          29                    Canal                             27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3        Marala Ravi Link Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4        Upper Chenab Canal
                                                                                    Watah         Canal                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5        Lower Chenab Canal
                                                            RANGE                                                                   SUKKUR                                                                                                                                                                                         6        Haveli Canal
                                                                                                                               BARRAGE                                                                                                                                                                                             7        Dipalpur Link Canal
                                                                                     31                           33                                                                                                                                                                                                               8        Ravi Syphon
                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL SURFACE                                                                                                                                                      9        Dipalpur Canal (Upper & Lower)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10       Lower Bari Doab Canal
                                                                                                                       34                   SERT             DRAINAGE SYSTEM
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   11 Pakpattan Above S.M. Link Canal
                                            Hamal                                                                                         DE                 (NSDS)                                                       I N D I A                                                                                                                                                   27°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12 Sidhnai Canal
                                             Lake
             27°                                   R                             32                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13 Mailsi Below S.M. Link Canal

                                                  AH T R I K                Canal                                        THAR                                                                                                                                                                                                      14 Fordwah & Eastern Sadiqia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   15 Qaim Canal

                                                                        Dadu                   35                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16 Bahawal Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   17 Panjnad & Abbasia Canals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   18 D.G. Khan Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   19 Muzaffargarh Canal
                                          SEHWAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   20 Rangpur Canal
                                          BARRAGE
                          BALOCHISTAN    (PROPOSED)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21 Thal Canal
                                                                  Manchhar                                                                   Chotiari                                                                                                                                                                              22 Paharpur Canal
                                                                     Lake                                                                    Lake                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      26°
                                                                                                                        Sanghar
             26°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  N.W.F.P.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   23 Upper Swat Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   24 Lower Swat & Doaba & Sholgara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25 Warsak High Level

                                                                                                                                              36                                                                                                                                                                                   26 Kabul RIver & Jui Shekh & Inundation

                                                                                             KOTRI
                                                                                        BARRAGE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SINDH
                                                                                                                     Hyderabad
                                                                                                                                                           S I N D H                                                                                                                                                               27 Ghotki
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28 Desert Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29 North West Canal                                 25°
                                                                                                         38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   30 Begari Sind Canal
             25°                                                                    Kalri                                Fu                                                                                                                                                                                                        31 Rice Canal
                                                                                    Lake
                                          Karachi                                                                 Canal    leli                                                                                                                                                                                                    32 Dadu Canal
                                                                                                          Pinyari      39      Cana                                                                                                                                                                                                33 Khairpur West Canal

                                                                              41                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   34 Khairpur East Canal
                                                                                                                                   l     40
                                                                                                         37                                                                                                                                                                                                                        35 Rohri Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   36 Eastern Nara Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   37 Pinyari Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   38 Gaja Canal (Lined Channel)
                        ARABIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    39 Fuleli Canal

                        SEA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40 Tando Bago (Lined Channel)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41 Kalri Baghar                                     24°
                                                                                 DHANDS &                                                                                                                                  RANN OF KUTCH                                                                                                                                                    IBRD
             24°                                                       COASTAL CREEKS
APRIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BALOCHISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                27854
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   42 Pat Feeder Canal
     1997
                         67°                                                        68°                                                 69°                    70°                                                    71°                                                 72°                                             73° 43            North West Canal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             74°

