Document of              l     rFURN
The World Bank                 REPORTS DESK
1WITHINa
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLYW
Report No. P-2135-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND FOODGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
November 3, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officili duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bnnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at October 14, 1977)
Rs 1000              Paise 100
US$1.00      =       Rs 8.51
Rs 1.00      =      US$0o1175
Rs 1 million =      US$117,500
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.75.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
List of Abbreviations and Acronyms Used in this Report
CAP       -    Cover and plinth (bagged grains placed on
brick plinth and covered with polyethylene
sheets)
FCI       -    Food Corporation of India
GOI       -    Government of India
PID       -    Project Implementation Division



FOR OFIC"IAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND FOODGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:        Food Corporation of India (FCI).
Amount:             US$107 million equivalent.
Terms:              Standard
Relending
Terms:            From Government of India (GOI) to FCI:  Repayment over
a period up to 20 years including four years of grace at
10.5% annual interest, with 0.25% interest rebate for
timely repayment.
Project
Description:      The project would assist GOI in constructing storage
facilities required for foodgrain procurement and dis-
tribution operations and improving foodgrain handling
practices, including bulk handling. The project
components include:
-    construction of 3.5 million tons of foodgrain
storage and 75,000 tons of port silos;
-    provision of ancillary facilities for grain
handling and transport;
-    training of management and key technical staff;
and
-    technical assistance, including engineering con-
sultants, and operations research studies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents mAy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Costs:                                              (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
Bag storage                  95.4        -         95.4
Bulk-cum-bag storage         24.1       2.8         26.9
Bulk storage                 14.3       1.5         15.8
Port silos                   13.5       5.1         18.6
Rural Grain Procure-
ment Centers                1.5       0.2          1.7
Transport Equipment           4.6       1.7          6.3
Technical Assistance          8.6       0.4          9.0
Training and Operations
Research                    0.5       0.4         0.9
Sub-total              162.5      12.1       174.6
Physical contingencies        9.9       1.1         11.0
Price contingencies          27.0       2.9        29.9
Total Project Cost     199.4      16.1       215.5
Financing
Plan:                                                (US$ million)
Local     Foreign      Total
IDA                          90.9      16.1       107.0
GOI                         108.5        -         108.5
Total                  199.4      16.1       215.5
Estimated
Disbursements:                               (US$ million)
FY78     FY79     FY80      FY81
Annual            15       20       40       32
Cumulative        15       35       75      107
Rate of Return:      About 20%.
Appraisal Report:    No. 1643a-IN dated November 3, 1977.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENr
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
SECOND FOODGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$107 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project for constructing foodgrain storage and
distribution facilities and for improving foodgrain handling practices. With
the exception of US$2.4 million which would be used by Indian Railways to
purchase special bulk transport railwagons, the proceeds of the credit would
be onlent to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for repayment over 20 years
including 4 years of grace, at 10.5% annual interest, with 0.25% interest
rebate for timely repayment.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 630 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is only in part the result of
the low availability of investable resources: while India's domestic savings
effort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
however, the net transfer of resources from abroad has never been above 3% of
GNP, and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74. More signi-
ficant perhaps is the fact that in spite of a marked rise in the investment
rate from about 10% in the early 1950s to about 18% over the past fifteen
years, the trend in GNP growth has remained about the same. This indicates a
marked decline in the efficiency of capital use, as a result of increasing
capacity underutilization, long project gestation, and increased emphasis on
relatively capital intensive projects and sectors.
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
chang- have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Orissa Irrigation Project
(No. P-2124-IN), dated August 23, 1977.



- 2 -
parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in some,
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban poor,
conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes of
US$70 per annum.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government
for the first time since Independence. The Janata, or People's Party, is an
amalgamation of a number of smaller heterogeneous parties. The state of the
economy was not a prominent election issue; in fact the economy was generally
stronger than at any time in the last ten years. Over the two years 1975/76
and 1976/77, the growth of GDP averaged 5.4% per annum. Agricultural produc-
tion in 1976/77 did fall by about 3% but only because of a return to a more
normal harvest of 111 million tons after the record 121 million ton output in
1975/76. In fact, the 1976/77 figure is the second largest harvest on record.
The growth of industrial production accelerated over the past two years from
6.1% in 1975/76 to 9.2% in 1976/77. The volume growth of exports continued
its impressive recent performance, and averaged approximately 13% per annum
over the past two years. This export growth, together with hardly any in-
crease in import levels, has resulted in dramatic balance of trade improve-
ments with an estimated deficit for 1976/77 of less than US$500 million. In
sum, the overall resource position with record foreign exchange and foodgrain
reserves, is exceptionally strong, and gives the Government considerable room
for maneuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to remark-
ably good rainfall, both in amount and distribution, while the good crop in
1976/77 was produced under somewhat less than normal weather conditions. A
conspicuous change was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by about
25% over 1975/76, following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial
production benefited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of in-
stalled capacity in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import
policy, relatively good power availability, and increased demand because of
higher consumer incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures.
Inflation re-emerged in 1976/77 as an important issue of economic management.
During 1975/76 the wholesale price index had fallen by 8.5%; but in 1976/77
it rose by 11.6%. The key characteristic of this rise was that it occurred
largely in a few agricultural commodities for which prices had dramatically
fallen in the previous year. In the twelve months ending August 1977, the
increase was about 5%. The overall price index has shown virtually no trend
over the past three years taken together.



8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases of currency from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign
exchange reserves, to a level of almost US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the
balance of payments continued to improve, with exports provisionally, esti-
mated to have increased by US$1,145 million against an imports increase of
only US$85 million, so that the trade balance deficit is now estimated at only
US$470 million. The sharply decreased trade deficit, along with a further
increase in the net inflow of miscellaneous capital and invisibles from abroad
of US$640 million, more than offset the fall of US$350 million in net aid and
the US$365 million repurchases of currency from the IMF, and allowed a US$1.5
billion addition to reserves, which reached a level of US$3.7 billion at the
end of March 1977. The developments have continued in the current year, with
reserves estimated at US$4.5 billion in mid-August 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the Government the opportun-
ity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task is to
raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%. In the
long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But it
will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptably low, less than 3% per annum
over the last twenty-five years, and less than 2% since 1967/68. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to cater
to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has been
necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up growth
both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity of exist-
ing capacity. Three promising developments in regard to the first are the
sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the Fifth Plan Period along with a
renewed determination to complete projects expeditiously; the indications
that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slowdown in
the early 1970s; and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. With regard
to more productive use of existing capacity, there is increased awareness in
the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects can be much increased
not only through command area development but also through more efficient de-
sign and operation of major surface irrigation infrastructure. Also, hopes
have been generated for increasing productivity on both irrigated and rainfed
farms through a reorganized and improved extension and research system, which
has been recently introduced in several States in northern and eastern India.
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This?



effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for growth, as serious constraints
on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation, particularly
with respect to coal and imported raw materials and components; however, the
power supply situation is once more somewhat worrisome (paragraph 13 below).
There has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77
Central Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In
many cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected
in their markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the
medium-term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine indus-
trial growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong
pull on production; this is true, for example, for iron and steel, certain
chemicals, some electrical equipment, processed agricultural products, and
vehicles. But the impact of increased exports on overall industrial demand
will grow only slowly given the current low share of exports in sales. If
the higher growth and productivity in agriculture discussed earlier were to
materialize, it would provide a significant stimulus to industry. It is
difficult to specify the linkages explicitly; but because of the large share
that agriculture holds in GNP, the coefficients do not have to be large for
agricultural growth and the concomitant growth in demand for industrially
produced inputs and mass consumption goods to boost overall industrial demand
significantly. A higher public deficit and increased public investments are
the instruments most directly under Government control, and also those that
can increase demand for industrial products most immediately. While the
first budget of the new government projects a relatively small deficit, it
does maintain a 20-22% increase in spending over the likely outlay in 1976/77.
The projected deficit is contingent on the utilization of foreign exchange
reserves; to the extent they are not utilized though increased imports, the
deficit will increase.
13.       The general improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for
India's ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organ-
izational and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been
overcome, production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable,
and the industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export
demand. However, the supply of electricity continues to be a concern, since
the power situation is not uniformly good. Power shortages affect a number
of the more industrialized states, particularly Maharashtra in the west and
Tamil Nadu in the south, and as a result, there is a continued constraint on
the expansion of industry. This is despite a number of favorable factors:
greatly improved capacity utilization in thermal power stations; more effi-
cient exchange of power between states; accelerated implementation of power
projects; and somewhat improved availability of finance for power investment.
The underlying reason for the weak power supply position is that capacity
shortages continue despite the improved investment program. In the short-term,
the situation may improve somewhat if, as is hoped, reservoir replenishment is
better than average during the last stages of the monsoon. The prospects for



the oil and gas sector have been further improved by new finds of oil and gas
near the large offshore Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High was
brought to shore for the first time in May 1976; production reached an annual
rate of 2 million tons by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13 million
tons by 1984/85. Although India will continue to import crude at or somewhat
above the current level, much of the foreign exchange burden of rapidly rising
imports will be avoided by the development of these resources. Prospects are
also bright for further discoveries offshore, given the current high level of
exploration activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.    Al-
though India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in com-
parison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960s, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. It is apparent that India's
family planning efforts suffered a setback following the end of the recent
emergency period, and acceptor rates are at very low levels currently. How-
ever, the new Government has announced its commitment to a voluntary family
planning program and has maintained ambitious performance targets. Although
it will take some time, adoption of family planning practices is expected to
increase to higher levels. Over the longer term, with a sustained family
planning effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate
to 1.1% per annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of
India's population by 2000 is 890 million. Many of the benefits of family
planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the
decline in fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure
of the population. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all
after 1981 thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary edu-
cation system. The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate
until the end of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should grow by at least 7% to 10% annually in the near
future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium-term. Imports,
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
bright export prospects, and continuation of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term growth.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 52 loans and 93 development
credits to India totalling US$1,992 million and US$4,991 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$850 million has been
repaid, and US$1,775 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of September 30,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$13.2 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$30.7 million, US$24.2 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of September 30, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure



- 7 -
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and acceler-
ate economi-c growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agriculture,
education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make an
appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it is
important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
September 30, 1977, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,173 million, of
which US$474 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstand-
ing of US$699 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - FOODGRAINS IN INDIA
23.       Foodgrains, particularly rice and wheat, dominate the agricultural
sector in India. About 75% of gross cropped area as well as of the labor,
fertilizer and irrigation utilized in agriculture is for foodgrain production.
India's agricultural development policy is largely focused around foodgrain
production in an attempt to achieve its major economic goal of self-sufficiency.
24.       The major determinant of year to year foodgrain production in
India remains the weather. Although the extension of irrigation and greater
use of improved technology (in wheat in particular) have given India greater
immunity to the vagaries of the weather and may have imparted a steeper
upward trend to production, fluctuations in output remain best explained by
the weather. The good crop years of 1953/54, 1958/59, 1960/61, 1964/65,
1967/68, 1970/71 and 1975/76 were all characterized by good monsoon rain-
fall, leading to a significant production increase over the previous year.



Similarly, the poor crop years of 1957/58, 1965/66, 1966/67 and the early
1970s were due to droughts of varying severity.
25.       Total foodgrain production has grown at less than 3% per annum over
the last twenty-five years, and less than 2% since 1967/68. This low growth
rate and the wide fluctuations in foodgrain production from year to year have
resulted in serious personal hardship for the population and difficulties in
economic management for the government. During years of low grain production,
prices have increased rapidly, beyond the means of low income families.
During severe shortages, foodgrains have often been available only at a very
high price and masses of people suffered malnutrition. On the other hand,
during periods of abundant production, prices have fallen rapidly to the
detriment and disincentive of producing farmers.
26.       GOI's foodgrain pricing, procurement and distribution policy has
evolved in response to these problems. GOI foodgrain policy has three major
objectives: (a) self-sufficiency in production; (b) price stability; and
(c) an equitable foodgrain distribution to low income consumers. Through the
annually announced procurement price (which usually functions as the sup-
port price as well), backed by a readiness to purchase any amount of grain
at that price, GOI policy is intended to assure foodgrain producers a stable,
reasonably attractive price in order to encourage increases in foodgrain
production, leading to self-sufficiency. The production effect of the pro-
curement price depends on the price elasticity of supply and whether the
price covers the cost of production. A recent Bank-sponsored study has shown
that wheat and paddy production in India is quite price responsive. This
price responsiveness of supply is thought to be more pronounced where high
yielding varieties are involved because their success depends crucially on
the provision of associated outlays, which farmers would be reluctant or un-
able to incur unless assured attractive prices for their produce. The study
also showed that, broadly speaking, the procurement price during the past
decade did cover the cost of production. The present procurement price of
Rs 1,100 per ton for wheat appears to provide an adequate incentive for in-
creasing production; this may not be the case for paddy, whose procurement
price is Rs 740 per ton.
27.       Market prices have generally been above procurement prices so that,
until April 1977, food zones were used, in which grain surplus areas were
cordoned off to restrict private grain trade, in order to facilitate govern-
ment procurement. The government distribution of domestic and imported grains
at concessional prices is intended to safeguard the interests of low income
consumers. Although the ration cards entitling their holders to government
distributed foodgrain are issued to all those living in the urban areas regard-
less of their income, it appears that the location of the distribution shops,
the queues, the limits on quantities available, and the lower quality of pub-
licly distributed grain effectively ration it to lower income groups. Follow-
ing the foodgrain shortages of 1973 and 1974, the government decided on the
policy of building up 12.0 million tons of buffer stocks. This policy is
under review, the situation having changed completely; two successive good
harvests in subsequent years have resulted in foodgrain stock levels being
reported at 20.7 million tons in July 1977.



- 9 -
28.       To carry out its foodgrain policies, the Government established the
Food Corporation of India (FCI) in 1964. FCI operates under the jurisdiction
of the Department of Food, Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation. Its
procurement prices and quantities are determined by GOI on the basis of recom-
mendations of the Agricultural Prices Commission, which continuously analyzes
foodgrain supply and demand conditions. FCI's role is to procure, store and
dispatch foodgrains to State governments for concessional distribution through
licensed fair price shops, and to hold buffer stocks on behalf of GOI. In
1976, there were about 240,000 fair price shops in India. Total public dis-
tribution of foodgrains during normal years now ranges between 8 and 14 million
tons. Of this, FCI supplies about 80%, the balance being supplied by state
governments. The rest of the marketable surplus of foodgrains, estimated at
about 30% of total net production, or about 25 million tons, is distributed
through private merchants.
29.       FCI operates as a large national public sector business organization.
However, as GOI sets both the domestic procurement and issue prices for grain
on the basis of public policy objectives, FCI's margin has not been sufficient
to show a profit or to even break even. GOI makes up the difference in the
form of an annual budget subsidy to FCI. In 1976-77, a year of very high
stock, the amount of subsidy exceeded US$500 million.
30.       GOI intends to pursue the present public foodgrain procurement and
distribution policy until it is no longer necessary. It is willing to sub-
sidize FCI's operations because the support prices promote price stability and
expansion of production and because it considers the provision of lower priced
foodgrains to low income consumers to be an essential social objective. The
program as it is now operating through FCI and the fair price shops is rela-
tively efficient and entails less administrative work than a system of direct
rationing or money grants.
31.       From 1980/81 onwards, public procurement and distribution of wheat
and rice is expected to be about 12.0 million tons or more per year. Since
FCI's share of this joint Center/State activity is expected to be about 80%,
FCI would be handling 9.6 million tons by 1980/81. The peak storage require-
ment, occurring in June, for this 9.6 million tons would be 6.0 million tons.
Procurement is concentrated during the harvest months while off-take is more
evenly distributed. At any given peak, there would be some storage facili-
ties that cannot be fully loaded because they are located in pockets of poor
harvest or are temporarily inaccessible or because there is imperfect substi-
tution between wheat and paddy storage and consumption. Taking these factors
into account, it is estimated that at peak, the storage facilities on average
would be only 80% loaded, so that 7.5 million tons of storage capacity would
be necessary to handle FCI's normal June peak of 6.0 million tons.
32.       The above calculations assume no year-to-year fluctuations in pro-
curement and demand for the public distribution system. In fact, fluctuations
do occur and in such a way that procurement is high when off-take from the
public distribution system is low, resulting in rapid stock buildup, as
occurred in 1975/76 when peak stocks rose to 18 million tons. Rapid stock
drawdown on the other hand can occur when procurement is low; maintaining
supplies to vulnerable groups then requires larger than normal quantities of



- 10 -
grain either from stocks or imports. GOI's policy is to build storage capa-
city to hold 12 million tons of grain in addition to those needed for normal
operational purposes; FCI's requirement under this policy would then be about
20 million tons. With the proposed project FCI would own 9.4 million tons of
capacity by 1980/81. FCI would continue to make use of storage space rented
from other public and private entities. Only about 2 million tons of the 5.5
million tons currently rented is of acceptable standard; the substandard re-
mainder is being hired because it is better than open, cover and plinth (CAP)
storage. After 1980/81, therefore, FCI will have access to 11.4 million tons
of secure storage capacity, about 4 million tons above that needed simply for
operations in a normal year but 8 million tons less than needed to fulfill
GOI's buffer stock goals. Stock accumulations above 11.4 million tons will
have to be accommodated in substandard rented storage or CAP storage.
33.       In addition to FCI, there are five other main categories of entities
which together comprise the remainder, about 13 million tons, of India's grain
storage capacity. The Central Warehousing Corporation owns about 1.24 million
tons; state governments 1.8 million; state warehousing corporations 0.9 million;
cooperatives 1 million; and the private sector 8 million. However, much of
the private sector capacity is substandard for storing grains. There is
no major grain storage construction program envisaged by entities other than
FCI for the next several years.
34.       The proposed project would be the second Bank Group financed proj-
ect to assist in the development of India's grain storage sector. The first
project, Credit 267-IN (Wheat Storage Project), is jointly financed with the
Kingdom of Sweden. Total project costs are about US$15 million, of which IDA,
Sweden, and GOI are each contributing US$5 million. The project originally
consisted of construction of ten 10,000 ton capacity bag storage warehouses
and ten 20,000 ton capacity bulk storage silos, consulting and engineering
services, training and an all-India grain storage study. Implementation of
the first project got off to a slow start due to problems in selecting and
hiring engineering consultants and in acquiring suitable sites for construc-
tion of silos. Delays also resulted from the original bidding procedures,
which required bulking of silo contracts for bidding purposes. These proce-
dures proved to be impractical and had to be changed. Delays were further
compounded by substantial cost escalation which resulted in a reappraisal of
the project in early 1975. The number of silos was reduced from 10 to 5 to
keep costs in line with appraisal estimates. The Closing Date of the project
was extended by three years, to September 30, 1978. Progress of the project
is now satisfactory. The warehouse storage component has been fully disbursed
and silo construction is proceeding well. The all-India grain storage study
has been satisfactorily completed, and has provided much of the information
on grain production and storage and distribution requirements upon which the
proposed se~cond project is based. Disbursements of the first project are
expected to be completed by the revised Closing Date.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The project was prepared by a committee of GOI which includes rep-
resentatives from the Ministries of Food and Agriculture, Railways, Finance,
the Planning Commission, the Food Corporation of India and the Central
Warehousing Corporation. It was appraised in February/March 1977. Negotia-
tions took place in Washington in September 1977. The Borrower's delegation
was headed by Mr. R. Balasubramanian, Secretary, Food Department. A report
entitled "Second Foodgrain Storage Project," Report No. 1643a-IN, dated
November 3, 1977, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description
35.       The project would assist GOI in constructing storage facilities
required for foodgrain procurement, storage and distribution operations. It
would introduce improvements in foodgrain handling practices, particularly in
bulk handling and transport of grains. The project is designed to help GOI
cut substantial losses due to inadequate storage facilities and inefficient
handling and transport of grain. The four year project would include the
following:
-    construction of 3.5 million tons of foodgrain storage ware-
houses and 75,000 tons of port silos, and provision of
ancillary facilities for grain handling and transport;
-    provision of six rural grain procurement centers and ancillary
facilities;
-    training of management and key technical staff; and
-    technical assistance, including engineering consultants and
operations research support.
Storage Facilities
36.       The proposed project would include construction of about 3.5 million
tons of additional grain storage capacity in 16 states of India. This would
include 2.5 million tons of conventional warehouses for grains stored in bags,
1.0 million tons of flat warehouses for grains stored in bulk and 75,000 tons
of port silos to handle imported foodgrains.
37.       The conventional warehouses would be constructed with reinforced
concrete columns, curtain brick and mortar walls, and concrete floors. Each
would have a rated static storage capacity of 5,000 tons of wheat in gunny
bags and would be built in complexes ranging from 5,000 to 50,000 tons. The
bulk warehouses would be constructed with reinforced concrete in complexes of
52,000 tons capacity including 2,500 tons of work bin space. Some of the
bulk warehouses would be bag-cum-bulk convertible type. The bulk warehouses
would have mechanical grain handling facilities equipped with conveying, aera-
tion and bagging facilities. The port silos would be constructed at Haldia
and Madras, where grain imports have ranged from 250,000 to over 1.0 million
tons annually since 1973/74.



38.       Although the estimated investment costs of a 50,000-ton complex
for bulk storage are somewhat higher than for bag storage, the operating costs
and grain losses of the bulk warehouses are much lower and their estimated
economic rates of return higher -- about 30% for bulk storage compared to 19%
for bag storage. Nevertheless, bag storage constitutes the greater part of
the project because: (i) flat bulk storage would not be suitable at most
of the project sites because the matching bulk transportation and handling
facilities would not be available for some time; (ii) many of the project
depots would have throughputs not large enough to warrant bulk handling; and
(iii) flat bulk storage is still relatively untried in India and should be
regarded as a pilot development.
Rural Grain Procurement Centers
39.       The project would finance two large and four small grain procure-
ment centers equipped with mechanical handling facilities, and would also pro-
vide portable grain handling facilities for about fifty grain markets. These
facilities would be located in three Northern States (Punjab, Haryana and Uttar
Pradesh) and two Southern States (Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu), where most
of the Food Corporation's wheat and rice procurement is concentrated. These
facilities are estimated to reduce the Corporation's handling and transport
costs by nearly US$4 per ton of grain procured from the farmers. Under exist-
ing practice, most farmers deliver their grain in bulk to the primary markets
where it is placed in a heap on the market floor, priced, cleaned, bagged,
weighed, purchased by the Food Corporation (or other buyers) and then de-
livered to the warehouse. The proposed facilities would eliminate the need
for intermediate heaping, cleaning and bagging; the grain would be procured
in bulk and transferred to the procurement centers. At the centers, the grain
would be graded, weighed and forwarded to larger warehouses or to the points
of distribution.
Grain Transport Equipment
40.       Transportation is the largest category of operating cost of the Food
Corporation - one-third of all costs. One of the objectives of the project is
to reduce these costs through more efficient bulk transport facilities. The
proposed project would provide 50 trucks especially equipped to transport
grains in bulk for delivery to storage facilities or from storage to flour
mills. Railwagons (60) specially designed to handle grain would also be pro-
vided to improve transportation by railway. At present, most of the wheat
and rice procured in bulk and imported wheat received at the ports in bulk
are bagged for transportation by rail and trucks. Some of these bags are again
emptied and the grain is stored in bulk. Although the Food Corporation of
India has been moving from 7 to 15 million tons of foodgrains by rail trans-
port each year since 1965/66, improvement is needed to smooth the transport
of grain. The Corporation and the Indian Railways would develop and execute
an operations research program to evaluate alternative systems of handling
and transporting grain (see paragraph 42).
Technical Assistance and Training
41.       The Food Corporation's engineers and local contractors have had
considerable experience in constructing conventional warehouses. The layout,



- 13 -
design and auxiliary units have been standardized and are acceptable to IDA.
Nevertheless, the Corporation would need assistance of outside engineering
services to construct 2.5 million tons of such storage within the project
period. Hence, engineering services of the Central Warehousing Corporation
and GOI's Central Public Works Department would be engaged to assist in the
preparation of designs and tender documents and the supervision of construc-
tion. Local experience in the design and construction of bulk grain storage
warehouses and silos is very limited. Internationally recruited consultants
would, therefore, be engaged for 60 man/months to assist the Corporation in
the planning and execution of the bulk storage and silos (Section 2.02 of the
Project Agreement). The Corporation would need additional staff, trained in
grain handling, quality control and accounting, to manage the new grain stor-
age complexes. The project would provide for both domestic and overseas train-
ing of staff for these purposes. Agreement was obtained from the Corporation
that plans for training acceptable to IDA would be prepared (Section 2.08(b)
of the Project Agreement).
Operations Research
42.       The project would assist the Food Corporation in strengthening its
Planning and Research Unit and in developing operations research studies to
ascertain comparative costs of receiving, handling, storing and transporting
grain in bag and bulk. These studies would review costs and benefits of dif-
ferent types of storage facilities when used in different centers (procurement,
intermediate storage and urban distribution centers) and for varying periods
of storage. Similarly, alternative transport facilities and usage would be
evaluated. The studies are expected to help in optimizing the use of exist-
ing storage and transport facilities and in planning and designing more
effective facilities in the future. Assurances were obtained that the
Corporation would draw up plans acceptable to IDA for carrying out such
operations research studies (Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement).
Project Implementation
43.       Implementation of the project is expected to take four and one-half
years beginning July 1, 1977 (including the provision made for retroactive
financing, are paragraph 46). Overall responsibility for coordinating project
implementation would lie with the Secretary of Food in the Ministry of Food,
Agriculture and Irrigation. The Food Corporation of India, under the general
direction of its Chairman and Managing Director, would be directly responsible
for the implementation of the project. The Corporation would establish a
Project Implementation Division with experienced management. The Division
would have three sections: (i) conventional warehouse section; (ii) bulk
warehouse section (also in charge of port silos and rural procurement centers);
and (iii) finance and administration section. Currently, the Corporation has
a total staff of about 1,750 in its two warehouse engineering sections -- one
for construction and maintenance of its conventional warehouses and the other
for silos and bulk storage. Under the project, the Project Implementation
Division's staff would be increased to about 4,450 persons. In addition, the
Division would be assisted by the engineering services and consultants to be
engaged under the project (see paragraph 41). The establishment of the Division
and the appointment of a division chief and three section managers would be



- 14 -
conditions of Credit Effectiveness (Section 5.01 (c) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
44.       The chief of the Project Implementation Division would be respon-
sible for continuously monitoring project progress against the implementation
plan. This would facilitate identification of problems and devising solutions
early --ugh to avoid slippage (Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement). The
operations research studies (see paragraph 42) would constitute an ex-post
evaluation of relative costs and benefits of the various types of warehouses.
This would help in the planning and design of future projects in India.
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$215.5 million of
which about US$16.1 million (about 7%) is the estimated foreign exchange con-
tent. The proposed credit of US$107 million would finance about 50% of proj-
ect costs, net of duties and taxes, and cover the whole of foreign exchange
plus about US$90.9 million of local costs. Local cost financing is justified
in India for projects like this for the reasons discussed in paragraph 20.
The remaining costs of US$108.5 million would be financed by GOI as equity in
the Food Corporation except for US$2.4 million which would be used directly by
Indian Railways to procure special bulk transport railwagons.    GOI would
on-lend the proceeds of the Credit to the Corporation for 20 years, including
a four-year grace, at an annual interest rate of 10.5% (with 0.25% interest
rebate for timely repayment). This interest rate (with the rebate) is GOI's
standard practice for lending to the Corporation.
46.       The principal components of the project comprise:   conventional
bag warehouses US$95.4 million; bulk warehouses US$42.7 million; port silos
US$18.6 million; rural procurement centers US$1.7 million; transport equip-
ment US$6.3 million; operations research and training US$0.9 million; tech-
nical assistance US$9.0 million, and contingencies US$40.9 million.    Physical
contingencies average about 7Z, and price contingencies have been computed at
about 7% per annum.
47.       In 1976-77, to alleviate the sudden acute shortage of grain storage
space resulting from a good monsoon harvest, FCI began construction of 900,000
tons of additional warehouse capacity, estimated to cost Rs 259.0 million
(US$29.6 million). At that time, preparation of the proposed Second Foodgrain
Storage Project was already close to completion and the 900,000 tons capacity
of warehouse construction was included in the proposal. However, GOI felt
that it had to act quickly to meet urgent storage needs rather than wait for
the project to be appraised and approved. By July 1, 1977, about Rs 73.5 mil-
lion (US$8.4 million) of construction cost had been expended or tendered.
The remaining Rs 185.5 million (US$21.2 million) represents works to have been
tendered after July i, 1977 but prior to anticipated credit signing. It is
proposed to include these latter works under the project in the light of the
exceptional circumstances described above provided satisfactory procurement
procedures have been followed. Expenditures against these works up to a
maximum of US$5.0 million would eligible for retroactive financing.



- 15 -
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       All civil works contracts for bulk storage facilities (US$24.5 mil-
lion) and the two port silos (US$8.1 million) would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding. Contracts would be bulked to the extent
practical. Civil works contracts for conventional storage facilities
(US$75.5 million) would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
satisfactory to IDA. Such contracts would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding, because the construction sites would be scattered across
the country and the value of each contract relatively small. Competitive
bidding would not be appropriate for civil work contracts for railway sidings
(US$18.4 million) because the works involved are highly specialized and would
need to be coordinated closely with the existing railway system. Contracts
for each location would be awarded by the Food Corporation to the Indian
Railways under procedures which are satisfactory to IDA.
49.       All malor equipment (US$21.0 million) would be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding. To the extent practical, equipment would
be bulked. Minor equipment (US$6.5 million) not lending itself to bulking, or
expected to cost less than US$100,000 when bulked, would be procured following
local competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Prudent
shopping would be used for items costing less than US$10,000. Grain trucks
(US$0.8 million) would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding
from suppliers able to provide spare parts and maintenance services. Consul-
tants (US$0.4 million) would be recruited in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
The balance of the project cost would consist of contingencies, local engi-
neering services, training, operations research and land acquisition.
50.       Disbursement of IDA funds would be as follows:   (a) Civil works -
40% of expenditures; (b) equipment procured under ICB - 100% of foreign ex-
penditures, or 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory); (c) equipment procured
locally - 50%; and (d) consultants' services, training and operations research -
100% of expenditures. Expenditures incurred on the project after June 30,
1977, but prior to Credit signing would be eligible for disbursement up to a
limit of US$5 million (see paragraph 47). Disbursements would be made against
appropriate documentation.
Project Benefits and Risks
51.       The project would enable the Food Corporation of India to store,
handle and transport foodgrains more efficiently. Without the improved stor-
age facilities, foodgrains would have to be stored in the open (under cover
and plinth) and storage losses would be extensive. The project facilities
would reduce storage losses by 180,000 tons of wheat and rice per year valued
at about US$23 million. At full development, savings from the reduction in
operating costs and grain storage losses would range from US$54.0 to US$60.0
million annually. A more efficient procurement and distribution operation
would benefit farmers through the support prices of grains they sell, and it
would benefit low income consumers by ensuring access to low priced foodgrains.
The estimated economic rate of return is about 20% for the entire project; it
is about 19% for the warehouse component and 24% for port silos.



- 16 -
52.       The major project risk is the possibility of excess storage capacity
due to low procurement and low imports. It is, however, unlikely that the
Food Corporation's operational storage capacity would be underutilized for a
prolonged period because the circumstances leading to stock depletion - harvest
shortfalls, high market prices, low public procurement and rapid offtake of
grain - also would lead to increased imports as the GOI tries to maintain or
increase levels of Governmental distribution of grain. The chances that the
relatively small capacity to hold contingency stocks would not be used as
planned are remote since weather induced fluctuations in harvest size, price,
and therefore in GOI procurement and distribution are likely to continue.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the Food
Corporation of India, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Association and the text of a
draft Resolution approving the proposed Development Credit are being dis-
tributed to Executive Directors separately.
54.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
55.       The additional conditions of effectiveness, specified in Section 5.01
of the Development Credit Agreement, would be the execution of the Project
Agreement, the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and
Food Corporation of India, and the establishment and management staffing of
its Project Implementation Division by the Food Corporation of India.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATIONS
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: J. Burke Knapp
November 3, 1977



iI~~~~~~~~
I-. 
o  %                                         -'-'I-,-.   S~ ~ - t -
CC) I                0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I~ 
a.                                      - a, I                              '-M'I             I a~~  -
C  -g ~ ~~s                                                           5        w~w
CC tCI 0 14C 4 C      ad  -M.   at Cr                     IC  max.1  Ca  -      N  fl   a  S.aL
Z  5411  ~ ~~~~~~~~- .C  I0         '41                 4  -                            , , ,  WI  1
ItI
all  ale  o  Ce  04  *CEtj  CC  CC  Cr152  a  *  1C%  *..  Z'4 W o  =1 I .  CC   C C  .C0 N Co*  CC2C
C-S  01.'.  -~  la  414*  U  -           WM CC1      aC  Z  lo a  a    4x-  N 
CS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-  W  .  V   J   C    N
*  C'S                                                   adC  C  09 r  W-W                     
345  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wr5V                :tw
B  I                                                                                           II 



ANN'EX I
Page 2 of 4
Unless odtherwise noted, d.te for 1960 refer to aley year bet,,-o      1959 cod 1961, for 1970 bet.    n  1968 and 1970 cod for Moo     Recen   futtisotn between
1973 ad19 75
na  BratIl ba. been aeleted     as an  bjettine country beo.ue.    o f its cite atd roap-rble probloi      of reinli...u. lity
mINA           1960     /c   1951-61 averae,           1951-60       /0  oct10 of popu iction onder 15 cod 65 and ont      to labor forc    ngn 15 and ovr,
__  d  Regitere d appioe       ion wek.       Ic  1962,     /f  negloterd. not eli practicing      in the ooontry,      /9  Inolodtng
nidwiven,      /h  1959;     /1   1960-6
1970     /a  Pa1i of population under 19 end 65 and ove        to labor force agn 15 cod ovnr,        /b   1967-68,     Ic  locludlg nidwi-e,
/d 1967.
MOS T_ EC N O TE ST UiITt ET  'a 1971,    /b   satilelo population onder, 15 and 65 and over to labor form       age 15 and ovr         c   1976,
/d   leluin      idwive,      Ic   1969-71 --crai,       /f  Population 10 yearn cod over
sNDONlESIA     1970     /c   1961-71;     /b  1971,     Ic   ITloWdtng nid.i-loe;     Id  Total boopita1 beds incomplete.
HsI(1.iTP P5I ES  19~70  I   sa per-etage of espIloyscent,      /b 1Net inolodi.8 private ve-tiona1 sobool.
BRAZH           .4      /   EooncmioaIly acive     .popoitio,n;    /b   Hoapitci porcoonel,      /o   Inside only.
R10, AP"Il 18, 1977
DEFEINlTIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
LAnd Area ithoo in }                                                                    PoPulatio   Per nurc-n    Peorov-   fy    co    dinidod by -onber of pr-cci
total -TccL1 sufocoatoaco-prononi land am-           and ibland water-                     clog nab  and fonalo f.-c(-ot     s  o   . trained"   r '_etiied"
Ag-oc    M-M t r-cnt rutinalte of ogiclurlarsundto..rr.yorne                                     .c and nu.ilfary pot conn I-Lih ci -niono,      oyr 0000-.
y-rnasvlp(r         vs -otu         nrbot 4 korhe      pidoco      to lie              ooatupehooto1 brd - fpoaion di-cded by nonher of boepita1
falna                                                                                   boelavailable in yablocan       p      .nt  gon..n  . ad epeoLioued hospltcl
and rhbilitato I             Itou,nolod e u nnrng bnsand sstablihel,nntc
GNf pet   ,api,a (55$) - GNI~ Por topota esto-aton at cotsent     -arbt pnion,             for oa.cndlaI and prlent m- onto.
racltdby nae    ooor  hnoobd an World Bonk AsI la        (1973-75 baste.),      Per caPita caPply of rafr-o      (7 of rtnuirvpints) - Conputnd firon
1960. 1970 u-d 1975 data.                                                               noerny nquinlnnc of not fond nay        n   o   lboOeutypr copita
per day;anibl        soypli_n _onyicodn        i   prodatoo    nprale
PooLacoo  an  no ol satitics                                                         enpotL, andcbaoges     in stoti; oltt   epplie _o oood   anma    food, ceds
fo ain(ni d-or.  illin) - As of July fsrst.      of not available,                  qo..ntitove  nend ilv food proc-snin   anld loss_  _vdostrohaclion, inquire-
anorolgo of coo rod-your osctinacoc, 1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                            nnts oere nstiloatod by FAG hbud onl phyvo-logi-al vondo for norma
actunsty and hoalibh conusd o-g eno -ro      -tor talinporatoe,fbody ssogbit,,
Poninio     ana o....        gur   in k - 9o,d-y-u  popuietoo  per ossekilo-              ogo and cndIstrito tiosn         ponlcon,ad         Iawi nan   I0.  orcate
vote   (100 boctar-s 7f canal 0_00.at~ h...aobo1d len-1.                                                                                                e
y     I.i.otnnso -l   q ssaer  in, ofaro    land - Conpultod as above fot         Ptc   uPca suPPlY of protect igrats Pot don) - fr-toen roc-t          of per
ag IoIuo  ladol.cpice noet supply of food yp- day, net -oyply of mo.d is dfi ond as
above, roqoirsnoto for all      -nutri-n vstablinhnd by LISDA E-oo-ic
Vital acaocio                                                                               sorob Servies proiefoe-           icu       oao       of60    ron   f
Crudo bortb oct opor    connd,.-averac-An-oa         Line birth. pnrthibouccd               ntaf. yrocnin pvc dny, and zigaso         aia      n  y.,'. protoo, of
ot nod-ynar yoaois          o-year   . arhtboto a.....goc endinlg is 1960 cnd           ohsch 10 goons should b.oan.na      p-otnln; obese   -cdrd-s are Iert-
1970, and fin-year a-erae enigin            75 for oust c oceoccctint.ta                       os    ~   5i    uo    to.a..Prctoio anld 23grsofana            yren
C-dt, death -tac   Per Lio  -av,   nna      - 101d-otbcpa yth ....ed ci aid-               As as -neragc for tke o-rd, proyacod by FAO fn the Third World Fond
year population.ton-yost aithunetic. a..      g.c. on dingR In 1960 andI1970 and        Survey.
O on-y-a   aver ag   ndooc us197     icr noat reroo    osict  o                       Per capita proto      upl    iron aninol and poise - Protnn nayyly of food
tot.. a _ rta lic'y Pato 1/tboo  - Ane-u1 deatbo of coflavin ande- on     yeso            dorned ftto ata         and poiso   on grant yet day.
of age yen thousand line hirth-                                                       Deatb ratlo (/thou) aces1-4 - Aln... I dea-hn yet thousand on Age grou.p
ilte _pe_c_y cc birtb (Yos) - Aorrage nunb-rf yeara of lift rnan1-4                              Lt, t    childlcnn on chn ago group, cuSgentrd a- on indicator of
ing atboh,      oail    fiac-ynur --nroBo    -nd-c iv- 1960, 1970 and                   nanurojtoon
1975  o   d-nipying   .ont ionL
Gr-     unnp-d-ti-vrutc - A-cocgenu      t- of Isa da-gbt-on aco.nonill                 Iducation
hear o   Ierno...al roproductono pootod if nhes      per .e..o prsnt ego-             Adiactodeti            -rtio-Privacy school_ - Eor. IIoot of oil ais as
nyotlti  motiliy  tacs   sallyti-yea        anrgscdn          n1960,                poctg       ofpiay sobool-ae               --sato, includes obolld-o aged
9/an 195f,op doo-lopiogIr-utr o                                                  6-li y...c but ad jatd for difierent lengthn of pri-ay ouufc
Populatics orcuth taco L-.) - total - Cu"poa,nd atnol g-atb raten of old-                  foe .oonttes with ln_nor.a I odu..atin     enorulIooE -oy    _-od107
yll,  opuiatlio   " foe  950-60, 196i-70 and 1970-7 5.                                   ..i.. .oa. poplin co hoe, or above thn, ,Ofina         nehuci age.
Inyl -oo orot  rtaco 17.  - -rb- - Cosputod liko gro-th rate, oftotal             Adiuctod enroll te eati-n_o_ndcrty -hn-1 - C..Pac,ell As           bo-c,
po pulaton,   difoo      oucin        f a-b- areas nap affct c,npara-                   .o.undary ydutio       requires at lecst four yr.an of appe-d prinary
Iolit   ofIdaa    nui   outron                                                           tn   trntin   poi des genoro1, voctional or toa-her tra-osg
Uoba   pPoiat...   (7.. s.,ttI) - Rstc    ci aeban tn total popsiatu.o.                    ivotr-ctio    frpuil       f ISto17 years cf ag; ovor-pondeonoe
dilffe.soc dof'ni'coon  of   rkan Areas nay effect tooparahility of data                 tcooreec 000 gonorallPy on-iudo,dt
A                    3      Cglre.(-b.eas)nweksgao-1564yers,                            Years of -h-cling providod     fifr.t aud --cud 1e-ei) - Total yearsnf
AgE  tH  , Iper,,a,) - Children(0-14 year.),  .skbouling;(1at4nyeardaty                        loosd , soI.a.foncit instructiono.nayybeepar-
andr   _tro  h5 yearn and over) as peocetagon of -sd-year popolatoon.                 t_allyor     ipeoyeontldo'd.
A,ge dpood ...y ratslo - Ratio of popuiction aunder I     and 65 ond over                 .. otoacoa e.. rol-o1ot (7 fi octodary) - On-a-iov1 oncicotsonu
sbooo of sges 11 ithough 64.                                                             inclndo to-hnita1, ildu-tr-a     or othco poogros eioh oPerato
nnt.dopoodoy rati       -    lRti  of oP-Patu.. under 15 anod 65 and   ner,           inde,pendeocil -u an deparietoo        etnay Isutit cato_.
Lutelbrfr-enaegop            i1-byas                                           Adult Utora-y rate (7. - 1Ltorato a,dalto (ai bl      v torad ond write)a
farfi   can on-aoeeptor        (iaoltivo, thou) - C-la tone n-nber ofP -ocntago olf total udult popolIation                          g,,d 15 yearn andovn
accptors of kircb-co-t-o      dnioec olndor a..epi-e   of ontiual family
planning program   ninc   incption.                                                   Bouso-g
family yliasoin-oer        (7. of taried caeo) - Poroo tagno of tarried                  Persons Pn mo.. (urban) - A-orain unhbr of pot.non        Per coon iv
w-o,   of chiId-boatig ago (1I-4 years) oho us        hirchb-ot-I de--o                   ...opled  ono.ntio nal d-o1l ,,gu to  -tba  cros, dwiiign n-ido
to oil o tried    -ent in can   ae gcu.                                                  .c-P    _noanes  ottucturco and onon-uyod yarts.
Lcaped danlon-os cithot     lpipd  ator (7. - O-cpind co-voti..oaI
inyloy-et                                                                                  d-eiusi       orban andrua      ar    uithout    ac,do or otidepyiped
Totl.1l1I,o fIrt     tehoueand) -Etoosonbcaly active poosoc        inlodig                 cater facilities us poroontage ofalocye              wlIns
arned forcec and unnplayod hut ..ocuding bou.so,ivesl, nltudo,,ts, etc.;              Acteec to electeicity (7. of all doollino)        C- Cnvniona1 duvilungi,
deffniti..n so variou ...ou.tr icc are no,t_cop..ablo.                                   with electricity -v lioiog q..artoru an percent of to tal d-olcngn o
Labor farco isnsiote          (7.) - AgrioultoralI labo  fore (In faming,                  lr bao and rural.areas
fureatr,y,(bootin   an   ihn)a         ptoage      f  toa   lbor fo-o.                  ucld     iige    enecdto        1 elcicito (7.) - Conpotod os    bone for
linamplood  (1 oflabor forte)  11- i ploye,1 are u.aa ily d efined as                 rua    dweling    onlIy.
peranoc who are able an,d wIll-g to tab . aJobl, ..L of a jobo
gi-en day, raccod ot of a jobl, and soc king work inn a specifiedCoamtn
aisialean periold no  ....edtng  no   -Ie, -vn no   ho co,partable bot..o.ai.rcisr                      (per thoa pec) - All types of --uin-ro for radio broad-
conresdctoifferent dofu_tiuns ol .onylydadnoreo                                     atst     eea     pbi      n    honn     fppuaio          nlus
dctao.~,    enyanut off-ie       ta.t-uiio, nayle convoys, topalo-ry                    unlit,onsd reev      rs nonottios a'ndOs y,ears      hon regis.tration of
unamlployneolt isnurnp.-                                                                 radi  soc   can..  in effect; data far  -oot y-ors nay n.at be -op-rblo
-ote oust ...uotr-o abvlin,cd 1i-oning.
Inco-   Distribstion  - Per-tnige of prcotnu...... (both i        cash.andfan P....              r corn (per thupp              egor coo aoyronstt           core.
kind) ...teised by ric,hest 57., rsobent 207., poorest 207. ,and pores                   ooatcog ls.. tban o,gIt .or.o.n;      -n,ides abuincou, hnsrso       and
40. nf hoocehods                                                                          ihtarp -ehirlesl.
El-ctrl,tty (keh(yr Per cap) - Annual consueptin of induatola:l, con-
Dialtribatiun af land    --nehio - Perceotages of land owned by -nithieslt                 nriall    pbhii   and privoteclo    t coyinkiowt          hour   peccpita;
107 ..ad poorest 10. of land ocir.geoiyhased on production dt, without aown, for luc.ee in
gridc bat alloing for inpurts nod nspors of eioctrtcity.
Health and N.tritilno                                                                    Nesprint (ku/y'r Pot -p) - Pot cpita. ensou        l coap tinn In kblcgr-m
Poeclatios   -c  ehocicias - Ponalation divided by nanbr of p-atioinoo                     ostlinated Boon dnnectic produotion PI.c not i.psots       f ne_sPe Lo.



ANNEX I
Page 3 at 4
EONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
RNP PER CAFITA IN 1975 4 aUS  150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODuCT rN 1975/76AN/ NUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
GROSS RATIONAL PRODUICT IN4 147S/76
U3S Bln.        %                                      1960/61-1964/65     1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1974/75
CNP at Market Prices             82.8       100.0                                           3.8                3.7                 2.6
Gross Domestic Investment       46.7         20.1
Gross National Saving            16.0        19.3
Current P    nft Balance        -0.7         -0.8
Resource Gap                    -1.5         -1.8
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor Foroe              V.A. Per Worker
USt Bin.                                                       uS Mi   US  J of National Average
Agriculture                     24.5             46.6                130.0   72.1            188            64
Industry                        11.8             22.3                 20.2    11.2           582           199
Services                        16.3             31.1                 5,02    16.7           542           186
Total/average                   52.6            100.0                1S0.4   100.0           292           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government _4/                                  Central Government
(Re. Rin)            A of GDP                        (rs    BInN '             of GDP
1975/76       1975/76   1973/74-1975/76               1975/76        1975/76   1973/74-1975/76
Current Receipts                  133.34        18.5          16.7                      79.11          11.0          9.8
Current Expenditures             118.7          16.5          15                       70.05           9.7          8.8
Current Surplus/Deficit           14.57          2.0           1.4                       9.06           1.3          1.0
Capital Expenditures  !/           54.27         7.5           6.2                      40.75           5.6          4.6
External Assistance (net)         13.89          1.9           1.3                      13.89           1.9          1.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                1965/66    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74   1974/75    1975/76     September 1975    September 1976
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                     61.4      122.4      142.2      169.1      187.2     213.6          199.0             238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector              40.8       69.o       82.5       92.9     102.6      108.5          112.8             112.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             28.1       64.4       76.0       90.1      109.5     134.2          106.0             143.8
(Peroentage or Index Numbers)                     January 1976      January 1977
Money and Quasi Money as % of CDP         24.0       26.4       27.9       27.1      26.2       27.9
Wholesale Prioe Index
;1961/62 = 100)                       131.6      188.4      207.1      254.2     313.0      302.8          290.0            320.5
Annual peroentage changf's in:
Wholesale Price Index                      7.7        4.0        9.9       22.7       23.1                                       10.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector              12.9       21.3       19.6       12.6      10.4        5.7                              4-7
Bank Credit to Private Sector             12.8       13.6       18.0       18.5      21.5       22.5                             24.6
_/ The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, oalculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
Q/ uick Estimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
/ Tranesfere between Center and States have been netted out.
!/  All loa    nd adva      to third parties have been netted out.
J/ Net bank credit to Government Sector.
z/ Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                                 ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYME4TS               1973/74      1974S7       195/n        1976/77 M- MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973/74-1975/76)
(US. Yillion                                                     us$tabn. 
Exports of Goode                   3,239        4,174        4,555        5,400               Sugar                     342          9
Imports of Goode                  -3,971       -5,794       -6,085      -5,850               .l)Le Manufaclores         317          8
Trade Balance                     - 732        -1,620       -1,530         -450              Tea             k          249          6
NFS (net) */                        n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.               Cotton Textiles            413         10
Iron Ore                   206          5
Resourca Gap                        n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.               Engineering Goods          391         10
Others                   2.071         52
Interest Payments (net)           -  233        - 260        - 250        - 280              Total                    3,989        100
Other Factor Payments (net)         n.a.         n.a.         n.n.        n.a
Net Transfers 4/                    n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
h/
Balanoe on Current Accounts         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.               EXTERNAL DEBT MARCH 51. 1976
US$ Bill ion
Official Aid
Disbursements                  1,249        1,766        2,326       2,050               Repayable in foreign currency         12.3
Amortization                   - 459        - 519        - 516       - 560               Repayable through axport of goode      0.7
Transactions with IMF                 75          515          205       - 365               Total Outstanding and Disbursed       13.0
All Other Items                      205           30          559       ,100 
DIIE8T SERVICE RATIO FOE 1976/77      15.5  percent
Increase in Reserves (-)            -105           38        - 794     --1,495
Gros. Reserves (end year)           1,416       1,378        2,172       3,667               IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1976   (USS Yln.,
Net Reserves (end year)            1,341          783        1,332       3.202
IBRD       IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Outstanding and Disbursed           452.7    3208.4
Imports                              720        1,451        1,417       1,625               Undiebursed                         510.3     1140.5
of which: Petroleum               719        1,451        1,417       1,625               Outstanding including
2Undisbursed                        963.0    4348.9
Exports                               20           26           41         n.e.
of whioh: Petroleum                 16          17           22         n.a.
RATE OF EXCHACE G  /
Prior to mid-December 1971       USS1.00  =  RB 7.5                                          After end June 1972   *   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00  =  USSO.133333                                     Spot Rate March 31, 1976
Mid-Deoember 1971 to             USS1.00  = Rs 7.27927                                                  approx. US$1.00 - Re.   8.80475
end June 1972                  Rs 1.00  = UsSO.137376                                                 approx. Re 1.00 = US$   0.113575
13/ Estimated.
4/  Included with 'All other Items'.
./ Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange rates as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or notes to individual tables.
4/ Including garments.
4/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding nF transactions) as a percentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1977)
Loan or                                                                                      US$ Million-/
Credit No.          Year    Borrower                   Purpose                             (Net of Cancellation)
BANK      IDA     Ujndisbursed
39 Loans/                                                                           1,091.5
47 Credits fully disbursed                                                                     2 ,527.4
614-IN              1969     India        Tarai Seeds                                  13.0      --         3.6
250-IN              1971     India        Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit               --         35.0      1.3
264-IN              1971     India        Cochin II Fertilizer                         --        20.0       0.3
267-IN              1971     India        Wheat Storage                                --         5.0       3.5
294-IN              1972     India        Bihar Agricultural Markets                   --        14.0      10.1
312-IN              1972     India        Population                                   --        21.2       7.6
342-IN              1972     India        Education                                    --        12.0      10.1
356-IN              1972     India        IDBI                                         --        25.0      11.7
377-IN              1973     India        Power Transmission III                       --        85.0      15.5
378-IN              1973     India        Mysore Agricultural Markets                  --         8.0       7.0
902-IN              1973     ICICI        Industry DFC X                               70.0       --        8.9
390-IN              1973     India        Bombay Water Supply                          --        55.0      33.1
392-IN              1973     India        Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit            --        38.0       6.1
403-IN              1973     India        Telecommunications V                         --        80.0       7.1
427-IN              1973     India        Calcutta Urban Development                   --         35.0     12.6
440-IN              1973     India        Bihar Agricultural Credit                    --        32.0      16.9
456-IN              1974     India        HP Apple Processing & Marketing              --         13.0      9.9
481-IN              1974     India        Trombay IV                                   --        50.0      16.2
1011-IN              1974     India        Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                      52.0       --       37.9
482-IN              1974     India        Karnataka Dairy                              --        30.0      29.5
502-IN              1974     India        Rajasthan Canal CAD                          --        83.0      55.2
520-IN              1974     India        Sindri Fertilizer                            --        91.0      28.0
521-IN              1974     India        Rajasthan Dairy                              --        27.7      27.1
522-IN              1974     India        Madhya Pradesh Dairy                         --         16.4     15.6
526-IN              1975     India        Drought Prone Areas                           --        35.0     26.1
1079-IN              1975     India        IFFCO Fertilizer                            109.0       --       83.7
1097-IN              1975     India        Industry DFC XI                             100.0       --       46.3
532-IN              1975      India       Godavari Barrage Irrigation                   --       45.0      27.0
541-IN              1975     India        West Bengal Agricultural Development          --        34.0     28.0
562-IN              1975     India        Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                  --       24.0      20.0
572-IN              1975     India        Rural Electrification                        --        57.0      52.4
582-IN              1975     India        Railways XIII                                 --       110.0      30.5
585-IN              1975     India        Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                   --        40.0      39.3
598-IN              1975     India        Fertilizer Industry                          -         105.0     95.6
604-IN              1975      India       Power Transmission IV                        --        150.0    150.0
609-IN              1975     India        Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                 --         4.0       3.9
610-IN              1976      India       Integrated Cotton Development                --        18.0      18.0
616-IN              1976      India       Industrial Imports XI                        --        200.0      5.0
1251-IN(TW)          1976     India        Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                  145.0        --      145.0
1260-IN              1976     India        IDBI II                                      40.0       --       38.6
1273-IN              1976     India        National Seed                                25.0       --       25.0
1313-IN              1976     India        Telecommunications VI                        80.0        --      46.5
1335-IN              1976     India        Bombay Urban Transport                       25.0       --       23.9
680-IN              1977      India       Kerala Agricultural Development               --        30.0      30.0
682-IN              1977      India       Orissa Agricultural Development               --        20.0      20.0
685-IN              1977      India       Singrauli Thermal Power                       -        150.0     150.0
687-IN              1977      India       Madras Urban Development                      --        24.0      24.0
695-IN              1977      India       Gujarat Fisheries                             -          4.0       4.0
1394-IN(TW)          1977      India       Gujarat Fisheries                            14.0        --       14.0
690-IN              1977      India       West Bengal Agricultural Development          -         12.0      12.0
712-IN              1977     India        Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development       --       10.0      10.0
715-IN              1977     India        Second ARDC Credit                            --       200.0    200.0
720-IN              1977     India        Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                     --        23.0      23.0
728-IN              1977     India        Assam Agricultural Development                --         8.0      8.0
*1473-IN              1977     India        Bombay High Offshore Development            150.0        --      150.0
* 736-IN              1977     India        Naharashtra Irrigation                        --        70.0      70.0
* 737-IN              1977     India        Rajasthan Agricultural Extension              --        13.0     13.0
* 740-IN              1977     India        Orissa Irrigation                             --        58.0      58.0
*1475-IN              1977     ICICI        Industry DFC XII                             80.0        --       80.0
Total                                                           1,992.2    4,991.0
of which has been repaid                                       818.8       30.8
Total now outstanding                                           1,173.4    4,960.2
AmDunt Sold                                111.5
of which has been repaid                 111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                  1,173.4    4,960.2
Total undisbursed                                                 473.5    1,301.3
* Not yet effective.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                           Amount (US$ million)
Year         Company                            Loan     Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5      -         1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.9      -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4      -         1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2       -       0.2
19>3-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.7     0.3        1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8     0.4        1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8      1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0      0.3       1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.0      0.1       1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6      2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1      3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                        6.6      -        6.6
TOTAL                          49.6      8.8      58.4
Less:  Sold                            6.0      1.6       7.6
Repaid                         13.2       -       13.2
Cancelled                       6.2      0.7       6.9
Now Held                       24.2      6.5      30.7
Undisbursed                     5.6       -        5.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,775
million as of September 30, 1977, corresponds roughly to commitments over the
preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime which would be expected
given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80 million loan of June 23, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium and large scale
industries, which are often employing high technology and are export oriented.
Loans 1097-IN and 902-IN are fully committed and disbursements have reached
51% and 87% of total loan amounts respectively as of September 30, 1977, which
is slightly ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
All the above agricultural credit projects are similar in structure,
being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farmers through
credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily in minor irrigation.
Credits 540 and 715 are a continuation nationwide of the previous program of
agricultural credit projects, which were confined to individual states. Apart
from initial start up problems with the individual state projects, mostly due
to the introduction of new lending criteria and lending terms, progress under
these projects has been satisfactory.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
This project is jointly financed with the Kingdom of Sweden. Total
project costs are about US$15 million, of which IDA, Sweden and GOI are each
contributing US$5 million. The project originally consisted of construction
of ten 10,000 ton capacity bag storage warehouses and ten 20,000 ton capacity
bulk storage silos, consulting and engineering services, training and an all-
India grain storage study. Implementation got off to a very slow start due



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13
to problems in selecting and hiring engineering consultants and in acquiring
suitable sites for construction of silos. Delays also resulted from the
original bidding procedures, which required bulking of silos before bidding,
which proved to be impractical and had to be changed. These delays were
further compounded by substantial cost escalation which resulted in a re-
appraisal of the project in early 1975. The number of silos was reduced
from 10 to 5 to keep costs in line with appraisal estimates. The Closing
Date of the project was extended by three years, to September 30, 1978.
Progress of the project is now satisfactory. The warehouse storage compo-
nent has been fully disbursed and silo construction is proceeding well.
The all-India grain storage study has been satisfactorily completed, and
has provided much of the information on grain production and storage and
distribution requirements upon which the proposed second foodgrain storage
project is based. Disbursements of the first project are expected to be com-
pleted by the revised Closing Date of September 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found substantial improve-
ment in project implementation and apple grower response has been encouraging.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403 was extended by one year to December 31, 1977, to cover the
delivery and installation of imported transmission and switching equipment.
Disbursements under Loan 1313 have commenced.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
For Power Transmission III all equipment has been ordered;
for Power Transmission IV, bids for all equipment have been invited and
most orders have been placed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date:  April 28, 1975; Closing Date:   March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: 14arch 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about four months because of longer than expected
delivery times for critical equipment. Under the Sindri project plant con-
struction and erection is proceeding generally according to schedule except
for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays in receipt of some materials.
Commencement of commercial production is expected by March 1978. The anti-
cipated cost to complete the project is presently running within budget. The
IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock
from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts.
The project is now progressing satisfactorily based on naphtha as feedstock.
Site work has begun, process- and time-critical equipment is being ordered,
and engineering work is well under way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase
the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The project has
encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the
Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not
materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and State governments.
The Central Government has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9. 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes
training of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and
evaluation of the project's economic impact. As of June 30, 1977, develop-
ment plans had been completed for 48 of the 50 project markets. The remain-
ing 2 are pending land acquisitions. Appraisals and loan sanctions had been



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13
completed for 13 and was in progress for 18 markets. Farmers and traders
served by the 8 market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing
activities and improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka
project is improving. As of June 30, 1977, appraisals for 36 of the 39 proj-
ect market yard plans had been completed by participating banks and 25 of
these 36 approved by ARDC. Construction is in progress at 33 markets. In an
attempt to accelerate project progress, more liberal lending terms have been
provided to APMCs and Market Intermediaries (MIs) for construction of shop-
cum-godowns. The project is expected to be completed by the closing date
(December 1979) and to achieve its major objectives of making farm produce
marketing more efficient and improving farmers' terms of trade.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries and in
strengthening the State Financial Corporations involved, the second operation
(Ln. 1260) was approved on May 18, 1976, and more than 10% of the loan amount
had been authorized by mid-May 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded.  This has considerably sped up disbursements which had been slow.
Financial performance of the project entity during 1976/77 was satisfactory,
and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure continuing financial
viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a half of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund has been slower than
anticipated and the closing date has been postponed by one year to allow
completion of disbursements from the Fund which has been fully committed.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services; slum improvement; small-
scale and cottage industry; and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage; road and traffic improvements; bus transport and
technical assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in
water supply and transport.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 500 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions, as envisaged under the project, have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. Technical ser-
vices investments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock
imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have
been formed and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing
of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant-designs are
ready, and procurement is making adequate progress. Karnataka's decision to
procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier in the
Karnataka project.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date:   December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies.   IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit  of April 1, 1977; Effective Date:   June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal].
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of April 1977, orders
had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and tenders
had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production in steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year to
September 30, 1978 in order to complete implementation of the project.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. The contract for the feasibility
study has been awarded.
Cr. No. 610     Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project finances equipment and civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and increased cotton produc-
tion in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton
ginneries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Project management and coordination were established
and the cotton production program has been pursued energetically. Implementa-
tion of the research and industrial components has started.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The National Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds pro-
duction as planned, having handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC).
Detailed production programs, by variety and responsible institution, have
been prepared for breeder, foundation and certified generations. GOI and
State Governments have made equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financ-
ing of major project activity. Orders will shortly be placed for processing
machinery to provide bridging capacity pending the construction of new pro-
cessing plants. Tender documents for the first purchases of farm machinery
have been finalized.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Contracts for a first tranche of 325 single and 175 double deck
bus chassis have been awarded, and bidding for the balance of bus chassis is
in progress. Contracts for 275 single and 175 double deck bus bodies have
also been awarded. As for civil works, contracts have been awarded for 6
of 19 bus facilities, and for 11 of about traffic engineering schemes. The
Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority, has employed
consultants to assist it in organization, administrative and financial man-
agement systems, and accounting. The beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay
Municipal Corporation, and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Under-
taking, are in the process of employing consultancy assistance in traffic
engineering, and operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Guiarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:   June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA - SECOND FOODGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years.
(b) The agency which prepared the project
A GOI, committee which included representatives from
the Food Corporation of India, the Ministries of
Agriculture and Irrigation, Railways and Finance,
and from the Planning Commission, and the Central
Warehousing Corporation.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
November 1976                February 1977
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
February 1977
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
September 15, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
February 28, 1978
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The Food Corporation of India (FCI) to draw up detailed
plans for staff training and furnish for IDA's
approval (para 41).
(b) FCI to engage 60 man/months of consultants to assist
in the planning and execution of bulk storage and silo
facilities (para 41).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) FCI to draw up detailed plans for an operations
research study (para 42).
(d) As a condition of effectiveness, FCI to establish
a Project Implementation Division and appoint a
division chief and three section managers (para 43).






-'' -                                              I                 SN D I A
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NI
j'rJ r_                                                      SECOND FOODGRAIN STORAGE PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN 5                                                    c ,> Food Corporation of India
AFGHANISTAN   '                                                           Location and Type of Grain Storage Structures
,JJA4'A4  ad KASHM/Rr                                lPOOSRORO-ES A
t?   10 /  9 z i   t   E  4 5 H M I R 5               3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  RO 50 DSLDhROEhLSt -3OLS SIODOO
02005LA 500                                                       fl ;RIST r   OO51NWRSoOUSSS 10.0AO O RROREAO3CCPSCOO  OAGSTORSOS
-Sr
HiM A Ch L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~   ~   ~    .1Au%  A     -
_,_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5         'V                                        "A< TH .....RAIWt
P A K I        N\                                N  F  P A I ,           = / DAMSC                  -
,> 8a jEds / tt ~~~~~~~~~~~c       '' H  I  N   A
C  ~~                 MCHALAfl    >F T.-H
HTA<RSAN                                                   A  L           AN
%                                                       Bi;^X H UT N '<., 
A                          | S                        S         A
A  ~       U   M
4~~~
-N                                   B  U  R  M~~~~Ohoo' ~ OA/5 ~ ( .   A'
op      75  o KpLoMeleRs MPUhoNJB d  HARYANA
MlleS     r.,nd.</  7r    ~~~~~SRI LANKA    NO,A2'Rs b AORRO S.l.. E  & ,,O 7. C.c  /  I76
70          ~~~~~~~~AC                        S        OAA~RRAoR,*



