CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 747-IN
Project Agreement
(Second Foodgrain Storage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FOOD CORPORATION OF INDIA
Dated January 6, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 747-IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 6, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
FOOD CORPORATION OF INDIA (hereinafter called the Corporation).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred and seven million dollars
($107,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Corporation agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Corporation, the proceeds of the
Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to the Corporation on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Corporation, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreemenr, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Corporation shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropri-
ate administrative, financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2 -
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Corporation in carrying
out the Project, the Corporation shall employ by March 31, 1978 or
such later date as may be agreed by the Association, consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be mutually agreed upon among the Borrower, the
Corporation and the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be awarded
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Corporation undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by the Corporation to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Corporation shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Corporation shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Corporation: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclosc
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation
upon the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the
Association's representatives to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furniRh to the Association all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-3 -
(c) The Corporation shall enable the Association's represen-
tatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property, equipment and any relevant records and
documents of the Corporation, related to the Project.
Section 2.06. The Corporation shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Corporation shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The Corporation shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Corporation shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with,
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance by the Corporation of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) By December 31, 1978 or such later date
as may be agreed by the Association, the Corporation shall draw
up and furnish to the Association for its approval plans for
conducting the operations research under Part B of the Project.
(b) By June 30, 1978 or such later date as may be agreed by
the Association, the Corporation shall draw up and furnish to the
Association for its approval detailed plans for conducting the
training under Part C of the Project.
Section 2.09. The Corporation shall establish a Project
Implementation Division for the implementation of the Project,
and shall appoint a chief and other qualified staff to ensure the
efficient functioning of this Division.
Section 2.10. Without limitation to the provisions under
Section 2.05 (a) of this Agreement, the Corporation shall prepare
and furnish to the Association detailed quarterly progress reports
within one month after the end of each calendar quarter.


﻿-4
Section 2.11. The Corporation shall carry out continuous
monitoring and evaluation of the Project in such form as shall be
mutually agreed between the Corporation and the Association by
June 30, 1978 or such later date as may be agr d by the Associa-
tion. The results of such monitoring and evaluation shall be sent
to the Association at least once a year.
Section 2.12. The Corporation shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out
the Project.
Section 2.13. The Corporation shall ensure that the types and
locations of the warehouse complexes and port silos to be con-
structed under Part A (i) of the Project shall be determined in
accordance with the guidelines set out in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement after due consultations among the Borrower, the Associa-
tion and the Corporation.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations
of the Corporation
Section 3.01. The Corporation shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan iLs future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound
business, financial, administrative and engineering practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by adequate and competent staff.
Section 3.02. (a) The Corporation shall at all times maintain
its corporate existence and the right to carry on its operations
and to acquire and retain ownership of all lands and maintain and
renew all interests in land and other properties, and take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business or in the carrying out of the Project.
(b) The Corporation shall at all times operate and maintain
its machinery, equipment and other property, and make all neces-
sary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering practices.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Corporation shall not sell, lease, transfer or oLheLwise dispose


﻿-5 -
of any of its property or assets required for the efficient
operation of the Project, except in the normal course of business.
Section 3.03. The Corporation shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Association, for insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Corporation shall maintain for the
Project separate records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
(b) The Corporation shall prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation its annual budgets for the Project not later than one
month prior to the beginning of each financial year.
Section 4.02. The Corporation shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by indcpen,ant auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of the Corporation and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to ime reasonably re4aest.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿- 6 -
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and 11 obligations of
the Association and of the Corporation thereurder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Corporation of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any partial
cancellation or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                   440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-7 -
For the Corporation:
Food Corporation of India
16-20 Barakhamba Lane
New Delhi - 110001
India
Cable address:
FOOD CORP
New Delhi (India)
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Corporation may be taken or
executed by the Corporation or such other person or persons
as the Corporation shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. The Corporation shall Zurnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
the Corporation, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by the Corporation pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed 4n their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. D. Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
FOOD CORPORATION OF INDIA
By Is! J. Baijal
Authorized Representative


﻿-8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the General
Introduction thereto, on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Bidders for civil works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
3.   Contracts for equipment in Parts A and B of this Schedule
shall be grouped into packages so as to encourage competition
consistent with appropriate technical and procurement practices.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for bag warehouses and rural procurement centers
shall be let on th2 basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally under procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for civil works under Part A (iii) of the Project
shall be awarded to the Indian Railways under procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
3.   Contracts for equipment which cannot be grouped into packages
of $100,000 equivalent or more each shall be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.
4.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than $10,000
each may be procured through prudent local shopping on the basis
of at least 3 price quotations.
5.   Contracts for vehicles shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association.


﻿-9 -
C.   Evalilation and Comparison of Bids for Goods;
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For .he purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids of
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be ex-
cluded; and (iii) the cost to the Corporation of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a
bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(I) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Corporation and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison a


﻿- 10 -
bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if
said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from Group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest eval-
uated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works;
Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included
under Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement and to be procured in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, the
Corporation may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic
contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Corporation, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:


﻿- 11 -
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
'ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above. The lowest responsive bid shall be
selected for the award.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1. Review of prequalification. The Corporation shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifi-
cations in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eli-
gibility for domestic preference under Part D.1 above and of the
reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Corporation
to the Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Corporation's decision, and the Corporation
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Corporation shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Corpo-
ration shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to


﻿- 12 -
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Corporation and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Corporation shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines thaL Lhe award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Corporation
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Type and Location Guidelines for
Warehouse Complexes and Port Silos
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the fol-
lowing guidelines are to be followed by the Corporation
with respect to the types and locations of the warehouse complexes
and port silos to be constructed under Part A (i) of the
Project:
A.   Warehouse Complexes
1.   (a) local supply and demand situation and existing
and projected procurement and/or distribution for
each type of grain;
(b) type, capacity and location of existing grain
storage (the Corporation and others) relative to
existing and projected procurement in and near the
proposed site;
(c) transportation    resources  serving  the locale
including road and rail network, and feasibility of
a railway siding to the site; and
(d) storage and distribution strategies and logistics
such as probable moisture content of grain
to be procured locally, probable proportion to
be procured in bag and bulk, probable length
of storage, probable direction and distance
of flow to intermediate and consumer storage and
issue centers, and transportation resources to be
used.
2.   Guidelines for site selection and type of warehouse
include: (a) sLtage of operations and buffer stocks of
wheat in and near procurement towns; (b) need for
aeration facilities to dry grain and keep it in good
condition; and (c) use of bulk warehouse complexes for
storage of wheat or paddy in bulk for 12 to 36 months,
or (d) use of bag warehouse complexes where paddy and
rice do not need drying and for bag handling and stor-
age.


﻿- 14 -
B.   Port Silos
3.   Each silo unit to be located adjacent to a dock where
ships carrying grain can be received and unloaded. Dock
sites and facilities should be capable of receiving and
off-loading ships of at least 20,000 ton capacity
directly into the silo bulk grain conveying system.
Docks are selected where annual receipts of more than
300,000 tons of imported grain would be expected for a
silo with 25,000 tons storage capacity and more than
600,000 tons receipts for a silo with 50,000 tons
storage capacity. A railway siding should be included in
each complcx.


