Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
giG. 0 23SV> /9t
So- // Hd
Rqert No. P-4057-E
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
*. OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$75.0 MILLION
TO THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
May 2, 1985
This documnt hu a restricted ditibuion and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
ofifr dicil dties Is ontens nmay nt otherwse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984       February 1985
Currency Unit   =       Forint (Ft)
US$}            =       Ft 48.04            Ft 51.96
Ft I            =       US$0.021            US$0.192
Exchange rate used in calculating project costs and benefits:
US$1.0  =  Ft  46.5 as of July 1984.
Hungarian Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GtOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
HC            -    Hungarocamion International Freight Company
KfI           -    Hungarian Institute of Transport Science
MAHART        -    Hungarian Shipping Company
MALEV         -    Hungarian Airlines
MAV           -    Hungarian State Railways
MCC           -   Maintenance Coordination Centers
MOT           -   Ministry of Transport
NBH           -   National Bank of Hungary
NPO           -   National Plann:ag Office
PRD           -    Public Roads Department of MOT
PRMC          -    Public Road Maintenance Centers
TDD           -    Technical Development Department of MOT
-~~~~~~~~



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
fUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Hungarian People's Republic.
Beneficiaries:      Hungarian State Railways (MAV) and Hungarocamion
International Freight Company (HC).
Amount:             US$75 million eqiuivalent.
Terms:              Repayable in 15 years including three years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:    US$21 million would be onlent to the NAV for a period of
15 years and $17 million to the SC for a period of 6
years, both at a rate equal to at least the Bank rate plus
a 30 markup which includes a fee for the foreign exchange
risk to be borne by the Borrower.
Proiect Obiectives
and Description:    The main objective of the proposed project is to support
the Government's policies of increasing the efficiency of
the transport sector, conserving energy in the sector and
increasing the sector's earnings of convertible
currencies. The project consists of: (i) a railway
component including a modernization program for the
Ferenevaros (East) marshalling yard in Budapest,
acquisition of track renewal and maintenance equipment and
equipment to upgrade interface facilities between rail and
road at five container terminals, training of railway
personnel to familiarize them with recent developments in
traffic, operations and engineering practices; (ii) a
highway component including construction of the first
phase (14 km) of a 28 km. four-lane motorway bypass of
Budapest including two bridges across the Danube,
acquisition of equipment for the maintenance of national
roads, pavement management, road safety and road
construction quality control, and training of highway
personnel in modern developments in traffic safety and
pavement management; (iii) an HC component including
acquisition of larger capacity, more fuel efficient and
longer life freight vehicles together with supporting
management information systems and maintenance workshop
equipment; (iv) technical studies of (a) the contribution
of road users to financing the costs of roads, and (b)
modern management systems and operational aspects of
international trucking companies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits and
Risks:            The ultimate beneficiaries of the proposed project would be
transport users who, because of the different intensity of
use, come from a range of sectors and income levels. At
full development, the Bank-assisted components in railways
would bring annual cost savings of about US$10 million
equivalent while the investments in the HC would yield
incremental net revenues of about US$15 million equivalent
annually.  Net foreign exchange earnings and savings in
convertible currencies are estimated at about US$15-20
million annually at project completion. Project risks are
considered small as the technical solutions envisaged are
based on adequate studies and engineering and Hungarian
transport agencies have built up competent management and
technical expertise. The impact on the environment would be
positive.
Estimated Costs:                                 Local    Foreign    Total
US $ Million
Railway Component                                29.3       25.0       54.3
Highway Component                                38.6       32.8       71.4
HC                                                0.3       31.0       31.3
Total Base Cost                              68.2      88.8       157.0
Physical Contingencies                            6.1        3.7        9.8
Price Contingencies                              21.5       27.2       48.7
Total Project Cost                           95.8 -i  119.7       215.5
Financing Plan:                                  Local    Foreign    Total
US $ Million
World Bank                                    -        75.0        75.0
Government/Cofinancing                       56.1       9.9        66.0
Railways                                     39.4      10.8        50.2
HC/Cofinancing                                0.3      24.0        24.3
95.8     119.7       215.5
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY                1986     1987      1988     1989      1990     1991
Annual                  6.7     15.0      14.6     17.2      14.7      6.8
Cumulative              6.7     21.7      36.3     53.5      68.2     75.0
Rate of Return: About 20X.
Appraisal Report: No. 5477-HU dated April 30, 1985.
I/ Includes US$24.9 million of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR A TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Hungarian People's Republic for the equivalent of US$75 million to help
finance a transport project.  The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of g,ace at the standard variable interest rate. About $21
million of the loan proceeds would be onlent to the Hungarian State Railways
for a period of 15 years including 3 years of grace and about $17 million to
the Uungarocamion International Freight Company for a period of 6 years
including 3 years of grace, both at an interest rate equal to at least the
Bank rate plus a 30X marc-up which includes a fee for the foreign exchange
risk to be borne by the Borrower. Cofinancing from commercial lending
institutions is being sought for this project in conjunction with the
Integrated Livestock Industry and Fine Chemicals projects.
PART I: THE ECONOMY''
2.        Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first Economic
Report was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report
No. 4174-HU). An updating Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 5006-HU)
and a Power and Coal Subsector Review (Report No. 4746b-HU) were distributed
to the Executive Directors on August 13 and October 24, 1984, respectively.
An Investment Review Mission visited Hungary in October/November 1984 and its
preliminary findings are included in this section. Country social and
economic data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Situated in East Central Europe, the Hungarian People's Republic is
a small land-locked country with a population of 10.7 million in 1984, -
covering an area of 93,000 square km. Hungary has historically been a nexus
of social, cultural, and trade linkages between Eastern and Western Europe.
It is a country of relatively meager natural resources, although it has
significant bauxite deposits, brown coal, lignite and some hydrocarbons, and
advantageous conditions for some agricultural products. It has a long history
of industrialization in certain branches of industry (notably textiles and
other iight industries), which has been extended in the decades since World
War II to heavy industries, including chemicals, metallurgy and engineering.
The country has a homogeneous population with a single language. Being
relatively small and without major topographical diversity between regions,
Hungary is not marked by regional disparities in development. Incomes are
also quite evenly distributed as a matter of social policy, and most services
are of a moderately high standard. While on the whole the population enjoys a
standard of living higher than in many countries of Eastern Europe, wage
levels remain low, the choice of consumer goods is relatively limited, and
there are still major deficiencies in housing and in access to potable water
and sewerage facilities, particularly in rural areas.
Identical to Part I of the President's Report for the Integrated
Livestock Industry (P-3973-HU) and Fine Chemicals (P-3974-HU) projects,
approved by the Executive Directors on April 2, 1985.



-2-
The Economic System
*~~~~~~~~~ .
4.        The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment and
production decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war period when
planning, as in other Socialist countries in Eastern Europe, was fully
centralized and based on physical targets and central administrative
directives. Since 1968, the year that marked the major break with the
previous system, the emphasis in reform has been twofold: on strengthening the
influence of the market on enterprise activities and on developing a system of
"economic regulators" through which the State maintains control of overall
economic activity. These regulators include credit control through the
centralized National Bank and the State Development Bank, which are the only
two sources of credit for enterprises; price and wage regulation through
centrally determined formulae; and the regulation of the net surplus from
production through a series of fiscal measures and control over enterprise
reserve funds. The State has direct control over certain investments,
generally in infrastructure and large capital-intensive plants, which are
largely financed directly by the budget or from State Development Bank loans.
5.        The "Socialist" sector, comprising all enterprises, state farms and
agricultural cooperatives, accounts for some 90% of GDP. Private activity is
evident in the so-called "second economy" where individuals enter into
production, trade and service activities for their own benefit. The second
economy is particularly important in agriculture, where, for certain products,
output from private holdings is a large share of the total. In industry,
also, the practice for workers in enterprises to group together into "Contract
Work Associations" to utilize the industrial plant after hours, has been
increasing.  These second economy activities are encouraged as a means of
raising labor productivity, increasing capacity utilization, and enhancing
personal incomes.
Structure of Economy and Long-term Trends
6.        The principal structural features of Hungary's economy are: (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP (41% in 1984
with 39% of total employment), reflecting a more advanced degree of
industrialization compared to many developing countries; (b) a high share of
heavy industry in total industrial output (67% in 1984), reflecting the
emphasis on heavy industry common to many Socialist countries; (c) a
relatively high share of the labor force employed in agriculture (22% in 1984)
compared to industrial market economies, implying that, in principle, there is
significant scope for labor productivity growth and further shifts of labor
out of this sector; and (d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign trade
(about 40%).  Hungary's high trade dependence makes it vulnerable to shifts in
world trade and prices, and is a principal factor underlying the reforms which
aim at increasing the adaptability of the economy to changes in world
markets. Hungary imports nearly half of its total energy consumption and a
large proportion of its other inputs to industry. While manufactures
constitute a major share of total exports (64% in 1984), they are more
significant with respect to exports to the CMEA countries; major shares of
exports to convertible currency markets are comprised of agricultural
coimodities (about 30%) and raw materials (about 32%).



-3-
7.        From 1975 to 1984, GDP grew in real terms by an average of 2.81
p.a., led by industry (3.8X). Services and agriculture grew less rapidly at
about 2.52 and 3.61, respectively. Since Hungary's population growth is
almost stagnant, growing at an average rate of 0.19Z per annum in the period
1975-84, growth in per capita income was almost equal to growth in GDP. This
has meant that in the past the State has been able to sustain a high
investment rate while still maintaining a significant real increase in
consumption, which grew by 2.2% per annum during the period. However, wages
remain low in Hungary, and in 1984 the average wage in industry in the
Socialist sector was about US$100 per month.  Social benefits (in consumer
subsidies and services), however, represent a significant part of household
incomes.
-S.       Hungary's low population growth has resulted in a virtual stagnation
of the labor force; during the period 1975-84 it actually declined by 0.3%
p.a. Moreover, total employment also declined by 145,000 jobs, despite the
substantial growth in GDP. This has led to a growing perception of a labor
shortage in Hungary which has created pressure to economize on labor, adopt
modern techniques to raise labor productivity, and shift labor out of
overmanmed positions into more efficient activities. Some of this is evident
in the changing pattern of employment over recent years. During the 1975-84
period, for example. there were net employment shifts out of agriculture and
less efficient industry in the urban centers into smaller scale, rural based
industry, and into the service sector.
Government Policies
9.        Given Hungary's income level, the lack of marked regional
disparities in development, and the relatively equal distribution of income
that its policies have secured, issues of equity and poverty alleviation do
uot rank as the first priorities of policy. While raising general living
standards is a major objective, the policy focus centers on the structural
issues of investment, growth, and efficiency. More recently, in response to
growing liquidity pressures in the convertible currency accounts brought about
by the combined effects of Hungary's debt burden, its propensity to import,
and the relative softening of world export markets, there has been a priority
focus on restoring the external balance.  During 1982 the country faced both a
financial crisis and a loss of confidence within the international banking
community. In the first quarter of that year, the withdrawal of foreign
currency balances by major depositors brought reserves down from $1.7 billion
to $0.5 billion, barely one month of convertible currency imports of goods and
services. In this situation the Government secured the support of the IMF to
restore its financial balances and build up the country's depleted reserves
through a stringent stabilization program.-L
10.       The Government has also recognized the need to make longer run
structural adjustments but can do so only insofar as present Einancial
constraints permit. These structural objectives include institutional changes
as well as modifications in the structure of economic activity to reflect the
An IMF standby arrangement (for $525 million) and a compensatory
financing facility (for $80 million) were approved by the IMF in December
1982. A second standby arrangement (for $425 million) was approved in
January 1984. No further standby arrangement is currently contemplated.



-4-
changed conditions facing Hungary in world markets. Of prime importance is
the need to become more competitive in the convertible currency markets for
manufactures, increase the exportable surplus of agricultural products, and
reduce imports of energy and raw materials. To raise the net convertible
currency yield from production and trade will require greater efficiency in
production, improved product quality and, in turn, an upgrading of the
country's productive investment, much of which is outdated and based on
energy- and input-intensive technologies.
11.       While the economic reforms-involving market-based pricing and
increased enterprise autonomy-are the centerpiece of the structural
adjustment program, the Government has also set certain measures in place to
directly influence the pattern of investment. These include the creation of
priority lines of credit in'the National Bank-for energy saving, material
recycling, and export-oriented investments-and the adoption of certain
"centralized development programs" in priority industries through which the
State coordinates and supports enterprise investments.
Recent Economic Developments
12.       Hungary has been successful in surmounting the external financing
crisis which arose in 1982. Two interrelated factors have contributed to
this. First, the stabilization program begun in 1979 and strengthened after
1982 within the framework of two IMF Standby Arrangements has been
successfully implemented; in 1983 it generated a $300 million surplus in the
convertible currency account (about 8Z of total imports of goods) and in 1984
it has given rise to a surplus of about $350 mil'lion. Second, there has been
a return of confidence in Hungary in the international capital markets, as
evidenced by the increasing amounts of loans available from commercial banks.
Medium- and long-term capital inflows from commercial banks during the 1983-84
period are expected to total about $3.7 billion including $663 million raised
through Bank cofinancing. Net convertible currency capital inflows for the
period are estimated at $900 million. The combined effects of the current
account surpluses and the large medium- and long-term borrowing has led to a
rapid growth in convertible reserves: in 1984 they were about 75X above the
average figure for 1983 (quarterly data). Nevertheless, despite this
strengthening of reserves, the need for continued emphasis on maintaining a
stable external balance remains. There is a need to bring about some
reduction in the overall debt levels while expanding the country's import
capacity to improve its growth prospects.
13.       With regard to non-convertible currency transactions, the country
has had to cope with stagnating supplies of the favorably priced oil and raw
materials imports from socialist countries and deteriorating terms of trade.
Hungary's ruble imports of fuels and electric energy declined in 1983 and, in
compliance with the stipulations of the Bucharest agreements, prices of oil
imports have been rising toward world market levels; in 1982, terms of trade
with the ruble ares deteriorated by 3.1%, in 1983, by 2.7Z, and a further
decline of about 2X was estimated for 1984. In addition, the lines of credit
to finance ruble trade deficits have been curtailed. Hungary's response has
been to increase exports in order to reduce the trade gap and stabilize or
reduce the debt to the-non-convertible currency area. Ruble exports increased
by about 3% in 1983 and by about 6% in 1984 (in real terms).



-5-
14.       The improvement of the country's external balance has to a great
extent been brought about by tight demand management policies. In 1983,
although reductions in aggregate demand fell short of targets, gross fixed
investment was reduced by about 3%-largely through decreases in enterprise
investment-and consumption was constrained to 0.3% growth. In 1984, demand
management controls were relaxed somewhat, and domestic absorption
(consumption plus investment) remained nearly constant. However, control of
aggregate demand, limited external financing, and only a moderate expansion in
exports considerably restricted output growth; in 1983, GDP grew by about
0.8%, and in 1984, by about 2.4%.
External Debt
15.       In September 1984, Hungary's medium- and long-term debt was $7.8
billion (of which $6.8 billion was in convertible currencies), representing
about 41% of GDP. Current Government policy is to gradually reduce the M&LT
debt and lengthen its average maturity from 5 to 6 years. Moreover, policy
strives to limit the expansion of short-term borrowing.
16.       Hungary is currently servicing a bulge in the profile of debt
amortizations, and debt service in 1983 and 1984 has been high ($2.0 billion
in 1983 and about $2.4 billion in 1984). Bank projections indicate that the
convertible currency debt-service ratio (amortizations plus interest payments
on MLLT debt, divided by exports of goods and services) will rise from 41% in
1984 to a peak of 44% in 1985 and then decline to about 20% by the end of the
decade.
17.       Debt in non-convertible currencies is smaller, about $1.0 billion in
September 1984-more than three-quarters of it in inter-government long-term
credit. The non-convertible currency debt service ratio is low (about 3%),
due to the low interest rates and long maturities.
Medium-term Outlook
18.       After a period of relatively slow growth, an upturn in the economy
is anticipated toward the end of the decade: GDP is projected to grow by 2.7X.
p.a. in 1984-87 and by 3.6% p.a. in 1988-90. Bank projections indicate that
it may be possible to ease stabilization program restrictions after 1987,
although some restraint of aggregate demand will have to be maintained
throughout the decade to ensure continued surpluses in the current account.
Government authorities plan to increase wages moderately in real terms, but
keep consumption growth below that of GDP. Investment is expected to be held
down to a 1%-2Z growth per annum during 1984-87, but to rise more rapidly
thereafter.
19.       The favorable impact of the structural adjustment effort on the
country's economic growth path will be more fully perceived during the second
half of the decade. The industrial sector is expected to be the leading
beneficiary of the restructuring effort and grow at an average rate of about
4%-4.5%. A more conservative average rate of growth is projected for the
agricultural sector (3.0%). Notwithstanding the marked deficiencies in
reciLaia areas of the service sector's infrastructure, rapid improvements are
not contemplat.ed in Government plans for the coming years, and the growth of
the sector is expected to lag.



-6-
External Capital Requirements
20.       Bank projections until 1988 indicate that Hungary's annual
amortization of its convertible currency medium- and long-term debt will
average about $1.7 billion (including repayments to the IMF). If
stabilization efforts continue to be successful and surpluses in the current
account can be sustained at an average level of about $400 million, gross M&LT
capital inflow requirements will be on the order of $1.3 billion p.a. Bank
financing will provide some of those capital needs.  The rest will have to be
obtained from commercial banks. The projected borrowing requirements appear
high compared to the level of financing obtained in 1982, but they are below
the gross M&LT capital inflows for 1983 and 1984. In 1989-90, the situation
should improve considerably, for annual amortizations should decline to about
$1.1 billion.  At that time, it will be possible to relax the efforts to
restrain import demand, thus permitting faster economic growth.
Country Performance and Creditworthiness
21.       Hungary is in a better external liquidity situation than it was two
years ago. Although the balance of payments continues to be highly vulnerable
to external shocks, continued strong demand management provides reasonable
assurance that the economy will remain sound in the medium term. The
prospects for a moderate upturn in the Hungarian economy during the latter
part of the decade appear promising in the light of the authorities'
commitment to a comprehensive structural adjustment program designed to
strengthen the role of the market in the operation of the economy. The policy
dialogue at the macro and micro levels between the Hungarian authorities and
the Bank has been fruitful. In view of the country's growing ability to adapt
to a changing world environment, as evidenced by the gradual but firm
stabilization policies implemented during the past two years, its well
organized management system with effective institutions and clear policy
objectives, and its reasonably good prospects for maintaining external balance
and re-establishing a moderate rate of growth in the coming years, Hungary is
considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARYL''
22.       The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Hungary to
$753.4 million for eleven loans (including four 'B' loan participations in
commercial cofinancing syndications) for projects in industry, agriculture,
energy and transport.
23.       Given the country's per capita income, the Bank's lending to Hungary
for the next few years will be limited in time and in amount. The Hungarian
Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention on structural adjustment
in the productive sectors: agriculture, industry, energy and transport. The
Bank generally concurs with this selection of priorities, and has chosen to
support Hungary's structural adjustment process through project-based lending
' Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Integrated Livestock Industry (P-3973-HU) and Fine Chemicals (P-3974-HU)
projects, approved by the Executive Directors on April 2, 1985.



-7-
aimed at export generation; import substitution, particularly in the energy
sector, through increased domestic production and conservation; plant
upgrading and technology transfer, to reduce production cost.s through more
efficient input utilization, and to improve productivity and product quality;
and industrial restructuring to reduce the concentration of enterprise
activities and encourage more efficient industries to produce components.
24.       The Hungarian Government is looking to the Bank to assist them in
expanding their access to external capital markets.  In this respect, the Bank
was a successful catalyst in mobilizing four comercial cofinancing
syndications, a 200 million Eurodollar loan and a $70 million equivalent
Japanese Yen loan in 1983 for the Grain Storage and Mechanization and the
Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation projects and a 385 million
Eurodollar loan and a $93 million equivalent Japanese Yen loan in 1984 for the
Industrial Export and Restructuring and the Petroleum projects. The Bank's
participation in these syndications under the new cofinancing arrangements
amounted to $30 million and $8.8 million equivalent, respectively, for the
first two projects, and $35 million and $12.2 million equivalent,
respectively, for the latter two projects. In both these cofinancing
operations, the Bank was able to improve the terms over the most recent
Hungarian borrowings and to introduce Hungary to commercial banks from which
it had not borrowed previously.
25.       The Bank expects to continue to provide technical assistance in
project preparation and design, and in institution-building. Planned economic
and sector work covers energy, industry and foreign trade. The Bank has
already reviewed the coal and power subsectors, the chemical subsector and the
transport sector.  These sector studies are providing policy inputs for the
Bank's dialogue with the Hungarian authorities and come at a time when further
reforms are being introduced in the Hungarian economy to increase the impact
of market forces and enterprise autonomy. Discussions have already been
initiated in this respect. Under the first two projects, the Bank drew the
Hungarian authorities' attention to the drawbacks of using interest rebates as
an incentive system. Following subsequent discussions the authorities
eliminated the system of interest rebates starting January 1, 1984. Training
through EDI was initiated with a first course on the financial and economic
evaluation of projects, held in early January 1984 in Budapest. Two
procurement seminars and a seminar on grain inflow-outflow analysis to
determine storage requirements have also been held in Budapest. They were
received with much interest by the Hungarian authorities who requested further
cooperation in this area. Consequently, an EDI seminar on structural
adjustment was held in mid-January 1985 in Budapest, and a further procurement
seminar is planned for June 1985.
26.       The loans in the pipeline represent only a small portion of
Hungary's total need for external financing, and of its total (disbursed)
convertible currency debt. However, they provide a substantial net addition
to the flow of convertible currency available on longer repayment terms. The
disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 14Z of
Hungary's total projected convertible debt in 1990, and the Bank's share in
Hungary's debt service payment is projected to rise to about 9% by that time.
27.       Hungary has signed the Articles of Agreement of IDA and IFC on
April 29, 1985.



-8-
PART III: THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
28.       Hungary has developed a diversified transport network which
comprises about 7,600 km. of rail, 30,000 km. of arterial roads, 1,300 km. of
regularly navigable rivers and canals, one international airport, and a fairly
extensive oil and gas pipeline network. The only waterway giving access to
the sea is the river Danube, which flows about 1,465 km from Budapest to the
Black Sea; other maritime European harbors can be reached by land. Railways
and roads are the backbone of the transport system. Together, they carry
about 75S of total freight and more than 95X of passenger traffic. Water
transport has retained an important and competitive place as a carrier of bulk
materials over long distances. Budapest is the hub of the country's rail,
road and airways system; it is a primary node on the major pipeline system and
is by far the busiest of the Danube River ports.
29.       Major changes within the transport sector occurred during the past
two decades. The railway's share of total freight traffic (in ton-km.)
decreased from about 80Z in 1960 to less than 50Z in 1983, with a
corresponding increase in the percentage carried by road, waterways, and
pipelines. For public passenger traffic, the railway's former dominance
passed to roads in the early 1970s and the current rail/road shares are about
28X and 69X, respectively. Nevertheless, the railways remain the major mode
for the movement of traffic over long distances, while road transport
functions mainly as a short-haul mover.
30.       Private transport has increased both within the urban areas and in
inter-city movements. The -rapid growth of private transport has been the most
conspicuous transport development during the last fifteen years. The number
of privately owned cars increased more than five-fold from 238.6 thousand in
1970 to 1,258.5 thousand in 1983.
31.       Besides catering to domestic needs, the transport system serves the
needs of foreign and transit trade. In the early 1980s, export and import
trade required the movement of more than 30 million tons of freight per annum
(excluding pipeline traffic), predominantly by rail. Transit movements across
Hungary totalled more than 20 million tons per annum in the same period, and
the Hungarian railways rank among the leading transit carriers in Europe.
Transit traffic by road is also sizeable, with about 170,000 foreign truck
movements annually.
Sector Organization
32.       The Ministry of Transport (MOT) has overall responsibility for
transport regulation, and exercises control of public transport through its
approval of the annual investment and operating plans of self dependent
transport companies, which are required to submit annual performance and
financial reports. The Hungarian State Railways (MAV) are responsible for all
rail transport operations (internal and international) excepting a few
kilometers of special purpo.e tracks. Similarly, the Hungarian Shipping
Company (MAHART) is in charge of all river ports and of the fungarian river
fleets on the Tisa and Danube rivers. The Hungarian Airline (MALEV) flies
only on international routes. Road transport services are provided by both



-9-
public transport companies and the trucks and buses owned by industrial
enterprises and cooperatives. Hungarocamion (HC) specializes in international
trucking while a number of other carriers, the largest of which is Volan,
handle short and medium distance transport within Hungary and to and from
neighboring countries. Tariffs, which are cost-based and competitive, are
negotiated and favor clients who can assure return loads. The Government
prescribes tariff ceilings to protect customers in outlying areas, but there
e           is no freight allocation in the transport sector.  Shippers make their own
choice between modes, and exporters or importers may choose between domestic
or foreign carriers.
Transport Planning and Policy
33.       The transport planning structure consists of the National Planning
Office (NPO), the planning units of Ministries, local governments/
municipalities, and enterprises. Transportation projects included in the
Five-Year Plans originate both at the micro-level through the industrial
enterprises and county authorities (especially for municipal and local roads)
and at the macro-level through the NPO. Review and coordination of new
investment proposals in the transport sector is tne responsibility of the
Ministry of Transport (MOT) which submits its program to NPO. The demands for
transport by the economic enterprises and sectors are reconciled by the NPO
with the existing capacities and expansion plans of the transport enterprises.
34.       Hungary's principal transport policy objectives, approved by
Parliament in 1968 and updated in 1978 are the efficient provision of services
with the complementary development of different modes. This implies regulat-
ing and distributing traffic among the different transport modes mainly by
economic means and criteria (e.g. rate policy, energy efficiency, manpower
needs), and where necessary, by administrative measures, and also strength-
ening the transport companies' self financing capabilities. Transport policy
goals are implemented through annual and five-year plans which are enacted by
Parliament. The cornerstones of transport policy are and will continue to be
competition between transport agencies in the market and conservation of
energy with the main policy instruments being pricing measures.
The Railways Subsector
35.       Organization.  The Hungarian State Railways (MAV) is a "Self-
A          dependent Enterprise" headed by a Director General who is appointed by the
Minister of Transport. While management of the Railways is by a Management
Council, Government approval is required for major matters such as large
investments, tariff changes, or foreign loans for railway development.  MAV is
organized into six regions, headed by Regional Directors, which are further
divided for traffic control, commercial and other purposes into 38 territorial
units. The Director General is Chairman of the Management Council, which is
responsible for determining railway policy and establishing five-year
development plans within the framework of the state plan.
36.       Operations and Productivity.  MAV operates 7,612 km of line of which
971 is standard gauge, 14.7Z double tracked, and 211 electrified. MAV's
operational efficiency is generally high and in 1982, its traffic density,
(8.95 million gross-tons per route-km) was one of the highest in Europe.
Staff productivity is also high. In certain respects however, principally in
the utilization of freight cars, MAV's performance has declined in recent



- 10 -
years and, as part of the Bank project, aspects of operational performance
related to the project are to be addressed by an action plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, specifying measures to be taken to achieve productivity, operational
and financial targets, to be prepared by MAV by October 1985. MAV would keep
the Bank informed of progress in achieving planned improvements indicated in
the action plan (MAV Project Agreement, Section 3.04).
37.       MAV's availability figures for traction and rolling stock, which
give an indication of maintenance efficiency, are satisfactory.  Average wagun
capacity rose by 8 during 1978-83, but turnaround time for wagons
deteriorated from 3.65 days in 1978 to 4.35 days in 1983. Analysis shows that
this increase stemmed in part from longer times in marshalling yards due to
shortage of yard capacity. The proposed project supports marshalling yard
investments that will improve yard handling time. Track is generally well
maintained but a lack of modern track maintenance and renewal equipment makes
it increasingly more difficult to maintain. The proposed project would
provide such equipment, including staff training by the manufacturers.
38.       The development of railway container traffic started in 1969 and, to
date, MAV has 30 railway stations suitable for receiving and loading
containers. Container traffic in 1983 comprised about 353,000 units carrying
2.1 million tons of the most expensively rated goods. MAV places great
emphasis on the expansion of container traffic in conjunction with other
transport modes and plans to increase traffic volume carried by container to
about four million tons by 1990. Container handling equipment is included in
the proposed project.
39.       The Railway's Investment Plan (1986-90).  MAV's 1986-90 draft
Investment Plan, which envisages expenditures of about US$200 million
equivalent annually, is primarily a rehabilitation plan which concentrates on
operating cost reductions and on safety oriented investments, rather than on
investments in capacity expansion, traction and rolling stock. Railway
investments are expected to account for 42Z of the total investments in the
transport sector during the next plan period. Emphasis is initially on early
completion of ongoing projects, while only later in the plan period will new
projects, mostly track renewal, signalling and telecommunications, and
electrification of main lines with heavy traffic density, be undertaken.
Proposed investments are operationally sound and economically justified.
40.       Pricing and Finance.  As a "SeL_ Dependent Enterprise" MAV is
expected to recover costs from revenues. Nevertheless its charges are subject
to the approval of the Government's Board of Pricing. Revenues from freight
traffic cover all related costs. Passenger tariffs for journeys over 80 kms
also cover full costs.  The Government wishes to avoid raising suburban
passenger fares to a level which would cover full costs because of the
implications of losing passengers to road transport with the additional costs
of urban congestion. The Government pays a subvention to tie railways to
cover the difference. In addition, the Government compensates the railways
for the loss from concessional fares to certain classes of passengers such as
students and pensioners. Following fare increases, the total subvention has
declined from 70Z of passenger revenue in 1980 to 45% of passenger revenue in
1984. MAV is largely self-financing; except for a small Government grant and
the proposed Bank loan, about 98% of funds for MAV's investments through the
Plan period will be provided from MAV's internal resources with 70Z of these
resources generated from depreciation provisions.



- 11 -
The Highways Subsector
41.       Organization and Planning.  The Ministry of Transport (MOT) has
direct responsibility for the National Road Network infrastructure. The
Public Roads Department (PRD) of the Ministry is in charge of the operation
and maintenance of all national roads, bridges, and motorways.  Detailed
engineering and construction supervision for major new roadworks are
contracted to engineering design firms and construction management and
supervision companies.  PRD force account work (mostly road maintenance) is
managed by nine Public Road Management Centers (PRMC) which control nineteen
Maintenance Coordination Centers. The Budapest PRMC is also responsible for
the maintenance of motorways. Infrastructure investment proposals are
evaluated by the Technical Development Department (TDD) of MOT which makes
recommendations to MOT management. For over 20 years, all motorway and
highway bridge engineering in Hungary has been performed by an engineering
design firm, UVATERV, under contract to MOT. The quali'y of its highway
engineering work is up to international standards and the company, which does
about 40Z of its work volume outside Hungary, has considerable experience in
bridge design in Hungary and abroad. MOT contracts management and supervision
of large construction projects to UTIBER, an investment management company
which specializes in transportation projects.
42.       Highway planning takes into consideration the road transport demands
resulting from the Government's five-year plans as well as measured traffic
growth and periodic origin-destination census results. An important planning
input comes from a road inventory and sufficiency survey which was first taken
in 1979 and has since been regularly updated and improved. The rationale
underlying highway planning is to support energy conservation by (i) providing
adequate capacity on the existing roads (adding new traffic lanes and
constructing bypasses at larger villages and towns), (ii) constructing
motorways on routes carrying international traffic (once traffic volumes
justify such construction), and (iii) constructing some "short-cuts" where
there is sufficient traffic demand. The motorway construction program
including the M-O (Budapest ring road), which is supported by the proposed
project, is a priority investment in the latest long-term plan.
43.       Highway Network and Maintenance.  The total Hungarian road network
is divided by maintenance responsibility into: (i) the National Roads, which
are maintained by the National Government (about 30,000 km, mostly paved);
(ii) Local Public Roads, which are maintained by county councils (about 58,000
Afi        bm and 70X paved); and (iii) Agricultural and Forestry Roads, which are
maintained by state farms, agricultural cooperatives, and forestry
organizations (about 50,000 km and 30Z paved in 1980). The main roads of the
national road network radiate from Budapest, the most populous city and
principal traffic generator. Six of the eight bridges across the Danube are
within the city and the steady growth of traffic has led to rapidly growing
congestion.  The Motorways M-1, M-5, and M-7, which the M-0 ringroad will
eventually connect (bypassing Budapest), are important links in the
Trans-European Motorway system. This system aims eventually to connect
western and northern European countries, by road, with the Balkans and Middle
East. Maintenance of national roads is effectively organized and well
managed. Part of the technical assistance under the proposed project would
familiarize PRD staff with state-of-the-art progress in pavement management
and recent developments in maintenance techniques. Each maintenance



- 12 -
sub-center has a standard group of equipment and there is a heavy dependence
on machines from western European countries to deal with disruption caused by
winter weather conditions, particularly on the more densely traveled roads and
motorways. Because of serious winter traffic disruption in recent years, PRD
proposes to acquire higher-powered machines to clear snow and ice; the
purchase of this equipment would be financed under the proposed project.
44.       The Highway Investment Plan.  Average total expenditure for roads
has been slightly less than US$300 million per year during the 1981-85 period
with about 55% going for National Roads and 45Z for local council roads, an
amount and proportion which would be essentially maintained during the
1986-1990 period. The proportion of funds allocated to new construction and
improvement of national roads (30X), compared to road maintenance and pavement
reinforcement (701) is reasonable and provides an adequate allowance of about
US$4,000 per kilometer each year for maintenance/pavement reinforcement
operations. The effect of financial constraints during the 1981-85 period is
apparent in the sharp reduction of investment which took place in new road
construction, including motorways. In the 1986-90 period, the Government
proposes to resume investment in the motorway system while keeping other road
improvements at a rather low level until 1989-90, when a number of new bridges
would be constructed and their approach roads upgraded. Construction of the
first phase of the M-0 bypass with the major bridges across the two channels
of the Danube, which is included in the proposed project, is expected to be
completed by 1990, with the full connection to the M-7 and M-1 programmed for
construction during the subsequent five-year plan period (1991-1995).
Hungarocamion
45.       Organization and Operations.  The Hungarocamion international road
haulage company (HC) was established on January 1, 1966, with the purpose of
satisfying the demands of home and foreign customers with quick, efficient,
and reliable international road transportation. The company is headed by a
General Manager and the management structure of the company is functional in
character. A computer center was established in 1980 in order to introduce
computerized control of movements of cargo and vehicles and to apply computer
techniques to other processes. The company has two affiliates in Europe,
namely, the Eelkar Transport GmbH in Austria, and Eurocar Spa in Italy, nine
offices at different Hungarian border crossing points and its own
representatives in 20 cities of 16 countries.
46.       The company has gone through a dynamic development period during the
19 years of its history. The vehicle fleet has more than quadrupled and
vehicle capacity has increased six times during this period by adding to the
fleet higher capacity modern units suited for international freight. The
average annual vehicle utilization is high and has gradually improved since
1975. HC's load factors per return journey on Western European routes are
between 90 and 951; on Middle Eastern routes 50Z; on North African routes
aboat 65X. Average vehicle utilization is about 225 days/year. The above
load factors and vehicle utilization rates are above average when compared
with cu--ent Western European operational statistics.
47.       Investment Plan and Development Strategy.  The investment policy of
EC is primarily aimed at achieving two main objectives which are to develop
and modernize its vehicle fleet and to increase operational efficiency by
making urgently needed improvements in electronic information and control



- 13 -
systems, maintenance shop modernization, inventory control systems and
container handling equipment. The investment plan for augmenting the vehicle
fleet and support facilities takes into account market structure, likely
growth of Hungarian exports (especially food-stuffs, live animals, clothes and
furniture), unfavorable road conditions, especially in the Middle East, fuel
efficiency and optimum utilization of load capacity. HC's draft investment
plan for 1986-90, involving expenditures of about US$20 million annually, is
realistic and responsive to the critical need for improving inter-modal
balance in international trade.
48.       Pricing and Finance.  EC is free to fix its rates according to
market forces without upper or lower limit. HC competes successfully in the
international freight haulage market with export/import traffic comprising
about 80X of its ton/km in 1983 and the balance is transit traffic. Actual
costs of most regular journeys are calculated at least quarterly. Rates are
determined by the Commercial Department and are varied by back-haul
possibilities or agreements, while back-haul rates themselves are carefully
calculated to keep empty running to a minimum and to take advantage of any
suitable traffic which may be available. Much of the transit traffic carried
by RC from Western Europe to the Middle East originates as back-haul.
49.       HC's internal resources are adequate for the financing of
replacement vehicles and for other capital expenditure needs including local
delivery vehicles. For the development element of its investment plan -550
modern, fuel-efficient, high capacity vehicles-the company will rely entirely
upon the proposed Bank loan and cofinancing. Net internal resources will.
finance 61X of HC's investment needs during the 1986-90 Plan period.
Rationale for Bank Assistance
50.       The proposed project would be the Bank's first in the transportation
sector in Hungary.  The multimodal components of this project-highways,
railways, and road transport-have been designed to support the main
objectives of the Bank's strategy of assistance to Hungary, namely technology
transfer, increased foreign exchange earnings, energy conservation, technical
assistance, and institution building. The Bank provided substantial tecknical
assistance during project preparation following an intensive review with the
authorities of transport sector investments, and the design of the proposed
project was modified to focus on removing critical transport bottlenecks. The
modernization of the Ferencvaros marshalling yard in the railways component
Jki       would effect much needed technology transfer by replacing outmoded and
hazardous hand carried skids to control wagon speed with the installation of a
secondary continuous braking system procured from abroad. The expansion of
container handling facilities would bring substantial economies in freight
operations, while the introduction of modern, fuel efficient, high capacity
vehicles in international trucking operations would result in increased
foreign exchange earnings. Construction of the Budapest bypass would benefit
approximately 15,000 to 20,000 vehicles daily by 1990 by providing an
alternative to travel through the congested streets of Budapest, thereby
contributing significantly to the energy conservation effort. Finally, the
project includes training abroad for Hungarian officials in modern techniques
of marshalling yard and container terminal operations, traffic safety, traffic
control and pavement management and, by financing technical studies of
trucking management systems, would provide assistance for institutional
strengthening.



- 14 -
PART IV: THE PROJECT
51.       The project was identified during the transport sector review in
February 1983 and prepared by the Railways, Hungarocamion and the Ministry of
Transport. The appraisal took place in November/December, 1984. Negotiations
were held in Washington in April, 1985. The Hungarian delegation was led by
Mr. Laszlo Udvari, Assistant Vice President, National Planning Office, and
included representatives from the National Bank of Hungary and the Ministry of
Transport. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report Eor a Transport
(Rail/Road) Project" (No. 5477-HU), dated April 30, 1985 is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the project are
listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III, and a map of the
country (IBRD 18773) is attached.
Project Description
52.       The main objective of the proposed project is to support the
Government's policies of increasing the efficiency of the transport sector,
conserving energy in the sector and increasing the sector's earnings of
convertible currencies. In support of this objective, the proposed project
would: (i) finance priority investments to ease critical transport bottlenecks
on Hungary's principal highway and railway networks and improve road/rail
interface facilities; (ii) support timely essential maintenance of the
arterial road and rail networks; (iii) assist in modernizing and expanding
Hungary's international transport fleet; (iv) provide technical asbistance and
training to the managements of MAV and Hungarocamion and training for selected
technical staff of MAV and the Ministry of Transport.
The project consists of the following major components:
(a)  A modernization program for the Ferencvaros (East) railway
marshalling yard in Budapest; acquisition of track renewal and
maintenance equipment and equipment to up-grade interface facilities
between rail and road at five container terminals; training of
railway personnel to familiarize them with recent developments in
traffic, operations and engineering practices.
(b)   Construction of the first phase (14 km) of a 28 km, four-lane,
motorway by-pass of Budapest, including two bridges across the
Danube; acquisition of equipment for maintenance of national roads,
pavement management, road safety and road construction quality
control; training of highway personnel in modern developments in
traffic safety and pavement management.
(c)   Acquisition of larger capacity, more fuel efficient and longer life
freight vehicles for Hungarocamion together with supporting
management information systems and maintenance workshop equipment.
(d) Technical studies of: (i) the contribution of road users to
financing the costs of roads; and (ii) modern management and
operations of international trucking companies. Both studies would
be carried out under terms of reference acceptable to the -Bank.



- 15 -
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total financing required fo_ the project, including physical and
price contingencies, and duties and taxes, is estimated at $215.5 million.
The foreign exchange cost is estimated at $119.7 million equivalent, or 561 of
the financing required. Physical contingencies were estimated at 131 of the
costs of modernization of the Ferencvaros marshalling yard and 10% of highways
civil works and construction supervision, and price contingencies were
calculated assuming annual price escalation rates of 8.51 in 1984, 81 in 1985,
71 in 1986, 1987 and 1988, and 6.51 in 1989 and 1990 for local costs and -2.81
in 1984, 51 in 1985, 7.51 in 1986, 8Z in 1987-90 for foreign exchange costs.
An estimated 11 man-months of foreign consulting and 66 man-months of local
consulting services would be required for the project.
54.       The proposed Bank loan of $75 million would provide about 351 of the
total financing required, and 631 of foreign exchange requirements. The
balance of the funds needed would be provided by MAV (about $50.2 million or
23Z) by Hungarocamion ($24.3 million or 11%) and by the Government ($66.0
million or 311). The Bank loan would retroactively finance up to $50,000 of
foreign expenditures for consulting assistance in the preparation of technical
specifications for civil works and equipment in English (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, para. 3(a)). Although the financing plan is complete, the
Hungarian authorities expect to raise cofinancing for the proposed project in
conjunction with the Integrated Livestock Industry Project and the Fine
Chemicals Project which were approved by the Executive Directors on April 2,
1985.  Depending on market conditions, cofinancing using the Bank's new
cofinancing instruments will be pursued on the order of about $420 million for
all three projects and, once available, will substitute for part of the funds
provided from domestic sources.
On-Lending Arrangements
55.       The Hungarian People's Republic, the borrower of the proposed loan,
would on-lend about $38 million to project beneficiaries, MAV ($21 million)
and Hungarocamion ($17 million), under subsidiary loan agreements the
conclusion of which would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
(Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)). The interest rate on these sub-loans would
be at least equal to the Bank rate plus a 30Z mark-up. MAV would repay the
subloan to the Borrower over a period of 15 years, including a grace period of
three years.  HC would repay the sub-loan to the Borrower over a period of six
years, including a grace period of three years, and any amount not needed by
the Borrower to service the Bank's loan would be relent to HC for purchasing
similar assets (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). The remainder of the proposed
loan would be used by the Ministry of Transport.
Proiect Implementation
56.       The investment management firm, UTIBER, has been engaged by MOT to
provide overall co-ordination of the project, to monitor progress and ensure
that the various executing agencies comply with reporting requirements and
schedules. UTIBER would be responsible foi compiling quarterly progress
reports and for preparing the project completion report assisted by MOT, MAV
and EC. MOT, MAV and RC would each designate an officer to serve as
counterpart to UTIBER's coordination staff, and such designations would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(b)).



- 16 -
57.       MAV would be responsible for implementing the railway component of
the project. MAV's Material Supply Organization would be responsible for the
procurement of track renewal, maintenance and container handling equipment.
The marshalling yard improvement works are being carried out by MELUEPITO, an
independently managed enterprise which normally executes railway construction
works. This organization is well staffed and the quality of its work is
good. Detailed engineering for the railway works is substantially complete
and is satisfactory. Supervision of construction and acceptance of the work
would be the responsibility of HAV's Investment Institute, which is
competently staffed.
58.       The Ministry of Transport would be responsible for implementing the
highway component. UTIBER has been engaged to supervise construction of civil
works, prepare bidding documents, and assist MOT in contractor
prequalification and bid evaluation. Road maintenance equipment and
specialized testing equipment would be procured by foreign trade organizations
specializing in importing heavy equipment and technical instruments
respectively, assisted by MOT staff who would participate in the preparation
of equipment specifications and in bid evaluation. An assurance was obtained
that all land needed for the highway component would be acquired not later
than June 30, 1986 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
59.       Hungarocamion's Technical Directorate would be responsible for the
preparation of technical specifications and for arranging for the procurement
of trucks and related workshop equipment under the project.
60.       The study of Contributions of Road Users to finance Road Costs would
be carried out by the Hungarian Institute of Transport Science and would be
initiated not later than January 1, 1986 and completed by December 31, 1987
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.04). The Trucking Management Systems and Marketing
Studies would also be carried out by Hungarian consultants supported by
foreign experts, within the same time frame (Hungarocamion Project Agreement,
Section 2.05).
61.       The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1990.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Goods and services to be financed from the proposed loan would be
procured according to the Bank's procurement Guidelines.  Road and bridge               A
construction contracts would be awarded in two or three lots under ICB to
prequalified contractors. Railway equipment, the highway snow removal and
maintenance equipment and the vehicles for Hungarocamion would be procured
under ICB. Hungarian bidders on contracts for goods would qualify for the
standard margin of preference of 15% or the amount of the customs duty
whichever is lower. Most of the road evaluation and testing equipment would
be procured under Limited International Bidding (LIB) due to the limited
number of suppliers of the required items. MOT would conduct an evaluation
(including cost) of different pavement management methods and related pavement
evaluation equipment. The evaluation vehicle provided under the project would
be purchased under a negotiated contract with the supplier of such vehicle.



_ 17 -
63.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Proiect Element               ICB        LCB         Other      N.A.         Total
(US$ Million) -7~
Civil Works
Railways                  -           -           -         15.1 a'      15.1
(-)        (-)         (-)         C-)         (-)
Highways                 94.0         -           -          -           94.0
(32.9)      (-)         (-)         (-)        (32.9)
Equipment & Vehicles
Railways                 27.6         -          10.8 -1'   17.3 4'      55.7
(20.7)      C-)         C-)         (-)        (20.7)
Highways                  3.2         -           1.2       (-)           4.4
(2.7)      (-)         (1.0)       C-)         (3.7)
Hungarocamion            40.9         _           _          _           40.9
(16.9)      (-)         (-)         (-)        (16.9)
Services
Railways                  -           -          -           0.4          0.4
-(-_)      C-)         C_)         (0.3)       (0.3)
Highways                  -           -           3.9        0.7          4.6
C-)        (-)         (0.1)       (0.3)       (0.4)
Kungarocamion             -           -          0.3         0.1          0.4
C-)        (-)         (0.1)       (0.0)       (0.1)
165.7        -          16.2        33.6       215.5
(73.2)      C-)         (1.2)       (0.6)      (75.0)
Costs include estimated contingencies.
2S Works under traffic including domestic materials.
Indirect foreign exchange component and equipment from CMEA countries.
-' Small quantities of equipment produced in Hungary.
5' LIB and other International Shopping or direct contracting for pavement
evaluation equipment.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank loan.
64.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against 100% of
foreiga (CIF) cost and 100% of local cost ex-factory for railway equipment and
materials, road maintenance and testing equipment and HC's workshop
equipment. The loan would also be disbursed for 401 of foreign expenditures
on Hungarocamion's imported trucks and 35% of the total cost of highway civil
works contracts. Disbursement for consulting services and training would be
made against 100% of foreign expenditures. In order to expedite disburse-
ments, a revolving fund of $5 million, equivalent to about four months'
estimated average project expenditures, would be established (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 4). Disbursements are expected to be completed
by June 30, 1991.



- 18 -
Financial Covenants, Auditing and Reporting
65.       MAV's operating ratiol" increased from 80 to 90 over the past four
years principally as a result of the fall in passenger traffic and revenues.
The operating surpluses have been substantial (approximately 20X of net
revenues) which has enabled NAV to finance its investment programs from its
own funds and to pay taxes to the Governmen.. In 1984 MAV received two-thirds
of its revenues from hauling freight and this percentage is forecast to
increase slightly during the project period.  Passenger traffic is forecast to
increase by 1X per annum. Costs are estimated to increase with the volume of
traffic and inflation, offset by modest gains in productivity during the
project period. The operating ratio is expected to go down from 90 in 1984 to
86 in 1989. The forecasts are conservative and acceptable. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that MAV would produce revenues
sufficient to cover the sum of its operating expenses and the amount by which
debt service requirements exceed the provision for depreciation (MAV Project
Agreement, Section 4.02).
66.       EC's financial results are expected to remain at about the presert
level through 1986 and then to improve from 19M7 to 1990 when the effects of
the modernization and expansion of the vehicle fleet will be felt. RC's
financial projections are based on traffic which is forecast to increase
proportionately with the expansion of the fleet and on revenues which would
reflect the charges for the new specialized vehicles. Costs take into account
forecast inflation and reflect the increnaed efficiencies which should result
from the modernization of the fleet and from the opening, late in 1984, of new
and well equipped maintenance workshops in Budapest.  The estimates are
conservative and acceptable. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that HC would maintain an operating ratio _V of not more than 80Z from 1988
(Hungarocamion Project Agreement, Section 4.02(a)).
67.       Separate project accounts would be kept, which together with the
Special Account, and the financial statements of MAV and Hungarocamion, would
be audited each year by the General Banking and Trust Company. Financial
statements and audited accounts would be forwarded to the Bank not later than
the end of April each year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.01; MAV Project
Agreement, Section 4.01; Hungarocamion Project Agreement, Section 4.01).
Environmental Impact
68.       The highway project is expected to have a beneficial environmental
impact by the diversion of heavy traffic from Budapest city, thus reducing
traffic congestion, accidents and air pollution.  Noise barriers and r3st
areas with suitable facilities are provided in the design of the motorway.
Improvement of the Ferencvaros marshalling yard would sharply reduce shunting
operations in the yard and traffic between the three marshalling yards in
Budapest, reducing noise and pollution. The improved braking system would
also reduce noise and accidents. MAV's plans include electrification of the
shunting operations in Budapest which would bring further improvements. The
modernization of HC's fleet of trucks can also be expected to be environ-
mentally beneficial due to reduced pollution characteristics of the trucks.
Operating expenditures divided by operating revenue.



- 19 -
Benefits and Risks
69.      The economic rates of return on the three major sub-projects range
from 15% to 28% with an overall economic rate of return for the project as a
whole estimated at 201. The ultimate beneficiaries of the proposed project
would be transport users who, due to the diversity of traffic using the
transport network, come from a wide range of sectors and income groups. The
proposed project would benefit international trade, foreign exchange earnings,
and support energy conservation. At full developaent, the Bank-financed
investments in MAV would bring annual cost savings estimated at about $10
million equivalent, while the Hungarocamion investments are estimated to yield
incremental net revevues of $15 million equivalent annually. Net foreign
exchange earnings/bdvings in convertible currencies are estimated at about
$15-20 million annually at project completion.
70.      The major benefits of the improvement of the railway marshalling yard
stem from the avoidance of traffic diversion due to capacity constraints.
Expected benefits from the track maintenance equipment include reduction in
track and rolling stock maintenance expenses due to reduced wear, savings in
manpower and in operating expenses from the increased operating speed arising
from removal of speed restrictions on poor tracks. The economic benefits due
to container handling equipment would result mainly from quicker turnaround
resulting in improved utilization of rolling stock, savings in manpower, and
reduction in damages. Expected economic benefits of the project road section
include savings in vehicle operating costs due to reduced congestion and
improved road surfaces, and travel time. The economic benefits from additions
to HC's fleet by outright acquisition take into consideration savings in costs
compared to other alternatives such as leasing or.hiring of vehicles.
Benefits which have not been quantified include reduced noise, accidents, and
pollution in Budapest as a result of the diversion of heavy commercial
vehicles around the city, and the improvement of the Ferencvaros marshalling
yard.
71.     The economic rate of return would be satisfactory (17%) even if a 15%
increase in investment costs were combined with a 15% decrease in benefits.
Technical solutions adopted are based on adequate engineering and technical
studies and Hungarian transport agencies have built up competent managerial
and technical expertise. Thus, project risks are considered small.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Hungarian People's Republic and
the Bank, and the draft Project Agreements between the Bank and MAV and RC,
and the report of the Committee provided for in Article IV, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
73.      Features of the project of special interest are listed in Section III
of Annex III. The following are additional conditions of effectiveness:
(i) The execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Borrower and the
Project Beneficiaries (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)); (ii) the designation



- 20 -
of a liaison officer from each of MOT, MAV and IC as counterparts to UTIBER's
Coordination Staff (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).
74.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan vould comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI.  RECOMMENDATIONS
75.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 2, 1985
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-21 -                                         Page I of 5 pages
muscat                  - SoCIAL. INDICATOU  DATA SC
HUNGARY                     ~~~~REfhRENCEI GROMP  (SEIGHID AVEEACJtS)a
mmI                  (HOST RECEN  ESTDIA?E) lb
CErT           EAST EUROPEN              INDUITIAL
19601&     197D       ESTUGATELk   NON-AW  ECONMIES    HAUNT ECONOMIU
ARE (ICOSAIW SQ. mi
TOTAL                                 93.0         93.0        93.0
AGRICULTURAL                          71.4        68.6         64.0
-W    CtAITA (1)                            ..      490.0       2270.0                   II071.0
BREEl COINWIPTIN PER CPIWTA
(IILOGANS OF OLL EQUIVALENT)        1334.0      2070.0      2863.0               419.3                   49"6.9
P 1O11AIO  A   VITAL STATISTI
PoPULATION.MID-TEAR (THOUSANDS)    9966.0       10337.0     10703.6
MPAN POrPULATION Cl OF TOTAL)         40.1        *7.9         33.0                62.6                    7S.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                               11.0
sTATIONAIT PULATtON (MILL)                                   115.
PCPULATIO  IMOEnTIS                                           1.2
POPULATION DENSITT
PER SQ. C.                         107.3        111.1       115L                 42. 1                   139.3
PEA SQ. CM. ACLR. LAND             139.3       150.4        162.3                88.0                   i19.2
POPULATION AGE STUCTURE (I)
0-14 IRS                           2S.3        20.8         21.6               2I.5                     22.1
15-64 IRS                           65.6        67.6        6.55                 65.5                    66. 1
65 AND AOVE                          9.0        I.3         13.1                10.0                     11.7
POPULATIOMN ROwt RATE (I)
TOTAL                                0.7         0.3         0.3                  0.6                     0.8
.IMAN                                1.3         2.1          1.4                 1.6                     1.3
CRUDE 3IT2 RATE (PER TISU)           1L7        14.7         12.3                18.                     13.8
CUIDE DEArH RATE (PE  THIOUS)         10.2        11.6         13.5                10.2                     9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTIN RATE                 1.0          1.0         1.0                 1.1                     0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOES. ANNUAL (THOUS)                       149.0 lc    711.8 Ic
USE9S CZ OF HALED WOMEN)              .         67.0 77     74.0 7W.f
yeW am TIE
INODX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-t00)                         53.0        91.0        147.0               107.1                   114.1
PER CAPIrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)       122.0       128.0        133.0               130.5                   132.3
PROITElNS (GRAMS PER DAY)           8S.0        56.0        9Z.0                 95.1                    965.
OF WH1CI ANIMA  AND PULSE         3t.0        39.0        60 a.               53.8                    41.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            '.0         2.3          1.0                 0.6                     0.4
-ALTR
LIFE EXPECT. AT SIRTH (YEARS)         67.9        69.5         11.0                69.9                    74.9
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         48.0        36.0        20.0                 20.7                    10.3
ACCESS TO SAFE ArTE (%POP)
TOTAL                               22.7 A      36.6         6 t49fj
URBAN                                           65.0  t    83. 5 
RURAL                                            10 6       4 0 2.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULArION)
TOTAL                                           27.2        533 /33
uA                                              30 1 Ja     72.67j
RURAL                                            6.2  j    30. a 8 
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             720.0       510.0       400.0                349.0                   553.7
POP. PER .MSI%C PERSON               330.0 /h    230.0       150.0                130.8                   106.9
FOP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              140.0       120.0        l1O00 8O.6                                  120.8
U13AN                               80.0 lb    140.0        130.0 /.            109.0                   143.1
RURAL
A5ISS0O5S PER HOSPITAL  EED                       20.5        21.6                                         17.8
AVERICE sizE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                3.1         3.0          2.8
ULBAN                                            2.7          Z.7
RURAL                                            3.2          3.0
aVELAW  NO. OF PERSOSROOM
TOTAL                                2.4         2.0          1.5
UR                                    ..         1.9          1.5
SIUAL                                            2.0          1.6
ACCESS To ELECT. (2 OF IAELLINGS)
TOTAL                               74.6        91.7        93.1
URBAN                                           96.6        "-1
RURAL                                           67.4          9-4.9



ANNEX I
- 22                                              Page 2 of 5 pages
SHWlA                  - SOCIAL NDICATORS DATA MIT
wsd41!                               35ruuih51cz c50unI (IEICKTID AVU ) la
HOST                (HST  SCRET ISTINATZ) lb
MiAo    19?ok    SEU5SNAR                        o           MR.  xSWLcoTc5
ADJUSTED INIOLYSCIT EATMI
PIELWS    TOTAL                   101.0        97.0        99.0              104.5                   SOI.3
MALE                   103.0        96.0        99.0                98.1                  103.0
FoWL                   100O.O       97.0        99.0 a986                                 102.7
SECONDART TOTAL                    23.0        32.0        42.0                s .2                   90.3
HALE                    21.0        26.0        33.0                67.1                   84.6
FEMALE                  24.0        3860        51.0                72.3                   8J7.
VOCATIONA.L ( olr SIcoN  )           30.4        47.3        54.9               32.4                    17.9
PMPIL-TEACHU RATIO
PFDL                               24.0         6.0        16 0                12.4                   20.2
5ECONDAIT                          11.0        10.0         6.0 hk             14.9                   15.0
ADULT LITSAC! RATS (2)               96.9        96.0        99.9               99.5                    99.l
coaumro.
PASSENGEK CARIT'OUSAKD 10             3.3        23.2       106.8               97.7                   367.2
RADIO RECEIVERS/ITOUSAYD PFP        222.6       244.8       252.1              417.9                  1090.7
TV RECEZES/THOUSAND POP              10.4       171.1       263.5              262.6                   45L.0
NEWSPAPER (DAILT GENEAL
lNTCESTr) aRaaRAxuM
PER THOUSAYOD IOVATION            143.6       213.5       241.6 ,i           359.5                   33L.2
CINM   ANNLAL ATTEIIDCU CAPETA       14.0         7.7         6.4               12.8                     3.6
TOTAL LAO  FORCE (TIOUS)           4777.0      5031.0      5214.0
FEMALE (PUCET)                     36.4        42.0        42.7               47.5                    36.2
ASGRICLTURE (PtE)                  36.7        23.2        20.5               17.3                     6.2
iNouSTT (PERCENT)                  34.3        4.4         42.9               43.7                    37.7
ARITICIPATION RATE (FEEUE)
TOTAL                              47.6        46.7        48.7               51.0                    45.7
MALE                               63.1        56.2        57.6               56.6                    59.3
FEMALE                             33.7        39.7        40.3               46O          -          32.7
ECONOYMC DEPINDEYC RATIO              0.7         0.7         0.7                0.7                     0.7
IXC   DESSINUTIOU
PERCENT OF PLIVATE 130011
RECEIVED IT
HI1HEST 52  OWEHLOLDS              12.1 lI     11.5 3      10 6 ll
RIGES z   F NrOUSCEOLDS            34.8 7      33.7 73     32.3 74 43.1
LOWiEST 2010 f KOUSEOLOS            9.4 73      9.,  1     108 7i a                                    5.4
LOWEST 40107 ROI SEIOLDS           23.6 11    26.8         26.2                 -.                    16.4
POErY SAIC CO
ESTXlATED ABSOLUTE POWERTY INCOME
LVEL (US PEM CAPITA)
CUAN5                                ...
RURAL.
ESTXIATED RELATIVE POVE? SN306
LEVEL (IISS PE CAPITA)
RURAL
ESTIMATED POP. E11W APOLUTE
POVERLY INCOME LEVEL (I)
UmBAN
tURA                                 ..L
MT AVAILABLE
NoT APPLICABE
NO T Z E
/a  The grsp aeragam for each indicator are populatLon-4tehcd arithmtlc amas. Coverae of countries aong the
indicators dependa on avalabLIfty of data and a noc unuiform.
/b   Munea  otherwise noted. -Uata for 196r refer to any yer batwen 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- batwe. 1969 and
1971; and data for Neat Recent ratiarce bec-ma 1980 end 1962.
lc   Unmen of repeoductive age (17-49) usrag oral contraceptives; Id 1966, wman of reproductive age lSe than 45 years;
/a 1977; If  nansa of reproductive age 1..s them 40 yare. Ig Percent of occupied dweLLinge; /h 1962; /i 1979;
fl PNrree rof income receved W the reepective percent  Me  population. and data refer to5uara 19f . 1972 ad
1977;  1978.
JUNE. 1984



ANNEX I
-21 -                                       Page I of 5 pages
lRCUNA                 - SOCIAL INDICATOS DATA SNET
iNCART                               UnICc aoiin5 (WEiGmE  AVERAGES) 
HOm                 (HOST   *w ESrTZNAT  /tb
RECENT        EAST Dm134               USiAL
196ek     197atk    .srsT iATnik    uouwau=   ecosazs   rAur z05zs0
ARM cuoMAm sQ. m)
TOrAL                               9.          93.0       93.0
v                      AC LU":L 71.                                     8.8        6.0
GE? at CAITA (US)                                 90.0      2270.0                  .                 11071.0
1Conn WNWDTZON PEE CAPITA
(KILOCRAMS OP OIL EQUIVALENT)     1354.0      2070.0     z863.0              413.3                  49"6.9
1'PLTO   -  VTAL STAITC
PUPULATIOM.MID-TEAR (THOUSANDS)    9984.0    L0337.0   L1705.6
URA  POPLATION (1 or TOTAL)         40.1       47.9        55.0                62.4                   73.3
POPULATION PROJEcTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAt 200 (HILL)                             L1.0
STATtOMlA  POPULATION (HILL)                              1.8&
POPULATIO    NiIB                                         1.2
POPULATION DENIT
PER SQ. O.                       107. 3      111.1      815.1                42.1                  139.3
PER SQ. IN. Mac. LAND            139.8       150.6      162.3                U.0                   519.Z
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (I)
0-16 IS                          25.zs       20.8       21.6                24.1                   22.5_
LS-64 US                          65.6        67.6       65.5                65.5                   66.L
65 AND ABOVE                       9.0        11-5       13.1                10.0                   11.7
POPULATION CU       RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              0.7         0.3        0.3                 0.8                    0.8
URESAN                             1.5         Z.l        1.4                 1.8                    1.3
COUDE BIRTH RKATZ (PER T0S)         14.7        14.7       12.5                13.4                   13.8
CRUDE DELAT RATE (FB TWoUS)         10.2        11I.       13.5                10.2                    9.2
GROSS REROUCTION RATE                1.0         L.0        1.0                 1.1                    0.9
FAMILT PLAS IC
ACCETRS.  NNUAL (T8OS*                       149.0 /c   711.8 3e
usas St OF KARRItD  I )             . .      67.0 7;i    74.0 __j*
FM A SUITUE
IaDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71.100)                       83.0       91.0       147.0               107.1                  114.1
PER CAtITA SUPPLy OF
CARtIES 1: or  QAVCRENTS)        122.0       12f.0      133.0               L30.5                  132.3
PROTEINS (CRAHS PEE DAY)          35.0       86.0        9Z.0               93.1                    93.5
OF .HICH ANlIML AND PULSE       3b.0        33.0       66.0 /a             53.8                   61.3
CHIILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH NATE         4.0         2.3        1.0                0.6                     0.6
m-ATH
LIFE EXPECT. AT SIITH (TEARS)       67.9       69.5        71.0               69.9                    74.9
NFANT rORT. IASA (PER IHtOS)        3.0       36.0        20.0               20.7                    10.3
ACCESS TO SAFE SIArER (2O10)
TOTAL                             22.7 3I 16.6           64.9 7.L
URBAN                               ..        65.0  g    83.8 /.R
RURAL                               ..        10.61       2.3 it
ACCESS TO EXCRZTA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATIoN)
TOTAL                               ..        2J.2 /    53.3s
JA                     SvNA                                ..        5u.1 7jI   72.67j
RURAL                               ..         6.2 R     30.3..
POPULATION PER PHNSICIAS           720.0       510.0      400.0               349.0                  553.7
POP. PER NURStNG PERSON            330.0 /b   230.0       150.0               130.3                  166.9
PO?. PER HOSPITAL BE0
TOTAL                            160.0       120.0      110.0                38.6                  1ZO.3
URBA                              30.0 lb   140.0       130.0 Ie            109.0                  143.1
RURAL                               ..
AU4ISSlOUS PER HOSPITAL nED           ..        20.5       21.6                                       17.8
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              3.1         3.0        2.8
UBAN                                ..         2.7        2.7
RURAL                               ..         3.2        3.0
AVERAGE NO. Of PERSONS/ROON
TOTAL                              2.4         2.0        1.5
URANI                                          1.9        1.5
RURAL                               ..        2.0         1.6
ACCESs TO ELECr. (2 OF DJELLINGS)
TOTAL                             74.6        91.7      9S.1
URa                                  -       96.6        99.1
- RtIAL                              -        37.4       96.9



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                            iage2 of 5 pages
NUN_AR!               - SOCIAL IUSNIATB DATA BUZ
MUST                (mmI RECET ErtIMAT) lb
i,.o!k    inaa.             lAST~~~~u  KiIUPEA        IdWkTRIAL
ldlU      lmCZ   cnT9_                               ti*-AIE ECONMIE  MARKETC tcm
DS=D co  o
ADJSTED  RN0JZ~31105O
LnAR!:  TOTAL                    10l.o        97.0       99.0               104.5                  101.3
10AL1                  103.0       g.o         99.0               9S.*                  103.0
FENALE                 100.0       97.0        99.0               91.5                  102.7
SECONDAR: TOTAL                   23.0        32.0       42.0               88.2                   * .3
HALZ                    21.0       26.0        33.0               67.1                   *4.6
WM.E                    24.0       38.0        51.0               72.3                   67. 
VOCATIONAL CX or SECDAI)            30.4        47.3       54.9               32.4                    L7.9
PRTMARY                           24.0        18.0       16.0                12.4                  20.2
SECOPAlIU                         11.0        10.0        8.0 AL             14.9                   15.0
ADULT LrZEBACT EAZE CZ)             96.9        98.0       98.9               99.5                   99.1
PASSESUE  CARds/TOUSAND loP          3.3        23.2      106.8               97.7                  367.2
URDIO 3ECEIVERS/TEOUSAND POP       222.8       244.8      252.1              417.9                 1090.7
TV LECEIVERS/TBOUSAND POP.          10.4       171.1      263.b              282.8                  451.0
NEMPAPR (-DAILY CENRL
INTEREST) CIRCIATTON
PER THQOSAO POIPULATION          143.6       213.5      241.6 A1           359.5                   331.2
CINS  ANNUAL ATIENDANUCAPITA        14.0         7.7        6.8               12.8                    3.6
LABOR FORC
tOTAL LABOR FORCE THOUS)          4777.0      5031.0     5214.0
ESMALE (PERCENT)                  36.4        42.0       42.7               47.5                   36.2
ACGICULTURE (PERCENT)             38.7        25.2       20.5               17.3                    6.2
MIISTIRY (PRECT)                  34.3        44.4       42.9               43.7                   37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PECENT)
TOTAL                             47.8        48.7       48.7               51.0                   45.7
HALE                              63.1        58.2       57.6               56.6                   59.3
FESALE                            33.7        39.7       *0.3               46.0                   32.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATI             0.7        0.7         0.7                0.7                    0.7
iXONI DZmIRhU!IO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE iRCOh
RECEIVED Er
HIGREST 5X0 IIO4SEIOLDS          12.1 j    11.5/i    10.6 7_
RICUEST 20X 0 HMUSENLDS           34. 81      33.7 7j    32.3 T1              ._                   43.1
LOWEST 201 O   IOUSE S             9.4        9.9 7      10.8 e*                                    5.4
LOWEST 40X 0 1OUSUL04S           23.6 7l     24.a       26.2                                       L ..  L6.4
10913? ThTM CEOFl
ESTHATED ASSOLUTE POVERTY
LEVEL CUSS PER CAFIrA)
mUU                                 ........
RURAL                               ..
SRMAED REMATIVE POVER 
LEVEL (US PEI CAPITA)
UR                                  ..
RURAL                               ..
ESTIMATED POP. BELOA ABSOLUTI
POVER?f IDCONE LEVEL (C)
muR                                 ........
RURAL                               ..
MDT AVAILABLE
lOT APPLICABLE
ik  The grop averave for each indicator are popultron-fwightbd aithe1tc ueane. Coverage of countrisaomg the
indicaaore depend.. avaloability of data ad ia not unifom.
/b  UnLeac othervia foted, Dara fo  1960- refer to any yea betvwe  1959 and 1961; -Dlca for 1970 betwen 1969 and
1971; end data for flAc Recenc tiaemce' between 980 and 1982.
/c  Women of reproductive Age (17-49) umiag oral contraceptive; /d 1966. women of reproductive age less than 45 years;
/1 1977; /f We of reproductive 1g  lee than 40 yers; I Percent of ocaup'ed dwellongs; /h 1962; i 1979;
n  Parceitof incom. recived by the tespective perct oa th- popu.actou. and data refer to7`yar  1917. 1972 ad
1977; lI 1978.
JUNE. 1984



-23 -                                                         ANNEX I
IMMEmacmaMEsMt                                                   Page 3 of 5 pages
wilga.  SemmeO mkt tee -  lis  Iee    rie  de-areal. 558 1                ettleeekvteae -e .5  elltb., it fem. eta h. ee  Ike eet" -Y           hetecieett
teeeo  edle 1   &Sk.iSteete enA. a4 iteee.vmm v-e.eL              i I d   e-u... teee  cn.-
TeeI nIee.  -ee      aIII the        laser  sle.1 1k  jec   meetl  a1 lit e Cst de-p emI eete    ke  ceee  teee  eke ek elat  gte-w                          h
1,j.sl en,  (-ame ft. -.me ie-- Oltkeelt   ltpa                    ole le.. SetIlItle   ad mis. leer I. eke b..  ee  ea elIno  eee.ktie
.eeme.. la   ttetmee  ate. dee  MI  .. ......  Peaeetee eemm   ece         .el e-   Ion asm Isa.               mke- ean   jae  ci aM             tke me
g.   a    e  thet teWILcelee. taet Ikeceee   ci  -ele   moo ill 1.SL t         eed"-   - I- seleaktlemr .1 am. a  te -.5te=, ae-el
emteld me1. _11.. etaemm  .1 -  telalce-Is C.        k,.ike  ataree  -  eetr Iee U, estiMl II. cele  a -   Steelea C   tita defl te                      ne
a  It emee   th ftee4le!.temcSat -                                                                                PLnI.eltee -1.."  . ek  S ..e.etelep
7j      -ITo -L ede    -1 ki.ttee - ta od-IIe  a   et  elal= it.'=                      i.9     ie    la     met  a           tmlatibI
loe-  a111 Ieee.                                                                 te 1le"3f-rtiaeedell  ZtredIeltl
flle4    etml      e-redeaensa  tree e tl aw tettr       mel                    SWad9Iitee   1-mele. eeeeeiee. tellI-lel  acat ee
aR emce -an  aflee- sedme e  - I. teteemat-.Int....aeeaee
tote    alga dele                                                           vaIsmeemee_9.  me pmeta- ost, .ta" , a  tent - pemtte  Im.ea
.Lme..; -L-= -1 11-  -1 %et,da   ereS d-eed-h-eka  teeeett  fl -                                        kpea  ld
-  ltreet clee   mnlee-hepee                                      eeeemelea.reSt.a-t  etee   me-re   ee   tleae-          ktle
mite. me-1 e   ii ee                                                                      rc  leeel..  ---rehee       teethel pteetdtej             dietettced
ft                                                                                                         emme a  a  meetal.  I.t.t teerleame.          t. lerted.  keenMe
-                              t~~~~~~~~~~~~~a- mereneek- I e= n  - ietae  laee  eeeel*r    tee m leethe                  atll    Meet   el  eeemrmctlIeprmteIeh                             te
Intat ee-   tea   a   lee.   eeec.emm -                aL  mlt-. -ee.                    etlet t. -lte.   - eme etc   tirm-teem..                      Aeeet .e
met,       ua  ee.Pc!m-5m ehr   reeemea     lam t   e     teme
-emft. =mermee  ee-ta   Il-eAk -tf   Me e, ilemasma, eee lit:50                                                            :71m
dte.detemm-a1 S. clme ec.aet-te              eeee-eeaItmel.  eat..-  lk etd-   L-.llmet   .-                                              am ee  e   eellt
manleetetmc,mt,             u   s.                                                1k lee_k5  te  mctelt1       peale
SiU~nmly              -adIe-etate  a   lttlraael  ecemel.klll    et.e-tefeet-l   maee
tWt. ekamtenmer.  tre   erelasa    n                             c                It.  ete,atcIece S-1              L.1-e  -dI me-s  -1e   atte
'tee.. k metacem.eemltteeeteeleeIele-  1.111, cet,       -meal -a.ee -,-eetamt.
eem         teeI   cttII   cliI   e lemte. dp1tet
dec15  etetetal  tte .n.Is  k    eeel-e  IkeI tee                           Matr.
~eee.ta  t aceelamp  a  imetettet efl tee tteeetlee v.,tatee.  eime,eel le-dtameel h'ma.
leeameir eltlam- m  -   e Selt~-       meltelta   avetlr          rImr. el.el  cema.tat  a  eeee -In.  1.el,eet  a   ea
temje-l  ee   hnea     s    etd   i.emeemt  em   trcst et  tetem        e  ra.mmmh   leeeSteee.
tem  te.ltateteelrieeted It-cme   tetm                                         rareelceialelta.mrteee  laie  edsa
MtMtteet f-met.  c  aietIteetle  et.-d .elel  meed-                                  T.        en t ecm  aettet         l..1  clitle  ecta IId-e.
Meeta.,          -Lem .- I.. meteme  e  teciLte  etal  me. cme                            e-"      eerlamaa.e,eeefteeeet.ac.                           e
er emlI-W-..eetae..I-lai eectta -t  aee   eemed  k                                lt.c-i          5e I  tfeat .iee  elctncecet                  t
tmej l caeec           _ teele  eeeemeeile a_.th eej.c..tte    ekete-,tem   teerea.-hIl                                                        ec
tern  .1.- ta-rateeyaem m- tc-eqee - It-1te  t-.e kIlerle.-S ceevcea-t telele.
te.eaatn  mee -atm  a...,           -1                                         atlacer,-,tee  Ieeae  I   1-tteeltcecam.  dl L- tee  ecetmci a.
rev a  he.aeeete..i Ia - cceee      -   meei   ciemec  mec                        -e ela     teet  al  -eetle   as  .-Ie.  a-  e-e               .
a-a at-,-tina  a. a.....
Commeebee  a e.te- 1      lel t -et Itel  tIle      caaca-tllritemete
tetmic  r-lketlle           -tee -         1-aeem  ct     o-e. 4ck                     t-l   Ieeratee  e    ta,de  eeeae  ctl
nel ati lae te  i-eta) Id nt- -    1  bai   tmkee   e,I,                            m.       ettt:a    e  en   enerthe   ceedt   Itee a
tee. tereasmeel  mt-. ItS, a  its Ieee.                          treeltleM. I   clm .le  tte-alec.
be.  ek  t Imc tad )-ntdntetelaelI   leeI  eeeeemtteet   eeaa -- IIneeeer-le k-ee   me
meecee   90  mit,l-t mIte a.         n. P          ,                             c=tatemteel  e   t-e    eeele eleelrec       lcr
be   ee.rme 6 ee -  F a-ve.-. e ei, detee -e          ettkI   eieratX-                             m  Ie eremeeme.1I ee        eefet
tciteena  ala  teet-eotp actae eFll  meL ml.. tot,                  -               ltteteItlat eea9e*n    eetit    mtad -.  I- L..acm
tanttteee  -i...ter- I    ev a-et   eee     P- rec-   cI aeme                      eem  eel
e- alt. .-L-; I." . i  me       ~vetMeae.' elt qee                         tmmmem cnm   eeeI.cee
-W-  eweltl-              t--eelte;  115. -t a  mIt dec
1~T~W.eet-te   ete  llIt-ml  -tt,,ite   etl                                  em.Ierctm    e-ttle   en      eteelec  lli  ae  tt.
bea  -_   alea      -Id-c  d etlceeeIcie   m I -occ  il-li   oe a   .iiatilIc
tell.                                                                                terarm-Am  hre  metell-  nam tle a  ea. -velttrll  e
he Ietl eel. e   eet   mrec.  ettenl-(aI   r                                       rlette   i  eam                 e,ae   at-elt,tr 
lelw eetllce Sen  ad   e,a -ae. met-becn             te   sievrte-leeeiec,1-                                 -t   eesie        i   .   etltae
dir.LI21 seatbt ereeme.. aevta  -.e emt.ed          . Arne t--                         se.mt.eavI   .    ee  veaae   l,  eeeta.te
l-d.a6        k     a   lel    leWa   .             ea Wlad  -k,r0ele   geeetelr  e   r  eecm.a1.   t   eS
ietamlte  eda  a   eemte   tte,  eIerhle.kee-Icntt                                                        e   eet  atl



- 24 -                                              Pq&of5_
WE me=   lNfSlWr   1966                                                MUMI 3       G  Z (%, cta  P
U5 si .                                970-75          tw756m           19i              _984
a_  at      Priem                 19.0           1t.0                   6.2              3.2              2.1             2.4
cam _mcic lainsome                4,7             z4,7                  6.9             L2                .2            -2.9
Cnm D_acic savir                   5.4            28A4                 WA                5.7              38              6.3         
omt  kaoe                         0.7              3-7
Caiu of Go. Ws                     7.9            41.6                 9.6              6.9              5.2             6.8
of Cod, Ws                        745                                                  3,9             ,0,5             0.9
aIr, LM    Z42  AM
prvm   Di I%
Cuum Valim Ada -                    1w Tom  A                        C.I.A. Flat um
ft SUL                                                                           us        '         _
D _icuL               in             3.3          17.6              1.072              21.7           3,0.0              80.9
Bzkatqy (inrL comm.) 40D             7.8          41.5              1.906              3B.6           4,.OU             17A
Sic                   293            5.7          30_3              1.96               39.7           2,9o6.             76.4
UMIh  ACod It          I             2.0          10.6__
lca1Ujh           968            IL8          110-0             4.9P0              1t.0           3,806.0 /2        110.0 /2
-  wm         ~           _
L-te .}       O f a lPB-f
19'   966          1
o=m  be4                57L0       59.0           59.1
O'uzm   h     _         497.9    S.5             52.4
G:m  1nta                73.1       7.6            6.7
-aitd aSSin             56.1      6.0             6.7
F o lAiaNimS (MO)
-szmsad   e
1978            t979              19!0              19Q1             1112            *S83
t iLliM  Fadh   meAcdigi M     !O  )
1M    .i a O                                    285.4.           308.9             3Yi.1             365.1           387.6    :      0.2
B.k Ofi? to PtbLic               5                 0             4S 6.0            496.3             537.1           563A            579.9
on& Cilz to Primuce                              8L.6             9t.4            W07.2              19.9            13.6           L5..6
1my ad Ouni _hw   Z of GO                        45.4             45.4    47                          466.8            65.7            5.2
lat  Prie r-(1975 - tDD)                        UL.1             12L.2             135.6             t41J             15.5           163.3
Sm-m pinema d-tc ia-
Cr    Priem lt-=                                  4.6              3.9               9.1              6.6              6.9             1.5
o   ccit to PlJ  S_c                             15.5              9.0               7.9              8.2              4.9             2-9
auk       ce to Prit                             14.3             12.0             17.3              Il.              11.4            15
/1 Oc   dzi. ad vaJw=w diff_m    %iAch an  w- allocated by sw  ad d   cuuidm1l fhlmmimt. ftm  is dem a dismtion iimad
i t  iaepacixm of daca   snwl du    i di  aca  h .
/2 EmbWie ua-Uax
Ibe qiplicibla                                                                                                    EN=~
.Ibe mai3                                                                                                                  20. 9
16W



-25-                                                           AM ot
Pan S of 5 pCs
mm0 pmUe  me CPP2ZL RAN
UMIX or-
-CtISW     EO     (W5  1979-83)           TosLa itad ig
11         1982      191D       1                                                                rbbl  an-Fible
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wie I w                                                                                           S 'CA 
bomcs of Ga                       8.Mb0   9.03.0    8.912.8   8,817.0    flk,. elcic wwzV                        26.8      0.7      &MA        8.9
li=u  of Gao                      8,M5.0   8.575.0    8.1.5.8   7.W9L        Wm mleLe, in-finiui
l rftm  Seric  (IkE)                 l36.8     107.0     2D0.2       66.0      p&eo,   _u pMe                   873.1      22.2   1.65S.3    31..
_ae  Ccp (dsficai  -)                L5i      6MM.0        87.2     90.0   I,zmu'. -    "   eqn.
cd   erA1        et 1,653.8                43.9   6 0.3        12.6
Lnmuu  Yq0e (Ue)                 -I.UM0.2  f 6f2.0         .3    -745.0         _      75D 655.8                          17 6.1      9 L.L     .
t '- . flold"Cnce,                                                           Ap        I 6i n EdL               55S.9      14.8   1.IA9.7      30.0
omm       r  " (-MO              ..         ..         ..       ..             TiaL                      3.766.1    tOA.0   4.16.8       MOD.0
oe      s                            47.2       63.0       56.3      68.0
Balm=* a          nS7 J -A3b0                              781.2    2.O   M        L M.,           531. t9U
151 gin
flim- ad ter1M    CquitL                                                     Rblic det,  uv.L  aemgi                                           7.8
_emA I                           -130      -1I0        -70.0    -111.0      (of %idu  anbcmmgtibL cu cy)                                  (6.8)
Liahl.lJZm                      1.1139      37         b97.1      5&&-D    I    r-_.   pmiwe debt
(2.,S)   (1.257)    (1.6.2)           I             a ..  a atnis  didmw.e                                  7.8
ocfl&.                        (-06)    (-90)   (-t.271.8) (    .
-^   Copilta                                                                   r   -IIZ La m      19P
A     neS A                       -7        -33       -276.7   -183.0
;i~b11i~:m 12                   -M        -9          6n50.     -33B
Public debr ircL PUICn                                          25.0
w itm  n.i. /3                  ..       235        352       136          I  bm    n        wd   p "w l f
_ w. in                 t           616          t     -1.231.7    -612             TO                                                       25.0
E WZ mo r11m IEnC tr 1985) (Min. US$):
Decebe 1.98. (A Of)
Mg 10 - SLW_1      inE.
ft. 1 .0- 0.0195                                                                                                                M_llO
h     8miq  Iad didsLw                              180.8
19K    )                                               A~~~~~~~~~~~di.wd                                   31..6
Ust L.C0 - 4B.O. F                                                                                                                            -
Ft. 1.00 - *0.7ZDBn    ixct.  disd                                                                                           525.
nl mon-cover  as icLEy .       _t  t      Z.
Tx 1xhon Tos    md
/3 Ul  cE Df _tewar.
Tf. EwO of tsAcl ddct serice cm adiain- ad 1w-cm   k to tate ecs t Exs and                    . The de  szevice snci of ccmiblb ngruy dde
to _cw  c f a      ad a       & in cmm.tibLa Oine   mm   L
Not . iaiabLe.
Fhbmy 20. 1985
4SI



-26-                          ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Statment of Bank Loans -'
(as of March 31, 1985)
US$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                            (less cancelations)
Number      Year        Borrower       Purpose                Bank   Undisbursed
2316-HU     1983       NBH b'        Grain Storage & Mech    130.4         59.3
2317-HU     1983        HPR '        Energy Conservation      109.0        90.4
B2-HU       1983       NBH           Grain Storage & Energy
Conservation              30.0         -
B3-EU       1983       NBH           Grain Storage & Energy
Conservation               8.8s        -
2397-HU     1984       NBH           Industrial Exports &
Restructuring            110.0      102.2
2398-HU     1984       OKGT dS       Petroleum                 90.0        83.8
B8-fU       1985       NBH           Industrial Export & )
Restructuring        )    35.0         -
B9-EU       1985       NBH           Petroleum            )    12.2-"        -
Total                                 525.4       335.7
of which has been repaid                -
Total now held by Bank                525.4
Total undisbursed                                 335.7
The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
National Bank of Hungary.
Hungarian People's Republic.
d/    Natural Oil and Gas Trust.
'1/    US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y2.1 billion.
El    US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen loan of Y3 billion.
1549F/D-77
EM1DA
4.23.85



-27-                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT PROJECT
X31                                   SupPlementary ProSect Data Sheet
X.           Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project   19 months (February 1983-
November 1984)
(b)  Agencies which have prepared the project        MAV, EC and Ministry of
Transport
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank          March 1983
(d) Date of first mission to consider
the project                                     June 1984
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission          November 1984
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations              April 1985
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                   August 1985
Section II: Special Bank ImpJlemenLation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   Effectiveness.  The designation of a liaison officer from each agency
(beneficiary) responsible for all project related matters of their
component and to serve as counterpart to UTIBER's Coordination Staff
(para. 56).
2.   Other
(a) all land needed for the highway component would be acquired not later
Lhan June 30, 1986 (para. 58);
(b)  the Study on Contributions of Road Users to Financing Road Costs, based
on terms of reference agreed with the Bank, would be initiated not later
than January 1, 1986 and completed by December 31, 1987 (para. 60);
(c) RC's trucking management system and marketing studies would be initiated
by January 1, 1986 and completed by December 31, 1987 (para. 60);
(d) MAV would produce total revenues equivalent to not less than the sum of
the operating expenses and the amount by which debt service requirements
exceed the provision for depreciation (para. 65); and
(e) HC would maintain an operating ratio of not more than 80% from 1988
(para. 66).



|                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 18773
HU N GA2Y
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
UAnOWEL                                               CU?4UflKTOzLS
___TUTREM TOONSUTTTlONT fi00CN0 00050                     5 TOI.
I- -   ISNUIUNC  COTT                            _ OTSIlJC IDITOWTIS                                            C Z L  C H                              CZECHOSLOVAK IA
WU IE tIAY tlEOBFIC^IION   -  SECONDAt NArON^I ROJDS              i                                      _,< 7hC              ivl f>.                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L- . S R
TOULDiTO TOT DITTINC TRACKS                               NOTONTOAT >a ~  v zfvw|>u,OT
TIoTO TOOSTAIII,SON                   --INTTbUlOTAONNL BOTJNOAIilET                                                      J                                                     ,oOioohI                                               U} S St 
)   UAEST
YUGO  TA                                t KA              J       2:         QTMTI
YUGSLVI                                                                                                                                 "                                                                             oTO - 
0  0  TO  TO 000120  0     TO TACOETERS                                 ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FdRAII 9



