Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5477-HU
HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
April 30, 1985
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1984)
Currency Unit                  = Forints (Ft.)
Forint 1                       = US$0.0215
Forints 46.5                   = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                       British/US System
1 meter (m)                             = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        = 0.6214 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)                = 0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)                    = 0.9842 long ton (lg ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                         = 2.2046 pounds (lbs)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMEA    -   Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
ECE     -   Economic Commission for Europe
ER      -   Economic Return
FYR     -   First Year Return
GDP     -   Gross Domestic Product
GTKm    -   Gross Ton Kilometer
HC      -   Hungarocamion International Freighting Company
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
KTI     -   Hungarian Institute of Transport Science
LIB     -   Limited International Bidding
MAV     -   Hungarian State Railways
MCC     -   Maintenance Coordination Centers
MOF     -   Ministry of Finance
MOT     -   Ministry of Transport
MSC     -   Maintenance Sub-centre
NBE     -   National Bank of Hungary
NPO     -   National Planning Office
NtKm    -   Net Ton Kilometer
PKm     -   Passenger Kilometer
PRD     -   Public Roads Department of MOT
PRMC    -   Public Road Management Centers
RF      -   Revolving Fund
SCD     -   Supervision and Control Department
SDB     -   State Development Bank
SOE     -   Statement of Expenditures
TDD     -   Technical Development Department of MOT
TEM     -   Trans-European Motorway
TU      -   Traffic Units
UIC     -   International Railway Union
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:
Hungarian People's Republic.
Beneficiaries:      Hungarian State Railways (MAV) and Hungarocamion
International Freight Company (HC).
Amount:             US$75 million equivalent.
Terms:              Repayable in 15 years including three years of grace at
the standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:    US$21 million would be onlent to the MAV for a period of
15 years and $17 million to the HC for a period of 6
years, both at a rate equal to at least the Bank rate plus
a 30Z markup which includes a fee for the foreign exchange
risk to be borne by the Borrower.
Proiect Objectives
and Description:    The main objective of the proposed project is to support
the Government's policies of increasing the efficiency of
the transport sector, conserving energy in the sector and
increasing the sector's earnings of convertible
currencies. The project consists of: (i) a railway
component including a modernization program for the
Ferencvaros (East) marshalling yard in Budapest,
acquisition of track renewal and maintenance equipment and
equipment to upgrade interface facilities between rail and
road at five container terminals, training of railway
personnel to familiarize them with recent developments in
traffic, operations and engineering practices; (ii) a
highway component including construction of the first
phase (14 km) of a 28 km. four-lane motorway bypass of
Budapest including two bridges across the Danube,
acquisition of equipment for the maintenance of national
roads, pavement management, road safety and road
construction quality control, and training of highway
personnel in modern developments in traffic safety and
pavement management; (iii) an HC component including
acquisition of larger capacity, more fuel efficient and
longer life freight vehicles together with supporting
management information systems and maintenance workshop
equipment; (iv) technical studies of (a) the contribution
of road users to financing the costs of roads, and (b)
modern management systems and operational aspects of
international trucking companies.
This domet has a rested distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their o  idutie Its cOtents May not otherwie be dbosed without World Bank autborization.



Benefits and
Risks:            The ultimate beneficiaries of the proposed project would be
transport users who, because of the different intensity of
use, come from a range of sectors and income levels. At
full development, the Bank-assisted components in railways
would bring annual cost savings of about US$10 million
equivalent while the investments in the HC would yield
incremental net revenues of about US$15 million equivalent
annually. Net foreign exchange earnings and savings in
convertible currencies are estimated at about US$15-20
million annually at project completion. Project risks are
considered small as the technical solutions envisaged are
based on adequate studies and engineering and Hungarian
transport agencies have built up competent management and
technical expertise. The impact on the environment would be
positive.
Estimated Costs:                                Local    Foreign    Total
US $ Million
Railway Component                               29.3      25.0       54.3
Highway Component                               38.6      32.8        71.l
HC                                               0.3      31.0        31.3
Total Base Cost                             68.2      88.8      157.0
Physical Contingencies                           6.1       3.7         9.8
Price Contingencies                             21.5      27.2       48.7
Total Project Cost                          95.8 1' 119.7       215.5
Financing Plan:                                 Local    Foreign    Total
US $ Million
World Bank                                   -        75.0       75.0
Government/Cofinancing                      56.1       9.9       66.0
Railways                                    39.4      10.8       50.2
HC/Cofinancing                               0.3      24.0       24.3
95.8     119.7      215.5
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY               1986     1987      1988     1989     1990     1991
Annual                 6.7      15.0     14.6     17.2     14.7       6.8
Cumulative             6.7      21.7     36.3     53.5     68.2      75.0
Rate of Return: About 20%.
Appraisal Report: No. 5477-HU dated April 30, 1985.
-i' Includes US$24.9 million of taxes and duties.



HUNGARY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ....................................             1
A. The Transport System.                                              1
B.  Transport Planning, Policy and Coordination                       2
C. Transport Sector Issues..                                          4
D.  Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Hungary                 6
II. RAILWAYS AND HIGHWAYS SUBSECTORS. . .                                  7
A. Railways ..7..........-.---                                        7
-organization                        .                            7
-Railway Property          ...                                     7
-Operations                         ...                            8
-Uneconomic Lines and Services             .. *..                  9
-Staff and Productivity .. .....                        .9
-Railway Tariffs                   ....        ..                  9
-The Railway's Investment Plan (1986-90)        . . .10
-Financing Plan ................        ..,                       11
B. Highways ...12
-Organization  ......... .12
-Planning ................ ......................                12
-Engineering       .     ............... . .13
-Construction                 ....13
-The Network.......   14
-Maintenance .. . ......... ....................... .            14
-Equipment and Workshops        . . .                             14
-Traffic Regulation and Safety             ....15
-The Highway Investment Plan (1986-90) ............               15
This report is prepared by Messrs. M.K.Ganguli (Transport Economist),-
W.S.Matthey (Highway Engineer), S.B.Orlic (Railway Engineer), C.F.de Castro
(Road Transport Specialist), and J.McCombie (Consultant) on the basis of an
appraisal mission to Hungary during November/December 1984. Ms. N.Mangosing
assisted the appraisal mission in the preparation of financial statistics.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
C. Hungarocamion .... ........                             . .......                  16
-Organization  ...... ..............                                              16
-Operation and Fleet  .................................                           16
-Investment Plan  (1986-90) and Development Strategy  ..                         16
-Pricing and Finance  ......           ..............................             17
III.   THE PROJECT .....o............                 ............................            18
A.  Objectives .........  o ,...............e....e .........................          18
B.   Description . ............  o            ...........................            18
C.   Cost Estimates ................................O.....                            22
D.   Engineering                ..................     ... o.............            24
E.   Financing ...    .. ..... .... o....           ................  ...             24
F.   Implementation .....               .................................             25
G.   The Loan, the Borrower and the Beneficiaries .*..O ...                           27
H. Procurement ..................................                                     28
I.  Disbursements  ..........  ..........    _. ............                         30
J.   Reporting, Accounts and Audit .............                  o ........          31
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION . ..........32........................                             32
A.  General ................                 ............................             32
B.  Project Costs and Benefits .                ...    ...*      ........g.*          32
C.  Economic Return  (ER)  ................................                          33
D.  Project Risks  ....             ..................................               37
E.   Environmental Impact ....................           ...  o........              37
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......                 ..............................              38
A.  General .............................................                            38
B.   Railways  ............................................                          38
C.  Hungarocamion  .......................................                           44
D.   Highway Component  ........................               .............         48
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...................                              49



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES                                                                       Page No
1.  Scope and Content of Proposed Railway Action Plan (1986-1990) .... ....... 51
2.  Outline of Terms of Reference for Road User's Contributions (RUC) Study.. 53
3.  Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Studies for
Hungarocamion ........................................................... 55
4.  Design Characteristics of Railway Works - Ferencvaros East Marshalling
Yard .    .................................................................... 63
5. Financial Analysis   .     .......               .      ..........9o 64
6. Related Dcoments and Data Available in the Project File        .... 76
TABLES
1.  Freight Traffic by Mode of Transport 1960-83             ..               78
2. Public Passenger Transport 1960-83 ................................... ....     79
3. Number of Motor Vehicles ..... ..       ...................................   80
4.  Investments for Different Transport Modes           ...      ....      .. 81
S.  Railway Investment Plan, 1986-90 .........................................  82
6.  List of Possibly Uneconomic Lines .......... ....... o.................. 83
7. Selected Operating Statistics for Hungarian Railways (1978-83) ... ....... 84
8. Comparison with Selected European Railways ........... ........            ............. 85
9. Goods Transported in Containers by MAV 1970-83 ........................... 86
10.  Railways Staff and Productivity ....................................... ..  87
11. Maximum Acceptable Traffic Volumes ............. ... .......................... 88
12. Principal Highway Design Standards               .....     ....    89
13. Road Network Statistics (1980) . ........................................  90
14. Axle Overload Fee Scale ..    ............... ................................. 91
15.  Past and Projected Road Expenditures.................................. 92
16.  National Road Investment Plan 1986-90 - by Major Work Categories ......... 93
17. Vehicle Fleet of Hungarocamion                .............                94
18.  Hungarocamion - Main Types in the Truck Fleet ............................ 95
19. Average Annual Utilization of Vehicles   ..............................    96
20.  Selected Operational Statistics of Vehicles .............................. 97
21. Hungarocamion - Actual and Planned Investments ........................... 98
22. Procurement Plan for Railway Items Eligible for Loan Financing ........... 99
23. Outline of Training Program .........  - ................................ . 100
24. M-0 Motorway - Principal Characteristics and Construction Quantities .... 101
25.  Road Maintenance, Evaluation and Testing Equipment Lists ................ 102
26.  Hungaroca'iion-List of Trucks and Workshop Equipment ..................... 103
27.  Railway Component - Implementation Schedule ............................. 104
28.  Highway Component - Implementation Schedule            ....      .       105
29.  Hungarocamion Component - Implementation Schedule .......................  106
30.. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement ................................... 107
31.  Freight and Passenger Traffic Actual 1978-83 and Projections 19S5-90.... 108



Table of Contents (Continued)
CHARTS                                                                  Page No.
Chart . Organization of Hungarian Railways (MAV) (IBRD 27039) ........ 109
Chart 2  Organization of the Ministry of Transport (IBRD 27038) ....... 110
Chart 3  Organization of Bungarocamion (IBRD 27040)    ..........          111
MA
IBRD 18773 - Hungary - Transport (Road/Rail) Project.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. The Transport System
1.01     Hungary is a landlocked country in east-central Europe.  The only
waterway giving access to the sea is the river Danube, which flows about 1,465
km from Budapest to the Black Sea; other maritime European harbors can be
reached by land. The transport system is diversified, comprising about 8,000
km of rail, 30,000 km of arterial roads, 1,300 km of regularly navigable
rivers and canals, one international airport, and a fairly large oil and gas
pipeline network.  Trunk routes and international connections are of special
concern because Hungary has borders with five countries (see IBRD Map 18773)
and aims to improve its integration with the world economy. Budapest is the
hub of the country's rail, road and airways system, has by far the busiest of
its Danube river ports and is also a primary node on the major pipeline system.
1.02     Railways and  roads  are  the backbone of the transport system and
together, carry about 751 of total freight traffic and more than 95% of
passenger  traffic  (Tables 1 and 2).  The railway network has the crucial
responsibility for moving traffic over relatively long distances.   Although
road traffic is increasing fairly rapidly, it functions mainly as a short-haul
mover. Whereas in 1960, the railways carried about 80% of total freight (in
ton-km), in 1983 its share had declined to less than 50X (Table 1), with all
.other modes registering an increase. Water transport, mainly on the Danube,
has retained an important and competitive place as a carrier of bulk materials
over long distances  (Table 1).  The  railway's  former dominance  in public
passenger traffic,passed to roads in the early 1970s and the current rail/road
share is about 281 and 69Z respectively (Table 2). The railways also carry a
sizeable  volume  of  conmmuter  traffic,  to and  from  large cities.   Public
transportation within cities is undertaken by bus, tramway and trolley bus
networks. Per capita tram traffic in Budapest ranks amongst the highest in
the world and the capital is served also by an underground railway system.
1.03     The most conspicuous transport development during the last fifteen
years has been the rapid growth of private transport. The number of privately
owned cars has increased more than five-fold from 238.6 thousand in 1970 to
1,258.5 thousand in 1983 (Table 3); and today, every tenth inhabitant in
Hungary owns an automobile.
1.04     Hungary's economy has grown rapidly since  World War  II with per
capita income in real terms rising at about 5Z per annum between 1960 and
1980.  During the same period, total freight traffic also grew at about 5-62
per annum, public passenger transport at about 2X per arntvm, with the
proportion of private transport however, increasing continuously at about
15-20%  per  annum.   The  slackening  of  world  economic  growth,  including
Hungary's, slowed the growth of traffic in the early eighties (Tables 1 and
2), however, positive growth is expected to resume. Foreign trade activities
are of vital importance for the Hungarian economy and in 1980's, total
export/import trade of more than 30 million tons per annum (excluding pipeline
traffic)  was  carried  predominantly  by  rail.   Furthermore,  the  country's
location results in considerable east-west and north-south transit movements



-2-
(more than 20 million tons per annum). The Hungarian railways rank among the
leading transit enterprises in Europe. Road transit traffic is sizeable too
with about 170,000 foreign trucks crossing Hungary annually. At present, the
principal task for the sector is to develop transport at its most sensitive
points and remove crucial bottlenecks, particularly those which affect
international and transit trade to which the Government attaches a very high
priority
B. Transport Planning. Policy and Coordination
1.05     The  Ministry  of  Transport  (MOT)  has  overall  responsibility  for
transport regulation, and exercises control of public transport through its
approval of the annual investment and operating plans of self dependent
transport companies, which are also required to submit annual performance and
financial reports. The Hungarian State Railways (MAV) are responsible for all
rail  transport  operations  (internal  and  international),  similarly  the
Hungarian Shipping Company (MAHART) is in charge of all river ports and the
Hungarian river fleets on the Tisa and Danube rivers. The Hungarian Airline
(MALEV) flies solely international routes. By road, freight and passengers
are carried by both public transport companies and the "own-account"trucks and
buses of  industries and cooperatives.   Hungarocamion  (HC)  specializes  in
international trucking and like MAHART and MALEV competes in international
markets. A number of other comon carriers, the largest of which is Volan
handle short and medium distance transport within Hungary. Volan operates
with 24 branches throughout Hungary, which each set their own rates.  The
company owns 15S of the truck fleet and performs 252 of domestic road
transport. Six other smaller companies (some specialized carriers) together
perform about a half of Volan' s volume. Most of the remaining road transport
is carried by "own-account" fleets which may take haulage work for others once
their own requirements are met and which are fully competitive with the common
carriers. Tariffs, which are cost based and competitive, are negotiated and
favor clients who can assure return loads. Special agencies help locate and
assemble loads in order to minimize empty trips and conserve energy.  The
Government prescribes tariff ceilings to protect customers in outlying areas,
but there is no freight allocation in the transport sector.  Shippers make
their own choice between modes and exporters or importers may choose between
domestic or foreign carriers.
1.06     The transport planning structure consists of the National Planning
Office     (NPO),     the     planning     units    of    Ministries,       local
governments/municipalities, and enterprises. Transportation projects included
in the Five-Year Plans originate both at the micro-level through the
industrial enterprises and county authorities (especially for municipal and
local roads) and at the macro-level through NPO. Review and coordination of
new investment proposals in the transport sector is the responsibility of MOT
which submits its program to NPO. The demands for transport by the economic
enterprises and sectors are reconciled by NPO with the existing capacities and
expansion plans of the transport enterprises and with the Government's policy
objectives. This results in adequate inter-modal coordination.



- 3 -
1.07     Hungary's   principal   transport  policy  objectives,   approved  by
Parliament in 1968 and updated in 1978 are the efficient provision of services
with the complementary development of different modes. Specifically:
(i) developing freight transport in a harmonized manner, in full
cooperation with the producing. warehouseing, forwarding units
and the users, which implies that the transport technology of
bulky goods, as well as the other goods suited for the formation
of   unit-loads   such   as   palletization,   pre-slinging,   and
containerization, should be modernized;
(ii)   encouraging  mass  transportation  by  public  conveyances  and
developing private transport in keeping with the demand and the
country's economic possibilities;
(iii)   emphasizing   the   development   of   international   transport,
principally  transit   traffic  by  rail,  and  exploiting   the
advantages inherent in the country's geopolitical situation;
(iv) regulating the distribution of traffic among the different
transport modes mainly by econiomic means and criteria (e.g.
tariff policy, energy efficiency, manpower needs, etc.) and in
case of necessity, by administrative measures; and
(v)   strengthening    the   transport   companies'   self   financing
capabilities.
1.08     Transport policy goals are implemented through annual and five-year
plans which are enacted by Parliament. The cornerstones of transport policy
will continue to be competition between transport agencies in the market
(Para. 1.05) and conservation of energy with the main policy instruments being
pricing measures.
1.09     Transport investments during the last two decades accounted for about
14X of total investments. This is slightly lower than 151-25% in many other
countries which tends to reflect both the emphasis placed on modernizing and
upgrading existing infrastructure, and the lower costs of construction in
Hungary's generally flat terrain. Table 4 shows the 1980-1984 investments for
the different transport modes and the investment forecast from the draft
1986-1990 plan.  Investments in the road and rail sub-sectors accounted for
85-90 of the sector total during 1980-84, the balance being made up of river
port, shipping, aviation and pipeline investments, and this pattern is
expected to continue through the next plan  period.   The  transport  sector
investment plan appears to be generally need-based and operationally sound. A
review of sector investments will be part of "he ongoing dialogue between the
Borrower and the Bank.



-4-
C. Trans8ort Sector Issues
1.10     Hungarian railways (MAV) are characterized by high volume operation
on a limited part of the railway network with 30S of the kilometerage carrying
about 702 of freight traffic while the balance of the network, particularly
branch  lines,  is  relatively  under-utilized.   This  has  two   important
implications:   (i)  that  railway  investments  in Hungary  should be focused
primarily on main lines with particular potential for improved services, thus
avoiding dispersion of effort over a large national network; and (ii) that,
following appropriate studies, uneconomic services should be closed and the
personnel surplus that would arise be reduced over a reasonable period of
time. Detailed examination of the investment proposals in the draft Railway
Investment Plan (Table 5) shows that the plan is responsive to the country's
needs (paras. 2.14-2.17). About 1,400 km (about 15Z of the railway network)
of uneconomic lines were closed during the last fifteen years and staff
reduced by 18,000 (about L2X of total staff). A recent study has been made of
the future of a further 600 km of relatively low density lines (Table 6).
During negotiations, confirmation was obtained that not later than December
1986 the Government would have made decisions relating to the measures to be
taken, in respect of those lines out of the 600 km studied, which would be
closed by 1990; and that the Bank would be informed of these decisions soon
thereafter.
1.11     The present share of road traffic in international trade (about one
million tons) is conspicuously low compared with the railways' (more than 30
million tons), despite the fact that the country exports a considerable.
quantity of agricultural and animal husbandry products, textile, leather and
other high-value goods all of which in other countries are usually moved by
road transport.   This anomaly leads to the question whether the transport
market is functioning effectively in Hungary.  Hungarocamion  (RC), competes
with  other  European  carriers  and  is  operationally  efficient.   However,
insufficient fleet size and structure, lack of modern, fuel efficient,
competitive, commercial vehicles and inadequate support facilities are
creating severe constraints to the achievement of a better inter-modal
allocation in the shipment of foreign trade goods.  HC is now undertaking a
major expansion and overhaul of the truck fleet engaged in long haul traffic
and the proposed project is designed to assist this expansion (Paras. 2.33 and
3.12).
1.12     Energy has become a critical sector for the Hungarian economy.  About
45Z of Hungary's energy consumption, including about 80X of oil needs are
covered by imports. Transport, public and private, accounts for roughly 14%
e' total energy consumption (about 70X of the total gasoline and 28Z of diesel
and fuel oil used). Based on 1980-81 reforms, tLie domestic price of petroleum
products are now wr-e aligned to the import price in convertible currency
trade. Gasoline (!PZ octane) is sold in Hungary for 20.0 Ft/liter (US$1.63 per
US gallon) and diesel oil for 9.8 Ft/liter (US$0.80 per US gallon).  The
energy costs of transport come to about 60 billion forints  (about  US$1.3
billion) per annum.  At present, within the transport sector, the share of
energy consumption by rail and road stands at about 10X and 80% respectively
and the balance is accounted for by other modes of transport. In recent years
a main feature of railway development has been the modernization of the
traction fleet. Consequently. the railway's share in energy consumption has
declined from about 25Z to lOZ during the last ten years.  Specific energy



- 5 -
consumption in railways declined primarily due to the steady decline in the
number of steam locomotives, but the overall decline in the railways' share of
energy consumption is also influenced by its relatively lower traffic growth.
The rapid development of road transport is demanding a steadily increasing
share  of  total  energy  consumption.   The  Government  is  pursuing  energy
conservation in road transport through such actions as better vehicle
operation and maintenance, drivers' training, raising the average payload of
trucks, more efficient utilization of vehicle fleets, shifts of traffic to
less  energy-intensive  modes  and  improved  urban  traffic  management.   The
proposed project supports the Government's policy and addresses transport
energy conservation through rationalization of railway operations, improvement
in the fleet composition of HC (paras. 3.01-3.02) and by facilitating a more
efficient road traffic flow by means of the Budapest by-pass (para. 4.12).
1.13     Encouraging competition to ircrease efficiency has been a feature of
Hungarian  government  policy  during  the  last  decade.   Recently,  local
competitive bidding for contracts has started to be introduced but the
procedure and practices are still in a formative stage. The possibility and
practicality of using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for civil works
was carefully examined with MOT staff, consultants and contractors.   After
reviewing the current organization and practi',es of construction in Hungary
(Para. 3.23), and with due regard to country needs, the Government agreed that
ICB procedures would be followed for the higeway civil works component
included in the proposed project.
1 14     The method of recovery of infrastructure costs differs between rail
and road transport.- The railways maintain the track, but it is not clear
Viether road users, who contribute indirectly towards road expenditures in the
_.orm of tax on fuel, turnover tax, and fees on heavy axle loads, make an
Adequate contribution.  The proposed project includes a technical study by
Hungarian experts/consultants, (para. 3.14 and Annex 2) of contribution of
road users towards road expenditures, to be completed by December 31, 1987,
designed to evaluate the present status and appropriateness of road users'
contribution.
1.15     Currently,  one  of  the  principal  objectives  of  the  Government,
approved by the Parliament, is to strengthen the transport companies' self
financing capabilities. As part of a review of the transport sector, the
Government agreed to maintain a dialogue with the Bank on key transport sector
policies with special emphasis on the progress of:
(i)   step-by-step modernization planned by the railways;
(ii)   improvement  in  the  inter-modal  allocation  of   traffic  in
international trade; and
(iii)   gradual reduction of subsidy in the transport sector.
The preliminary draft of the transport sector memorandum (February 1983)
already circulated and discussed with the concerned agencies of the Government
will be expanded on the basis of the latest developments for further dialogue
with the Government.



D. Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Hungary
1.16     The proposed project will be the first in the transport sector. It
addresses critical transport bottlenecks and will contribute significantly to
improvement  of  foreign  currency  earnings,  modernization  of  transport
operations and energy conservation.



II.  RAILWAYS AND HIGHWAYS SUBSECTORS
A. Railways
Organization
2.01     Hungarian  State  Railways  (MAV)  is  a  "Self-dependent  Enterprise"
(para. 2.13) headed by a Director General who is appointed by the Minister of
Transport.  While management of  the Railways is by a Management Council,
Government approval is required for major matters such as large investments,
tariff changes, or foreign loans for railway development. MAV is organized
into six regions, headed by Regional Directors, which are further divided for
traffic control, commercial and other purposes into 38 territorial units. The
Director General, assisted by four deputies (Chart No. 1), is responsible for
the efficient management of MAV, for planning its development and is Chairman
of the Management Council. This Council consisting of the Deputy Directors
General, Regional Directors, Division Chiefs and Trade Union representatives,
is responsible for determining railway policy and establishing five-year
development plans within the framework of the state plan. The Council meets
one or two times per month for overall control of policy and operations.
Railway Property
2.02     Track - MAV operates 7,612 km of line of which 97Z is standard gauge,
14.71 double tracked, and 21% electrified (IBRD map No. 18773 and Table 7).
Rail traffic density in the country is relatively high but is concentrated on
about 30Z of the network which carries 70% of freight traffic, with the
heaviest traffic in the northern industrial part of the country. The track is
maiuly 48-54 kg/m rail with welded joints, laid on monoblock reinforced
concrete sleepers (64Z) or wooden sleepers (35Z), all with crushed stone
ballast. About 651 of the network (standard gauge) is suitable for axle loads
of abovc 20 tons per axle, and 38Z is suitable for speeds of 100 km/hr and
more. Average rail life is about 22 years. Track is generally in good
condition, although the very high traffic density limits the time available
for maintenance and track overhaul; shortage of heavy duty track maintenance
equipment compounds the problem.
2.03     Signalling and Telecommunications - About 30Z of the open lines are
equipped with automatic-line-block signalling, although only 31 of the lines
have centralized traffic control. The telecommunications system on main lines
is modern and adequate for present needs. There is also radio communication
with most main line locomotives and automatic train stops on many main lines.
2.04     Traction and Rolling Stock - The proportion of traffic hauled by
electric traction rose from 27S of gross-ton-km (GTKm) in 1970, to 57% in
1983, while diesel traction rose from 371 to 391 during the same period.
Steam traction which in 1973 hauled 331 of total GTKm, in 1983 hauled only 1%
and will be phased out completely by the end of 1985. Locomotive maintenance
facilities are relatively good and the standard of repairs is high. For the
improvement of locomotive availability, a very important need exists for
imported spare parts, for additional workshop equipment and skilled staff.
Total capacity of the wagon fleet was increased by intensive reconstruction
completed in 1980. More than 79% of the fleet is less than 20 years old,
20.51 is between 20 and 40 years old and only 0.51 of the fleet is over 40
years old. The fleet is in relatively good condition.



- 8 -
2.05     Marshalling Yards - There are 17 marshalling yards, four of which are
major mechanized yards but with obsolete equipment. Even in the three large
yards which comprise the Budapest junction and handle 80% of the total traffic
volume or about 5,000 wagons a day, skids are used instead of secondary
retarders. The brake systems in the yards are frequently defective leading to
damage   from  runaway  waggons   and  accidents.    The   marshalling   yard
Budapest-Ferencvaros, a part of this junction, has a key role in the Hungarian
railway transport system. It will be improved by the proposed project while
the role of the other two yards will be minimized (Para. 4.09).
Operations
2.06     The operational efficiency of MAV is generally high and in 1982, its
traffic density, 8.95 million gross-tons per route-km, was one of the highest
in Europe  (Table 8).   Staff  productivity  (para.  2.12) is also high.  In
certain respects however, principally utilization of freight cars, MAV's
performance has declined in recent years and, as part of the Bank project, all
aspects of operational performance are therefore to be addressed by an Action
Plan (Annex 1) which would be carefully monitored during supervision of the
project (para. 3.29).
2.07     MAV's availability figures for traction and rolling stock, which give
an indication of maintenance efficiency, are satisfactory. Availability in
1983 was:   passenger coaches 93%; wagons  90%;  diesel  locomotives  79% and
electric locomotives 82%. The Action Plan is expected to provide for raising
this last figure. The comparatively low availability of diesel locomotives
results from a policy of overhauling only part of the diesel fleet, much of
which is nearing the end of its useful life, while retaining it as a strategic
reserve.   Utilization  of  electric  locomotives,  measured by engine-km per
engine-day, has risen during the 1978-83 period from 462 to 480 for passenger
and from 319 to 353 for freight traffic, while for diesel locomotives,
eng4-.-km per engine-day dropped from 345 to 332 for passenger and 229 to 219
for freight traffic.  The lower diesel utilization is due to the elimination
of diesel traction on long haul main trunk routes, while it continues to be
used on shorter and lower density secondary routes and for stand-by purposes.
2.08     Average wagon capacity rose by 8% during 1978-83, performance was
73 km/day in 1983.  However, turnaround time for wagons increased from 3.65
days in 1978 to 4.35 days in 1983. Analysis shows that while this increase
stemmed in part from longer times in marshalling yards due to shortage of yard
capacity, the principal cause was longer terminal times which increased by
approximately 50% during 1978-83.  The proposed project supports marshalling
yard  investments  that  will  improve yard handling  time.   Increased wagon
holding times at terminals (for loading and unloading operations) resulted
both from legislation shortening the working week in Hungary, which reduced
weekend loading and unloading, ana from a lack of adequate equipment and
facilities in major stations and terninals. The government has now started to
implement measures to remedy this situation by authorizing bonus payments for
weekend loading and unloading, also heavier penalties for wagons which are
held over for more than permissible periods.  This is expected to improve
wagon turnaround time during the project period.



2.09     Container Traffic - The development of railway container traffic
started in 1969 and, to date, MAV has 30 railway stations suitable for
receiving and loading containers. Container traffic in 1983 comprised about,
353,000 units (Table 9) carrying 2.1 million tons of the most expensively
rated goods. MAV places great emphasis on the expansion of container traffic
in conjunction with other transport modes and plans to increase traffic volume
carried by container to about four million tons by 1990. Container handling
equipment is included in the proposed project (para. 3.06).
2.10     Ma_ntenance Equipment - Track is generally well maintained but a lack
of modern track maintenance and renewal equipment makes it increasingly
difficult to maintain this standard. About 70% of MAV's track machinery has
outlived its normal useful life. The proposed project would provide equipment
(para. 3.05), including staff training by the manufacturers, to help overcome
the problem.
Uneconomic Lines and Services
2.11     MAV, having closed 1,400 km of uneconomic lines during the last 15
years, is aware of the need to concentrate on those services which it can
provide efficiently and which are financially more profitable.            A major
review of another 600 km of possibly uneconomic lines has been completed from
which decisions regarding either total closure, cost reduction measures or
phasing out passenger services are expected not later than December 1986
(Table 6 and para. 1.10). The methodology and criteria used for review of
uneconomic lines are sound.
Staff and Productivity
2.12     The management and staff of MAV are technically well-qualified and
competent, but there is a shortage of qualified semi-skilled staff and
technicians. The number of staff has been reduced by about 12% from 150,000
in  1970  to 132,200  in 1983.   Productivity measured by traffic units per
employee declined during the period 1978-83 by about 5%, principally because
of the reduction in passenger traffic during this period, but the figure of
259,700 traffic units per employee in 1983 still compares favorably with other
railways.  The modest increases in traffic forecast for the project period
together with planned staff reduction are forecast to bring about a 10%
increase in productivity by 1990 (Table 10).
Railway Tariffs
2.13     MAV  is   considered  a   "Self   Dependent   Enterprise"  with  the
responsibility to recover costs from revenues. Nevertheless its charges are
subject to the approval of the Governments Board of Pricing. Revenues from
freight traffic cover all related costs. The shortfall on passenger fares is
met by a subvention as the Government does not want to raise suburban
passenger fares to a level which would cover full costs because of the
implications of transferring passengers to road transport with the additional
costs of urban congestion (para. 5.02). MAV is primarily a hauler of freight.



- 10 -
The Railway's Investment Plan (1986-90)
2.14     MAV's 1986-90 draft Investment Plan (Table 5 and IBRD Map 18773) is
primarily a rehabilitation plan which concentrates on operating cost reduction
and on safety oriented investments, rather than on investments in capacity
expansion, traction and rolling stock. Railway investments are expected to
account for 427 of the total investments in the transport sector during the
next  plan period.   Emphasis  is  initially on  early completion  of ongoing
projects, while only later in the plan period will new projects, mostly track
renewal, signalling with telecommunications, and electrification of main lines
with heavy traffic density, be undertaken.
2.15     The principal components of MAV's 1986-90 Investment Plan are also
given in sunmuary in Table 2.1. Investment cost estimates are based on prices
of manufactured goods in Hungary and border prices (1984) for imports. Costs
include a physical contingency allowance of 10% for infrastructure items and
price contingencies based on official escalation factors of 5% per annum.
Unit prices for infrastructure items are generally in line with international
prices but prices for rolling stock, all of which will be procured from eastern
European countries, are lower than world prices, by 30Z or more.
2.16     Track rehabilitation and junction reconstruction represents about 40Z
of the total planned investments. Track to be rehabilitated includes ten high
priority lines. These have an average age of superstructure of 22 years and
have carried a cumulative total gross-tonnage (since the last track overhaul)
of 100 to 370 million gross tons.  This work  is essential for the efficient
utilization of  traction and rolling  stock.   Proposed  investments  for the
modernization of signalling and telecommunications, which represent about 8%
of  the  Investment  Plan,  will  eliminate serious bottlenecks  by replacing
equipment which is obsolete and inadequate for the efficient operation of
important   stations   and   junctions.   Proposed   investments   in  railway
electrification comprise about 3% of the investment plan and include a
significant portion of the. main line from Budapest to Gyekenes (near the
Yugoslav border) where traffic density is about 30 million gross tons per year
with, during summer months, about 50 pairs of passenger trains per day. Other
short sections proposed for electrification have been selected to maintain the
integrity and continuity of the electrified network, thus avoiding uneconomic
changes of traction.  Less than 16% of the total investment costs are for
traction and rolling stock.  Capacity expansion investments,  consisting of
line doubling on short stretches (111 km) and by-pass and cut-offs (39km),
represent 9X of the proposed investments and will relieve congestion on main
lines. The proposals are economically and operationally sound.



- 11 -
Table 2.1: Summary of Railway Investment Plan (1986-90)
Ft mill.   US$ mill.   2 of Total
(1)   Rehabilitation of Existing
Network
-Track Rehabilitation (1,039 km)    11,933        256.6         23.6
-Electrification of
Lines (304 km)                      1,785        38.4          3.4
-Signalling and Telecommuni-
cation (372 km)                     3,883         83.5         7.7
-Reconstruction of Junctions
and Stations                        8.150       175.3         16.1
-Bridges, Sidings, Substructure,
and Other                           3,491        75.1          6.9
29,242       628.9        57.7
(2)   New Lines (39 km)                     1,788        38.5          3.5
(3)   Line Doubling (111 km)                2,620        56.4          5.2
(4)   Traction and Rolling Stock            7,913       170.2         15.6
(5)   Other Capacity Improvement.
(Workshops, Loco-Depots,
Maintenance Equipment, etc.)          9,087       195.3         18.0
TOTAL                           50.650     1,089.3       100.0
2.17     The railway investment program is responsive to the country's needs.
The Government recognizes the benefits to be gained, in future investment plan
design, from a thorough study of MAV's future needs, particularly in the light
of emerging patterns of freight traffic. The study should be coupled with a
study of requirements in terminal facilities. The Bank and the Government
have agreed to continue to maintain a dialogue on the subject during
implementation of the proposed project.
Financing Plan
2.18     Except for a small Government grant and the proposed Bank Loan, funds
for MAV's investments through the period 1985-89 will be provided from MAV's
internal resources with 70% of these resources generated from deprer-ation
provisions (para. 5.09).



- 12 -
B. Highways
Organization
2.19     The Ministry of Transport  (MOT),  whose organization  is  shown  in
Chart 2, has overall responsibility for all transport modes and is directly
responsible for the National Road Network infrastructure. The Public Roads
Department (PRD), has responsibility for operation and maintenance of all
national  roads,  bridges  and motorways.   It  sets  standards,  approves  and
coordinates regional work programs and assigns work to various specialist
organizations.  Detailed engineering and construction supervision for major
PRD force accourt work (mostly road maintenance and operation activities) is
managed by nine Public Road Management Centers (PRMC) which control nineteen
Maintenan:e  Coordination  Centers  (MCC).   Seven of the PRMC's have quality
control sections whose responsibilities include quality control of all work on
national roads as well as of construction work on local roads. The Budapest
PRMC is also responsible for maintenance of motorways (Motorway Management
Section). Funds for maintenance are released by The National Bank of Hungary
(NBH) which maintains the accounts.
2.20     Infrastructure investment proposals are evaluated by  the Technical
Development Department (TDD) of NOT which makes recommendations to MOT
management. TDD works closely with the NPO in providing technical assistance
and planning inputs to MAV and road transport companies in preparation of
five-year and annual programs which  they  subsequently  review.   TDD  also
eontracts engineering design firms for new roadworks and a road investment
company (para. 2.24) to manage and supervise construction contracts. Capital
investment funds are channeled to TDD through the State Development Bank (SDB)
which opens a separate account for each contract, effects payments and
maintains project accounts.
Planning
2.21     Highway planning takes into consideration the road transport demands
which would result from the Government's five year plans as well as measured
traffic  growth  and  periodic  origin-destination  census  results.   Traffic
censuses were started in Hungary in the 1950's with about 100 census stations
operated regularly to provide classification and hourly, weekly, and seasonal
variation data. Formerly, each five years a larger census was conducted at
4600 census points, to cover all roads. Since 1980, more modern equipment has
been introduced and a rotation system of counting on a third of the network
each year has been adopted. Traffic forecasting and assignment is performed
on a computer model which is multi-modal, using growth assumptions which are
realistic. An important basic planning input comes from a road inventory and
sufficiency survey which was first taken in 1979 and which hp' since been
regularly updated and improved. This has served as the basis of a program of
road rehabilitation/widening/pavement-strengthening  which together with road
maintenance, accounts for the greater part of road expenditure.  Other road
improvements are part of long term development programs, the fourth of which
is under preparation. The rationale underlying the total plan is to support
energy conservation by (i) providing adequate capacity on the existing roads



- 13 -
(adding new traffic lanes and constructing bypasses at larger villages and
towns),   (ii)  constructing   high   speed  motorways   on   routes   carrying
international traffic (once traffic volumes justify such construction), and
(iii) constructing some "short-cuts" where there is sufficient traffic
demand.   Capacity is calculated in terms of passenger car units (pcu) with
heavy vehicles assigned a weight of 2.5 pcu's.  Maximum acceptable  traffic
volumes are given in Table 11. Design traffic is taken as the 50th or 1OCth
highest hour of forecast weekday traffic, depending on the importance of the
road. More frequent weekend traffic congestion is considered acceptable. The
motorway construction program, including the M-O motorway (Budapest ring road)
which is supported by the proposed project, is a high priority improvement in
this latest long-term plan.
Engineering
2.22     For over 20 years, all motorway and highway bridge engineering in
Hungary has been performed by UVATERV under contract to'MOT, The quality of
its highway engineering work is up to international standards and the company,
which does about 40% of its work volume outside Hungary, has considerable
experience in bridge design in Hungary and abroad.   A number  of  smaller
highway design offices tiroughout the country deal with local roads. Table 12
presents main geometric standards used in Hungary which, for motorways,
conform to or surpass requirements established by the council for the
TransEuropean Motorways (TEM).  Pavement design methods are up to date and
bridge design loadings conform to European practice. Interchanges for limited
access highways are conventionally designed in accordance with western
European practice to minimize land acquisition. Technical specifications for
construction and materials are part of a 17 volume set of national
specifications.   A single set of specifications for road works and bridge
construction is being assembled for the proposed project.
Construction
2.23     Major roads and bridges in Hungary have been constructed by five
state-owned contractors which recently have been competing for jobs outside
the country against international competition. Operation of the companies is
fully detached from MOT control.  For minor road projects, local competitive
bidding between these companies and 12 smaller contractors was only recently
introduced and experience with the Bank's ICB procedures will have an
important impact on evolution of the local bidding systems.  The contractors
may purchase locally manufactured equipment but exchange control requirements
limit  imports  from  western  countries.   Contractors'   work  quality  is
satisfactory.   Contractors are required to issue a work quality certificate
upon completion of a contract and are responsible for repairing or replacing
defective work for a defined period after completion.
2.24     MOT  contracts  management  and  supervision  of  large  construction
projects to UTIBER, an investment management company which specializes in
transportation projects.  UTIBER's responsibilities include all fieldwork in
connection with expropriation and land acquisition, control of conformance
with plans  specifications,  measurement of work quantities and approval of
contractors' invoices for payments. UTIBER also provides financial management
and is responsible for keeping project cost under a stipulated limit (102
contingency).   Within  this  limit,  it  is authorized  to make minor design
changes.



- 14 -
The Network
2.25     The total Hungarian road network (Table 13) is divided by maintenance
responsibility into:   (i) the National Roads, which are maintained by PRD
(about 30,000 km, mostly paved); (ii) Local Public Roads, which are maintained
by county councils (about 58,000 km and 70% paved); and (iii) Agricultural and
Forestry Roads, which are maintained by state farms, agricultural cooperatives
and forestry organizations (about 50,000 km and 301 paved in 1980). The main
roads of the national road network radiate from Budapest (IBRD Map 18773), the
most populous city and principal traffic generator. Six of the eight bridges
across the Danube are within the city and the steady growth of highway traffic
(including transit traffic) across the river has led to rapidly growing
congestion  (para.  4.12).   The Motorways  M-1,  M-5  and M-7 which  the M-0
ringroad (IBRD Map 18773, inset ) will eventually connect (bypassing
Budapest), are important links in the TEM system, which will eventually
connect western and northern European countries with the Balkans and Middle
East.  The Bank is providing financial assistance for construction of other
sections  of  the  TEM  network  in  Yugoslavia,  Turkey  and  Romania.   For
international  traffic  using  the  network,  passage  through  Budapest  is
considered to be one of the most critical bottlenecks.
Maintenance
2.26     Maintenance  of National  Roads  is effectively  organized  and  well
managed.  Part of the technical assistance under the proposed project would
serve to familiarize PRD technical staff with state-of-the-art progress in
pavement management and recent developments of improved maintenance techniques.
On the Motorways, providing for safe vehicle operation is stressed and
patroling inspection vehicles keep constant radio contact with a motorway
maintenance center. One inspection trip per day is used to note tasks which
then become part of daily work programs of crews and equipment assigned for
minor repairs.   Other crews work on pre-planned  preventive maintenance  or
major repair works. There is a similar but less intensive program of regular
inspections of other public roads. Each maintenance sub-center has a standard
group of equipment and there is a heavy dependance on machines from western
European  countries  to  deal  with  disruption  caused  by  winter  weather
conditions, particularly on the more densely travelled roads and motorways.
Because of serious winter traffic disruption in recent years, PRD proposes to
acquire higher-powered machines, stationed at several strategic locations,
capable of moving quickly to provide emergency ice and snow removal assistance.
Purchase of this equipment would be financed under the proposed project.
Equipment and Workshops
2.27     MOT's equipment inventory lists about 9000 units of equipment, plant,
vehicles, attachments and tools of which about a third are road vehicles and
another third are equipment and attachments used for road maintenance and
improvements. The average age of the equipment is about seven years but due
to convertible currency constraints, which have affected regular renewal of
this equipment, a major part of the multi-purpose truck fleet (102 west



- 15 -
European units which with their attachments serve as a main-stay of paved road
maintenance activities) averages over ten years old.   MOT records indicate
that 11-12 year old machines are requiring an average of 380 workshop hours
annually, compared to 170 hours for units two to three years old; at four
times the annual costs.  The workshop system supporting the maintenance and
repair of equipment is based on different levels of repair by progressively
larger and better equipped workshops. Each of 96 Maintenance Sub-centre (MSC)
has its workshop and mobile service trucks for preventive maintenance and
minor repairs while each MCC has larger workshops capable of heavier repairs.
Traffic Regulation and Safety
2.28     MOT operates weight control stations at points of entry into Hungary
and on motorways as well as having mobile weight control teams.   Allowable
axle loads are ten tons for single axles and 16 tons for double-axles, while
maximum allowable truck weight is 38 tons. This conforms to the TEM Council
requirements, and constitutes the loading for which new motorway pavement and
pavement strengthening on older roads are dimensioned. Trucks operating with
higher axle loads pay a fee and are restricted to assigned routes (Table 14).
Maximum  vehicle  dimensions  conform  to  European  council  standards.   MOT
collects and analyses accident statistics and is the author of the Hungarian
highway code. A comparison of accident rates shows Hungary to be at about the
halfway mark for a group of European comparator countries (close to United
Kingdom figures) but with total accidents substantially above the best road
safety records. One part of the technical assistance in the proposed project
provides for Hungarian specialists to review measures bejng taken by other
countries to reduce accident rates.
The Highway Investment Plan (1986-90)
2.29     Table 15 compares past and proposed expenditures on roads in Hungary
while Table 16 shows a breakdown of proposed expenditures during the Seventh
Five-Year Plan period  (1986-1990).   Average total expenditure for roads is
slightly less than US$300 million per year during the 1981-85 period with
about 55S going For National Roads (30,000 km) and 45% for local council roads
(58,000 km), a proportion which would be essentially maintained during the
1986-1990 period.  The proportion of funds allocated to new construction and
improvement of national roads (30Z), compared to road maintenance and pavement
reinforcement (70%) is reasonable and provides an adequate allowance of about
$4,000 per kilometer each year for the maintenance/pavement-reinforcement
operations.  Well maintained roads play an important role in keeping fuel
consumption low.
2.30     The effect of financial constraints during the  1981-85  period  is
--parent in the sharp reduction of investment which took place in new road
construction,  including motorways.   In the 1986-1990 period the Government
proposes to resume investment in the motorway system while keeping other road
improvements at a rather low level until 1989-1990 when a number of new
bridges  would  be  constructed  and approach roads upgraded.   The motorway
program will result in completion of the M-1 section between Budapest and Gyor
in 1986; opening of one roadway (four-lane, half-motorway) of the M-5 as far



- 16 -
as Orkeny (52 km from Budapest) by the end of 1985 with the next section to
Kecskemet (km 75) completed to the same standard by 1987.  By 1988, the 45
kilometers section closest to Budapest of the second roadway of the M-5 will
be  opened  to  traffic  followed in 1990 by the remaining 30 kilometers to
Kecskemet.  Meanwhile construction of the first phase of the M-O bypass with
the major bridges across the two channels of the Danube, which is included
under the proposed project, is expected to be completed by 1990, with the full
connection to the M-7 and M-1 programmed for construction during the
subsequent five-year plan period (1991-1995).
C. Hungarocamion
Organization
2.31     Hungarocamion  (HC)  was  established  on  January 1,  1966,  for  the
purpose of satisfying the demands of home and foreign customers with quick,
efficient and reliable  international  road  transportation.   The  company  is
headed by a General Manager and the organization of the company (Chart No. 3)
is functional in character.   The  General  Manager,  as  part  of  his  normal
duties, directly controls the department of international relations and the
legal  section.   A  computer  center was  established  in  1980  in  order  to
introduce computerized control of movements of cargo and vehicles and to apply
computer techniques to other processes.  The company has two affiliates  in
Europe, namely, the Pelkar Transport GmbH in Austria, and Eurocar Spa in
Italy, nine offices at different Hungarian border crossing points and
maintains representatives in 20 big cities of 16 countries.
Operation and Fleet
2.32     HC has gone through a dynamic development period during its 19 year
life. At the time of its establishment HC possessed only 357 small capacity
vehicles  (Skoda,  Csepel,  Saurer).   Today,  the  truck fleet  has more  than
quadrupled (Table 17) and its capacity has increased six times during this
period by adding to the fleet higher capacity modern units (Table 18) suited
for international freighting. The average annual vehicle utilization is high
and has  shown a gradual  improvement over the years  (Table 19).  Selected
operational statistics indicate that the road safety co-efficients of the
company are  commendable.   Staff  productivity  has  been  rising and average
travel distance has fluctuated between 1400 and 1600 km (Table 20). HC's load
factors per return journey on Western Europe routes are between 90 and 95%; on
Middle East routes 50%; on North African routes about 65%.  Average vehicle
utilization is about 225 days/year. The load factors and vehicle utilization
indicators are above average when compared with current Western European
operational statistics.
Investment Plan (1986-90) and Development Strategy
2.33     Investment  policy  of  HC  in  recent  times  is  primarily aimed at
achieving two main objectives which are to increase foreign exchange earnings
through the development and modernization of its vehicle fleet and to increase
operational efficiency by making urgently needed infrastructure improvements,



- 17 -
namely,  electronic  information  and  control  systems,   maintenance  shop
modernization, inventory control system and additional container handling
equipment.  The investme.t plan (Table 21) for augmenting the vehicle fleet
and infrastructure facilities takes into account market structure, likely
growth of Hungarian exports (especially food stuff, live animals, clothes and
furniture), unfavorable road cunditions especially in the Middle East, fuel
efficiency and optimum utilization of loading capacity. HCs' draft investment
proposals are task oriented, realistic and responsive to the critical need for
improving inter-modal balance .n international trade.
Pricing and Finance
2.34     HC is an enterprise whit n is free to fix its rates according to
market  forces  without upper  or  lower  limit.   As  a  result,  HC  competes
successfully in the international freight haulage market with export/import
traffic comprising about 80Z of its ton-km in 1983 and transit traffic about
20%. Actual costs of most regular journeys are calculated at least quarterly,
by the Financial and Costing Department, taking into account weight and
distance, the type of load, standard of roads traversed, frontiers crossed
(with consequent waiting time), international charges to be met, terminal
times, etc. Rates are determined by the Commercial Department and are varied
by back-haul possibilities or agreements, while back-haul rates themselves are
carefully calculated to keep empty running to a minimum and to take advantage
of any suitable traffic which may be available. Much of the transit traffic
carried by HC from Western Europe to the Middle East originates as back-haul.
2.35     HC is responsible to MOT for the operation of its business and its
proposed annual business plan is approved by the Undersecretary of State of
MOT (para. 5.12) to whom HC must report annually upon the outcome of its plan,
both operationally and financially. HC's internal resources are adequate for
the financing of their replacement vehicles and for other capital expenditure
needs, including local delivery vehicles, but for the development element of
their investment plan - 550 modern, fuel efficient, high capacity vehicles -
they will rely entirely upon the proposed Bank loan and co-financing
arrangements.   Net  internal  resources will finance 61% of HC's  investment
needs during the plan period (para. 5.16 and Table 5.9).



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
3.01     The selection of project components had as objectives the provision
of support to the Government's policies aimed at increasing the efficiency of
the  transport  sector,  increasing  convertible  currency  foreign  exchange
earnings and conserving energy. At the same time the proposed Bank financing
would provide strong support for the highest priority needs of the transport
sector as a whole, while bringing to the forefront important institutional and
policy matters such as user contributions to road expenditures and optimum
utilization  of  the  road  network,  future  trends  in  cargo  transport
(containerization, palletization, road-rail interface) and improvement of
inter-modal distribution of international traffic.  The project would also
provide for technology transfer, and all the elements taken together would
strongly influence the future development of the sector.
3.02     To achieve these broad objectives, the proposed multi-modal project
would specifically seek to:
(i)   ease  critical  transport  bottlenecks  on  Hungary's  princ --pal
highway and railway networks, vital to international trade,
export earnings and energy conservation;
,(ii)   increase  efficiency  and  cost-effectiveness  in  having  timely,
essential maintenance performed on the arterial road and railway
networks, to sustain the development of all sectors of the
economy and conserve energy;
(iii)   assist  in the modernization and expansion  of  road  transport
engaged in international freight traffic and improve road/rail
interface facilities to stimulate efficiency, fuel conservation
and export earnings;
(iv)   direct attention to crucial transport issues as the basis for
continuing constructive dialogue between the Bank and responsible
transport authorities; and
(v)  help familiarize the railway and highway organizations staff with
recent developments and expected trends in transport related
technology, transport operations and monitoring methods.
B. Description
3.03     The proposed project's components cover railways, highways, and the
international trucking company HC.  The project also  includes  two  major
studies and training programs.  All are of high priority and are either
already included in the 1981-85 Investment Plan or the proposed 1986-90
Investment Plan.  The data used in the preparation of the project and the



- 19 -
source material are listed in Annex 6.  The components are summarized below
and described subsequently in more detail, they are:
Railway Components
Ci)   A  modernization  program for the out-dated Ferencvaros  (East)
marshalling yard in Budapest;
(ii)   Acquisition of track renewal and maintenance equipmentz
(iii)   Equipment acquisition to up-grade interface facilities between
rail and road at five container terminals; and
(iv)   Training of railway personnel to familiarize them, inter alia,
with recent developments in traffic operations and engineering
practices;
Highway Components
(i)   Construction  of  the first phase  (14.2 km) of a 28 km new,
four-lane by-pass (Motorway M-0) of Budapest city.
(ii)   Acquisition of equipment for (a) maintenance of national roads,
including motorways, (b) pavement management, (c) road safety,
and (d) road construction quality control; and
(iii)   Training of personnel to familiarize them with reeent development
and trends in traffic safety and pavement management.
HC Components
(i)   Acquisition  of  lighter,  larger capacity,  fuel  efficient,  and
longer life vehicles;
(ii)   Acquisition of supporting, information systems and maintenance
workshop equipment.
Technical Studies
(i)   A study of the present system of contribution by the road users
towards road expenditures; and
(ii)   Studies  related  to  modernized  management  and  operation  of
international trucking operations.
Railway Components
3-04     Modernization  and  reconstruction  of  Ferenevaros-East  Marshalling
Yard. Budapest's-Ferencvaros marshalling yard is a key Hungarian railway
transport facility handling about 80% of the total freight traffic volume
passing through Budapest. The proposed modernization and reconstruction would
I



- 20 -
consist of ti) reconstruction of 29 existing and construction of 3 additional
tracks in the distribution group, including a second exit track; (ii)
installing a new braking system allowing continuous wagon speed control,
signalling and teleconmomications equipment; (iii) reconstructing a track
tower and constructing overhead contact line for electric traction; and (iv)
reconstruction of the existing hump and Ilatos bridge. Bank assistance would
cover direct foreign exchange cost of the distribution groups secondary
continuous  braking  and  speed  regulating  equipment  (Table  22).    The
modernization is expected to increase the capacity and efficiency of the
marshalling yard (para. 4.09).
3.05     Track renewal and maintenance equipment (Table 22).  To maintain the
required track standard, MAV needs sufficient capacity to renew 260-300
kilometers of track annually. About 70Z of MAV's equipment, used for this
type of work, is over ten years old and has outlived its normal useful life.
Replacement and modernization of the low-efficiency, limited-capacity track
equipment is a high priority item in the next five-year plan period. Bank
assistance will cover the direct foreign exchange cost of a group of ballast
cleaning and profiling machines, tamping and levelling equipment, sleeper
changing and small machinery.
3.06     Container Handling Equipment (Table 22).  MAV's capacity to meet
container traffic demand is severely constrained by inadequate facilities and
container handling equipment in its terminals. Five container terminals (IBRD
Map 18773) have been selected on a priority basis for a program of improvement
t9 give better inter-modal transport coordination by, specifically, quicker
turnaround, reduced damage of goods and improved quality of service.  The
equipment which would be financed under the proposed loan would include front
and side loading trucks, self-loading saddle-tractors and mobile container
cranes with. grips.
3.07     Training Program (Table 23).  Tc ensure the objectives of improved
marshalling yard and terminal operations, management of track renewal and
maintenance, and traffic control, complementary training and technical
assistance will  be  needed.  The  Bank assistance  provides  for about  27
man-months of railway middle management and specialists training, estimated to
cost about US$90,000 through "twinning" arrangements with other European
railways engaged in similar work.
Highway Components
3.08     Civil worKs:  construction of the first phase (14.2 km) of a future
28 km section of motorway M-0, (IBRD Map 18773) which would interconnect the
radial motorways M-1, M-7 and M-5 while bypassing to the south of Budapest.
Two major, four-lane bridges across the main channel (950 ~meters) and
Soroksari channel (500 meters) of the Danube river would account for about 40X
of the estimated cost of the works which would also include construction of
five interchanges and six grade separations. The section would extend from a
junction with the M-5 motorway to a junction with Route 6, which runs just
west of, and roughly parallel to, the Danube River. Caly one roadway of the
future divided highway, paved to carry four-lanes of traffic, would be
constructed at this time. The project would include construction of the M-0
motorway maintenance center on the island between the two river branches.
Principal characteristics and construction quantities for the project are
given in Table 24.



- 21 -
3.09     Road Maintenance Equipment (Table 25).  MOT has recently replaced a
number of its older multi-purpose trucks purchased from convertible currency
countries, however, additional replacements will be needed in 1988 and 1989.
Also, in order to avoid repetitions of serious traffic disruptions of
unacceptable durations which have occurred in recent years, due to heavy
snowfalls in unexpected areas of the country, PRD is proposing to equip four
special groups with faster, higher-capacity equipment capable of providing
emergency assistance from strategic locations. The Bank loan would cover the
direct foreign exchange cost of this equipment.
3.10     Equipment for Pavement Management, Road Safety and Quality Control
(Table  25).   MOT  tries  to  keep  abreast  of  technological  developments,
particularly  in  the  western  world  countries.   After  familiarization  of
Hungarian technical staff, as part of the training program (para. 3.11) with
systems in operation in other countries, the tentative list of equipment would
be reviewed with the Bank (para. 3.33). The goals sought are (i) to improve
pavement management by acquiring a specially equipped vehicle to inventory and
record road and pavement characteristics and condition; (ii) to obtain state
of the art equipment for forecasting freezing conditions on bridge decks and
determining permeability of deck slabs to water and road salt solutions; and
(iii) to obtain non-destructive testing equipment for construction quality
control.
3.11     Training Program  (Table 23).  The proposed training would provide
technical staff with familiarization with recent developments and equipment in
the fields of traffic safety, pavement maintenance, renewal and management.
MOT is also interested in improving its knowledge of such diverse fields as
competitive bidding procedures, organization and supervision of construction,
decision-making techniques and consulting engineering activities.   The Bank
loan would finance direct foreign exchange costs (about US$260,000) of sending
Hungarian technicians abroad (about 80 man-months) for short programs of study.
In addition, the project would finance about five man-months of foreign
consultancy assistance (about US$50,000) to help produce suitable English
language, technical specifications for ICB (para. 3.20).
Hungarocamion (HC)
3.12     Fleet Modernization and Expansion (Table 26).  In spite of technical
shortcomings of about 48% of HC's fleet, good operations management gives the
company an edge in the highly competitive Western and Eastern European
markets. HC's program of fleet replacement (Table 21) would be self-financed.
The proposed Bank loan would finance about 40% of the direct foreign exchange
cost of the fleet development program consisting of: acquisition of increased
carrying capacity (from 15% to 20%), improved fuel efficiency (about 15%) and
longer life (about 30%) trucks.
3.13     Supporting Information Systems and Workshop Equipment (Table 26).  To
maintain the expanding truck fleet and increase HC's management and workshop
efficiency,  additional  equipment would be acquired.   The Bank  loan would
finance the direct foreign exchange cost.



- 22 -
Studies
3.14     User Contributions to Road Expenditures.  The project would include a
study of the present system of contribution by the road users towards road
expenditures and optimum utilization of the road network, to be carried out by
the Hungarian Institute of Transport Science (KTI) and local consultants.
This study would throw light on factors contributing to the inter-modal
traffic pattern, which is currently skewed in favor of railways, with a view
to investigating subsidies, user charges and pricing policy. The management
and staff of KTI are technically well qualified and competent.  Terms of
Reference (Annex 2) for the study were discussed during negotiations and
agreement was reached with the Government that the study would be initiated
not later than January 1, 1986 and completed by December 31, 1987.
3.15     Trucking Management Systems Studies and Related Training (Table 23).
Studies for HC by Hungarian consultants supported by foreign experts would
cover the following management related aspects of international trucking
operations,  namely:   (i)  information  system  requirements  (hardware  and
software); (ii) international marketing; (iii) development of container
services; and (iv) development of truck terminal facilities, near Budapest.
It was agreed with the Government during loan negotiations that these studies
would be initiated before January 1, 1986 and completed by December 31, 1987
using Terms of Reference (Annex 3) satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank loan
would cover the cost (about US$115,000) of an estimated 6 man-months of
international consultancy assistance including software acquisition, as well
as a provision (US$35,000) for technical visits abroad by HC staff in
connection with these technical studies
C. Cost Estimates
3.16     Project  costs  by  component  are  summarized  in  Table  3.1.   Cost
estimates were prepared by the agencies concerned, and consultants to MOT, on
the basis of quantity estimates from substantially completed detailed
engineering. Unit prices were based on quotations and experience on similar
works, updated to mid-1984 prices. The direct foreign exchange component for
civil works was estimated at 35Z of contract cost on the basis of direct
imports at international prices.  This  is  consistent  with  estimates  for
similar  works  on  projects  in  neighboring  countries.   The  total  foreign
exchange component (direct and indirect) of civil works was estimated at about
45%.   The  total  estimated  project cost  (including all  contingencies)  is
US$215.5 million with an estimated foreign exchange component of about
US$119.7 million, including physical contingencies of 13X of the costs of
modernization of the Ferencvaros marshalling yard and 10  of the costs of
highway  civil works and c-nstruction supervision.   Price contingencies are
based  on  cost  escalation  as  shown  in  footnote  to  Table  3.1.   With
contingencies included, the railway component was estimated at US$71.2
million; highway component at US$103.0 million and road transport (HC)
component at US$41.3 million, all including a total of US$1.2 million for
training and technical assistance. Taxes and duties were estimated to amount
to about 20% of total project cost consisting principally of duties on
imported equipment.



- 23 -
Table 3.1; Project Cost Estimates
(Mid 1984 Prices) 1/
Bank Loan
Forints (Millions)              US$ (Millions)         FEC S        US$
Local    Foreign    Total      Local   Foreign   Total   of Total    Million
Railway CoMponent
a. Modernization of Ferencvaros
Marshalling Yard             798.3     347.0   1.145.3       17.2     7.5     24.7        30        4.8
b. Track Renewal and
Maintenance equipment       220.0      515.0     735.0        4.7    11.1     15.8        70        7.7
c. Container Handling Equip.    339.6        288.0      627.6       7.3     6.2      13.5       46        3.8
d. Training Program                  4.7       5.7       10.4       0.1     0.1      0.2     _50          0.1
Subtotal                1,362.6   1.155.7   2.518.3       29.3    24.9     54.2       46        16.4
Highway Cswoonent
a.  Civil Works M-0 Motorway
(Km 13.9 - Km 2B.1)        1.646.1   1,343.9   2.990.0       35.4    28.9     64.3       45        22.5
b. Construction Supervision        111.6      18.6      130.2       2.4     0.4      2.8        14        0.1
c. Maintenance Equipment            18.6     106.9      125.5       0.4     2.3      2.7        85        2.3
d. Testing & Evaluation Equip.    4.6         41.9      46.5        0.1     0.9       1.0       90        0.9
e.  Training Program                 9.3      13.9      23.2        0.2     0.3      0.5        60        0.3
f.  Study of Road Users
Contribution                   4.7       0.0       4.7        0.1     0.0      0.1         0        0.0
Subtotal                1,794.9   1,525.2   3,320.1      38.6    32.8      71.4       46        26.1
HungarocauiOn
a. Vehicles                          -     1,395.0   1,395.0        -      30.0     30.0       100       12.0
b. Workshop Equipment                -        41.6      41.6        -       0.9      0.9       100        0.9
c. Management Studies
& Training                    14.0       4.6       18.6       0.3     0.1      0.4        25        0.1
Subtotal                  14.0   1,441.2   1,455.2        0.3    31.0      31.3       99        13.0
Total Base Cost                  3,171.5   4.122.1   7.293.6       68.2    88.7    156.9        56       55.5
Physical Contingencies (10S-13%)
Railway                        111.6      41.9     153.5        2.4     0.9      3.3         -        0.6
Highway                        172.1     135.0     307.1        3.7     2.9      6.6         -        2.2
Total                          283.7     176.9     460.6        6.1     3.8      9.9        38        2.8
Price Contingencies 2/
Railway                        358.0     279.0     637.0        7.7     6.0     13.7         -        4.0
Highway                        641.9     520.9   1,162.8       13.8    11.2     25.0         -        8.7
Hungarocamion                    0.0     465.0     465.0        0.0    10.0     10.0       _          4.0
Total                          999.9   1,264.9   2,264.8       21.5    27.2     48.7        55       16.7
Total                            4,455.1   5,563.9  10,019.0       95.8   119.7    215.5        56       75.0
1/ Exchange rate US$1.0 - Forints 46.5
2/  Based on the following annual inflation rates of (in percentage terms):
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Local Costs      8.5    8.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    6.5    6.5
Foreign Costs   -2.8    5.0    7.5   8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
Taxes and Duties: Railway Component Average 251: Braking Equipment 21%;
Track Maintenance Equipment, 32%; and Container Handling Equipment 15%.
Highway Component Average 17%; Civil Works 17%. Equipment 15t-40%.
Project Total: about 201.
43850



- 24 -
3.17     The proposed Bank loan of US$75.0 million would cover the direct
foreign exchange cost of the railway equipment and training, (US$21.0
million).  It would cover 35% of the highway civil works cost, and the full
direct foreign exchange cost of the highway maintenance, quality control and
pavement management equipment and of training, (US$37.0 million). Also about
401 of the direct foreign exchange cost of HC's vehicle component and the
entire foreign costs of workshop equipment, management studies and training
(US$17.0 million) would be financed by the Bank's loan.
D. Engineering
3.18     Detailed  engineering  for  both  railway  and  highway  works  is
substantially  complete  and  is  satisfactory.   Designs  for  the  railway
marshalling yard were prepared by  the  railway  planning  institute,  which
prepares all detailed engineering and studies for MAV, to Hungarian Railway
Standards (Annex 4), which conform to International Railway Union (UIC)
international standards and are satisfactory. The planning institute is well
staffed by competent professionals. Detailed engineering for the M-0 motorway
and bridges was prepared by WVATERV (para 2.22) and has received official
approval from MOT including the 2.8 km section closest to the junction with
the M-5 motorway which, at the Bank's suggestion, was added to the project at
the time of appraisal. During negotiations cost estimates were discussed and
confirmed with the Government.
E. Financing
3.19     The estimated costs of the project together with proposals for Bank
financing are summarized in the table below.
Table 3.2: Project Cost Financing
Balance
Total     Local     Foreign     Bank      of Funds
Project Component          Cost      Cost        Cost       Loan     Required
-           --- US$ million                 --
Railways                    71.2      39.4          31.8      21.0        50.2
Highways                   103.0      56.1          46.9      37.0        66.0
Hungarocamion               41.3       0.3          41.0      17.0         24.3
215.5      95.8        119.7      75.0        140.5
The balance of funds will be provided as follows; the whole of the US$50.2
million required for the railway component of the project, consisting of
US$39.4 million in local costs and US$10.8 million in indirect foreign costs
will be met from railway's own internally generated resources. No financing



- 25 -
gap exists, therefore, for this component of the project.   For the highway
component, the Bank loan will finance maintenance equipment, technical
assiLtance, and the direct foreign exchange element of the cost of civil
works. A financing gap remains of US$66.0 million, comprising the local costs
(US56.1 million) and indirect foreign costs (US$9.9 million) of the civil
works.   The HC component of the project consists almost entirely of direct
foreign costs, being the cost of procuring vehicles and equipment abroad, and
after allowing for the Bank's loan of US$17.0 million a financing gap of
US$24.3 million remains.  The total additional financing required  for  the
project (US$90.3 million) is being provided under B-loan co-financing arranged
in conjunction with the Hungarian Fine Chemicals and Livestock projects, in an
amount of US$420 million.
3.20     Retroactive financing for professional  (foreign) assistance,  in an
amount of not more than US$50,000,  to assist in preparation  of  technical
specifications and other bid documents for civil works and equipment is
included in the project.  This will ensure that a complete set of English
language technical specifications are available for the proposed ICB.  During
loan negotiations the progress made in preparing sample bid documents was
reviewed by the Bank and although civil works bid document preparation was
lagging that of other project components, it was nonetheless satisfactory. A
procurement seminar in Hungary, by Bank staff, was scheduled for June 1985 to
help resolve any outstanding matters.
F. Implementation
3.21     The investment management firm UTIBER-'  has been engaFed by MOT to
provide overall coordination of all project related activities, to monitor
progress and ensure that the various executing agencies comply with reporting
requirement and schedules. During negotiations the Government confirmed that
each executing agency (MAV, HC and MOT) would appoint an officer to:be
responsible for all project related matters of their component and to serve as
counterpart to UTIBER's coordination staff. This would be a special condition
of loan effectiveness.
3.22     Railway Components:  MAV would be responsible for implementation of
all  railway  related  activities.   Its  Material  Supply  Organization  would
procure the track renewal and maintenance machinery and container handling
equipment, eligible for financing under the loan.  The railway marshalling
yard improvement works are being carried out, under traffic, by MELUEPITO, an
independently managed enterprise which customarily executes all railway
construction works.  The organization is well staffed and the quality of its
work is good.  This improvement program will be executed in four phases,
namely: Phase I - construction of second exit track; Phase II - construction
1/ UTIBER is customarily employed by MOT to manage and supervise major civil
works  contracts  (para.  2.24  and  3.23).   It  is staffed by  competent
professionals who have satisfactory experience in all aspects of contract
management.



- 26 -
of departure head; Phase III - reconstruction of hump, bridge and the
installation of new braking system; and Phase IV - completion of above and
other works and testing. All phases of work will be completed by the end of
1988. During the time of reconstruction, the marshalling yard will operate
continuously except for one month. The supervision and acceptance of the work
would   be   the   responsibility   of   MAV's   Investment   Institute   (MAV
BERUHAZASI-IRODA) which is well staffed with experienced graduate engineers
and technicians.
3.23     Highway Components:  the Ministry of Transport would be responsible
for managing implementation of the highway components. After reviewing the
current Hungarian construction practice in regard to availability of personnel
(professional,   technical,  skilled  and  semi-skilled)  and  materials  and
discussing legal requirements for foreigners working in Hungary, it was
concluded that no constraint existed on a foreign firm working in Hungary.
Civil works contracts would, in consequence, be awarded to prequalified
contractors, satisfactory to the Bank, after ICB. The number of contract lots
is still under consideration.   During negotiations  it was agreed with the
Government that the proposed number of contract lots would be subject to
agreement with the Bank.  The project coordinating firm UTIBER (para. 3.21)
has been designated (under a separate contract) to also manage and supervise
construction of civil works, including preparation of bid documents (with
consultancy assistance, see para. 3.20), providing assistance to MOT in
contractor prequalification and bid evaluation in addition to normal site
supervision.
3.24     Road maintenance equipment would be procured by MOGURT, a foreign
trade company specializing in heavy equipment purchase, who would prepare the
bid documents and generally manage the bidding procedures. MOT staff would
participate in preparation of specification and bid evaluation.  A similar
arrangement would apply in connection with procurement of instruments and
testing equipment, only utilizing METRIMPEX, a foreign trade company which
specializes  in  technical   instruments.    These  arrangements  provide   a
satisfactory blend of procurement and technical expertise.
3.25     HC Components:   HC's Technical Directorate will be responsible for
preparation of technical specifications and for arranging for procurement of
trucks.   Draft  technical  specifications  and  bidding  documents  have  been
discussed with EC and were reviewed during loan negotiations.
Proiect Implementation Schedules
3.26     The railway and HC components are scheduled to be completed by 1989,
the M-O motorway civil works will not be finished until 1990, due to budget
constraints. Project implementation schedules are shown in Tables 27, 28,
and 29.  The  need  for regular quarterly progress  reports  and a progress
completion report within six months of the loan closing date has been
discussed with all  executing agencies.   During negotiations the reporting
requirements and implementation schedules were confirmed.
3.27     Land acquisition is a lengthy process in Hungary and will be started
in early 1985. Even so all acquisition and relocation may not be complete at



- 27 -
the start of 1986. The Government has stated that every effort will be made
to speed up acquisition. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
the Government, that all land needed for the project works wou'd be acquired
not later than June 30, 1986.
3.28     The project completion date would be December 31, 1990 and the loan
closing date would be June 30, 1991.  Allowing for some slippage, this would
allow sufficient time (over six months) for the release of security deposits
on supply contracts where performance guarantees are specified, and for
effecting final payments for civil works.
Action Plan and Operational Targets for MAV
3.29     The Action Plan would become an important means for extending MAV's
planning process, and would specify measures which would be required to
achieve planned objectives. These include organizational, planning, financial
and marketing objectives as well as improvements in technical and operational
performance. The overall objective of the Action Plan would be to improve the
utilization of capacity of the existing railway network, as a part of a
coordinated transport system, in order that it would play its proper part in
development of the national economy. MAV has prepared a proposed Action Plan
which has not yet been approved by the Government and which may change
significantly since the present proposal may not be fully responsive to fiscal
and organizational policy changes which would be introduced during the next
five year plan. During negotiations the Government agreed, however, to commit
itself to a project related Action Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, by October
1985,  sett-ing  out  operational,  organizational,  planning,  financial  and
marketing objectives in an agreed format (Annex 1, Table 1), in respect of the
components of MAV's investment plan for 1986-90 which would be assisted by the
Bank, and of the impact of these investments on the railway system as a
whole.   At the same time MAV would inform the Bank of its plans for the
development of the whole railway system in the period 1986-90, would continue
to implement and review its Action Plan annually and would keep the Bank
informed  annually  of  progress  in  achieving  planned  improvements.   These
aspects of operational performance would be carefully monitored during
supervision of the project.
G. The Loan, the Borrower, and the Beneficiaries
3.30     The borrower for the proposed loan would be the People's Republic of
Hungary. The beneficiaries of the project would be MAV (railway components),
KC (international trucking components), and MOT (highway components).   The
latter, as a government Ministry, would receive project funds through normal
channels.  The Bank would enter into Project Agreements with MAV and SC to
whom the Government would on-lend loan funds under terms and zonditions
satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 5.09 and 5.16). The on-lending arrangements
with HC would be such that HC would pay back the sub-loan over a period
consistent with the life of the assets (vehicles and supporting equipment)
financed. Any amount so repaid and not needed to service tae Bank's loan will
be  recycled  to  HC  for  the  future  purchase  of  similar  assets.   These
arrangements were confirmed with the Government during negotiations. Signing
of the subsidiary loan agreements would be a special condition of loan
effectiveness.



- 28 -
H. Procurement
3.31     Road and Bridge construction contracts totalling about US$75 million
(1986 prices) would be awarded to prequalified contractors in two or three
lots (para. 3.23) after ICB in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
Contractors would be prequalified to undertake either one or more lots.
Hungary has very limited experience in civil works competitive bidding (para.
2.23), though runway and terminal construction at the Ferihegy airport was bid
internationally with contractors providing their own designs.  In consequence
several decisions regarding matters such as whether to permit alternative
bridge designs and the nwnber of contract lots await further study by
Government officials. These points are being considered concurrently with the
preparation of draft bidding documents and would be subject to agreement with
the Bank. This was agreed during negotiations (para. 3.23).
3.32     All railway equipment will be procured through ICB.  The equipment
for modernization of the Ferencvaros marshalling yard, only a small portion of
the total requirement, would be installed by MELUEPITO under an on-going
contract (para. 3.22). The list of equipment and materials agreed between
Government and Bank for financing under the Loan, which are shown in Table 22,
are almost entirely unavailable from local manufacturers.   However,  should
domestic manufacturers participate in the bidding they would be accorded a
preference of 15%, or the applicable customs duties, whichever is lower.             l
3.33     Highway snow removal and maintenance equipment  (Table  25) will be
procured through  ICB (about US$2,300,000).  Most of evaluation and testing
equipment (Table 25) items (about US$400,000) would be procured through LIB
due to the limited number of suppliers of the required items, with at least
four  suppliers  from  three  different  countries  invited  to  bid.   During
negotiations the Government agreed that for the road evaluation vehicle
(equipment), HOT would undertake to conduct an evaluation, satisfactory to the
Bank, of pavement management systems and related mobile equipment in use in
other countries and to assess their suitability to Hungarian requirements,
before deciding which equipment to purchase. The decision would be subject to
Bank agreement. International shopping (if more than one supplier's equipment
is suitable for the particular pavement management system selected) or direct
contracting, if the evaluation vehicle (equipment) is proprietory in nature,
would be used in procurement.
3.34     HC trucks (Table 26) would also be procured through ICB.  HC would
purchase locally manufactured trucks as part of its replacement program (para.
2.35) so bidding for the fleet expansion trucks (para. 3.12) would be mainly
directed  at   foreign  manufacturers   from   eligible   countries.    During
negotiations the Government confirmed that the contracting arrangements and
delivery schedules for HC's trucks procured through Bank assistance would be
suitably phased in consultation with the Bank to ensure effective supervision,
and that the loan would finance about 40% of the cost of any such trucks
(para. 3.37).
3.35     All ICB for procurement of goods would be in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines.   All  highway  civil  works  contracts  and  contracts  for



- 29 -
bidding lots of goods of US$200,000 or more would be subject to prior review
by the  Bank.   This would  include  an  estimated  24  contracts  for  goods,
amounting to 90% of the total cost of equipment and materials financed by the
proposed loan.   Contracts for lesser amounts  would be  subject  to ex-post
review. Procurement of consulting services would also be in accordance with
the Bank's  guidelines.   An estimated  total  of  10  man-months  of  foreign
consulting services and 66 man-months of local consulting services would be
engaged  for  the  two  studies  and  construction  supervision  consultancy
assistance, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank which would be subject
to prior review.
3.36     The table below provides a summary of the type of procurement which
would apply to goods and works and services included under the project.
Procurement is not applicable to overseas training of Hungarian staff
(paras. 3.07, 3.11 and 3.15).
Table 3.3: Procurement Method
Not
Proiect Element                ICB      LCB      Other   Applicable      Total
(US$ Million) 1/              ---
Civil Works
Railways                   -        -          -         15.1 2/      15.1
Highways                  94.0      -          -          -           94.0
(32.9)    (-)        (-)        (-)         (32.9)
Equipment & Vehicles
Railways                  27.6      -         10.8 3/    17.3 4/      55.7
(20.7)    (-)        (-)        (-)         (20.7)
Highways                   3.2      -          1.2 5/    (-)           4.4
(2Z.7)    ()(1.0)              ()(3.7)
Hungarocamion             40.9      -          -          -           40.9
(16-9)    ()()-)(16.9)
Services
Railways                   -        -          -          0.4          0.4
(-)      (-)       (-)         (0.3)        (0.3)
Highways                   -        -          3.9        0.7          4.6
(-)      (-)       (0.1)       (0.3)        (0.4)
Hungarocamion              -        -         0.3         0.1          0.4
(-).     (-).      (0.1)       (0.0)        (0.1)
165.7      -        16.2        33.6        215.5
(73.2)    (-)       (1.2)       (0.6)       (75.0)
1/  Costs include estimated contingencies.
2/ Works under traffic including domestic materials (para. 3.22).
3/  Indirect foreign exchange component and equipment from CMEA countries.
4/ Small quantities of equipment produced in Hungary.
5/  LIB and either International Shopping or direct contracting for pavement
evaluation equipment (Para. 3.33)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan.



- 30 -
I.  Disbursements
3.37     Disbursements will be made to cover:
(a) 1001 of foreign (C.I.F.) and 1002 of local expenditures
ex-factory for railway equipment and materials, road maintenance
equipment, testing equipment and HC's workshop equipment;
(b) 40% of foreign (C.I.F) expenditures for trucks;
(c) 351 of total expenditures for civil works contracts; and
(d) 1001 of foreign expenditures for consultants services, training
and construction supervision.
With the exception of contracts valued at the equivalent of US$50,000 or less
all withdrawal applications will be fully documented. Disbursements agaihst
contracts valued at $50,000 or less would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures (SOE). Documentation to support expenditures financed under
SOE would be maintained by the Borrower in one location and made available for
review by Bank representatives upon request in addition to being audited by
auditors acceptable  to  the Bank  (para.  3.40).   During  loan  negotiations
confirmation was obtained of the foregoing arrangements.
3.38     To maintain an adequate flow of funds available to the beneficiaries
to finance eligible project expenditures (para. 3.37) with a minimum of
administrative delay, the Borrower will establish a Special Account (revolving
fund) at the NBH sufficient to cover about four months of project expenditures
(i.e. about US$5.0 million).  Records of the Special Account proceeds and
outlays would be available for review by Bank supervision missions and subject
to annual audit (para. 3.40). During negotiations confirmation was obtained
of the foregoing arrangements.
3.39     Based on the loan becoming effective in late 1985, a schedule of
estimated disbursements has been prepared and is shown in Table 30.
Disbursements for railway materials and equipment and HC's trucks are expected
to initially accumulate sooner than the Bank's average for railway projects
and then continue at about the average rate for such projects.   This  is
realistic since civil works in the marshalling yards are not being financed
under the project, so only equipment contracts for which disbursement is
faster,  is  involved.   For  highway  civil  works,  the  projected  rate  of
disbursement is close to the Bank's average experience for this type of
project.   This schedule which indicates a six year disbursement period is
slightly shorter than the disbursement profile for regional transportation
projects, where 851 disbursement of the loan amount is generally achieved
within six years of Board approval. Because Hungary is a new member of the
Bank, there is not yet an established profile for the country, however,
disbursements on projects in Hungary have been faster than the regional
average. The schedule was discussed and confirmed during loan negotiations.



- 31 -
J. Reporting. Accounts and Audit
3.40     The form of quarterly reports  in which  physical  progress  on  the
project would be communicated to the Bank was discussed with UTIBER, the
project coordinating agency, (para 3.21). The form of financial reporting was
similarly discussed.  It was agreed that separate accounts would be used to
record all project funds and expenditures and that the accounts relating to
the highway component of the project (para. 5.17), as for 'AY (para. 5.04), HC
(para. 5.15) and the Special Account (para. 3.38) would be audited each year
by  the General Banking and Trust Company.  The accounts and:the auditors
report thereon would be provided to the Bank within four months from the end
of  the  fiscal  year.   These  arrangements  were  discussed  and  agreed  at
negotiations.



- 32 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01     Hungary  attaches a very  high  priority to the improvement of its
external trade routes which carry more than 50 million tons of freight traffic
(import, export and transit) per year. Many important links in the transport
network are at times overloaded,  creating bottlenecks whose elimination is
urgent  for  the Government.   In particular, a number of important railway
marshalling yards have become totally outmoded.  Also special attention is
needed to introducing technological changes and improvements that affect more
than one mode of transport, such as:  containers, concen;ration of container
terminals and development of interface linkages with rail and other modes of
transport. Within the highway system, the radial roads spanning the country
from Budapest to its borders, which have within their inFluence areas most of
the  Country's   industrial  and  conmercial  activity,  are  generally   of
international significance.   The improvement of congested sections of these
roads would also benefit other countries so highway subprojects built around
these principal trade routes are of higher priority over others. Finally, a
significant opportunity also exists in the transport sector for improving
inter modal balance (para. 1.11) especially in foreign trade.
4.02     The proposed project components are intended to address all these
important aspects: provide additional capacity for Budapest marshalling yard,
modernize selected container terminals, divert the heavy through road traffic
away from Budapest city, and enhance international competitiveness of EC's
foreign trade services, which is in keeping with the Bank's country assistance
strategy.   The  ultimate  beneficiaries  of  the  proposed  project  would  be
transport users who, due to diversity of traffic using the transport network,
come from a wide range of sectors and income groups. The proposed project
would benefit international trade, foreign exchange earnings, and support
energy conservation (paras. 3.01 and 3.02). It is expected that the benefits
of the ;,roposed project, which initially would accrue to transport users,
would be passed on to the economy in general.
B. Proiect Costs and Benefits
4.03     The economic evaluation of the different subprojects is cased on the
feasibility studies undertaken by MAV, UVATERV and RC which are in the project
file (Annex 6). These studies were reviewed and discussed with the concerned
agencies and a number of marginal subprojects were reformulated or postponed
while more economically viable components were included as a rr ult of the
review.
4.04     The traffic projections for the different subprojects are based on
past traffic trends, origin-destination studies, and planned increases in
production and consumption in the zones of influence. The forecasts take into
account normal traffic growth and, wherever appropriate, the additional
traffic generated by the proposed project over the normal project life.
4.05     For calculating the economic benefits and costs, international prices
have been used for imported equipment, materiAls and other tradeable
commodities.   As  regards  the  latter,  prices of mainline  locomotives and



- 33 -
shunters produced in Hungary are significantly below the international price.
Land  and  other  non-tradeable  items  like railway ballast and aggregates,
skilled and unskilled construction labor have been valued at local prices.
Economic costs net of taxes were estimated for all investment costs,
maintenance costs and operating costs.
4.06     The quantitative economic analysis for the improvement of the railway
marshalling yard takes into consideration the major benefits from the
avoidance of traffic diversion due to capacity constraints. Expected benefits
from the track maintenance equipment include reduction in track and rolling
stock maintenance expenses due to reduced wear, savings in manpower and: in
operating expenses from the increased operating speed resulting from removal
of speed restrictions on poor tracks. The economic benefits from container
handling equipment would result mainly from quicker turn-round, resulting in
improved utilization of rolling stock, savings in manpower and reduction in
damages. Expected economic benefits of the project road construction include
savings in:  vehicle operating costs due to reduced  congestion,  shortened
travel  distances,  improved road  surfaces, and  reduced  travel times.  The
economic benefits from net additions to HC's vehicle fleet by outright
acquisition take into consideration savings in costs compared to other
alternatives such as leasing or hiring of vehicles. Benefits from improved
environment in Budapest city, due to diversion of heavy commercial vehicles
from the city, have not been quantified. Similarly, benefits due to reduction
in accidents in the improved operation of the marshalling yard have not been
taken into account.
4.07     In selecting the proposed investments, several alternative solutions
were evaluated such as utilizing the spare capacities of other marshalling
yards, improving or reconstructing the existing track or constructing a new
one, road construction of the two roadways at once or by stages, and
purchasing new vehicles as opposed to leasing. For each project alternative,
the most economic solution has been adopted.
C. Economic Return (ER)
4.08     Based on the most probable estimates of construction costs, operating
and maintenance costs and time costs, the proposed investments on the
transport (rail/road) project components produce economic returns (ERs)
ranging from 14% to 40% (Table 4.1). All investments would yield first-year
benefits of llZ or more. The weighted average ERs of all civil works and
equipment components, which account for about 972 of total project cost are
202 for the project as a whole, and 28%, 15%, and 172 respectively for its
railways, highways and HC's components. The above ERs understate the full
economic benefits of the project by excluding reductions in accidents,
environmental improvements and greater comfort and convenience of travellers
on the improved facilities. Sensitivity analyses were carried out to test the
effect of variation in construction and equipment costs and users' benefits on
the above estimates.   Even under the unfavorable assumptions of 15X higher
construction/equipment costs combined with a 15Z reduction in users' benefits,
the ERs remain acceptable within the range of 13% to 24% with an overall
weighted ER of 17Z. Net foreign exchange earnings and savings in convertible
currencies are estimated at about US$15 to 20 million annually at project
completion.



;34 -
Table 4.1; Economic Ret;.rr.. (ERs) and First Year Returns (FYRs)
Proportion               Sensitivity Analysis
of Totcl     Expected   Lower 1/   Higher 2/  Expected
Project Component                Investment       ER      Estimate   Estiuate      FYR
_____%  ---------- - - --
A. Railway
(i) Modernization of
Ferencvaros Marshalling
Yard                             17          30          25        35           23
(ii) Track Construction and
Maintenance Machinery             9          36          30        42           26
(iii) Container Handling
Machinery                         8           16         13        19           12
Subtotal (Railway)            34           -          -          -           -
Weighted Average               -          28          24        33          21
B. Highway
(i) Civil Works (Mo Motorway)
(K. 13.9 - 28.5 km)              45          14          12        16          11
(ii) Road Maintenance
Equipment                         1          40          34        46          30
Subtotal (Highway)           46            -          -          -           -
Weighted Average               -          15          13        17          11
C. Hungarocamion (H.C.)
(i) Vehicles                         19          16          13        19          12
(ii) Infrastructure Equipment
(e.g. Maintenance, Storage)       1          28         23         33          21
Subtotal (H.C.)               20           -          -          -           -
Weighted Average               -          17          14        20          13
GRAND TOTAL                       100           -           -         -           -
Weighted Average                               20          17        23           15
(Railway, Highway, and H.C.)
1/   Assumes 15S increase in construction costs combined with 15% decrease in benefits.
2/   Assumes 15% decrease in construction costs combined with 15% increase in benefits.
Source; Feasibility studies and mission estimates
January 1985
4385D



- 35 -
Railway Subpraiects
4.09     Modernization  of  Ferencvaros  Marshalling  Yard  -  The  Budapest
Ferencvaros (East) marshalling yard, destroyed during the Second World War was
rebuilt in 1952. The installations and equipment are badly worn out because
of the long usage. The yard is outmoded with obsolete technology. Skids are
used instead of secondary retarders.  Damage to the rolling stock and to the
shipped goods is considerable because of the poor condition of the rails and
unreliable braking equipment; the danger of accident is also very high. With
the improvements proposed, the present capacity of the marshalling yard would
improve from about 2,600 to 4,500 wagons per day and the total marshalling
time of car detention (reception, marshalling and train formation) would
decrease from the present average of about 15.30 hours to about 7.50 hours.
The modernization would also minimize the role of the other two yards in the
Budapest junction (Rakos and Rakos-rendezo) thus obviating the present
necessity of circuitous diversion of about 33% of the trains to the other
yards. This would result in substantial savings in rolling stock and motive
power. The improvement of the braking system would also minimize the damages
to rolling stock and goods, eliminate block braking and reduce operating
costs. The proposed improvements would thus alleviate a serious impediment to
smooth traffic flow and would yield a satisfactory ER of about 30X.
4.10     Track Construction and Maintenance Machinery - Hungarian railways are
characterized  by  high  volume  operation  on  a  limited  railway  network
(para. 2.02).   Considerable  wear  of  outer  rails on  curves  and wear and
flattening of the rail table pose difficult maintenance problems with steadily
increasing  costs.   Furthermore,  about  70% -of  the track  construction and
maintenance machinery is over ten years old and has outlived its normal useful
life.  Replacement and modernization of the low-efficiency limited-capacity
track machinery will upgrade MAV's maintenance capacity and reduce track
maintenance  costs.   It  is,  therefore,  of special significance  for MAV's
efficient operation and the proposed investments would yield considerable
benefits and produce a high ER of about 36Z.
4.11     Container Handling Machinery - Container traffic on MAV is growing
rapidly and there is an increasing demand for modern container handling
facilities  for  middle-sized  and  large  containers  at  selected  sites.
Investment in container handling equipment is based on MAV's operational plan
which takes into consideration change of track-gauge and the inter-face
arrangements needed at selected container terminals, on a priority basis, to
effect quicker turnaround, reduce damages of goods and provide quality
services. The proposed new investments are estimated to yield an ER of about
16%.  The railway subprojects combined (paras. 4.09, 4.10 and 4.11) would
bring annual cost savings of about US$ 10 million.
Highway Subproiects
4.12     Budapest By-Pass (M-0 Motorway) - The proposed section (Km 13.9 to Km
28.1) of M-0 motorway is the beginning of Lhe construction of a ring road
(about 90 km) designed to provide a by-pass around Budapest city. In absence
of the by-pass, the existing streets in the city are badly congested and



- 36 -
inadequate to handle the present and future traffic volumes.  Furthermore,
through traffic, particularly large trucks, acts as a great impediment to the
smooth flow of traffic, lowers the operating speeds and increases traffic
hazards. About 6,000 to 11,000 vehicles per day would have used this first
section of motorway in 1985,  had  it been constructed.   Furthermore,  the
traffic volume on this first section would immediately increase by about 50%
as soon as the section is connected with the motorways H-1 and M-7 by
completing the construction of the 13.9 km of next stage of this by-pass.
About 20% of this traffic would consist of heavy trucks, trucks, trailers,
vans and buses.  Traffic is expected to grow initially at 15% then drop to
about 5% per annum during the next 20-year period. Quantified benefits due to
the proposed project would result mainly from savings in congestion costs,
consisting of both vehicle operation costs and passenger time savings-L on
business trips. Savings in vehicle operation costs, excluding passenger time
savings, account for about 55% of the total benefits.  Because of two major
bridges and five important interchanges, the cost of construction per km of
this first section is relatively high.  Nevertheless,  savings  in  combined
vehicle operating costs and time costs are also very significant and are
conservative}y estimated to yield an ER of about 14%.
4.13     Road  Maintenance  Equipment  -  Considerable  traffic  hold-ups  are
experienced in winter in different parts of Hungary due to road icing, snow
falls and blizzards resulting in increased vehicle operation and time costs.
The proposed investment in modern road maintenance equipment such as high
capacity sand/salt spreading machines, rotary snow plows, etc., is primarily
designed to reduce the period of traffic delays during winter time. However,
about a half of the proposed equipment acquisition is multi-purpose and would
also serve for other maintenance operations throughout the year. Since with a
relatively small investment, the period of disruption to traffic could be
reduced significantly on the heavily trafficked trunk routes, the proposed
investments would produce substantial benefits and yield a high ER of about
40%.
4.14     Hungarocamion  (HC)  - Additional Vehicles - Net additions  to HC's
fleet are designed to improve its export earnings and enhance international
competitiveness (paras. 2.33 and 3.12).  Compared to other alternatives like
leasing/hiring of vehicles, outright acquisition of fuel-efficient lightbodied
vehicles proves to be the least cost solution to meet the special long haul
needs of HC. The proposed investment is estimated to yield an ER of about 16%
while the financial return to HC on account of the proposed addition of
vehicles is estimated at about 18% which is equally attractive. HC's combined
modernization and development program would yield estimated incremental net
revenues of about US$15 million equivalent annually.
1/ To take social overheads and indirect costs into account, time savings
were valued at 1.1 times the average hourly wage rate of travellers in the
influence area, for journey made for business purposes. Time savings for
other journeys have not been considered.



- 37 -
4.15     EC's Equipment - HC's infrastructure facilities such as maintenance
equipment and spare parts, storage equipment and improved information system
facilities are required for improved availability and utilization of trucks,
effective  inventory control  and better quality of services.   The proposed
investments are of special significance to HC for enhancing international
competitiveness and would yield a satisfactory ER of about 28Z.
4.16     Other Project Elements - Benefits could not be quantified for other
project elements, namely, technical assistance and studies, research and
laboratory equipment and training (about 3X of total project costs) which are
necessary for the project as a whole and whose benefits would permeate the
entire economy.
D. Project Risks
4.17     The proposed project supports high priority portions of the 1986-90
Investment  Plan  of  Hungary.   The  economic  justification  of  the  project
components has been well established even under unfavorable hypotheses
concerning project costs and users' benefits  (para.  4.08).   The  technical
solutions adopted are based on adequate engineering and technical studies.
The risks of delay in project execution are minimum. The preparation of model
bidding documents and specifications is well advanced and would be closely
monitored during project supervision. Consultant assistance is being provided
under the project (para. 3.20) where this might be a problem. Furthermore,
Hungarian transport agencies have built up competent managerial and technical
expertise. The Government is aware of the Bank's concern that the start of
civil works not be delayed due to problems in acquiring land and is devoting
particular attention  to  this matter  (para.  3.27).   Risks  from inadequate
project implementation are, therefore, minimal.
E. Environmental Impact
4.18     The highway project  is expected  to have beneficial  environmental
impact by the diversion of heavy traffic from Budapest city, thus reducing
traffic congestion, accidents and air pollution.  Noise barriers  and rest
areas with suitable facilities are provided in the design of the motorway.
Improvement of the Ferencvaros Marshalling Yard would sharply reduce shunting
operations in the yard and traffic between the three yards in Budapest
junction, reducing noise and pollution.  The improved braking system would
also reduce noise and accidents.  MAV's plans include electrification of the
shunting  operations   in  Budapest  junction  which  would  bring   further
improvements.  The modernization of RC's fleet of trucks can also be expected
to be environmentally beneficial due to reduced pollution characteristics of
the trucks.



- 38 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. General
5.01     The financial analysis presented in this section deals with the two
revenue earning entities of the project, MAV and SC, and is based on their
financial performance during the years 1981 to 1984 and their forecasts to
1989.   MAV and HC maintain  their accounts  in accordance with a National
Accounting Code which has been reviewed and found acceptable.
B. Railways
5.02     MAV is required to recover its operating costs and to finance almost
all its capital development from its own zevenues.   This it does and, in
addition, makes payments to the Government by way of income tax and payments
to national and local development funds.  Its freedom to increase charges is
restricted by a Government Board of Pricing. As a matter of urban policy the
Government has not set suburban passenger fares at the level which would
recover all costs and pays over a monthly subvention to MAV to cover the
difference. In addition the Government recompenses the railways for the loss
of revenues in certain concessional fares (e.g. pensioners and students). In
1982, the subvention had reached a level equivalent to 70Z of the passenger
revenues but following a 50Z increase in fares in 1983 the Government payment
in 1984 fell to about 45% of passenger revenues.
Past Financial Performance
5.03     Financial results for the years 1981-1984 are shown in summary in
Table 5.1. MAV's operating ratio increased from 80 to 90 over the past four
years principally as a result of the fall in passenger traffic and revenues.
When the operating ratio is calculated without the subvention it shows a 1984
ratio of 100; a creditable financial performance which few other railways can
match. MAV's operating revenues without the Government payment are sufficient
to cover the whole of its operating expenditure. The subvention does not,
therefore, as is the case with most railways, finance an overall operating
deficit. Instead, by adding to MAV's revenues, it gives a surplus from which
debt service, increases of working capital and most of its funds for
investments  are  provided.   It  should  also  be  noted  that  there  is  no
cross-subsidiy between freight and passenger services.  It is the Government
which pays MAV since it does not wish to raise suburban and concessionary
passenger fares to cover their full costs, because of the implications of
reducing the numbers of rail travellers and adding to urban congestion.
Commuters form the bulk of the passenger traffic; fares for journeys of 80 kms
and  more cover  their costs  i"  full.   The operating surpluses  have been
substantial (approximately 2U& of net revenue) which has enabled MAV to
finance its investment programs from its own funds.



- 39 -
Table 5.1 MAV: Summary of Financial Results 1981 to 1984
1981        1982         1983         1984
Actual      Actual       Actual      Estimate
-    --  FT-Million---
Tariff Revenue                30,723      31,713       35,148        35,437
Subventiona"                   7,218       6,613        5,726        ,3,883
Total Revenue                 37,941      38,326       40,874        39,320
Operating Expense             30,193      31,554       35,414        35,268
Net Operating Revenue          7,748       6,772        5,460         4,052
Interest                         116         134          444           584
Pre-tax Profit                 7,632       6,638        5,016         3,468
Operating Ratior'                 80          82           87            90
Operating Ratio
without subvention             98          99          101           100
1/ Governments compensation for suburban passenger fares and concessionary
rail fares.(e.g. for pensioners and st,udents).
21 Operating expenditure including depreciation divided by operating revenue.
Accounting Policy, Practice and Audit
5.04     MAV's Director of Central Accounting and Finance has an  internal
control section with responsibility for seeing that accounts are kept in
accordance with accounting regulations. Depreciation rates are at an adequate
level and accounting policies capitalize improvements from overhaul and
rehabilitation. Audits are made by the Directorate of Income and Control of
the Ministry of Finance which oversees matters of budget and taxation. The
accounting  practices  and  policies  are  acceptable.   The  present  audit
arrangements are designed to ensure compliance with tax regulations and are
not of the standard required by the Bank. It was agreed that beginning with
its 1986 fiscal year MAV will have its accounts audited annually by the
General  Banking  and  Trust  Company.   This  is  an  independent  auditing
organization acceptable to the Bank. The accounts and the auditor's report
thereon will be provided to the Bank not later than four months from the end
of each year (para 3.40).



- 40 -
Future Financial Performance
5.05     Income Statements, Cash Flow Statements and Balance Sheets for 1983
and 1984 with forecasts to 1989 are given in Annex 5 together with a
description of the major assumptions used. A summary of the Forecast Income
Accounts is given in Table 5.2. Financial results are forecast to improve
through the project period for the reasons given in the following paragraphs.
Table 5.2: MAV - Summary of Forecast Income Accounts
Estimate                Forecast
1984       1985      1986     1987     1988      1989
-----------FT Million--
Tariff Revenue         35,437     37,840   40,890   44,040   47,250   50,500
Subvention              3,883      4.500    4,840    5,180    5,520    5,860
Total Revenue          39,320     42,340   45,730   49,220   52,770   56,360
Operating Expense      35,268     37,230   40,380   43,110   45,880   48,580
Net Operating
Revenues              4,052      5,110    5,350    6,110    6,890    7,780
Interest                  584        620       640      680       710      750
Pre-tax Profit          3,468      4,490    4,710    5,430    6,180    7,030
Operating Ratio            90         88        88       88        87       86
Operating Ratio
without subvention       100         98        98       98        97       96
5.06     In 1984 MAV received two-thirds of its revenues from hauling freight
and this percentage is forecast to increase slightly during the project period.
The volume in net ton-kms is expected to grow at 2% per annum as a result of a
growth in the economy; MAV's improved ability to handle international traffic
in containers and because of new regulations introduced by the Government,
effective in 1985, which permits the payment of incentives to unload wagons at
weekends. Passenger traffic is forecast to increase at 1% per year. MAV has
plans for a major marketing effort, including the use of concessional off-peak
fares and incentives for foreign tourists.  Costs are estimated to increase
with the volume of traffic and inflation, offset by modest gains in
productivity.
5.07     The  estimates  reflect  the following agreements and understandings
reached during negotiations:
ta) the objectives set for MAV in the forthcoming National Plan will
aim at increasing the profitability of the railway;
(b) as a part of that policy the charges for hauling freight traffic
will be increased by at least the increase in the industrial
production price index;



- 41 -
(c) as a minimum the total of MAVs revenues shall be not less than
the sum of total operating expenses (including depreciation) and
the amount by which debt service exceeds the provision for
depreciation.
In practice the Government will require MAV to make a profit, pay income tax
on that profit and provide a contribution to its investments of the order of
90Z plus.  The estimates have been made on an assumption that the annual
payment by the Government for concessionary and commuter passenger fares will
remain about the 1984 level in real terms.
5.08     Forecast Balance Sheets for MAV are shown in Annex 5 while a summary
of past and projected financial results is given in Table 5.3. Both current
ratio and liquid ratio forecasts remain satisfactory during the project
period.   Return  on  resources  employed,  measured as pre-tax profit as a
percentage of Net Fixed Assets plus Inventories plus Wages (the normal method
in Hungary of assessing the adequacy of the return) is forecast to rise from
3.5% in 1984 to 6.9S in 1989.
Financing Plan: MAV
5.09     A financing plan for investments for the period 1985-89 is shown in
Table 5.4. The financing plan shows 982 of funds for investments being met
from MAV's own resources.  The Bank Loan will be on-lent  to MAV by  the
Government with an interest rate at least equal to the World Bank rate plus
30S. The Government would take the foreign exchange risk. HAV would repay
the loan over a period of 15 years including a grace period of 3 years (para.
3.30).  MAV's small borrowing requirement  presents no problems with debt
service coverage as internal resources in no year are less than 12 times the
debt service requirement.



- 42 -
Table 5.3:  MV - Financial Suamry
1981       1982       1983       1984       1985        1987        1989
Actual     Actual    Actual   Estimate   Forecast   Forecast   Forecast
__ ______-__-___-__(millions of current Forints)----------------------
Income Statement Items
Unit volume (TU millions)               37,340      35,840    33,758      33,529      34.087     35.236      36.424
Tariff revenue                          30.723      31.713    35,148      35.437      37,840     44,040      50,500
Subsidy                                  7,218       6.613     5.726       3.883       4.500      4.500       4.500
operating Revenue                       37,941      38.326    40.874      39.320      42.340     49,220      56.360
Net Operating Revenue                    7.748       6.772     5,460       4,052       5,110       6.110      7,780
Pre-tax Profit                           7,632       6.638      5.016      3.468       4,490       5.430      7,030
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                        10,438       9,214     9,967       9,935      10,368      12,170     14,692
Long Term Loans                             23         142        323         60         209         218           -
Equity Investments                           -           -          -        400         100           -           -
Total Sources                        10,461       9,356    10,290      10.395      10,677     12,388      14,692
Capital Expenditures                     7.332       6,615      6.531      6,436       6,045       9,018     11.033
working Capital Increase (Oecrease)    2,175           763       (186)      (129)      1,964         622        446
Debt Service                               189         208       467         611         724        872       1,044
Other Uses                                 765       1.770      3,478      3.477       1.944       1,876      2,169
Total Uses                           10,46i       9,356    10.290      10.395      10.677     12,388      14,692
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                          15.324      17,629    17,611      19,480      22,035     23,113      25.552
Less Current Liabilities                 1,510       2.975     2,761       4,600       5.494      6,364       7,794
Sub-total                            13,814      14,654    14.850      14,880      16.541     16.749      17,758
Other Assetsl/                           4,991       4,816     5.096       4,948       5.359      6.373       6.185
Net Fixed Assets                        78.664      79.201    78.678      77.160      74.550     72,030      71,110
Total Assets                         97.469     98.671    98,624       96,988      96.450     95,152      95,053
Debt                                        46         165       461         432         504        654         453
Equity                                  97,423      98.506    98.163      96,556      95.946     94,498      94,600
Total Liabilities and Equity         97,469      98.671    98,624      96,988      96,450     95,152      95,053
Ratios
Operating ratio&/                 (S)       80          82         87         90          88          88         86
Operating ratio without subsidy   (5)       98          99        101        100          98          98         96
Subsidy as percentage of
total revenue                      (5)     19          17         14         10          10          11         11
Return on resources_/             (5)      8.0         6.8        5.1        3.5         4.5         5.5        6.9
Debt service coveragell (Times)           45.0        39.6       19.6       14.5        13.0        14.2       14.2
Percentage of investments financed
from own resources                 (X)     97          98        95          93          95          98        100
Debt/Equity ratio                        -/100       -/100       1/99       1/99        1/99        1/99       1/99
I/ Net of other Non-current liabilities.
2/ Operating Expenditure divided by Operating Revenue.
3/ Profit before Tax as percentage of Net Fixed Assets, Inventories and Salaries.
4/ Profit after tax plus depreciation plus interest divided by debt service.
(43850/61)



- 43 -
Table 5.4:  M.A.V - FINANCING PLAN 1985-89
Cash Availability                      FT(mil)      FT(mil)           X
Internal Resources                          58,489             98
External Resources                           1,045              2
Total                                   59.534            100
Internal
Sources
After Tax Profit                            11,781             20
Depreciation                                41,040             70
Provisions                                   5,029              9
Other Sources                                  639              1
Total                                   58,489            100
Applications
Debt Repayment                                 642              1
Incentive Fund                               3,372              6
Income Working Capital                       4,416              8
Other Uses                                   7,128             12
Total                                   15,558             27
Net Available for Investments                       42,931             73
Financing of Investments
Net Internal Resources                      42,931             98
External Resources:
Grant" :                      100
IBRD Loan                    945         1,045              2
43,976           100
1/ For the equipment of a school.
Sensitivity
5.10     The increases in traffic volume forecast for the project period are
small but funds generation is nevertheless sensitive to a failure to achieve
the forecast traffic growth as shown in Table 5.5. After allowing for taxes,
the reduction in funds available for investments would amuunt to about 4% in
1985, 8% in 1987 and 13% in 1989, illustrating the cumulative effect on funds,
over a period of years, of lack of growth. An additional increase in tariffs
averaging 4.5% a year would be needed to restore funds to the level needed to
implement planned investments and to meet all other commitments.



- 44 -
Table 5.5: Reduction in forecast Pre Tax Profit as a
Result of No Traffic Growth
1985       1987       1989
--- Ft. Millions --
Present Forecast of Pre Tax Profit                  4,490      5,430      7,030
Forecast Pre Tax Profit if no traffic
traffic growth                                   4,032      3,917      4,155
Reduction                                             458       1,513     2,875
C. Hungarocamion
Past Financial Performance
5.11     Hungarocamion  competes  with  truck  companies  from  other  European
countries for both export and import traffic.  It has freedom to set its own
charges within a competitive sitcation.  It is an efficient and profitable
concern and has produced a return on resources as high as 41X. Profitability
fell sharply between 1981 and 1983 as shown in Table 5.6. This was caused by
the keener competition from other European truckers, which resulted from
difficult economic conditions and pushed rates down from an average of 3.9 Ft/
ton-km in 1981 to 3.4 Ft/ton-km in 1984.  Meanwhile, operating costs rose from
an average of 2.7 to 2.9 Ft/ton-km. Nonetheless, HC is still in a healthy
financial position; the operating ratio for 1984 was 84. To maintain and
improve this position HC needs tp expand its fleet with modern vehicles, which
will enable it to carry a bigger volume of specialized traffic, e.g. leather
clothing, and livestock and to do so in more efficient vehicles.
Table 5.6: HC - Summary of Income Accounts 1981 to 1984
1981        1982         1983         1984
Actual      Actual       Actual      Estimate
-       -   FT Million            --
Operating Revenue             4,131       4,367        4,553       4,961
Operating Expenditure         2 ^tl       3,277        3,731       4,151
Net Operating Revenue         1,220        1,090         822          810
Interest                          -          41           58          94
Pre Tax Profit                1,220       1,049          764          716
Operating Ratio %                70           75          82           84
Return on Resources Z1'          41           34          21           16
1/ Pretax profit as a percentage of net fixed assets, inventories and wages.



- 45 -
5.12     HC is responsible to MOT for the operation of its business.  After
preparation of its business plan for the year, covering operations and
finance, the plan is considered by a Plan Jury which includes representatives
from MOT, NPO, MOF ad  NBH.  After agreement at this  level, the plan  is
presented for approval to the Undersecretary of State of MOT, to whom RC has
direct responsibility. After the end of the year, HC must report to MOT upon
the outcome of its plan, both operationally and financially.
Future Financial Performance
5.13     HC's financial results are expected to remain at about the present
level through 1986 and then to improve through 1987 to 1990 when the effects
of the modernization and expansion of the fleet will show. Results of income
account forecasts are summarized in Table 5.7. A past and forecast financial
summary is shown in Table  5.8.  HC's  financial projections  are  based  on
traffic which is forecast to increase proportionately with the expansion of
the fleet and on revenues which would reflect the charges for the new
specialized vehicles. Costs take into account forecast inflation and reflect
the increased efficiencies which should result from the modernization of the
fleet and from the opening, late in 1984, of a new and well equipped
maintenance  workshop  in  Budapest.   The  estimates  are  conservative  and
acceptable. Details of the underlying assumptions are given in Annex 5.
Table 5.7: RC - Forecast Incomne Account Results
1985        1986         1988         1990
__      FT- F  Million --
Operating Revenue             5,245        5,462        6,878         8,623
Operating Expenditure         4,335        4,621        5,441         6,562
Net Operating Revenue            910         841        1,437         2,061
Interest                          94          99          137           180
Pre Tax Profit                   816         742        1,300         1,881
Operating Ratio Z                 83          85           79            76
Return on Resources Z             18           15          23            29



- 46 -
Table 5.8: Financial Summary - Hungarocamion (HC)
(see detailed Tables in Annex 5)
1981       1982        1983        1984         1986         1988        1990
Actual     Actual      Actual     Estimate    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast
-----------------------(millions of current Forints)-------------------------
Income Statement Items
Unit Volume (million paid kus)            98.2      113.5       121.6         133.7      139.6        161.7        184.5
Operating Revenue                     4,131       4,367       4,553        4,961       5.462       6,878         8,623
Net Operating Revenue                  1,221      1.090         822          810         841        1,437        2,061
Pre Tax Profit                         1,221      1,049         764          716         742        1,300        1,881
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources                       1,553      1,784       1,576        1,488       1,191        1,741        2,251
Borrowings                              321         117         251          -           382         382           497
Total Sources                    1.874       1,901       1.827        1.488       1.573       2,123         2,748
Capital Expenditure                      817        823         795          816         929          982        1.254
Working Capital Increase
(Decrease)                            (37)        187        (607)        (437)        106         (49)           79
Debt Service                              65         98         151          231         230         454           619
Other Uses                             1.029        793       1,488          908         308          736          796
Total Uses                       1.874       1.901       1.827        1.488       1.573       2,123         2.748
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                         1.986      2.077       1.687        1,562       1,806       2.067         2.360
Less Current Liabilities                586         420         602          847         908       1,110         1.281
Subtotal                         1.400       1.657      1,085           715        898          957         1.079
Other Assets 1/                           (9)      (129)         41         (334)       (386)        (436)         (33)
Net Fixed Assets                      2.386       2.579      2.829         3.491       3.911       4,407         5,081
Total Assets                     3.777       4.107      3.955         3.872      4.423        4,928         6.127
Debt                                     199        210         367          330         654       1,039         1,461
Equity                                3.578       3.897      3.588         3.542       3.769       3,889         4,666
Total Liability & Equity         3.777       4.107      3.955         3,872      4.423        4,928         6.127
Ratios:
Operating Ratio S 2/                     70          75         82            84          85          79            76
Return Before Tax on Resources % 3/      41          34          21           16          15          23            29
Debt Service Coverage (Times) 4/          16.2       10.8         6.2          5.2        4.5          3.3           3.4
Percent of Investment financed
from own resources %                   61          58         68           100         59           61            60
Current Ratio (Times) 5/                  3.4         4.9         2.8          1.8         2.0          1.9          1.8
Debt Equity Ratio                      5/95        5/95       9/91          9/91       15/85       21/79         24/76
1/  Net of Non Current Liabilities
2/  Operating expenaiture divided by operating revenue.
3/  Pre tax profit as percentage of net fixed assets plus inventories plus wages.
4/ After tax profit plus Interest plus depreciation divided by debt service.
S/ Current assets divided by current liabilities.
(43850/60)



- 47 -
5.14     During negotiations  agreement was  reached with  the Government to
provide that HC should take necessary actions to attain an operating ratio of
not more than 80 in 1988 and subsequent years. The achievement of this ratio
will result in revenues adequate to meet operating costs including depreciaion
and debt service.
Accounting Policies and Audit
5.15     HC keeps its accounts to the Hungarian National Accounting Standards
and these and its accounting system are acceptable. Tax auditors of MOF make
an annual review for compliance with tax laws but to comply with Bank standards
it has been agreed with HC, that begining in 1986 it will have its accounts
audited annually by the General Banking and Trust Company and will provide
copies of the accounts and the auditors reports thereon not later than four
months from the end of each year (para. 3.40).
Table 5.9:  Hungarocamion - Financing Plan 1986/90
Ft(mil)        Z       Ft(mil)        %
Cash Availability
Internal Resources                               7,888         79
External Resources                               22099         21
Total                                     9,987        100
Internal
Sources
After tax profit-'                               3,191         41
Depreciation                                     3,866         49
Other Sources                                      831         10
Total                                     7,888        100
Applications
Debt Payment                                     1,465         18
Incentive Fund                                     328          4
Transfers to State
Budget                                             798         10
Increase in Working                                280          4
Capital
Other Uses                                       1,784         23
Total                                    4,655          59
Net Available for
Investments                                     3,233          41
Financing of Investments
Net InternaL Resources                           3,233         61
External Resources:
IBRD Loan                   903         17
Co-financng               1,196         22       2,099         39
Investments                                     5,332         100
1/ Including transfers to reserve during the last year of the investment plan.



- 48 -
Financing Plan
5.16     HC can provide funds to finance the replacement of the existing fleet
and for most of the other parts of its capital program. A loan is required to
purchase 550 additional vehicles and this is to be provided in part by the
proposed Bank loan and in part by cofinancing. A financing plan for 1986-90,
shown in Table 5.9, shows 61% of the cost of investments as self financed and
the balance from the Bank loan and co-financing.  The NBH will pass on the
proceeds of the Bank loans at an interest rate at leas t equal to the Bank rate
plus 30%. The Government would take the exchange risk. HC would repay the
loan over a period of 6 years including 3 year grace. The amounts so repaid
and not needed to service the loan from the Bank will be available to HC for
the future purchase of similar assets (para. 3.30).
D. Highways Component
5.17     Bank funds for the Highway Component will be passed on to the MOT.
MOT will cause separate project accounts to be maintained for the Bank
financed parts of the investment program and have these audited by the General
Banking and Trust Company.   Copies of the accounts and the auditor's report
thereon will be provided to the Bank not later than four months after the year
end (para. 3.40).



- 49 -
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOHMENDATIONS
6.01     During  loan  negotiations  confirmation  was  obtained  from  the
Government regarding the following principal matters:
(i)   that not later than December 1986 the Government would have made
decisions in respect of those lines, out of the 600 km of
uneconomic lines, which would be closed by 1990; and that the
Bank would be informed of the decisions soon thereafter (para.
1.10);
(ii)   the  project  cost  estimates  and  the  Bank-financed   project
components (paras. 3.16, 3.17 and 3.18 and Table 3.1);
(iii)   the  appointment  of   UTIBER   (consultants)  as   the  Project
Coordinator (para. 3.21)
(iv)   the project reporting requirements and implementation schedules
(para. 3.26, and Tables 27, 28, and 29);
(v)   arrangements for the Government to on-lend loan funds to MAV and
HC (paras. 3.30, 5.09 and 5.16);
(vi)   the contracting arrangement and delivery schedules of HC's trucks
procured through Bank assistance would be suitably phased in
consultation with the Bank to ensure effective supervision
(para. 3.34);
(vii)   disbursement   arrangements   and   the   estimated   schedule   of
disbursements (paras. 3.37 and 3.39 and Table 30); and
(viii)   arrangement for establishing a Special Account (revolving fund)
with NBH to cover about four months of project expenditures
(para. 3.38).
6.02     During loan negotiations, agreements were reached with Government and
the beneficiaries on the following:
(i)   the RUC study, based on the terms of reference agreed with the
Bank would be initiated not later than January 1, 1986, and
completed by December 31, 1987 (paras. 3.14);
(ii)   the trucking management system studies would be  initiated by
Januarv 1, 1986 and completed by December 31, 1987, according to
the terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.15);
(iii)   the number of contract lots on highway civil works (M-0 bypass)
and the desirability to permit alternative bridge designs during
ICB would be subject to agreement with the Bank (paras. 3.23 and
3.31);



- 50 -
(iv)   all land needed for project works would be acquired not later
than June 30, 1986 (para. 3.27);
(v)   that a project related Action Plan satisfactory to the Bank would
be prepared by October 1985 and that MAV would continue to
implement and review its Action Plan annually and would keep the
Bank  informed  annually  of  progress  in  achieving  planned
improvements (para. 3.29);
(vi)   MOT would conduct an evaluation, satisfactory to the Bank, of
pavement management systems and equipment, in use in other
countries, before deciding which equipment to purchase.   The
decision would be subject to Bank agreement (para. 3.33);
(vii)   commencing 1986, MOT's accounts for the highway component, as for
MAV, EC, and the Special Account would be audited annually by the
General Banking and Trust Company as an independent auditing
organization acceptable  to  the  Bank.   The  accounts  and  the
auditors reports thereon would be sent to the Bank within four
months from the end of the fiscal year (paras 3.40, 5.04, 5.15
and 5.17);
(viii)   that the objectives set for MAV in the forthcoming National Plan
will aim at increasing the profitability of the railway; as a
part of that policy the charges for hauling freight traffic will
be increased by at least the increase in the industrial
production price index; and as a minimum the total of MAVs
revenues would be not less than the sum of total operating
expenses (including depreciatioa) and the amount by which debt
service exceeds the provision for depreciation (para. 5.07).
(ix)   that HC should take the necessary actions to attain an oprating
cost ratio of not more than 80 in 1988 and subsequent years
(para. 5.14).
6.03     During   loan  negotiations,   the  following  conditions  of  loan
effectiveness were discussed and agreed:
(i)  that subsidiary loan agreements be executed, by the Government
and beneficiaries, to relend the loan proceeds to M&V and HC on
the terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including
repayment periods consistent with the lives of assets financed
(para. 3.30, 5.09 and 5.16);
(ii)   that MOT, MAV and HC would each have designated an officer of
their respective agencies to act as counterpart to staff of the
Project Coordinators (para. 3.21).                    1
6.04     With the understandings indicated above, in paras 6.01 to 6.03, the
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$75.0 million to the Republic
of Hungary for a 15-year term including a three-year grace period.



51 -ANEX 1
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
RAILWAY COMPONENT
Scope and Content of Proposed Railway Action Plan (1986-1990)
1.       The content of the Action Plan, including key indicators, which will
be prepared for Government approval by October 1985, is shown in Table 1 to
this Annex.
2.       The scope of the Action Plan will include the operational,
organizational, planning, financial and marketing objectives, the expected
benefits and the indicators needed to reflect progress in implementing MAV's
component of the project and their impact both on each sub-component as well
as on the railway system at whole.
3.       The Action Plan covers the following matters:
{i)   the development objectives, measures and activities necessary to
achieve the targets and benefits which will be the result of:
(a)   improvement and modernizaton of the Farencvaros marshalling
yard;
(b)   improvement in track construction and maintenance
capability;
(c)   development of containerization of freight traffic; and
(d)   a training program.
(ii)   the impact of development of each project sub-component on the
entire activity of Hungarian State Railways.
(4397D)



- 52 -
TABLE 1
HUNM
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Railway Comonent
Sumanry Contents of the 1986-90 Action Plan
of the Hungarian State Railways (MAV)
I.  The contents of the 1986-90 Action Plan relating to Parts At1. (21 and (31 of the Proiect
-    development objectives by project comronents
-    results of the development shown by technical and economic indicators
-    financial results of the development
the impact of the above results for the entire activity of the Hungarian State Railways (MAV)
II. The technical and economic indicators to be analyzed by project cgononents           Actual          Planned
1.   Modernization of Ferencyaros Marshalling Yard
a) wagon-waiting-tine (in hours) in-out time
b)  utilization of the shunters (kinday)
c)  labor used in the marshalling activity (employee/wagon)
d) Marshalling operation cost (Ft/wagon) 1/
2.   Imorovement in track maintenance capability
a)  planned for track maintenance
-   capacity for railway lines maintenance (track-km/year)
-   capacity for regulating switch maintenance (number of groups/year)
b)  labor used for track maintenance (employees/km)
c)  labor used for switch regulation (employees/switch groups)
d)  track maintenance cost (Ft/km) J/
3.   Development of containerization of freight traffic
a) container freight traffic performance (tons-km/year)
b) foreign exchange earnings in the container freight traffic (in US$/year)
c)  average container turn-around time (in days)
III.     The impact of develooment of oroiect components for the entire activity of MAY
a) average dialy performance of freight wagons (km/day)
b)  wagon turn-around time (in days)
c)  average speed of freight trains (km/h)
d)  productivity of railway freight traffic (ntkm/ton of capacity)
e) freight traffic income of MAV (in Ft per year) 1/
f)  staff productivity (traffic unit 2/ per employee)
1/ In current prices.
V/ Traffic unit (t.u.) is net-ton-km + passenger-km.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAILIROAD) PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for Road Users' Contributions (RUC) Studcl'
A. Objectives
1.       The study shall determine whether the existing system and levels of
RUC for different types of road vehicles are adequate to ensure optimum
utilization and development of the road network and to cover the
infrastructure costs, particularly, damages which they inflict on roads.
Based upon analyses of the present situation, the study shall propose
reasonable alternative remedies for correcting any distortions or deficiencies
which may exist in the present system and levels of-RUC.
B.  Scope of the Studv
2.       With the aim of economic efficiency in view, the consultants shall
for the current situation:
(i   estimate the costs attributable to road use;
(ii)   allocate these costs to the principal categories of vehicles;
(iii)   estimate the total RUC made by each vehicle category and compare
them to the corresponding road use costs;
(iv)   project future revenue and assess economic effects on the
assumption that existing tax levels and vehicle regulations will
remain unchanged; and
(v) propose changes on the levels and forms of contributions that
would enhance the efficiency of the transportation system.
3.       The study shall cover the entire road network depending on the
availability of information. The main focus of the study shall be on
inter-urban network.
C. Data, Local Services and Facilities to be Provided by the Government
4.       The Government shall provide the consultants entrusted with the study
with all available data on:
(i)   present pricing policy and transport regulations;
1/ The Government's terms of reference which substantially conforms to this
outline were reviewed during negotiations and found to be satisfactory.



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
(ii)   road costs and road transport revenues, including national and
local taxes;
(iii)   the operations and accounting systems of the Government and local
authorities responsible for road and road transport maintenance,
operation and administration; and
(iv)   such data on fiscal and financial policy which would materially
assist the study.
D. Time Schedule
5.       The study shall commence, including field-surveys, within 60 calendar
days of the effective date of this contract and the consultants shall submit
the following reports within the time period mentioned against each:
(i)   Inception Report - within three months of contract effective date
specifying in particular:
(a) methodology; and
(b) data requirement and availability (_ copies in Hungarian
copies in English);
(ii)   Progress Report - Quarterly after the approval of the Inception
Report until conclusion of work;
(iii)   Interim Report/Situation Analysis - A summary of the initial
findings surveying the present system of road users'
contribution, its financial and economic implementations from the
aspects of taxation and distribution of road funds, within five
months of the contract effective date, (     copies in
Hungarian,  _  copies in English);
(iv)   Report on Estimation of Existing Vehicles - specific
contributions and attributable costs - itemized under different
types of taxes, fees, other payments, etc., within 12 months of
contract effective date, (    copies in Hungarian,  _  copies in
English);
(v)   Report on future contributions and attributable costs for
different categories of vehicles taking into account present and
future costs of road investment, modernization, maintenance and
congestion, highlighting the economic and financial implications
thereof, 18 months from the contract effective date {    copies
in Hungarian, - copies in English); and
(vi)   Draft Report - on impact of RUCs on commodity prices and
alternative proposals for RUC to increase efficiency in the
transportation system, within 24 months of contract effective
date and finalization within 30 months from contract effective
date, incorporating comments from the Government and the Bank.
4397D/4



- 55--
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 8
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Outline of Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Studies
for HungarocamionL'
A. General
1.       In order to maintain and/or increase its competitive edge
Hungarocamions (HC) will need the assistance of consultants to conduct studies
in the following areas:
(i)   information systems;
(ii)   international marketing;
(iii)   development of container services; and
(iv)   development of truck terminal facilities in the Budapest area.
B. Obiectives of the Studies and Assistance
2.       The objectives of the proposed studies - and of the specific
technical assistance in key areas - are as follows:
(i)   information systems:  to review, identify and advise of the best
suited hardware and software information equipment and programs
so as to fulfill the requirements for HC operations and
adiministration;
(ii)   international marketing:  to review present marketing operations
and practices in Hungary and abroad, in particular regarding the
role of HC's foreign subsidiaries, with a view to increase,
through subcontracting, HC's capacity at no additional investment
in equipment;
(iii)   container services:  to review HC's share of the overseas ISO
container market and to propose a strategy in services equipment
and facilities which would lead to:
(a) increased cooperation with Hungarian Railways (MAV) and other
international railways, and
(b)  increased coordination with Hungarosped (HS) and/or other
Hungarian and/or international freight forwarders;
l/ Government and beneficiary comments amplifying and prioritizing certain
aspects of this outline were reviewed during negotiations and found
satisfactory.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 8
(iv)   truck terminal:  to review the investment requirements,
objectives, and rationale for a truck terminal in the Budapest
area offering services to foreign trucks, coordinating
return-loads, and operating as a pool of sub-contracted truck and
container capacity.
C. Contents of the Studies
Information Systems Study
3.       The consultant will review inter alia the following:
(i)  current systems, documents and procedures for in-house control of:
- personnel administration;
- budgetary control and projections;
- accounting, including revenue and expense control, and
projections;
- commercial bookings and projections;
- rate setting;
- shipment control;
-  preventive maintenance; and
- fleet control.
(ii)   current systems, documents, procedures and communications for the
controL of:
- truck and container dispatching;
- international vehicle control and location;
- en-route vehicle communications;
- international comnercial booking control;
- fuel efficiency control;
-  trip-time control;
- subcontracted capacity utilization; and
- capacity availability and constraints.
4.       On the basis of the above the consultant will identify the most
suitable hardware and software electronic equipment to fulfill the required
needs, and will proposed adequate programs and investment requirements for
items listed in 3(i) and 3(ii).
5.       In addition, the consultant will price the required hardware and
software requirements and suggest a long list of suppliers suitable for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank loans.
6.       The consultant will specifically assess the timing, quantity and cost
of technical assistance required, if any, to implement the proposed programs.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 8
7.       It is estimated that this study will require about six (6) weeks of a
foreign consultant effort - of which four (4) weeks in the field - at an
overall foreign cost of US$23,000.
International Marketing Study
8.       The international marketing of HC needs to be improved in scope, role
and penetration.
9.       In particular, the marketing scope of HC's agency network should be
expanded to include an increased share of: containerized freight, foreign
subcontracted truck capacity, and modal interface with european railways and
shipping lines (intermodal shipments).
10.      Specifically, the role of HC's foreign agency network, should be
expanded to include the negotiation of inbound-outbound container freight
contracts through port areas and/or through freight-forwarding door-to-door,
port-to-door, and door-to-port arrangements.
11.      In the same manner, the penetration of HC's overseas marketing should
be complemented through more extensive use of door-to-door
"thru-bills-of-lading" for containerized freight either through HS or directly
by HC as prime contractor.
12.      The consultant will review the present scope, role and penetration of
HC's marketing in Budapest and at each one of HC's foreign agencies. On the
basis of the above the consultant, with the assistance of an "ad hoc" foreign
expert, or experts, as necessary will identify the potential for:
-   increased use of subcontracted truck capacity on traffic, in
particular containerized traffic, destined to Hungary'from
european ports or agency cities, and vice versa;
-   increased use of combined truck/railway services for same origin;
destinations and freight, in particular containerized freight, as
above;
-   increased coordination with HS and/or other Hungarian or European
freight forwarders on door-to-door containerized overseas traffic
originated and/or destined to Hungary;
-   possible use of combined TIR and/or FIATA "bills-of-lading" on
overseas containerized shipments (truck-rail, truck-ship,
truck-rail-ship) with HC acting as prime-carrier/contractor for
revenue control purposes.
13.      The consultant will review the pricing prospects for the potential
traffic mentioned in paragraph 12, and will assess the desirability of such



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 8
traffic for HC on a cost plus profit basis taking into account the increased
overhead cost requirements at HC's foreign agency network. The consultant
should substantiate his findings in traffic/revenue projections for five (5)
years.
14.      Should the potential traffic volume-revenue projections show positive
results, the consultant will propose adequate measures of staffing, commerical
support and control, followed by a strategy for the development of adequate
sales systems and programs at headquarters and at the various foreign
agencies. The development measures will be substantiated in a program for the
next five (5) years.
15.      When reviewing traffic development potential and economic parameters
the consultant will visit' HC's most important agencies and traditional markets
and familiarize himself with the commercial behaviour of freight-forwarders,
trucking and shipping companies operating in the areas.
16.      The consultant will assess the time, cost and quantity of technical
assistance required for training of HC's commercial staff in Hungary or
abroad, and will propose a program (including technical visits abroad and/or
in-house seminars. as convenient) "ad hoc".
17.      It is estimated that the proposed study will require about four (4)
man-months of local consulting effort supplemented by one (1) man-month of a
foreign marketing expert and by one (1) man-month of a freight-forwarding
expert, at an overall foreign expert cost of US$30,000.
18.      It is estimated that the marketing study could be completed in about
six (6) weeks with a draft preliminary report at the end of the seventh week.
Container Services Study
19.      In the modal split of Hungarian international transport HC holds a
minor share of about 3Z (30 million tons by rail against 1 million tons by
road per year). This share is even more negligible in the transport of
international containerized freight and should improve significantly.
20.      The container services study should review HC's share of the overseas
ISO container movements, the potential for containerization of exports in
Hungary, and the price trends for international transport of ISO c.ontainers on
different routes by the various surface modes.
21.      The consultant should study the present and potential trends for
inbound and outbound overseas and continental ISO container movements by
origins, destinations, ports of entry and exit. It should make projections
accordingly.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 8
22.      On the basis of the findings of paragraphs 20 and 21. the consultant
should:
(i)   provide an economic diagnosis of container routes to/from Hungary
from/to ports by the following modes anci,or situations:
(a) roads only
(b) combined road/rail
(c) container as "return-load" freight
(d) overseas door-to-door container controlled by HC.
(ii)   propose a strategy of marketing, services, equipment and
facilities leading to capture a more substantial share of
container movements in those commodities or routes providing
higher economic incentives as shown in 22 (a).
(iii)   propose a strategy to promote cooperation with MAV and other
european railway in routes and/or for origins and destinations
where road transport is not competitive;
(iv)   propose a plan for marketing MAV inbound and outbound container
traffic through HC's international agency network; and
(v)   propose a plan for increased HC and HS coordination in the
handling of door-to-door overseas container freight.
23.      The container services study should be carried-out parallel to, or in
connection, with the proposed marketing study.
24.      It is estimated that the container services study would require about
two (2) man months of local consulting effort supplemented by one (1)
man-month of a foreign expert in containerization at an overall foreign cost
of about US$15,000.
25.      It is estimated that the container study could be completed in about
four (4) weeks with a draft preliminary report at the end of the fifth week.
Feasibility Study for a Truck Terminal
26.      HC has decided to invest in a truck terminal facility.  The proposed
investment would be jointly owned by HC and other institutions. The rationale
for the truck terminal facility would be mainly to provide services to foreign
trucks destined to or in transit through Hungary, to coordinate return loads
for such trucks and to operate as a pool of sub-contracted truck and container
capacity.
27.      A tentative location for the terminal facility has been proposed in
land adjoining HC's No. 2 Maintenance Depot. The proposed truck terminal



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 8
facility would therefore be complemented by the maintenance and container yard
services already available in HC's No. 2 Depot.
28.      The present document outlines the terms of reference for the
feasibility study of the terminal facility.
29.      Objectives of the Truck Terminal:  The underlying objective of an
international truck terminal in the Budapest area is to offer services to
visiting and transit vehicles in particular for:
(i)   technical requirements and maintenance;
(ii)   return-load facilitation;
(iii)   storage-in-transit of goods;
(iv)   inland container depot receiving and dispatching;
(v)   customs and document formalities;
(vi)   hotel, restaurant, telecomnunications and banking services; and
(vii)   parking areas.
thereby contributing to decongesting the urban area of truck traffic.
30.      Contents of the Study:  the study will encompass three stages:
(i)   the first stage will include the analysis of current demand,
current costs and demand projections;
(ii)   the second stage will include the economic and financial
feasibility studies to determine the appropriate scale of an
international truck terminal;
(iii)   the third stage will inciude the necessary technical studies for
establishment of the international truck terminal up to the
preliminary engineering stage, and prepare the terms of
reference, estimates and technical specifications for the final
engineering.
31.      The study shall cover the entire proposed system of services and will
be aimed at recommending the most appropriate investment program. In all
cases, economic criteria (benefit-cost ratios, net present values (NPV) of the
investment and economic rate of return (ERR) shall be computed and savings
identified. Their sensitivity to such uncertain variables as vehicle load
factors, traffic diversions to the railway and reduced urban congestion shall
also be assessed.
32.      First stage:  the consultant shall conduct an analysis of current
demand classifying and quantifying truck and container international movements



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 8
converging in and/or in transit through Hungary. He will, in particular,
evaluate empty-return movements and evaluate the potential and marginal cost
of subcontracting empty capacity.
33.      The consultant shall conduct an analysis of current transportation
costs with and without terminal services, and will determine costs incurred by
loss of time, theft, damage, handling and storage, container-to-truck
transfers, costs of congestion, foreign exchange costs, empty-return costs,
etc.
34.      Finally the consultant shall make demand projections for (10) years,
with and without truck terminal facilities for road traffic of trucks and
containers. 
35.      Second Stage:  the second stage will encompass firstly, an analysis
of the projected capacity of the various services to be offered by the
terminal; it will also include a yearly statement of projected income and
expenditure for the proposed project. Secondly, it will encompass the
pre iminary design, costing, economic and financial justification of the
investment, the program of works for the selected project, and the proposed
administrative framework for operating the facilities.
36.      On the basis of these detailed costs, the economic feasibility of the
project will be calculated (NPV, ERR).
37.      A financing plan and a work program will be prepared.  The financial
cost estimate for all the works will be broken down to show local and foreign
exchange cost components. The foreign component will include such items as
depreciation on equipment, certain materials and goods, remuneration of
expatriate personnel, and expenses incurred by, and profit accruing to, the
foreign contractors, if any. The local component will include cost of site
purchase, materials and other domestic products, wages of local personal
taxes, etc.
38.      The consultant will study possible charges to users of the services
offered in the proposed project, together with all other associated income, in
order to proposed a proper cost recovery system. The consultant will project
income and expenditure estimates, cash flows and draw up yearly financial
statements.
39.-     On the basis of this calculation and of the income projections, the
financial feasibility of the project will be calculated, together with
financial statements for a ten-year period.
40.      Third stage:  this stage will include the technical studies for the
establishment of the terminal up to preliminary engineering and preparation of
the terms of reference for the final engineering, including technical
specifications and contractual bidding documents.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 8
41.      Manpower and Reporting Requiirements:  It is estimated that the
proposed study would require about nine (9) man-months of local consulting
effort and about three (3) weeks input of a foreign expert at a foreign cost
of US$12,000.
42.      The consultants should prepare the following reports:
(i) interim report, at the completion of the first stage (first
month);
(ii) draft final report at the completion of the second stage (second
month);                                      -
(iii)   final report at the completion of the study (-third month).
Technical Assistance and Visits
43.      The proposed studies would be complemented with technical assistance
in Hungary and/or technical visits abroad, as required, on an "ad hoc" basis.
The foreign cost component for technical assistance and visits can be
estimated at around US$20,000.
(4397D/12)



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Railway Component
Design Characteristics of Railway Works
Ferencvaros East Marshalling Yard
1.0 Capacity of Yard
1.1  Designed capacity of marshalling yard               4.500       wagons/day
1.2  Number of distribution-departure tracks                32       tracks
1.3  Number of receiving tracks                             14         "
1.4  NIumber of retarders                                4x2=8       units
2.0 Operational Performance
2.1  Pushing speed to hump                                 1.5       mlsec
2.2  Permitted speed in distribution group               4.8+0.2     m./sec
2.3  Distance between two wagons(between axles)           16.0        m
2.4  Axle load: maximum                                   23.0       t/axle
minimum                                   4.5         "
2.5  Minimum wheel load                                    2.4        t
2.5  Maximum wagon length                                 20.0        a
2.7 Rolling resistance:
maximum (without wind effect)                   7.5       kp/t
minimm                                          1.0        of
2.8  Maximum length of wagon group                        60.0        m
3.0 Secondary continuous braking and speed regulating system
3.1  Maximum energy absorption at the system;            Eca = 1,500J, at speed
of
V = 4.25 + 0.2(m/sec).
3.2  Maximum energy absorption by open retarder          Ecfa < 20J, at speed of
elements:                                     V = 1.5 + 0.2(m/sec).
3.3  Minimum safe running speed                          Vm= 20 km/h
3.4 Each retarder element is designed to accept
a minimum of one million cycles(axle passings)
without maintenance.
(4397D/21)



- 64 -
AMNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
RAILWAY COMPONENT
Financial Analysis
A. General
Hungarian Accounting Practices
1.       Both MAV and HC prepare financial reports using stanidard formats
presented by MOF. The financial reports received by the mission from both
agencies were made in a form agreed by the Bank for use in previous Bank
projects. Although the normal Hungarian accounting practice in consolidating
accounts from different enterprises is to make line by line additions of
income account and balance sheet items, Bank staff were assured that MAV had
eliminated inter-regional balances and transactions resulting from the
consolidation of accounts from its regional directorates.
2.       Other principal variations from generally accepted initernational
accounting principles concern inventories, which are valued at cost and not at
estimated realizable value, and disposals of assets, which are adjusted
directly in the balance sheet and do not affect the income account. A further
variation, which arises from Hungarian tax law but does not affect the
accounts presented, is the practice of reducing the tax liability by charging
to income account the repayments of loans from the State Development Bank.
Similarly, voluntary transfers to the reserve fund, as in 1989 and 1990 in the
case of HC, reduce tax liability while after tax profit is reduced by the
amount of the transfer.
3.       An enterprise's after tax profit must be allocated to three funds -
the Reserve Fund, the Incentive Fund and the Development Fund, each of which
in the past has been held in a separate account with NBH. This segregation of
the accounts by NBH no longer applies after 1984. The use of the Reserve Fund
has generally been restricted to cover losses, or to bring funds available to
the organizations to planned levels. Enterprises had, by law, to transfer a
proportion (generally 20X) of after tax profits to this fund. However,
transfers to the reserve fund are now voluntary and the obligatory transfers
are no longer made. From the Incentive Fund the enterprises may make bonus
payments to employees, to stimulate output and to reward meritorious
performance. However, the cost to the enterprise of making such payments is
heavy since it must pay a steeply progressive tax on all moneys so paid, and
the tax paid is nearly double the incentive payments. The balance of after
tax profits goes to the Development Fund which is used to finance working
capital and investments. As the transfers to and from each fund depends on



- 65 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
several factors such as tax rates, annual capital needs etc., the presentation
in the forecast balance sheets has been simplified to show the Reserve Fund
and other funds.
B. MAV
4.       International Traffic.  Hungary is a comparatively small landlocked
country and it is not therefore surprising that in traffic volume (NTKm),
international traffic (54% of total in 1984) is bigger than domestic traffic,
although in tonnage, amounting in total to 120 million tonnes, the proportions
were: domestic - 601, export/import - 26%, and transit - 14%. MAV's
international traffic, including imports of coal, oil and ores as well as
exports of more highly rated commodities, fell by 81 between 1981 and 1982
because of the economic downturn in Europe it that time. Since then
international traffic has grown at an average rate of approximately 2% per
year and this trend is forecast to continue through the period of the
project. MAV is a member of UIC and has excellent operational and commercial
relations with railways of countries on all sides. The Hungarian part of a
new Yugoslavian border station at Subotica, which will combine operational,
commercial and customs facilities, has been completed and will become
operational in the near future when work on the Yugoslav side is completed.
This will greatly facilitate import/export traffic by rail, with and through
Yugoslavia. Traffic is presently restricted by the inadequate border
facilities which result in an inability to schedule trains to carry all the
offered traffic. The expansion of international traffic will also be aided by
the opening, this year, of facilities which will double the capacity for bogey
changing ' on the border with USSR. As the charges for international and
transit traffic are higher than those for domestic traffic, MAV's revenues
will benefit more than proportionately from the increase in volume.
Domestic Freight
5.       Volume of MAV's domestic freight traffic, which had been steady over
a number of years up to 1982, fell by 91 in the following two years the
introduction of a five-day working week. This almost eliminated the practice
of loading and unloading of wagons during week-ends and increased wagon turn
around time. New wage regulations, which took effect in January 1985, give
incentives to load and unload during week-ends and are expected to remedy this
situation, thus increasing MAV's productivity and its ability to carry the
traffic offered. Other factors which should result in the achievement of the
forecast 2% per annum growth in freight traffic are: (i) the removal of
bottlenecks on main lines, (ii) marshalling yard and terminal improvements,
which would be implemented under the project, and (iii) the construction of
industrial sidings, for which government grants are available. The freight
traffic forecast is consistent with the planning objectives of NPO for an
increase in freight transport of up to 101 over the next five-year period,
with railways slightly increasing its share. NPO's forecast is realistic and
makes allowance for rationalization of production and distribution processes.
1/ Wagons are switched from standard gauge to broad gauge bogeys and vice
versa at the border.



- 66 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
Passenger Traffic
6.       MAV's passenger traffic, which by 1983 had fallen by about 7% from
its 1980 level rose by 2% in 1984. Urban transport planning emphasizes
multi-modal aspects of transport with both rail and buses feeding Budapest's
peripheral underground stations. MAV is making determined marketing efforts
to increase its international passenger traffic (15% of total PKm last year)
with the formation of MAVTOURS with offices in Vienna, Frankfurt and other
foreign centers. MAVTOURS will work closely with hotels and other tourist
agencies. Passenger traffic forecast is for an overall increase of 1% per
year in volume (PMm) over the project period.
7.       Costs.  As with most railways, wages is the biggest expense item in
MAV's income account, comprising 33% of the total in 1984 while depreciation
and materials each comprised 19%. The materials proportion appears high but
includes maintenance materials, spare parts and also some construction
materials. The cost of the construction element including direct overheads,
is credited to the income account under 'Other Revenue'. Other expenses,
comprising about 11% of total operating costs, include, as main constituents,
contract maintenance, wagon hire, hire of computer capacity and local delivery
services. Interest charges include interest on short term debt for loans from
NkH for working capital, made necessary principally because payments from
other railways are sometimes very considerably delayed. Until 1984, a
municipal community tax of 15% on pretax profit was paid by railways and then
income tax on a sliding scale (but generally totalling about 45%) of taxable
income (pretax income less municipal tax). From 1985, municipal tax is no
longer payable and the tax figure is calculated in three parts as 35Z of
pretax profit plus a property tax of 1.5% of value of net fixed assets (with
the exception of certain infrastructure items), and a levy of 10% on salaries
and wages. For future years, tax is estimated to be around 50% of pretax
profit. Tax is paid monthly on forecast figures and adjusted after the end of
the year.
MAV; Financial Forecasts
8.       MAV's financial results are forecast to improve due to increased
traffic, modest improvements in operational efficiency resulting from
investments, and the implementation of its action plan. Table 1 to this Annex
assumes an increase in freight rates at least equal to forecast inflation.



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
9.       Cash flow forecasts for MAV up to 1989 are shown in Table 2 to this
Annex and a financing plan for railway investments for this period is in
Table 5.4 of the report. Provisions shown under 'Sources' in the Cash Flow
include chiefly provisions for technical development for which expenditures
are included under 'Other Uses'. Other uses also includes contributions made
by MAV to public utilities and to local authorities for infrastructure
developments, a Hungarian System of regional development. Balance sheets are
shown in Cable 3 to this Annex in the form which is given by MAV without
netting of current assets and liabilities, although these are shown net in the
financial summary in Table 5.3 of the report.
10.      MAV's comparatively small borrowings leave no problems with the debt
service coverage:
1986                                  1987       1988        1989
Debt/Service Coverage                 13.1        12.8       12.8        12.7
1986       1987        1988       1989
Current Ratio                3.5         3.6         3.6        3.3
C. Hungarocamion
11.      Traffic.  HC's traffic figures in millions of paid km, for 1981 to
1984, together with forecasts to 1990 are as follows:
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
1981    1982    1983      1984    Fore-   Fore-   Fore-   Fore-   Fore-   Fore-
Actual  Actual  Actual  Estimate  cast    cast    cast    cast    cast    cast
98.2    113.5   121.6   133.7       138.2   139.6   150.6   161.7   173.0   184.5
The pattern of HC's traffic has changed somewhat from 1980 and 1981 with
unsettled political conditions causing Middle East traffic to form a smaller
proportion of the traffic total. On the other hand, traffic with Western
Europe has increased, as instanced, for example, by over 2000 vehicle trips to
England in 1984 compared to only 850 in 1980. HC's traffic in 1984 improved
considerably from its previous year with the fleet fully booked for most of
the year, whereas the first four months of 1983 were comparatively slack. HC
is nevertheless conservatively forecasting only small traffic increases for
1985 and 1986 and then larger increases up to 1990 as a result of the
acquisition of modern vehicles with funds from the proposed loan and
co-financing.



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
12.      Financial Details and Targets.  Summarized below are HC's financial
results for 1981 to 1984 and forecasts for 1985 to 1990.  Fi.ures are in
millions of Forints.
1981        1982         1983         1984
Actual      Actual      Actual       Estimated
Operating Revenue              4131        4367         4553         4961
Operating Expense              2911         3277        3731         4151
Pretax Profit                  1221         1049         764           716
Operating Ratio        Z         70           75          82           84
Return on Resources   Z          41           34          21            16
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Fore-   Fore-   Fore-   Fore-   Fore-   Fore-
cast    cast    cast    cast    cast    cast
Operating Revenue              5245    5462    6071    6878    7729    8623
Operating Expense              4335    4621    5018    5441    6021    6562
Pretax Profit                   816     742      936    1300    1554    1881
Operating Ratio        Z         83      85       83      79      78       76
Return on Resources   X          18      15       18      23      25       29
The Recent Past
13.      The figures in the first table above show a decline in RC's pretax
profit from Ft 1.22 billion in 1981 to an estimated Ft 0.71 billion in 1984,
with operating ratio increasing from 70 to 84 and return on resources falling
from 41Z to 16X. The reduction, however, is from a high point in 1981 when
carriers could choose their loads and could virtuallY fix their own rates for
traffic to and from the Middle East. It signifies rather a return to more
normal trading conditions after a boom, than a drop from normal to something
worse. Thus, the 16% return on resources which will be earned in 1984 is a
healthy figure, even though it be far from the 41X return earned in 1981. The
change in trading conditions is characterized by a reduction of 9X, between
1981 and 1983, in revenue per paid km from international transport
operations. However, expansion of HC's total international transport
operation with a switch to Western European markets (more competitive but with
very much better road conditio-ns, less border delays, faster transit times and
more opportunity for return ioads) enabled the increase in unit costs during
this period to be held to 4X.
14.      Detailed income accounts for HC are shown in Table 4 of this Annex.
Materials which comprise about 18Z of expenses in 1983 are mainly engines,
gear boxes and spare parts for the vehicles. Fuel, presently, Ft 9.8 per
liter for diesel, also comprises 18X of costs, with depreciation 14Z and
salaries 13%. Payroll taxes make up about 25Z of the salaries total.
Depreciation is at Government approved rates and normally results in the write



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
off of vehicles in a little over six years. Other expenses is the biggest
expense item in HC's income account covering vehicle and general and workshop
overheads but principally transit fees paid to countries whose borders are
traversed by HC's vehicles. As an example, each transit in 1983 of one of
Hungary's immediate neighbors cost a fee equivalent to US$170 and HC's
vehicles in that year made some 83,000 trips abroad, though most avoided this
country. Sample cost sheets for actual vehicle trips are in project files.
Forecasts
15.      RC's financial forecasts summarized above (para. 12) show 1985 and
1986 continuing at about 1984 levels of pre tax profit and then improving from
1987 onwards, as traffic expands and margins increase reflecting acquisition
of the modern fuel and load efficient vehicles. Allowance has been made in
the forecasts for inflation and for increases in costs related to the
expansion of HC's operation. The reduction in other expenses in 1985 results
from the coming into operation, at the end of 1984, of large, new and
well-equipped vehicle workshops, outside Budapest, which will greatly enhance
the efficiency of vehicle servicing and maintenance.
16.      Cash flow forecasts are shown in Table 5 of this Annex and a
financing plan for the investment period 1986-90 is shown at Table 5.9 of the
report. Forecast balance sheets are in Table 6 of this Annex. Long-term
loans shown prior to 1986 are from NBII for vehicle purchases (Hungarian RABAs)
With interest rates of 13% to 14% and repayable over five years. Figures in
Table 5 include both the Bank's proposed US$17.0 million loan and
co-financing. It has been assumed that lending of each will run concurrently,
with on-lending terms of about 14% interest aud a repayment period of six
years. Other sources includes sales of vehicles (see para. 2 above).
17.      With comparatively low borrowings, HC's debt service coverage is good
and does not fall below 3.3. Debt equity ratio is also satisfactory with a
maximum of 24/76 in 1990. Current ratio and liquid ratios are satisfactory
and do not fall below 1.5. Agreement was reached at negotiations that HC will
take all necessary actions to ensure that its operating ratio will be not more
than 80 in 1988 and subsequent years.



- 70 -
ANNEX S
Table 1
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Hungarian State Railways (MAV)
Income Accounts and Forecasts for 1983 to 1989
(FT million)
1983       1984         1985        1986        1987         1988        1989
Actual    Estimate    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast    Forecast
Operating Revenue
Passenger                                4.694       4,714       4.761       4.809        4.857       4.905        4.954
Freight                                 25.409      26,033      28.041      30,604       33.245      35.944       38,679
Other                                    5,045      4,690        5.035       5,477        5.931       6.392        6.856
Sub-total                          35.148     35,437       37,837      40.890       44.032      47,241       50.490
Subsidy                                  5.726      3.883        4.503       4.840        5,188       5.529        5.870
Total Operating Revenue                 40,874      3.          42.340      45.730       49.220      52.770       56.360
Operating Expenditure
Materials                                7.426       6,860       7,030       7.690        8.260       8,830        9.400
Fuel                                     5,100       5,240       5,650       6,400        6.870       7.340        7.810
Wages                                   10.073      11,792      12.620       13.480      14.330      15.170       15,980
Other Expenses                           5.675      3.876        3,920       4,230        4,540       4,860        5.170
Provisions                                 749         760         800         860          910         970        1,020
Sub-total                          29.023     28.528       30.020      32.660      34.910       37.170      39.380
Depreciation                             6,391      6.740        7.210       7.720        8.200       8.710        9.200
Total Operating Expenditure        35.414     35.268       37.230      40.380       43.110      45,880      48.580
Net Revenue                                  5,460       4.052       5,110       5.350        6,110       6.890        7.780
Interest                                       444         584         620          640         680          710         750
Pre-Tax Profit                               5,016       3,468       4.490       4.710        5.430       6.180        7,030
Municipal TaA                                  752         520           -            -                 -            -
Income Tax                                   1,963       1,387       2.877       2,783        3.187       3.522        3.690
After Tax Profit                             2.301       1.561       1.613        1.927       2.243       2.658        3.340
Ratios
Operating Ratio X                           87          90          88          88           88          87           86
Return Before Tax on Resources X             5.1         3.5         4.5         4.7          5.5         6.2          7
Source: MVA and Bank Mission
(43970122)



- 71-                                                ANNEX 5
Table 2
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Hungarian State Railways (MAV)
Cash Flow 1983 and Forecasts for 1984 to 1989
(FT million)
1983       1984         1985        1986         1987         1988        1989
Actual    Estimate    Estimate    Estimate    Estirate    Estimate    Estimate
Sources
After Tax Profit                   2.301       1.561        1,613        1,927       2.243       2.658        3.340
Depreciation                       6,391       6.740        7.210       7.720        8.200       8,710        9.200
Provisions                           831         875          900         976          927        1.088       1,138
Long Term Loans                      323          60            -           -            -            -           -
IBRD Loan                              -           -            9         298          260         298          112
Other Sources                           -        175           25          43          120          187         232
Grants                                  -        400          100           -            -            -           -
Total Sources             9.846      9.811        9,857       10.963       11,751      12,941       14.022
Applications
Transfers to State Budget            932       1.175            -           -            -            -           -
Debt Repayment                         23         27          104         104          104          145         185
Investments                        6.531       6.436       6.045        8.391        9.018       9.489       11.033
Increase (Decrease) in Working
Capital Other Than Cash           1,178      1.946        1,939         475          671         646          513
Incentive Fund Payments              580       1.286          587         628          671          71'3        768
Other Uses                          1.966      1.016        1.357       1.271        1,205        1.894       1.401
Total Applications       11.210      11.886      10.032       10.869       11.669      12.892       13.900
Surplus (Deficiency)                   (1,364)    (2.075)        (175)         94           82           49          122
Opening Cash Balance                   4.694       3,330        1.255        1.080       1,175        1.256       1.306
Closing Cash Balance                    3,330      1.255        1.080        1.175       1.256        1.306       1.427
Source: NAV and bank Mission
(43970/23)



- 72 -                                                          ANNEX 5
Table 3
HUN6ARY
TRANSPORT (RAILIROAD) PROJECT
Hungarian State Railways (PAY)
Balance Sheet 1983 and Forecasts for l9B4 to 1989
(FT million)
1983         1984         1985          1986          1987          1988          1989
Actual     Estimate      Estiuate      Estimate      Estimate      Estimate      Estimate
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets                                161,990      167,660       172.150       177.640       183.930       190.920       198.710
Less Uepreciation                                  83,312       90.500        97.600       104500        111.900       119.600       127.600
Net Fixed Assets                                   78,678       77,160        74,550        73,140        72,030        71.320        71,110
Assets Under Construction                           4.438        4.438         4.438         4,438         4,438         4,438         4,438
Other Non-Current Assets                            1,994        2,005         2,020         2.035         2,050         2.065        2,080
Subtotal                                 85.110       83.603        81.008        79.613        78.518        77.823        77,628
Current Assets
Cash L Bank                                     3.330        1.255         1,080         1.175         1.256         1.306         1,427
Inventories                                     9.204       10.106        12.131        13.142        13.175       12.710        13.187
Accounts Receivable. etc.                       5.077        8,119         8,624         8,233         8.593        10,059        10.938
Subtotal                                  17.611      19.480        21.835        22.550        23,024        24.075        25,552
Total Assets                                      102,721      103,083       102.843       102.163       101.542       101,898       103.180
LIABILITIES
Long Tern Uebt                                        461          432           304           494           565           644           453
Other Non-Current Liabilities                       1.336        1.495         1.099           192          lS            326           333
Subtotal                                   1.797       1.927         1,403           686           680           970           786
Current Liabilities
Short Term Loans                                1,242        2,607         3,193        3,564          3,052        2,455         2,640
Accounts Payable, etc.                          1,519        1.993         2J01          2.923         3.312         4,165        5,154
Subtotal                                  2,761        4,600         5,494         6,487         6.364         6,620         7.794
Total Liabilities                                   4.558        6.527         6.897         7.173         7,044         7.590         8.580
EQUITY
Reserve Fund                                        2.100          394             -             -             -             -             -
Other Funds                                        93.762       94.601        94.333        93,063        92.255        91,650        91.260
Current-Year Profit                                 2,301        1,561         1,613         1,927         2,243         2,658         3,340
Total Equity                                       98.163       96,556        95.946        94.990        94.498        94.308        94.600
Total Liability & Equity                              102.721      103.083       102.843       102.163       101.542       101.898       103,180
Current Ratio                                              6.4         4.2          4.0            3.5          3.6            3.6          3.3
Current Assets Less Inventories to Current
Liabilities                                              3.0          2.0          1.8            1.5          1.5            1.7          1.6
Debt Equity Ratio                                         0.5/99.5    0.5/99.5    0.5/99..         0.6/99.4    0.7/99.3        0.8/99.2    O.S/99.5
Source. M   and Bank Mission
Decewber 1984
(4397U/24)



- 73 -
AlmEX S
TRANsPeRr (RAIL/ROMO PROJECT
Hunuaroca.on
Inceoe Accounts and Forecuts for 1983 to 190
(FT million)
1913        19U4        19S5         1986        In?          1988         1969         1990
Actul    Estinte        F casst    Forecast    Forecast    Foecat    Forecat   Forest
Operating Revenue
International Transport                         4,364       4,752        5,051        5.273        5,886        6.682       7,522       8,405
Other                                             189         209          194          189          US           196         207         21l
Total                                       4.553       4.961        5.245        5,462        6.071        6.878       7.729       8.623
Operating Expenditure
materials                                         661         696          769          828         328         1,032        1,139      1,248
Fuel                                              684         764          652          902        1.015        1,141        1.271       1.40S
Salaries                                          4U8         606          671          721          763         831          901         981
Cost of Resales                                   U7          118          126          135          144          152          161        169
Other Costs                                     1.222       1.380        1.2L7        1.376        1.452        1.513        1,719      1U868
Sub-Total                                   3,202       3,566        3.65        3,962       4.303        4.669        5.191       5.672
Depreciation                                      S29         585          640          659          715         772          830         830
Total                                       3.731       4,151        4.335        *.U621       5018         5.441       6.021       6.562
Net Revenue                                       822         810          910          841        1,053        1.437        1.706      2.061
Interest                                           as          94           94           99          117          137         154         160
Pre Tax Profit          71i                                   7W           93 ;          1T                                 TIM   1       T.
Municipal Tax                                     114         107          123          111          141          195         255         320
Incme Tax                                         296         244          267          351          358         497          472         522
To Reserve Fund 2!                                 -      - _                            -      .                  -           100        400
After Tax Profit                                  354         365          426          280          437 _608                  727        639
Ratios:
Operating Ratio                                    82          84           83           85           83           73          78          76
Return before Tax on Resources SI                  21          16           18           1S           18          23           2S          23
Debt Service Coverage                               6.2         5.2          7.0          4.5          4.2         3.3          3.9         3.4
Notes 1/ The voluntary transfers to Reserv Fund reduce Tax Liability
/ Operating Expenditure divided by Operating Revenue
3/ Pretax Profit as a percentage of net Fixed Assets in Operation plus inventories plus salaries.
4/ After Tax Profit plus interest plus depreciation divided by debt service (repaments plus Interest)
Source: Hungarocamion and Bank mission
(43970/19)



-74
ANSEX 5
HUNGARY
TRAHYORT (FAILCOIAD) PROJECT
Hurgerocamion
Cash Flow 1983 and Forecasts for 1984 to 1990
Total
1983        1984          1985          1986          1987        1988          1989          1990        1986/90
Actual     Estimate      Forecast      Ferecast      Forecast   Forecast       For.east    rarecast       Forecast
Sources
After tax profit                         354          365          426           280           437           60'           727           639        2,691
Depreciation                             529          585          640           659           715           772           830           890        3,866
Long Term  Loans                        25b             -          270            -                                  -                    -
IIRO Loan                                 -             -            -           382           432           332           406           497       2.099
Other Sources                           635           444           90           153           183           724           129           142          831
Transf r to Resarve                                                                                                        100           400          500
1,769        12394        1,426         1.474         1.767         1.986         2i9 2         Z,560       9,987
Applications
Transters to State Budget                 80          127           82           131          1I1            151           181           184          793
Debt Repayment                           93            107         172           131           186           117           392           439        1,46S
Investments                             795           816          815           929         1.027           982         1,140         1.254       5,332
Increase (Decrease) in Wiorking
Capital Other Than Cash                 (152)        (252)           13           84            29           (49)           57           (47)          74
Incentive Fund Paynents                  48            40           48            51            60            65            71            81          328
Other Uses                             1.360          741          287           1Z6           ?91           S20           316           531        1,784
2.224         1.579        1,417         1.452        1,744         1.986         2.157         2,442        9,.71
Cash Surplus (Deticit)                  (455)        (185)           9            22            23                          35           126          206
Opening Cash Balance                     852          397          212           221           243           266           266           301          221
Closing Cash Balance                     397          212          221           243           266           266           301           427          427
Source; Hungerocamion and Bank Mission
(43970/20)



- 75 -
ANNEX 5
Table 6
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Hungarocariion
Balance Sheet 1983 and Forecasts for 1984-90
(FT million)
1953       134        1985         19856       1987         1988        1989         19S0
Actual   Estimate    Estimate    Estimate    Estimate   Estimate    Estimate    Estimate
Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                 4.359      5.165        5,556       5.S83        6.321       6,557        7.073       7.535
Less Depreciation                  1,530       1.674       1,890        1.972       2.124       2.150        2,355       2,454
Met Fixed Assets                   2.829      3,491        3,666       3,911        4,197       4,407       4,718        5,081
Assets Under Construction            326          15          14           15          16          17           17         469
Other Non Current Assets              19         21           22          24           25          27           29          30
Sub-Total                      3,174      3,527        3.702       3,950       4,238        4,451       4,764        5.580
Current Assets
Cash & Bank                      397        212          221         243          266         266         301          327
Inventories                      248        260          287         309         346          385         425          466
Accounts Receivable etc.       1,042      1,090        1,172       1.254        1.335       1.416        1493        1.S67
Sub-Total                      1.687      1.562        ),6&%I      1,806        1.947       2.067       2.219        2.360
Total Assets                   4,861      5,089        5,382       5.756       6.185        6.518       6.983        7.940
Liabilities and Equity
Long Term  Mebt                  367        330          428         654         874        1.039        1,202       1.461
Other Non Current Liabilities   304         370          398         425         453          480         507          532
Sub-Total                         71        700          826       1.079        1.327       1.519       1,709        1,993
Current Liabilities
Short Term Loan                  220        250          266         116          126          43          66           29
Accounts Payable. etc.           382        597          649         792         844        JjO67       1.078        1.252
Sub-Total                        602        847          915         908         970        1.110       1,144        1.281
Total Liabilities                  1.273       1,547       1,741       1,987        2,297       2,629       2            3,274
Equity
Reserve Fund                         136         50           50          -            -           -           100         500
Other Funds                        3,098      3,127        3.165       3,489       3.450        3.281       3.453        3.527
Current Year Profit                  354        365          426         280         438          608         577          639
Total Equity                       3,588      3,542        3,641       3,769        3,889       3,889       4,130        4,666
Total Lidbilities & Equity         4,861      5,089        5,382       5,756        6,185       6,518       6,983        7,940
Ratios:
Current Assets to
Current Liabilities (Times)            2.8         1.8         1.8         2.0          2.0         1.9          1.9         1.8
Current Assets less Inventories
to Current Liabilities (Times)         2.4         1.5         1.5         1.6          1.7         1.5          1.6         1.5
Debt Equity Ratio                   9/91       9/91        10190       15/85        18/82       21/79       23/77        24/76
(4397D/21)



- 76--
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAILIROAD) PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in t'ae Project File
A. General Report and Studies on the Transport Sector
1.  Hungary  Transport Sector Memorandum (White Cover - preliminary draft) -
February 1983.
2.  Hungary  Statistical Year Books - 1980, 1981, 1982, 1983.
3. Eastern European Transport Regions and Modes - ed(ted by B. Mieczkovski.
4. U.N. - Inland Transport Committee Document, Trans/AClIR9/Amendl,
February 16, 1981
5. Hungary 1984 Statistical Data, pp. 16, 25-26.
6. Faccs and Figures about Public Road Transport in Hungary
7.  Magyar Allamvasutak - Statisztikai Zsebkonyve - 1983
8. Road Transport and Energy - Syntheses of Studies carried out in Belgium,
France, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary and the Netherlands 1983
9. Energy and Road Transport in Hungary - 1983
10. Mahart
11.  Annuare Statistique de la Commission du Danube Pour 1982
12. Uvaterv: "Consulting and Engineering for Communication and Transport"
13. Betonutepito Nallalat
14. A2 1980 Evi Orszagos Keresztmetszeti Forgalomszamlalas Eredmenyei -
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Proiect
1. Feasibility Studies on:
a. Ferencvaros Marshalling Yard;
b. Track reconstruction and maintenance machinery;



-77 -                    AU  
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
c.  Container handling equipment;
d. Budapest by-pass;
e. Road maintenance equipment;
f. Acquisition of modernized trucks for Hungarocamion;
2. Methodology for evaluation of uneconomic lines
3. Proposed Action Plan prepared by MAV
4. The system of 50 HZ railway electrification is 50 years old.
C. Design Plans Specifications, Estimate
1. Specifications and design characteristics for marshalling yard
2. Specifications for track construction and maintenance machinery
3. Specifications for container handling equipment
4. Detailed Engineering Plans - M-0 Motorway - First Phase
5. Preliminary translations of selected technical specifications which
would apply to M-0 Motorway construction
6. Technical specification for Hungarocamion's vehicles
D. Financial and Accounting Documentation
1. Income Accounts, Cash Flow Statements and Balance Sheets for years 1981,
1982, 1983 and forecasts for years 198411989 for Hungarian Railways.
2. Income Accounts, Cash Flow Statements and Balance Sheets for Years 1981,
1982, 1983 and Forecasts for Years 1984/1989 for Hungarocamion.
(4397D120)



- 78 -
TABLE 1
HMIGARY
TRANISPORT (RAIL/RIWO) PROJECT
Freight Traffic by Mode of Transport 196083 .1'
(in Million ton-km)
Year    Railway    Road      Water       Air     Pipelines      Total
1960    13.346      1,890 3'  1.353         1          97       16.687
(80.0)Y.   (11.3)      (8.1)    (0.0)       (0.6)      (100.0)
1970    19,821     5,820      2,866        11       1,043       29,561
(67.1)     (19.7)      (9.7)    (0.0)       (3.5)      (100.0)
1975    23,541     8,731      4,245        12       3,092       39,621
(59.4)     (22.1)     (10.7)    (0.0)       (7.8)      (100.0)
1976    23,156     9,441      4,445        19       3,595       40,656
(57.0)     (23.2)     (10.9)    (0.0)       (8.9)      (100.0)
1977   24.181      10.439      6,167       22       3,737       44,546
(54.3)     (23.4)     (13.8)    (0.1)       (8.4)      (100.0)
1978    24,500     11,42       6,793       27       3,886       46,668
(52.5)     (24.6)     (14.5)    (0.1)       (8.3)      (100.0)
1979    24,661     11,773      7,013       32       4,291       47,770
(51.6)     (24.6)     (14.7)    (0.1)       (9.0)      (100.0)
1980   24,399      11,403      7,875       28       4,623       48,328
(50.5)     (23.6)     (16.3)    (0.1)       (9.5)      (100.0)
1981    24.342     11.759     8,507        25       4.387       49.020
(49.6)     (24.0)     (17.4)    (0.1)       (8.9)      (100.0).
1982    23,273     11,883     8,201        29       4,473       47,459
(48.6)     (24.8)     (17.1)    (0.1)       (9.4)      (100.0)
1983    23,079     11.951     8,376        23       4,335       47,763
(48.3)     (25.0)     (17.5)    (0.1)       (9.1)      (100.0)
Average Distance (km)
1960       137.4       14.0     246.0    750.0         74.6         69.8
1970       168.2       14.3     286.6   1750.0        113.4         54.3
1975       178.2       17.4     339.6   1728.6        167.1         59.6
1976       175.6       18.1     355.6   2425.0        173.7         59.1
1977       179.4       18.5     485.6  2036.3         191.6         61.0
1978       181.2       19.4     503.2  2076.9         186.8         61.3
1979       183.6       19.5     547.9  2012.5         193.3         61.7
1980       187.4       19.5     645.5  2021.4         208.2         64.6
1981       185.5       19.6     630.1    4/           182.8         63.9
1982       183.1      20.6      621.3    4/           173.4         64.3
1983       186.1       21.3     639.4    4/           170.7         65.9
Tonnage (Millions)
1960       97.1       135.1        5.5     5/           1.3        239.0
1970       117.8      407.0       10.0    5/            9.2        54.0
1975      132.1      501.3        12.5    5/           18.5        664.4
1976       131.9      522.7       12.5    5/           20.7        687.8
1977       134.8      563.5       12.7    S/           19.5        730.5
1978      135.2      591.3        13.5    5/          20.8         760.8
1979       134.3     604.4        12.8    y/           22.2        773.7
1980       130.2     584.0        12.2    F1          22.2         748.6
1981       131.2      598.3       13.5    S/          24.0         766.9
1982       127.1     577.9        13.2    5/           25.8        744.0
1983       124.0     561.8        13.1    5/          25.4         724.2
I/ Both for public and private use
2J Figures within perentheses denote percentages.
3J Esti"ted.
4/ More than 2000 km.
5/ Le'- than twenty thousand tons.
Source: Hungary - Statistical Year Book. 1980-1983.
December 1984
4397D/29



- 79 -
TABLE 2
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
A. Public Passenger Transport 1960-83
Passengers Carried (Millions)   Passenger-Kilometers (Millions)
Long       Local                Long       Local
Year     Distance    Traffic   Total    Distance    Traffic       Total
1960      725.1      1,560.7   2,285.8   18,128.6    9,404.1    27,532.7
1970     1,003.3     2,142.3   3,145.6  24,029.7    10,043.4   34.073.1
1975     1,107.8     2,384.8   3,492.6   26,935.9    11,374.7   38,310.6
1976     1,127.6     2,429.9  3,557.5   27,197.7    11,646.0   38.843.7
1977     1,146.5    2,498.2   3,644.7   27,987.7    11,922.6   39,910.3
1978     1,165.7    2.546.1   3,711.8  28,583.2    12,145.7   40,728.9
1979     1,183.5     2,608.1   3,791.6   29,055.4    12,451.8   41,507.2
1980     1,187.1    2,656.2   3,843.3  29,361.3    12,648.1   42,009.4
1981      988.3    2,976.9   3,965.2   29,044.2    14,068.7   43,112.9
1982      980.0     3,013.9   3,993.9   28,522.6    14,222.1   42,744.7
1983      914.3    3,065.1   3,979.4   25,727.3    14,425.4   40,152.7
B. Public Passenger Transport by Mode of Transport 1960-83
Passenger-Km (Millions)
Year       Rail       Road & Urban     Water         Air         Total
1960      14,323.8      13,051.1        82.6          75.2    27.532.7
(52.0)_/      (47.4)       (0.3)         (0.3)      (100.0)
1970      16,339.1      17,250.7        59.1         424.2    34.073.1
(48.0)        (50.6)       (0.2)         (1.2)      (100.0)
1975      15,823.5      21.854.1        77.4         555.6    38,310.6
(41.3)        (57.0)       (0.2)         (1.5)      (100.0)
1976      15,569.9     22,649.4         71.7         552.7    38.843.7
(40.1)        (58.3)       (0.2)         (1.4)      (100.0)
1977      15,396.2     23,732.3         75.8         706.0    39,910.3
(38.6)        (59.4)       (0.2)         (1.8)      (100.0)
1978      14,928.7     24,907.2         83.2         809.8    40,728.9
(36.7)        (61.1)       (0.2)         (2.0)      (100.0)
1979      14,611.7     25,791.1         78.0       1,026.4     41,507.2
(35.2)        (62.1)       (0.2)         (2.5)      (100.0)
1980      14,655.8     26.200.9         76.3       1.076.4    42.009.4
(34.9)        (62.4)       (0.2)         (2.5)      (100.0)
1981      13,544.6     28.243.7         79.0       1.245.6    43,112.9
(31.4)        (65.5)       (0.2)         (2.9)      (100.0)
1982      13,070.5      28,321.1        86.5       1.266.6    42,744.7
(30.5)        (66.3)       (0.2)         (3.0)      (100.0)
1983      11,104.5     27,793.1         74.2       1.180.9    40.152.7
(27.7)        (69.2)       (0.2)         (2.9)      (100.0)
Y Figures within parentheses denote percentages.
Source: Hungary - Statistical Year Book, 1980-1983.
December 1984
43970/30



- 80 -
TABLE 3
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Number of Motor Vehicles
(at the end of the year - '000)
Trucks, Vans,
Dumpers and
Passenger             Special Purpose      Road     Motor
Year       Cars       Buses       Vehicles        Tractors   Cycles    Total
1960         31.3       4.9          33.0           13.7       236.3       319.2
1970        238.6       9.5          84.7           64.2       610.9     1,007.9
1975        568.3      12.5         104.0           44.3       699.8     1,428.9
1976        640.5      13.4         100.7           39.7       697.1     1,491.4
1977        720.1      15.8         105.9           36.8       694.7     1,573.3
1978        820.1      18.0         112.2           34.0       695.4     1,679.7
1979        933.8      21.3         126.9           26.8       694.9     1,803.7
1980      1,013.4      22.2         140.5 1/         -         676.8     1,852.9
1981      1,105.4      23.4         152.5 1/         -         662.1     1,943.4
1982      1,181.7      24.7         159.7 Ti         -         630.1     1,996.2
1983      1,258.5      24.4         173.1 1/         -        422.0 1/  1,878.0
1/ Preliminary data.
Source: Hungary - Statistical Year Book, 1980-83.
December 1984
(4397D/31)



- 81 -
TABLE 4
HUNGARY
TRANSPOR  (RAIL/ROAD) PWOJECT
investment for Different Transport Modes I/
1984                 1986-90 3/
1980      1981       1982       1983      B.E.    1980414       Planned
Transport Mode                      --------------------------- (in FT Million) ------------------------
1. Railways                                     9,644     7,451      6.672      6,495      5,867    36,129       50.000
(46.1)4/  (36.4)    (34.8)    (35.2)    (35.3)    (37.8]          (42.6)
2.  (a)  Highways
-    National & State Roads                 3,247     3,094      2.810      1.853      1.300    12,304       14.000
(15.5)    (15.2)    (14.7)    (10.0)        (7.8)    (12.9)       (11.9)
-    Village. Comunity & County Roads   1.201         2,314      2.407      2,701      2,646    11.269       15.000
(5.7)    (11.3)    (12.6)    (14.6)    (15.9)    (11.8)          (12.8)
(b)  Road Motor Vehicles                   4,201      4.182      4,509     4.675      3.700    21,267        26.000
(20.1)    (20.6)    (23.5)    (25.3)    (22.3)    (22.2)          (22.1)
3. River Port & Shipping                          526        186        249       196        160     1.317        3,000
(2.5)     (0.9)      (1.2)      (1.1)     (1.0)      (1.4)        (2.5)
4. Aviation
(a)  Aircraft                                  84       501        347        321       300      1.553    )
(0.4)     (2.4)      (1.8)      (1.7)     (1.8)      (1.6) )
) 5,000
4b)  Airports                               1.181      1,211        849     1,356      1,735     6.332    )       (4.2)
(5.6)     (5.9)      (4.4)      (7.4)    (10.4)      (6.6) )
5.  Pipelines                                     836      1.507     1,329        850        910     5,432        4,500
(4.1)     (7.3)      (7.0)      (4.7)     (5.5)      (5.7)        (3.9)
TOTAL (Excluding Urban Transport)    20,920    20,446    19,172    18,447    16,618    95,603            117,500
(100.0)   (100.0)   (100.0)   (100.0)   (100.0)   (100.0)         (100.0)
1/ At current prices.
2/ B.E. indicates Budget Estimates.
3/ Figures rounded off.
4/ Figures within parantheses indicate percentage.
Source; NPO, NOT, MAY and Mission.
January 1985
4397D



am~~~~~~ cat                                                                                                        kqf  Cw   V  
-u~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
"sa ul! SUST
matte Istist 9)5 _ 3        S4.4
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e Yrm___  ,            I,Ttl.--Tet. isisiq Cetmmmlea j, ..--4Ir.rt..---1...                                                                                         t_.
_ _  V T __   _ _  m-lullul __                                                Yss 111-9r1t_1                                                                       1
ttA  CrueTtlis  M.  Lies                       It.         *3D        VSAe       VI.5      311w      36A.      t.ui.i      =A         MA.1      in.?       1.        41tD      a.sz5      (3J.3    goal3      13 3n.48
a.                                             IIeV L   l _   4 t  7   it.        438.1,    11.      43.       Li1a        MC 4n;        .1     Ca         WA.       imA  t.TJ             (1.33    13.11     STJ4         .sS
2.5  (It1.196                                  US43   Se    249J      26.4       M4.9      DLI.    U1A         3.65?       MAl        MIA       UIAs      a.7        1138     1.3.4       Ju.4     SEal       33.33      s.c4
*.e   Tr      6 Ittflt      UI Wien            Iten h.   I.O.9.    1.1n.5    1,.54.S    1.1 i        .3A1.     91.11.7   *.1t.1J    E,I'S   1.N3         *.Ui2     1.113I    11i95.1    (33.3    101.8        5.3       AL.M
L    Vi1eo4                                                 361.      3.1.9      313.9     30.1      45.       It.U6.      MA           IS*   NiT         44M.?      MA       2.4.J       (4.1      1 3.4 16   l.        44.1U
#a    inln    IfIj -d $S I1            _        3  7m 1I.4             31.6       70        13.1   * IJ          36.5       332        AA        nJ   *J             ID*        4 IJ       (0.32     8J3 1913             9.4
n.e s_T.rcmt   ( In_tt"l                         -           2.A4      a1.?       27.9      ME        Ii.?       46.        UA         3918      33.J      3)   n      tS       VIA       (1313    3.l        11.38 J JS a
Si eacgSmte w.  llt. mweliq T                    .          Jma       -m.        sO.,      9s1       75.1       A.2 .      438        s1.3       OAs      yJ.j       15A      3.UNA1      (6.31    46V        1.3!       41.aT
I.e  imctb,"  -  stotlen                        .            p.       MA.1       w           T T542    3.  2   1JJ.O        WJ. 3wj             MA 1.1? a  1mU4.5mi    4.9402             (1.13    61.D       Nis2       419.6
eA  s1Wnitg                                     3a                    4eJ         ma        41.        WAT  2. 1T.7 .       M A       1511.4     INA       mA         MA       IAMJ tS   11 3   t3.4   n.u                "A0
11.s  m.tin .1'"m                                .           1613J     136.       146.      I.1l    115J         25S.      I2.5 iT.J              maJ 1111 ts                    MIA       IRAU      6.71      II.J8     MAO
3.   c.IF"n                                                                       "1.tl  tAI  -  323.3I    tii.5  .15. .  5.1W4  111.6  3.8A    163D       I3i  J    *,2 t4A   1.J4  *J  3J 1 J .41    W.l   11.11      31.1
isaat (43                           .         m.m.t sI.u  1_J           1.10     0 S.'   6.l.T    3J15.1   &J3A         1ABA.0  41.21       1.3311Y4   6.441     33.51.6    (614.43    1. 1       5.11r llT3  WAS
13.8  IthIL.les&e  t3~   el                        S    l      j        6.1 781             5.5   lT.I3.   U4J -.    3.51   ;.~                 was       .IIIJ     1.3.   l.1.    ta               us   I ".m            ma
14.I   l-t,c  m              tO                              5     *  31I.3       tl*.2     3           .        4            .4      CIA        31I      _            *        15.2       (I.I      4.D      I.3        11.48
MA5 [.5  30                                     iS           36.3       .          .                     A       me.:       31.                             .        15.8        1.        ((:,Al    1.3      15          .1
1     5,1 1bm                                    .149        498                  329)S"   A241J      - .        661. a     ItS         .       C         3.0          *        51.1f      (,.?I    0.41-    IF.Es       3.3
st.eut  (11                          .        : 1,44.t    335.2    1.11Z.    2.33.3   i.11.5    653.19    lw TJ    1Js,,  TI4R4             IJ.IZ      3tIi.U     1.30.5    I153        *sa      In."       1111.16
C. INN1 FACILITIS
IDa  i,t    ni,,,                       ,                    25.1      267.1      139.9      U.N       1713      G"13       MA           s       gm        3I6.3      1.D       11.1       (313      0.66     33.0       .1.3
3|.0   Track 6110                   c            4      -     1*4.0    3..?       i1JS      373.      a6i        1s         61. I  C    4J 1              324.4      14J        83.J       (Iii    131 4I      . * i2   07.1
111I D       U4  Ra96                                        M.1       M.*       #333 t      12       3912      A3A                   CIA        11.)     3123.      MA        l..         (2.63 .0)    24.48 Z1. J1/T,
26.0  T              ICI3. a_l1b1i3.i11MA 51* 5              18.       37.4        6        27.          .3     1.211.0    MA           a.         a 2    a- isi.i    3111 AA              Ql    23.39         62        3.s1
Sana  (C)                            .          14.1      1514.6     678.      191.1     O4.3    3A9.5        ]1SiA      713.3     ODA1   *.M1.3    3.3233    4Av1.9         (8.93    "6.1       211A3      saw5
5. 3463
21.0  aCie_ r 4911.9 94036*t                      .           6.       3.3        34.       113.3      1312.     en7.0      MA        I62J     1S9.        33.        Hs4i      813.3      I38       1.1CR     8.31      up...
_1Ma     uu 9t3C6ttIiUl                           .          31.3      U.3        1542    1465        411.31    3.15.       .*5       413.1     ml.   11         1    334*   e.6    3I@ 18.  41.3    9.7r      3.48      81.33
34618.520                                              143.3      33.1      3531 J  9333  ILJ1_3n   3.tT5.7    Tls 4            81.      3.4.   l  33.3*118.    4J1.3   193                   5.37      3956       UIJ
5am  Tr I.                                               i.ul.u- 74.470. 4   8.41.?   9416.    el2.1E         a.m.       *Tt    1..         1.8l,     321t.    3S.,IW       335053   49.33    421.33
U  Fries at el a.9    aC         ae , 1_ n,) * Ie_   * 49.53          "*   "t          r
21Venil canbgwcis me pe taFr ai  its1  51"   tnts  nti 1h.s  a.1
cs_r I_6



- 83 -
TABLE 6
HUGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Railway Component
List of Possibly Uneconomic Lines
No.               Line                                           Length
1.      Kiskoros-Kecskemet Also                                 53.0
2.      Kiskunmajsa-Torokfai                                    44.0
3.      Szentlorinc-Sellye                                       24.0
4.      Kozeprigoc-Sellye-Harkany                                68.0
5.      Lepseny-Dombovar                                        82.0
6.      Tamasi-Keszohidegkut-Gyonok                              13.0
7.      Balaton Fenyves-Taska, Somugyszentpal-Csiszta           43.0
8.      Szob-Kiralyret                                            8.0
9.      Kisszenas-Kondoros                                        6.0
10.      Murony-Bekes                                             8.0
1i.      Veszto-Korosnagyharsany                                 32.0
12.      Debrecen-Sarand-Nagykereki                              52.0
1.3*     Sarand-Letavertes                                       20.0
14.      Nagykallo-Nyiradony                                     23.0
15.      Nyiregyhaza-Dombrad, Herminatanya-Balsai Tisza-Part    67.0
16.      Kocsord-Csenger                                         26.0
17.      Zajta-Koscord (partially)                               25.0
18.      Redicz-Csomoder                                          5.0
19.      Boba-Veszprem (branch line)                              4.0
TOTAL                                                  603.0
NOTE: During the last decade MAV has closed about 1,400 km of uneconomic
lines. A study of further 600 km of low density lines indicated above
has already been completed and a timetable of actions to be taken
during the 1986-1990 period will be firmed up by MAV with the
Government before the end of 1986..
Source: )AV
December 1984
(4397D/33)



- 84 -
TABLE 7
HUNA_
TRANSPORT (RAILIROAD) PROJECT
Railway Compnant
Selected Operating Statistics far Hunaariu Ra1ilwys (1978-831
Unit        1978       1979      1980       1981       1982      1983
1. LENGTH OF LINE. TOTAL         km            7,733.7    7,738.2   7,613.5   7,617.0   7.511.1   7,612.2
Stanard gauge                km             7.468.0   7.472.4   7,402.8   7,406.3   7.400.4   7.401.5
NHrow gauge                  km               230.7     230.8      175.7      175.7     175.7      175.7
Broad gange                  k                 35.0      35.0       35.0      35.0       35.0       35.0
it. TRFFIC
Passenger-km                 mfl             13.751     13.469    13.550     13.389    12.913     10.981
Net tan-tm                   mil             24.187    24.331    24.041      23.951    22,927    22,277
Passenger grass-ton k.       m11             18.334     18.155    18.459     17.780    18,391    17.813
Freight gross-ton km         ml]             50.874    50.523    50,381      51.394    49,702    48,137
Total gross-ton km           m11             69,208    68.678    68.840    69.514    68.093    65,950
Total gross ton km per km    mil gt/km         8.95      8.87       9.04       9.13      8.95       8.66
of line
Ill. LROSS TON-KM BY TYPE OF TRACTION
Electric      - Quantity     mil             33.857    33.946    35.259    36.754    37.766    37.651
- S af total   t                48.9       49.4      51.2       53.1      55.5       57.1
Diesel        - Quantity     m11             28.810    29,354    29.218    29.421    27.147    25.780
- % of total   S                41.7       42.8      42.5       41.1      39.8       39.0
Steam         - Quantity     mil              4.916     3.725      2.408      1.876     1.149       612
- t of total   S                 7.1        5.4       3.5        2.7        1.7       1.0
Self-propelled - Quantity    m11              1.625     1,675      1,96S     2.123      2.031      1.907
- I of tatal   S                 2.3        2.4       2.8        3.1       3.0        2.9
IV. UTILIZATION OF TRACTION AND ROLLING STOCK
Average daily performance of available engine
A. Passenger traffic
Electric locomotives     kmtday             462       470        495        462       475        480
Diesel locomotives         *                345       332        322       307        321        332
Stem locowtives            *                206       201        185        187       190        173
Diesel motor trains         *               293       293        292        286       376        368
Coaches                                      -         -         339        -          -         351
B. Freight traffic
Electric locomotives      knmday            319        318       324        304       345        353
Diesel locomotives         *                229       229        222        218       221        219
Stem locomotives            *               129        136       135       82.6       104        100
Freightwagons                                -         -          85         -         -          73
C. Availability                S
Electric locomotives        *.O/    -                           84.1         -         -        81.8
Diesel locoatives           *              81.71'    -          79.2         -                  76.6
Coaches                                    91.51/    -          91.8         -         -        90.4
Freightwans                *               94,71     -          94.2         -         -        92.7
Averge speed of
passenger trains      klmlh              38.5-j    -          41.2        -          -        42.9
Averep loading of
freight trains         tons             1,1011/    -         1.171        -          -       1.190
Average load per loaded   t
freight wagon                            26.5      27.8       28.3       27.8      27.9       28.5
Turnaround time of       days
freight wgon                             3.65      3.7n       3.89       3.94      4.26       4.35
V. STAFF
Emloyees                     no.            141.719    139.243    136,247    134,493    132.255    132.229
Eaploymes per km of ine      no./km           18.32     17.99      17.89      17.65     17.37      17.37
Trafic units per enployee    tus:n!          273.30    272.90    281.90      285.50    276.10    259.70
I/  1975 data      21  Tus-NTKNP
Source: Statistic books of the PV 1980-1983.
Deaobr 1984



- 85 -
TABLE 8
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Railway Component
Comparison with Selected European Railways
Unit      Turkey   Yugoslavia      Italy    C. Britain    Greece   Austria   Hungary
1. Total line length          km             8,193      9,393       16,157      17,538       2,461     5.811     7,611
la. Length of electrified
lines                     km               204      3,320       8.572        3,724          -       2,982    1,604
(X)            (2.5)    (35.3)       (54.2)       (21.2)        (0)     (51.3)   (21.1)
2.  Length of line per        kmolOU.0OO       18.1      42.4         34.7        32.1        25.8      86.3       71.1
inhabitants               inhabitants
3. Passenger-km               mill.         6,010.9  10.594.0     39.938.4   31,704.0      1,932.7   8,693.2   12.913.0
4.  Pass.-km per km of line   '000              734     1,119        2.475       1.792         785     1.479      1.696
5.  Net ton km                mill.           4,971    25,018        18.384     17,640         814    11.002    22.927
6.  Net ton km per km of       '000             607     2,643         1.140        997         308     1.883     3.011
line
7.  Staff                     number         44,617   112,748      215.905    212,348       11,897    69,346    132,255
8. Traffic units per           '000             246       316          270         232         231       283        276
employee
9.  No. of staff per km       No.               5.5      11.9          13.4       12.0         4.8      11.9        17.4
of line                   staff/km
1U. Traffic density per       mill gross      2.10       7.00         7.24       8.85        4.56       6.67       8.95
km of line                tons/km
NOTE:  lY81 data for Turkey, Yugoslavia, Italy,
Great Britain, Greece and Austria.
1982 data for Hungary.
Source: UIC and rAV Statistics
December 1984
(43970/34)



- 86 -
TABLE 9
-t
TIU5PORT (RA ULROA) PROJECT
Raillay CoVonent
Goods Transported in Containers by MVA. 1970-83 1/
(in '000 tons)
TYpe of       Klnd of
Container      Traffic       1970    1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978          1979     1980       1981     1982      1983
L              Export         1.5     3.1    4.7    4.8    6.5    8.9   12.6   11.8   15.4          12.7      12.8      12.6     11.3      12.1
A             Import         9.0    12.2   1B.1   19.8   18.4   20.1   30.8   27.2   26.3          25.3      22.5      24.6     25.9      24.1
R            Transit        0.3      0.8    1.0    1.6    2.9    3.2    4.1    5.2    3.7          4.4       3.1       1.5      1.9       1.9
E           Inland        13.4    34.8   58.1  108.5  156.8  206.8  283.7  412.0  450.8    520.7          558.8    590.4    583.3    605.2
E
Subtotal      24.2    50.9   81.9  134.7  184.6  239.0  331.1  456.2  496.2    563.1          597.2    629.1    622.4    645.3
M              Export         9.8    16.4   17.3   24.4   31.4   44.1   68.3   97.3   89.8    132.0          172.8    272.6    334.6    512.1
E             lport          1.3      5.1   17.8   18.5   37.7   33.0   39.5   54.5   69.5    105.5          145.3    303.2    368.4    537.9
D            Transit        2.0     4.2   17.6   35.8   74.6   86.3   95.0   99.1  210.4    130.1           156.8    136.5    137.1    163.4
I           Inland           -      1.8    6.1   11.0   16.8   25.4   35.7   54.3   80.2    115.S         135.5    180.6    160.9    199.7
U-_
N         SiSbtotal     13.1    27.5   56.8   89.7  160.5  188.8  238.5  305.2  449.9    483.1           610.4    892.9   1001.0   1413.1
In Total      37.3    78.4  138.7  224.4  345.1  427.8  569.7  761.4  946.3   1046.2    1207.6   1522.0   1623.4   2056.4
1/ Excluding smell containers of 5 tons or less.
Source: K%V
Oeceuber 1984



- 87 -
TABLE 10
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Railway Component
Railways Staff and Productivity
Total     Traffic    TUs per EMployee
Traffic Units (TUs)  1/         V/ Number of Operation           Traffic
Year  Chargeable operational Ratio (3:2) Employees Staff          Total  Operation
----- million---------               ------__-__------thousand------------
1978     37,938      38,725       1.02       141,719    108.579    27..3     356.2
1979     37,800      37,996       1.01       139,243    107,115    272.9     354.8
1980     37,591      38.394       1.02       136,247    104,963   281.9      366.0
1981     37,340      38,394       1.03       134,493    103,677    285.5     370.2
1982     35,840      36,533       1.02       132,255    102,184    276.1     357.5
1983     33,758      34,334       1.02       132,229    102,341    259.7     335.7
1984     33.529      34,200       1.02       132,302    102,150    258.5     334.8
1985g2t   34,087     34.769       1.02       132,600    102.100    262.2     340.5
1986d/   34,656      35,350       1.02       132,400    101,950    267.0     346.7
1987     35.23,      35,940       1.02       132.200    101,800    271.9     353.0
1988     35.824      36,540       1.02       132.000    101.650    276.8     359.5
1989     36,424      37,152       1.02       131,800    101.500    281.9     366.0
1990     37,035      37,776       1.02       131,600    101.350    287.0     372.7
1/ Traffic Units (TUs) are the sum of net metric ton-kms (Ntkm) and
passenger-kms (pkm). Ntku chargeable are based on the tariff (shortest)
distance between origin and destination. Ntkm operational may be greater
because some traffic is routed circuitously to avoid saturated lines or to
utilize better facilities.
21 Estimate
31  Five-year figures for 1986-1990 HAV's proposed Action Plan.
Source: Statistical Pocketbooks of the MAV 1980, 1983 - Hungarian Railways
and Action Plan.
December 1984
(4397D/37)



- 88 -
TABLE 11
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Maximum Acceptable Traffic Volumes
(Passenger car unit.-I per hour)
Road Type                          Rural Sections          Urban Sections
Motorways
Two Lanes:    two-way traffic            1400                     1800
Two Lanes.    one-way traffic            2800                     3600
Three Lanes:  one-way traffic            4000                     5400
Four Lanes:   one-way traffic            5200                     7000
Other Main Roads
Two Lanes for two-way traffic        900-1200                1200-1500
Two lanes for one-way traffic       1800-2400               2100-2800
Three lanes ror one-way traffic             -               3000-4000
_, Light vehicles are one passenger car unit, heavy vehicles are
calculated as 2.5 passenger car units.
Source: Roads of Hungary; issued by Public Roads Department, 1974.
(4397D/38)



- 89 -
TABLE 12
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Principal Highway Design Standards
Design     Lane         Minimum        Maximum
Road Type       Terrain    Speed      Width       Horiz.Radius      Grade
(kmJhrE      (m)           (ml
F          150                        1400            3
Motorways            R          120           3.75          750            4
M          100                        500           4.5
BR          80                        300             5
F      120-100                    750-500      4.0-4.5
Hain Trunk Roads     R       100-80        3.5-3.0      500-300      4.5-5.0
M        80-60                    300-150      5.0-6.0
BR       60-50                    150-100       6.0-7.0
F       100-60                    500-150      4.5-6.0
Secondary Roads      R        80-50       3.5-3.0       300-100      5.0-7.0
M        60-40                      150-60      6.0-8.0
BR       50-30                     100-30      7.0-10.0
Legend:  F = Flat
* = Rolling
M = 1lountainous
BR= Broken or Residential Areas
Source:  Roads of Hungary:  issued by Public Roads Department (1979).
December 1984
(4397D/39)



- 90 -
TABLE 13
RUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Road Network Statistics (1980)
National Road Network
Av, ragel/
Road Categories                   Length (km)                   Paved Width (m)
Motorways                               130                           17.15
Half Motorways                          79                             8.48
Main Trunk Roads                     1,925                             7.79
Main Roads                           4,438                             6.82
Secondary Roads                     23,160                             5.54
Total National Roads              29,732                             5.95
Local Public Roads
_oad Type                         Length (kmi)                        Z Paved
Budapest Streets                     3,650                               72
Town Streets                         9,460                               55
Village Streets                     24,700                               34
Rural Roads                         20,120                                6
Total Local Public Roads          57,930                               30
Agricultural and Forestry Roads
Road Type                         Length (km)                         X Paved
State Farm and Agricultrual
Cooperative Roads                 46,669                               28
Forestry Roads                       3,908                               50
Total                             50,577                               30
1/ 96Z of National Roads are paved.
Source: Facts and figures about public road transport in Hungary.
December 1984
(4397D/40)



- 91 -
TABLE 14
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Axle Overload Fee Scale
Single Axle                                       Dual Axles
Axle Weight           Fee                         AxlWight             Fee
(Tons)             (Ft/km)                          Tons            (Ft/kin)
10.0          0                                  16              0
10.1  - 10.5          20                          16.1 - 17.0           25
10.51 - 11.0          25                          17.1 - 18.0           35
11.01 - 11.5          35                          18.1 - 19.0           45
11.51 - 12.0          50                          19.1 - 20.0           55
12.01 - 12.5          70                          20.1 - 21.0           70
12.51 - 13.0          95                          21.1 - 22.0           90
13.01 - 13.5         125                          22.1 - 23.0          120
13.51 - 14.0         160                          23.1 - 24.0          160
24.1 - 25.0         200
25.1 - 26.0          250
Source: Article from the Information Center of Public Roads Department.
December 1984
C4397D/41)



- 92 -
IussY                                                           TABLE 15
TWRUSPORT (ROWRAIL) PROJECT
Past and Projected Road Expenditwres
(Millien Hungarian Forints - Crvmt)
Totals; Vi                                              Totals: VI
Vt. Five-Year Plan Period             5-Yewr PUB          Vll. Five-Year Plan Period           5-Year pile'
Description                         1980   191    1W2    1963    184   1965          1981-1965    1986   1967   1988   1989   1996           1986-1990
National Highways
Road CEnstruction or lmro nt               3.070   2.92     230   2,010   1.320   1,580       10,230      2,09    2,240  2.420   3.eo   3.s7a          14.1ZO ,
-   tontayt - now construction            1.210   1,150    870    710    636    970          4.336      1.650   1,530  1.600   1.800   1.220          7.e00
- Oter Roads:                             ie 8DD         10 1..330         6a.    610        5.89_        U_    ;10 44 0         o     _3             6.2
-neu cnstruction                            200    220    M8c    200        19      10         629          5      40    U4       50      60            200
-      1erizaltion (hettereuts)           1.600   1.550   1.320   1.130    665     00        5.265        435    670    775   1.950  2,290            6.120
PFaemt Reinforcement                       2.5S  2z48e  2.7    2.6SD   2.OW   2.300           12.210      2.300  2.SOO  2.5D0   2.75D   2.950          13,.DO
Road Maintenance                            1.911   2 ,95  2,126  2.237   2.600   2.965       12.023      3.11S   3.270  3.435   3.60    3.785         17.210
- operations                              1.911   2,095  2,216  2.Z37  2.600  2,860                    2Rt5   3,D30  3.175  3,325  3p475             15.930
- equipment. plmt 8c Installations          n.a    n.a    n.a    n.e    n.a    105             n.         190    240    260    28D    310             1,280
Natlonal Road Total                        7.531   7.495  7,246  6.957   5.920  6.845         34.463      7.505   8.010  8.355  10.155  10.305        44.330
Local Roads
-  Constructionfl.qroven.ts               1.291   2.314  2.407  2.701   2.616  2.6D0        12.66B      2.730   2.865  3.010  3.160  3,320           lSJOt21
- modernization (bettermnts)             2.100   1.629   1,788   1,638   1.484   1,500       8.039      1,605   1,720   1.835   1.965  2.105          9 .230!
- Road Mintence                           l.O   1,222   1.227   1,394   1.367   1.400        6.610      150   1.600   1.715   1.835   1,965           8 615!2
Local Roads Total                          4.591   5.165   5.422   5.733   5.497  5.500       27.317      5,835   6,185  6.560   6.960   7.390        32.930
Grand Total                                12.122  12.660  12.6   12.690  11.417  12.345      61.780     13.440  14,195  14.915  17.115  17.695        77.260
1/ ADunts shown for VII five-year plan period ar  not yet finally approved.
21 Planned budget for local road projected on HPW8MT estimate of 5%-1Ot amual Increase over present levels.
Source: WO, NRT and Hission.
February 1965



- 93 -
maim?                                                                            TABLE 16
TRAiT COWUiIL) 1603Cr
mtinal Roid 1awetsut Pln (1360-1930) - by  aior Mork Ceteris
(Budget Aouets m Mlli1em of Hag1rim ForV ts (PeF) - Cmr.mt)
1IS                     1217                    nu                      1I0                                        Toa tals 1im6-1M
inpected    stat        expeted      4int       eW ted        _t          cted       sut    expected    smet               expected      ant
ecriptimi                     comletion    8WF}    c  ,lation   (Mlff         c     tlatim            c leSe        Pew       copetion   (1HUF)          c letion    (NW
ytorey Constructien                   10 km          109    -                 60    22.5 km            460    3.s ta           seo    -                  -       65 km          2 790
11-                              10 k-           6F0   -                  1U    -                   _    _                  _   _                   -       10 km             W0
-S                               -                430   -                46    22.5 km            460   32.5 km          SO      -                          55 km            1986
OtheroaR_Rks                         9 kW2 or         250   3k                 80    -                 -      -                -      -                  -       l2 k2  r         330
-  neb  ases -                      4 km              40   -                   -   -                   -    -                  -    -                  -       4 km              40
-  m abridges                      2 Bridge           70                                                 -                                                          2Br           70
-  murniztion  bettermnt)            5 km            IC    3 km              a      -                  -                                                        a _    _  _  8 km  acD
iwestun tor 1      haietnae          e/m               40   -                  -     -                 _     _                 _     _                  _       na                 40
-   mstallatlens                    i.e               40   -                  -    -                   _    -                 -     -                  -       R_/               40
Sn-total oqgfle  projects            19 kWE Er    1,3E    3 km                720    22.5 km          460   32.5 km           seo    -                  -       77 W2 Br        3.10
1   Prjects
t0 Htray Construction                                  560   -                89      -                140 -                 1.200    14 km          1.220       14 km          s,0o
Oiier Ronadks                        252 km            1B0 61 kmI Sr          630    263 k2 Br          20   30W ke3 Er        0      300 t3 Br   2350           1376 ke/l  Er  5.930
-  laroods            Zkm                              5   akm               40    S o5    5Bkm                              50 S       tkm           60       30 km            2a0
-  fewbypasses                                         -   -                200    6km               2      -                20    -                  40      6 km              Soo
-  n. bridge                       -                   0   2 Bridges        2ao    2 Brdgs          380    3 Bridgs         910    3 Bridges       1.200      10 Bridges      2.710
- medrnizgtlon (Chttermtss         -                  85   3 km              110    2 km              75   IS km            330    20 km            940       40 km           2.160
- wlddiag                          250km              O0   2D0 km            80    250km             80   28 km              90    Z70km              0        1300 km          420
Purnt gelf re  kt WOkm                               2.300    750 km        2.500    750 km         2.s        0 SSD km     2.750    550-km         2.94 100 km                13.000
menst_ets for maintenaece            a/a              1S0   n/a               200    nla              260   rna               280    n/a              310       nle             1.240
- Mu1tamnce aquwipst                 a               10    n/               150    Va        l       SO    Va                170    Va       17       0       rn/a              760
- PlI nt                           'V.                30   nl_               70   nV                 8O   n/a                90    Vfa              100       rNI               370
-  Installations                   V/a               20   n/a                20    nla               20   Va                 20    Wa                30       l/a               110
Sub-total en  projects               9   km         3.200    1011 kq'2 Br  4.260    1.013 km        4.72      1150 kt/3 Br  6.230    1264 %3 lBr  6.630         53SM  kmiO Or 25.240
Pi:siaal Road Invest_nt Total         971 kWZ Er   4.511    101 kWa2 Br  49110   1035 tl2 Er  S ISO    1183 kt/3 Er  6.630    1264 W1 Er  6.830                 567 km/ID Er 28.400
t ftick:  1atorwey Coestrectioa                      1.650                   1.530                   1 .40                   1.EOO                   1.220                      7.800
Other Roadwks                               440                      710                    E2D                   2.00                    2.350                       6.320
Paveet Reiefercint                         2.300                   2.500                  2.5s0                   2.750                   2.950                      13.0OW
Iowest_nts for
NaifteanrCe                                19                    240                      26D                   Z2O                      310                       1.280
50wm:   Ministry d Trasport
Oecfler 198



- 94 -
TABLE 17
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet of Hungarocamion
Refrigerator      Specialized         Other
Years                   Vehicles         Vehicles          Vehicles        Total
1970                      153               31               239             423
1975                      278               91               435             804
1980                      330              118               799           1,247
1981                      329              123               890           1,342
1982                      311              126               969           1,406
1983                      328              154               987           1,469
1984 (June 30)            315              153             1,093           1,561
Source; Hungarocamion
December 1984
(4397D/42)



- 95 -
TABLE 18
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Hungarocamion
Main Types in the Truck Fleet
1/
Years           Raba--Man   Mercedes    Volvo    Renault    Others    Total
1970                28          86        154                  155        423
1975               345          48        298                  113        804
1980               676         312        221        --         38      1,247
1981               732         426        153                   31      1,342
1982               738         498        130        --         40      1,406
1983               715         562        130         7         55      1,469
1984 (June 30)     756         600        129        20         56      1,561
1/ - in 1970 Skoda was the most significant type (102 units) from
the "other" trucks.
- in 1975 it was Scania (82 units).
Source:  Hungarocamion
December 1984
(4397iD/43)



- 96 -
TABLE 19
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Hungarocamion
Average Annual Utilization of Vehicles
(in 1,000 km/unit)
Refrigerator     Specialized      Normal tilt
Years                   Vehicles         Vehicles         Vehicles        Total
1975                      66.7            38.8              82.6           72.2
1980                      67.5             72.6              74.5          72.5
1981                      70.1             80.5              73.3          73.2
1982                      79.7             97.4             78.9           80.7
1983                      80.4             84.0             83.4           82.8
Source: Rungarocamion
December 1984
(4397D/44)



- 97 -
TABLE 20
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Hungarocamion
Selected Operational Statistics of Vehicles
Quantity
Naming                          Units        1975    1980    1981    1982    1983
1.  Average annual utilization         1,000 kmf
unit        72.2    72.5    73.2    80.7    82.8
2.  No. of accidents per million km  --                1.62   0.01    0.02    0.02    0.10
3.  Total ton-km performance           million t/km  668.8   1.013.2 1.076.6 1,214.7 1,396.4
From that;
- refrigerated                                 212.4   255.6   267.5   277.8   320.4
- specialized                                   36.5    67.5    83.8   103.1   112.7
- normal tilt                                  419.9   690.1   725.3   833.8   963.3
4.  Staff productivity                 1.000 t kn/
person       188.8   251.2   275.4   274.9   314.8
5.  Average transport distance         km             1.684   1,396   1,548   1.490   1,458
6.  Average time needed for com-
pleting the average transport
distance                          days           5.7     4.8      5.2     4.6     4.5
Source: Hungarocamion
December 1984
(4397D/45)



- 98
TABLE 21
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Hungarocamion
Actual and Planned Investxents
1980-85 -/                                        1986-90 (Draft Plan)
Replacement        Development           Total             Replacement        Development            Total
No. of    Costs    No. of    Costs   No. of    Costs       No. of    Costs   No. of    Costs      No. of    Costs
pieces     ic      pieces      SD     pieces     $m        pieces    ..   pieces         $n       pieces      Sm
(approx)           (approx)           (approx)             (approx)           (approx)            (approx)
Vehicles              700      62.5      430       30.5   1,130     93.0        750      41.0      550      38.5     1,300       79.5
of which;
Refrigerated       274       22.2       89       6.5      363     28.7          -       -        190      16.2       190       16.2
Specialized         49        4.5       16        1.3      65      5.8          -       -        85        6.6        85       6.6
Normal Tilted      377       35.8      325      22.7      702     58.5        750      41.0     275       15.7     1,025      56.7
Equipment              -        5.5        -       4.4        -      9.9          -       2.9       -        0.9         -       3.8
Others                  -       3.5        -       15.3       -     18.8          -      15.0       -        0.4         -       15.4
Subtotal                  71.5               50.2             121.7                 58.9              39.8                 98.7
1/  1980-84 actuals; 1985 estimates.
Source; lungarocamion
December 1984
(4397D146)



- 99 -
TABLE 22
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Railway Component
Procurement Plan for Railway Items Eligible for Loan Financing
LOAU ALLOC.
FT     US$     DISBURSEMENT
ITEM                     UNIT         1985    1986    1987      1988  TOTAL        MIL.   MIL.           %
I.  Farencvaros East
Marshalling Yard             Elements
1.1  Braking equipment          1          -       5,600   5,600   4,300   15,500       222.3   4.78          100.0
II. Track Construction and
Maintenance Machines           Pcs                                                      360.4   7.75          100.0
2.1 Ballast Cleaning
machines                   U          -           2        1       1        4
2.2 Tamping. Leveling
machines for switches                 -           3        1       1        5
2.3 Tamping, Leveling
machines for tracks                    -      -                    1        2
2.4  Sleepers changing
machines                             I-           1                -        2
2.5 Ballast profiling
machines(regulator)                    -          -                1        2
2.6  Switch exchanger           *           1          1        -       -        2
2.7  Small machinerxy- V                    -          -        -       -        -
III.Container Handling
Machines                    Pcs                                                      175.8   3.78          100.0
3.1 Front Loading Truck                     -          3       2        1        6
3.2  Side Loading Truck                    -           l  -             1        2
3.3 Self Loading saddle
tractor with trailer       *          2           2       2        2        8
3.4 Mobile Telescope crane
for container handling                -           1  -             1        2
3.5  Container Grip                         -          I  -             1        2
IV. Training Program                            -          -   -            -        -       10.2   0.22          100.0
Subtotal Railways - Excluding contingencies                                                 768.7  16.53
Physical contingencies                                                  21.9   0.47
Price contingencies                                                    186.0   4.00
Total Railways                                                                              976.6  21.00          100.0
1/ Includes about 200 pcs of small machinery such as: rail cutters,
haydraulic rail tightening machines, track lifting machines. hydraulic
joint bending machines; rail grinding mach.. power wrenches and high
frequency tool settes;
Source: MAV
December 1984



- 200-
~3aL * TAIFUT lsaIlu11M PiGlT
Taui   lit.              Teal1  Cit.               Teal1  ist.                 Tsutu    ait.              Total     It&.     latil     1st.
Pr4GPM   Aw      bat    Prismw  ANW    cat         Prinu  UNa-    coat         Prq"no   Am.      last    Inoputs  Us.        Cat      ha.       coat
Cont aM  Mn a  u                             s or S    R   isr -am   us' istmie f a                 Nus Coer  a n us  a us
A. fPlftlf
jledits".-                        ..                A       I       3.2       -               .          .       .        .         .       .         .        I        Sj
2.  quleac  Nieisuimo  ItV--                                                                       A                -                  .       -                  ai
1.mOur  iiitin s INamuts
islabm                                            Fs - P   2       6.1                                                                                                  GA  .. .   
4.  mic  U1pA  ofU
imatuvacs as ualitasmci                                                                        Da  4 12 1    L  .                                                          a
S. eausem aillysfil Cr
1,lhisN ratlaU              -       .        -        -                                                  FE       I         GA                                            G    A
5.  ew Ama'S tit..iq t atlas -                                                                                        I        2.3      -        .         .        I       3.3
1. Ctc  iystems for       l
I%# wiuewaitw              -                                                                                               .3                -         -       I        3.3
U.Trflasqintem  .5ral
"tlia Lsic gaslia bU Itrt
assitinb.                                                                     FM . . -          OA                -                  U        N         GA      4        13.
a. bt.4U1g orslpt af
naI Iwo am eaing tuta.--                              -      -       -         -       -        .          .      -                           V         BA      UA
sEa                             -      -        -                        3.                        M                           12.2               a        Ila     it 
Paatdbpiqaitgn               *                        U                         a       I         .                 I        2                 -         -        4        W
2. lim"t basial alt
ThinalirrIq                 -       .               FM       I       3.3       a       I        Ij.                                                                      OA . . . 
LIlkl ttliuit a IdiShlia
Urtciurls fau his Cap-
motptle.                                                             GA  F * L  S      I        Si       on        1        24       .                          4        1.
a. biasM as Tiaulaa
b.ualrdffitluost,                                      A       I       32      FU        I         .21     Iii      a        LB        .                          4       Da
5. prop"t h aicitia
Implemeitatian lawp"lais"
OM 9SaaC dsiIfaleim,M FI           I        939       P      4        .13     IL       a       112       514      4        12.1      -        .         -       I 
Practce                    aK      4        832       A      a       GA       PU5      4       I3                                             -         .       U       2.
CanStrwitia               FM        I       3.       E       4       Di.       aL      4       IJ          .      -        .          .       .         .       5
-  -    -        P      ~ ~~~~4 13.        A      I         .3
S.RCsul ting lagiuin
Activities                FOG      4        832      am      4       12        -       -        .          -.                         .       .         .       i 
La               343    upl       I       GA       cm               GA
enSUe        urn       a        eo~~~~~4.  Ca   2       9.,        A      S        GA         UK               OA        .       .         -                   7
I. CAstiliNs INCie)
liiwiitimai ivsatlug iSe-e          -       3J       -               OADA      -       -        I                                              
2. Iiwts sssO a
3r T-r-eeilfa    al-                           s       -        -     IA         -       -         4        ..                         --I
4. Tecablea t*ints Meet, M
to -du                                                Ilat   a                 1t                 a        i a:                         a
--Fawvipav la ism"j Le i.S, . mfSaim.
SWISS Mr
fti1l "B



- 101 -
TADLE 24
HUN&AR
TRANSPORT (AW RAIL) PROJECT
M.0 Motorway - Principal Characteristics
Cross-sections        N-S to Rte 50         Rte 50 to M-7         ri7 to M-l
Phase I (included In the project) and Phase I1 (1991-1995)
Lanes                 243.50m                4x3.50m                2x3.50m
Platform Width         13.00m                 18.00.                  13.00.
Paved Width             1.OOm                15.00.                  11.00.
Paved Shoulders       2x2.0Om                none)!                 2x2.OOm
Eventual Full Motorway (future)
Lanes                 4x3.50m                6x3.50                 4x3.50
Platform Width         18.0Um                 36.00.                 28.00.
Paved Width            15.00n               lxl5.00m; 1x14.50m     2xxl.0Om
Paved Shoulders       none                   2x3.0m                 23.00m
Exit Rap Width - (l-lane) Platform Width  8.00m. Paved Width 5.50r.
- (2-lane) Platform Width IU.00.m, Paved Width 7.00W.
River Bridges over Danube River - 950m (main spans 500 meters)
Soroksar1 Channel - 504m (main spans 150 meters)
Superstructure (Phase l)Y/
Cross section:    4 lanes x 3.50D; median width 0.50m; Curb to curb width
17.50.
Type - mainspans;  3-cell. continuous, post-tensioned, reinforced concrete.
- approach span; 2 cell, continuous, post-tensioned, reinforced concrete.
Substructure:
Concrete piers with stone-block facing on cast-in-place pile foundation.
Grade Sepwations.          Motorwa over railroad       Secondary roads
or secondary roads         over motorway
Cross section              4 lanes x 3.50.             2 lanes x 3.25m
Curb to curb width         17.50S5L/                   6.50m
Superstructure; Prestresssed reinforced concrete beams, cast In place deck.
Sustructure.   Reinforced concrete abutment and piers on pile foundations.
Principal Construction Quantities
Earthworks                      2,400,000 cubic meters
Stabilized base                    70,000 cubic meters
ASphalt base                       34,000 tons
Asphalt binder                     46,000 tons
Asphalt surfacing                  32,000 tons
River Bridges                      27,150 square meters
Grade Separation Structures        26.500 square meters
I/ A U.5U meter median strip ould be constructed during Phase I and 11.
y/ For the eventual full motorway a second parallel bridge would be built.
Source; NOT
DecOer 1984
(4.V70/48)



- 102 -
TABLE 25
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (ROAD/RAIL) PROJECT
Road Maintenance Equipment List
Estimated Price (1984)
Item Description                              No.       Unit         Total
Salt spreader (truck mounted)                    15        21,000       315,000
Side mounted snow plow                            8        12,250        98,000
Highpower multi-purpose truck                     8       36,500        292,000
Rotary snow-plow                                  8        81,250       650,000
Standard multi-purpose truck                     20        26,250       :25,000
Ditching backhoe (truck mounted)                  2        86,500       173,000
Miscellaneous equipment and tools                 -                      38,000
$2,091,000
Spare Parts          209,000
$2,300,000
Road Evaluation and Testing Equipment List
Estimated
Total Price
Item Description                                        No.          (1984)
Impermeability testing equipment (field)                     1           30,000
Impermeabilizing material testing equipment (Lab)            1           25,000
Nuclear Density Testing equipment (field)                    7           45,000
buclear Density equipment calibrator (lab)                   1           35,000
Bitumen content tester (lab)                                 1           65,000
Marshall compactor (lab)                                     1           15,000
Bridge deck freezing forecast device (field)                 1           80,000
Road evaluation vehicle                                      1          500,000
Miscellaneous small equipment                                -           23,000
$818,000
Spare parts            82,000
$900,000
Source: MOT and mission
December 1984
(4397D/49)



- 103 -
TAKE 26
TRANSPORT (RAIUROAD) PROJECT
Nungarocanion
List of Trucks and Workshop Equipment
No. of     Total Cost
Item Description                                Pieces       (US$OO)
1.0  VEHICLES OF IHICH:
1.1   Refrigerated
- Tractors21 and semi-trailer
with heat-isolated superstructure                190          12.600
1.2   Specialized                                         85           5,OO
- Tractors and superstructures for cloth
and furniture transport
- Tractors and semi-trailers with tank
superstrucutre for transportation of
dangerous chemical fluids
- Tractors and drawbar trailers with
superstructure for cloth and furniture
transpert
1.3   Nornal                                             275          12.30D
- Tractors and semi-trailers with large
cubic capacity superstructure
- Tractors and bodyless lorry frames
with 6x2 wheel configuration
- Tractors and bodyless lorry frames
with 4x2 Sheel configuration
Total                                           550         30000
2.0   WORKSHOP EQUIPMENT
High pressure washing equipment                      8              68
Output measuring testing bench                       2             135
Exhausting equipment                                 2              10
Hydraulic pit Jack                                   IS             75
Optical aCjuster for running gear                    5              30
Block testing stand with rolls                       5             125
Wheel balancing machine                              2              20
Break-arum refacing machine                          2              20
Rising scafolding bridge                             6              36
Hydraulic triiune  Set for chassis and cab           2              16
Electrical Steel nut spanner                        15              27
Mechanization for storage system                     -              93
Diagnostic line                                      -             205
Other machine-tools  nd equipment                                   40
Total                                              -            900
Grand Total                                                   30.900
V1 Tractors with 6x2 and 4x2 iheel configurations for seau-trailers are
interchangeable anong the various trailer types.
Sources Hungroccnion and mission
February 1985



HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Railway Component - Implementation Schedule
1985                     1986                     1987                      1988                     1989
ACTIVITY                             ACTION BY      J F H A H J J A S O N D J F M    A N J J A S O N D J F N A N J J A S O N l J F M A M J J A S ORDNI J F M    A H J J A S ON  D
1.  Preparation of Tenders                  MAV
Bank Approval                        Bank
Notification in Newspapers           MAV/Dank
Bidding Period                       Suppilers
BOd Evaluation                       MAY/Dank
Bank Consent for Contract Award    Bank
Signing of Contract                  MAV/Suppliers                 m
Cank Approval                        Bank                              m
Effectiveness of Contract
2.  Ferencvaros East Marshalling Yard
Designing
Delivery Period                      MAY/Suppliers                                                                                        -
Construction/Installation           AKAV                                                                                                  __              I
Put Into operation                   MAY
Phase I                                                    PhdsM   I    PhaTT   Phase'IV
3. Track Constructlon and Maintenance
machines                              MAY/Suppliers
Ballast Cleaning Machines            MAV/Suppliers 
Taping. Leveling Machines for                                                                                  _
Switches                           PAV/Suppliers                                                                                   -
Taqing, Leveling Machines for
Tracks                            MAY/Suppliers 
Sleepers Changing Machines           MAS/Suppliers
Ballast Profiling Machines           MAV/Suppliers                                                     _
Switch Exchanger                     HAW/Suppliers
Small MAchinery                      MAV/Supplters                         _            _             _
4.  Container Handling Machines             HAV/Suppilers
Front Loading Truck                  PAV/Suppliers 
Side Loading Truck                   MAV/Suppliers
Self Loading Saddle Tractor          MAV/Suppliers
with Trailer                                                                        _                            _
Mobile Telescope Crane for                                                _
Container Handling                 PAV/Suppliers 
Container Grip                       PAV/SupplIers 
S. Training Progr 
Selection of Trainees                PAV Y
Trainees Attendance                  Trainees                                                                __                            m
1/ Phases denote technological processes of operations in marshalling yard (see par&. 3.22) .
Source HAV and mission estimates.
npcember 1984



HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Highway Component - Implementatlon Schedule
1 9 8 5             1 986                   1987                   1 988 a                 1989                   1990 
__________________________________   I!   III   IV   I    1i   III    IV   I    1I    III   IV   I LI    III   IV   I    II   III   TV   I    II   III   IV
Civil Works - Bidding
Prequallfication-                                 -
Docuent Preparation                       _ _
Bank Review
Bidding Period
Evaluation
Bank Review
Contract Award
Civil Works - Construction
Land Acquisition
Prmeratory Pre ks
Bridges
Drainage-                                                                                        -     -    -     -      -    -     -    -     -
Earthwwrk
Pavent-                                                                                               ----                                                                                           i
Other Structures
Finishing
Maintenance EquiLwet
Docuent Preparatfon
Bank Review
Bid(s) Sc Evaluate(E)                                      B  E                    B  E _                     E
Bank Review
Contract(C) and Delivery(D)                                      C                        C           
Evaluation/Testing Equhip,
Document Preparation
Bank Review                                          I
Bid(S) 8c Evaluate (E)                               I        EBE 
Baaik Review 
Contract(C) and Del IvoryD                                        C       0c                       DC 
Source;  iDT and Mission Estimates
Oecember 1984



HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Hungarocamion Cowponent
Implementation Schedule
1985             1986             1987             1988           1989                1990
Component                                1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4    1   2   3   4
1. Trucks and Trailers
191 Procurement
1.1.1  Bidding documents
(preparation/approval)
1,1.2  Bids requested
1.1.3  Bid evaluation
1.1.4  Contracts established
1.1.5  Deliveries                                            t
2. Infrastructure Item-
- Information Systems
- Maintenance Equtpment
- Spare - Parts Control
0%
2.1 Procurement
2.1.1 Bidding documents
(preparation/approval)
2.1.2 Bids requested
2.1.3 Bid evaluation
2.1.4 Contracts established
2.1.5 Deliveries
3. Studies
- Information Systems
- Marketing
- Container Services
- Truck Terminal
3.1 Approval TOR
3.2  Selection of Consultants
Approval/Contracts
3.3  Length of Studies
Source:  HC and mission estimates.
December 1984



- 107 -
TABLE 30
HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IBRD F';eal Year             R A I L W A Y S         H I G H W A Y S           HUNGAROCAMIION            T O T A L
and Quarter             Quarterly  Cumulative  Quarterly  Cumulative  Quarterly  Cumulative  Quarterly  Cumulative
1986
I.  September 30, 1985                   -           -                       -          -            -           -
II.  December 31, 1985        0.2         0.2        -            -           0.6        0.6          0.8         0.8
lIt.  March 31, 1986           1.0         1.2        0.6          0.6         1.0         1.6         2.6         3.4
IV. June 30. 1986             1.5         2.7        0.5          1.1         1.3        2.9          3.3         6.7
1987
1.  September 30. 1986       1.7        4.4         0.7          1.8         1.0        3.9          3.4        10.1
II.  December 31. 1986        2.2         6.6        0.8          2.6         0.8        4.7          3.8        13.9
III. March 31. 1987            1.8         8.4         1.4         4.0         0.9        5.6          4.1        18.0
IV.  June 30, 1987            1.8        10.2        0.9          4.9         1.0        6.6          3.7        21.7
1988
I.  September 30, 1987       1.0        11.2        1.4          6.3         1.0        7.6          3.4       25.51
II. December 31, 1987          1.0        12.2        1.5          7.8         0.7        8.3          3.2       28.3
-II.  March 31. 1988           1.4        13.6        2.1          9.9         0.7        9.0          4.2        32.5
rV.  June 30, 1988            1.7        15.3        1.4         11.3         0.7        9.7          3.8        36.3
1989
I.  September 30, 1988       1.7        17.0        1.6         12.9         0.8       10.5          4.1       40.84
II. December 31. 1988          1.6        18.6        2.0         14.9         0.8       11.3          4.4       44.8
III.  March 31. 1989           1.0        19.6        2.9         17.8         0.7       12.0          4.6        49.4
IV.  June 30, 1989            0.5        20.1        2.8         20.6         0.8       12.8          4.1        53.5
1990
1.  September 30, 1989       0.5        20.6        3.0         23.6         0.6       13.4          4.1       57.6
II.  December 31, 1989        0.4        21.0        3.0         26.6         1.0       14.4          4.4        62.0
III.  March 31. 1990           -          21.0        2.3         28.9         0.6       15.0          2.9        64.9
IV.  June 30. 1990            -          21.0        2.5         31.4         0.8       15.8          3.3        68.2
1991
I.  September 30, 1990       -          21.0         1.7        33.1         0.7       16.5          2.4        70.6
II.  December 31, 1990        -          21.0        2.3         35.4         0.5       17.0          2.8        73.4
III.  March 31, 1991           -          21.0        1.5         36.9         -         17.0          1.5        74.9
IV.  June 30, 1991            -          21.0        0.1         37.0         -         17.0          0.1        75.0
Source: Mission Estimates
December 1984
4397D/50



HUNGARY
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
Railway Component
Frei8ht and Paasenger Traffic
Actual 1978-83 and Projections 1985-90
___ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ____A__ ___ __ _    FaLtAm te                  Fbogm t
1978    1979    1980    1931    1982    13          1984     1985    1986    187    1988      18          19
IUw *   N)WSRW.
(a) 1Txmage Cill, net tc,m)
mtic                             82.6    82.2    78.8    80.8    79.7    76.2        72.1    72.3    72.8    73.8    74.7       75.5        76.2
Internatiail Tramit             19.3    20.0    19.8    18.1    16.8    16.2        16.1    16.2    16.4    16.6    16.9        17.2        17.5
Eq=t-krxct                       32.2    31.0    30.5    31.4    29.9    30.9        31.3    31.5    31.8    32.1    32.4       32.8        33.3
Total                         134.1   133.2   129.1   130.3   126.4   123.3       119.5   120.0   121.0   122.5   124.0       125.5       127.0
(b) Valuze  Oil. net tabk-n
ltestic                   11,367  11,538  11,020  11,337  11,331  10,844      10,318  10,562  10,825  11,090  11,363      11,546      U,739
Internatical                   12,820  12,793  13,021  12,614  11,596  11.933      12,005  12,207  RL407  12,600  12,800      13,100      13,400
TbW                            24,187  24,331  24,041  23,951  22,927  22,777      22,323  22,769  23L225  23,690  24,163      24,646      25,139
n .  PASE  PAIC
(a) lwetic
Paavgsa (n-)                    299.9   288.8   278.3   265.7   259.2   231.1       232.1   229.3   230.2   231.1   232.0       232.9      233.9
Internati1al                     4.6      4.3     4.1     4.2     3.2      3.3        3.7     3.8     3.8     3.9     4.0        4.1         4.1
'ibtal                        304.5   293.1   282.4   269.9   262.4   234.4       235.8   233.1   334.0   235.0   236.0       237.0       238.0
(b) Pass. Wa (mil.)
D.utic                         12,909  12,663  12,765  12,592  12,271  10,312      10,484  10,578  10,676  10,776  10,876      10,978      11,076
Intwn itkcnul                    842      806     785     797     642      669        722     740     755     770     785        800         820
Ta1                          13,751  13,469  13550  13,389  12g913  10,981       11,206  11,318  11.431  11,546  11,661      11L778      11,896      W
III. 'WAWIC UWi
*Dll.lfmilJIOm=)                 37,938  37,800  37,591  37,340  35,840  33,758      33,529   34,087  34,656  35,236  35,824     36,424      37,035
Source: MAV and Mission Estimates



Comnrneraol&
Opemlound.
Secieltna
_____________  _Inte ctiona
Ecornomics                                                   Rejnons
_______________  ~ ~ ~~~~9.soetv
Pesnrkel &       _                          
Orgaomion       _      
Sofety &         ronti1
|   Legd          |_$                                          rwwS4 &        |-
DeveL                                             _-ent
Fnunce                                            0
!E >wEction  M   &9wnce  n    ODetCXttLegal
I I  .                 |     ~~~~~~~~~Prcurenger  X    2  
0
|  wt Stoes            |    |       ett   n        h ntsl                        lX
0
_ _S h            _ ,l o xionon                                                                                           P
|   (OCL) E"tis9  n ~     Aiserch lra"e                                                                    1<
Centwal Acconnting
}  Slatla&   Ll~ ~~Finnc                                  Tocetiona  LI-  
Bridgeco n     &                            Operatrionaltorate
7roCk Ovedml            d~~oSupplv
Passenger
stores           ~'~Otc                                       uf
Fired lnsticot                ico   ron tig
(OCL.) Enterp Ire                 lcnn
Typing & Pdniing  Contrd DispatchPermonent Way
Slatiorerv &                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~Traction &
Rlntliting Stc
iMintennce                                                  n|Asolnltiotin 
I   Wtxk 3shops       |    Data Proce.slng   |t 1              . 
1        ~~~Center
1 1WVH3
- 601 -



HUNGARY
A TRANSPORT (ROAD/RAIL) PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Organizotlon of the Ministry ol Transpod
D cptV  nDcrDRlptAv*4AG.Ef
-R:A1 k1'incho A
errce laanlr   
rat"m      A|t tnauan                             Dmw                        1=11
z S - W11   (D)b I
1~~~~~~~~~~~M~ CO> 1{.. C + EdI
ledrecal           IrMnIpotMaot                            Piro                       I &*-EcReB
L                                  Dham__0              r_1
|   . .                 ~~~~~~~~CECENMAWIED OF{RADWS LWAAGEA&Mi
L~~~~~~~~~~am rUU Rom O^eon P 11        Q c                   I   Rep"oum
Ra vw,O   I  t  to:tetuenaoCenls  RhdMO Ce ttSAr
- Xb Cooowd enln   17hn Cymd  covsnI                  
WOBank-27=6



- 111 -
CHART 3
HUNGARY
A TRANSPORT (ROAD/RAIL) PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Organization ot Hungarocamlon
General Manager
Tran~~~a41 ~Technical                   FRnancial               DngmetCeaimen                                     LOW0
Trnwort                                                              la |Pemict l_| Rnch     orFeonel   |   Internotion31d Ll  e
Management              Manogwnent             Mongoement             a Sociol W:ere  |nkeatlons                      Depo1ment
Tckirnofd      lJ        Milnne|j                 F   c                   Personnel               Protob. l,
Taking of       MantesoceFinaonceWear
Orders                 Servicing                n         Jenore                  I  1         *          |
Develarjnent of          Planning &                                    Coordlncxtion d
Gioupage       *_Venke Raet                 An.lng of Dota             Eduction               Internotional
B    Offices              Suppiy               Accountancy  |-|Wore                              Ar|
Transport              Breakdown                               |       Medical                 Foreign
Organization              5e ivce                                        service                 partnes
WAodtd Bank-27040



-r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
H U N G A R Y
TRANSPORT (RAIL/ROAD) PROJECT
TRANSPORT PROJECT                                          CONTA,iNER TEWNALS,
-       PROPOSED MOTORWAY CONST UCTION (FIRST PHASEI         *    2D - 40 TONS
FUTURE CONSTRLCION ISECOND PHASE)                    *    5 TONS
__  PLANNED EVENTUAL CONSTRUCTION                                                                                               CZECH O
*44:+ MAUSHALLING YARD                                      E-JSTING MOTORWAYS
*    CONTAINER TERMINALS                                        MOTORWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
RAILWAY INVESTMENT PLAN                                      MAIN NATIONAL ROADS
DOUBLE TRACK ELECTIFICATION                                SECONDARY NATIONAL ROADS
-44j, DOUBLING OF EISTING TRACKS                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
- I---4- TRACK REHABIUTATION                              ---  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
EI.d.4fi.d  EXISTING RAILWAY NETWORK,
12    a1   DOUBLE TRACKS                                                                                                    T. Le    j
I   ,   SNGLE TRACKS                                                                                          T. 
-4--I- PRIVATE TRACK (GUSEV)
*)+~-I  MARSHALLING YARDS
To G ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~o .ZW
eerszeg
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To>                                                            0      10     Zi      30    4Ri MILES       0
ria ~ ~ ~~~              0      21     30     4   IE



IORD 18773
t          ~CZECHOSLOVAKIA|
To KoT..' e
r o Uzgo.od
(                       ~~~~~~~~~~\TO T Zhony           U. S. S. R.
SatormljoujhI ly
To Lb      T                                F, *  .          Xenyes!I'
X .Xav f(;3g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ebre en
k.\ $;  w)    | <(t                                                ROMANIA
* I    \            A     Thzcs~~~~~~iuaenyo          -To Ornd.o
ugur ~ ~      ~         ~         ~        ~         --
i l:      5              >           ".       'a \i                                                   -t _t
*  v   \  4   A             A      2 's           tM)   ~~~~~~~~~~~~BUDAPEST
>.n~~akee                                                                                                       vt 
O     10    20    30   tOlES
20  40  60 KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIOETR
0   _0 j0  3A 4        O     'tMI0 LEEMl
FEBRUARY 1985






