Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
-A). z 3o-=JrM
lepst N.. P-3598-Ja
REPO8R TND AN ECD IIE llO
OF THE
PRESDEST OF 
INENATIONAL BAN FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EECUTIVE DIECTORS
Oil A
PROPOSED LOAN
I AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30.1 ML-LION
TO
JAMAICA
FOIL A
THI   -ORT  DEVELOPMENT FUND PRWECr
Nay 24, 1983
ibIs d.cmt hm a                 _sbiced Jsba.i.  j m  be wed by- _dig -ly t1 the p_ fencero
dwk eelachd dk.. I*t Zmtmk my wuidulbuwim  be ibenld wtin  W_d lik ahunth



CURREC E VTS
4pproximate Selling Rate         CAICON
at the Official Parallel Narket        Rlate
Official Rate               (Snew January 1983)          (Since Nay 1983)
US$1.00    J$1.78              US$1.00 - J$2.60          uSS1.00  - J$2.25
US$0.56    1$.-00              US$0.38    J$1.00         US$0.44    J$1.00
US$56.18   J$100.              US$38.46   J$100.         US$44.00   J$100.
ACROMMS
B03       Bank of Jamaica (Cntral Bank)
CARICON   Caribbean Ecnomic Commmnity
CBI       Caribbean Basin Initiative
CI        caribbean Developmet Bank
DFTI     Development Finance Institutions
EDF      Export Developmet Fund
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IDB      Inter-American Developmeut Bak
JDB      Jamaica Development Bank
JECIC    Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation
JIEC     Jamaica National Export Corporation
JNIP     Jamaica National investmet Promotion Ltd.
1EBB     National Development Bank
PIC      Premier Investmnt Corporation
SAL       Struct A djustment Loan
SIFCO    Smal Industries Finance Comny
FISCAL TM~
Governt of Jamica: April 1 - March 31
National Development Bank: October 1 - September 30
Export Development Fund: January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
JAMICA
THIRD EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
LOAN  D  PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Government of Jamaica (GOJ)
Beneficiary:                 The Export Development Fund (EDF).
Amount:                      US$30.1 million equivalent Cincluding a capital-
ized front-end fee).
Terms:                       17 years, including four years of grace, repay-
able on a fixed aiortization schedule at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:             The Borrower would relend US$2Q million to the
EDF on the same terms as those of the Bank loan.
Interest rates on loans to enterprises having
access to EDF would initially be at least 15Z per
annum and subsequently be subject to periodic
review. Commercial banks would have the credit
risk and the enterprises would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Description:         The project would provide foreign exchange and
credit to exporters of nontraditional manufac-
tured and agricultural products and to qualified
domestic enterprises producing inputs for the
export producers. Up to US$23 million of loan
funds would be used to provide short-term financ-
ing for imported raw materials, intermediate
goods, packaging material and spare parts. Up to
US$5 million of loan funds would be available to
provide medium-term credits for financing equip-
ment replacement an,' permanent working capital
needs. Up to US$2 million would be used to meet
the technical assistance needs of EDF and to
finance export promotion and technical assistance
requirements of Jamaican exporters. The project
would support the trade liberalization and export
incentive measures adopted by the Government as
part of its structural adjustnent program.
Risks:                       The principal risk in the project is that there
would be a slower drawdown of loan funds than
projected. This could occur if Jamaican industry
does not respond as rapidly as anticipated to the
incentives for export, or if a slower than
anticipated world economic recovery adversely
affects the demand for Jamaican products. The
initial favorable response to the program of
export incentives makes the risk acceptable.
This document.has a tstricktd distbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
thi official dutits contents may not otherwse be diSdosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs and         The proposed loan would bring EDF resources for
Financing Plan:           financing short-term import needs of its bor-
rowers to about US$93 million and about $15 mil-
lion for financing their mediumr-term needs.
These resources are required to finance the
growth of exports to the regional Caribbran
market and to third markets. Such growth is
projected in nominal terms to be as high as 30Z
per annum for manufactured exports to third mar-
kets and 20Z for such exports to the Caribbean
region. Nontraditional agricultural exports may
grow as much as lOZ per annum.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
US$ Million
FY84            FY85              FY86
Annual                      14.4            13.8               1.9
Cumulative                  14.4            28.2              30.1
Rate of Return:             Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:     Report No. 4420-JM, dated May 24, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR A
THIRD EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
*       1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$30.1 million for a Third Export
Development Fund project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
four years of grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Structural Adjustment, Export
Development and Private Investment" was distributed to the Executive
Directors in June 1982. Annex I contains the basic country data.
A. The Jamaican Economy to 1980
3.        The economy of Jamaica was affected by severe disturbances during
the 1970s. The first years of the decade repeated the brisk growth
performance of the 1960s, but the trend was abruptly reversed as a result of
external shocks and the impact of domestic policies. As a result, in 1980
total GDP stood 18% below the 1973 peak, and every year between had seen
negative real growth. Manufacturing declined by 31%, and construction by
58Z. The share of investment expenditures declined from 22% of GDP in
1974-75 to 12-15% of GDP in L977-80, while consumption expenditures increased
proportionately, reflecting the private sector's declining confidence and a
rapid expansion of Government current expenditures.
4.        As a result of Government's expansionary policies for the public
sector, fiscal performance was weak over the period. The Central Government
current account, which had registered a surplus of 6% of GDP in 1974/75,
showed a deficit of 4% of GDP in 1979/80, a downward trend which was
reflected in increased overall deficits. Reflecting this, and declining
production for export, particularly in bauxite/alumina manufacturing, sugar
and bananas, the balance of payments was under continuous pressure.  The
current account deficit on the balance of payments reached a high of 11% of
GDP in 1976, but declined after the devaluations of 1978 and 1979. Lack of
confidence had by this time caused considerable capital flight, so the
deficits resulted in increasing levels of public debt, which rose from 17% of
GD? in 1973 to 46% of GDP in 1980, and in declining net international
reserves, which fell from US$37 million in 1973 to US$-532 million in 1980,
with gross reserves down to four weeks' imports.
1/  Part I is the same as Part I of the President's Report for the Jamaican
Highway Maintenance and Industrial Credit projects, presented to the
Executive Directors earlier this year.



- 2 -
B. Development Strategy
5.        The Government which came to power in October 1980 was therefore
faced with considerable economic problems, as noted above, but was committed
to a reform of past economic policies, and to the institution of changes
designed to reverse the economic decline of the 1970s. It saw the private
sector as the main engine of economic growth, and consequently sought a
reduction in the role of the public sector, through deregulation and
divestment of government-owned assets, such as hotels and sugar factories.
The development of exports, particularly outside CARICOM, was considered the
main impetus for economic recovery. The Government also sought to improve
the overall investment climate, in particular so as to attract foreign
priv-ate investment in sectors with potential for exports.
6.        The new Government quickly established relations with the IMF and
in March 1981 reached agreement on a three-year Extended Facility Arrangement
and Compensatory Financing Facility drawing, which would together provide SDR
536 million over the three-year period. The Government also requested a
structural adlustment loan from the World Bank, and a first such loan, for
US$76.2 million was approved in March 1982. The SAL included conditions in
balance of payments management, industry, agriculture, and savings and
investment, both public and private. A second SAL is under preparation.
7.        One of the binding constraints on the economy during the
1970s--and, of course, for the incoming Government-had been the balance of
payments, and the shortage of foreign exchange. The Government had various
policies to address this problem, and indeed, the program in this area is
still evolving. One asnect was to attract a high level of official
assistance from bilatera; and multilateral sources during the first few years
of the economic recovery program, to finance an increased volume of imports,
particularly of raw materials, spare parts and capital goods, in order to
increase levels of output, and provide the means to expand exports.
Secondly, the Government was committed to a gradual replacement of the
constrictive administrative controls over the level of imports and the
allocation of foreign exchange by a system of allocation controlled primarily
by market forces.
8.        An immediate devaluation of the Jamaican dollar, which is tied to
the US dollar, was ruled out as a policy option by the new Government, both
because it believed that Jamaican exports had become competitive after the
1978/79 devaluations, and also because it feared that further devaluation
would merely fuel the fires of inflation through wage demands. Rather, the
need for a devaluation would be avoided through an attack on inflation and
restraint on wages, with the public sector acting as an 'example' to others.
9.        The first step in introducing a more market-oriented system was to
decriminalize the informal foreign exchange market, and to issue import
licenses to be funded through purchases on this market (so-called "no-funds-
licenses) on a liberal basis. The second step took place early in 1983. It
consisted of the full legalization of the parallel market, formalization of
its operations through institutionalization within the commercial banking



- 3 -
system  and a simplification of the import licensing arrangements   A far
more automatic system was established, based primarily on possession of
foreign exchange, which was in turn determined essentially by market forces.
There remains considerable administrative intervention in the system, despite
these reforms, because of the continued existence of quantitative restric-
tions, and the existence of foreign exchange quotas for non-experters. How-
ever, Government is committed to the gradual elimination of all remaining
administrative controls over the operation of the foreign exchange market.
10.       The manufacturing sector-together with agriculture and tourism--
was viewed as having major potential for growth, and in particular for an
immediate expansion of exports. It suffered from three major problems: (i)
an orientation towards the domestic market and against exports, because of
the structure of incentives, (ii) low capacity utilization, as a result of a
shortage of foreign exchange, and (iii) outmoded, inappropriate, and badly-
working capital equipment, because of a lack of investment during the 1970s,
and the unavailability of foreign exchange for spare parts. To reorient the
sector, the Government is attempting to redress the balance of incentives
towards export markets, by gradually eliminating the main means of protec-
tion, the quantitative restrictions, by the introduction of an export incen-
tive whereby exporters may retain 50% of their earnings from exports to third
markets, and sell these at the parallel rate, and by the expansion and
liberalization of the Export Development Fund, which provides exporters with
foreign exchange to acquire needed imports. Private investment, particularly
from overseas, is being actively encouraged, through the general improvement
in the investment climate, and through an agressive investment promotion
agency.
II.       The agricultural sector had been the one area of growth amongst the
productive sectors during the 1970s. However, this had primarily been
through an expansion of production for the domestic market, and export agri-
culture had steadily declined. Government was committed to a revival of
export agriculture. Several programs were designed to achieve this goal, in-
cluding: (i) rehabilitation programs for sugar and bananas, and the en-
couragement of private sector involvement in these crops; (ii) the
introduction of competition into the external marketing of other crops,
through a termination of the monopsony powers of the external marketing
organizations (EMOs), and a rationalization of the activities of the EMOs;
(iii) the application of export incentives to nontraditional agricultural
exports (i.e., excluding sugar and bananas); and (iv) the encouragement of
private iuvestment, which has to date included major investments in coffee,
bananas, floriculture, and winter vegetables.
12.       Tourism was seen as the other sector capable of an immediate expan-
sion of export earnings, because occupancy levels had fallen to very low
levels, and capacity underutilization was widespread. An intensive promotion
campaign was mounted, and Jamaica succeeded in counteracting the negative
image of lawlessness and antagonism to foreigners that had been created in
the seventies and that had seriously damaged the tourist trade. Several
Government-owned and operated hotels were leased to the private sector, under



-4-
terms where initial rents could be used for refurbishing. In addition, the
decriminalization and subsequent formalization of the parallel market
permitted an effective reduction in the price of tourism iv Jamaica,
increasing its price competitiveness. The collective results of this effort
has been a rapid increase in tourist arrivals (25-30% a year) at a time when
tourism in the Caribbean has been falling by 7-10% a year.
13.       Less emphasis was placed on the role of the bauxite/alumina sector
as a source of growth, although the continued decline that this sector has
suffered in 1981 and 1982 was not expected or provided for in the
Government's scenario. Rather, it had been expected to continue at a similar
or slightly higher level of output. The Government agreed to discuss changes
in the production levy in relation to new investments by the companies, but
no major changes have yet been introduced. In recent months, the Government
has been very active in attempting to negotiate bauxite/alumina barter deals,
in order to attempt to maintain the level of output, or prevent it from
falling even farther, and some success has been achieved.
14.       Finally, the Government has been trying to overcome another major
constraint to growth--the shortage of skilled and managerial manpower. There
was a major exodus of such persons during the 1970s, and attempts have been
made to attract them back to Jamaica, in addition to ongoing efforts to
upgrade skill levels of the work force, and in particular those of new
entrants to the work force. Some success has been achieved in attracting
people back, but the shortage remains an important constraint to development.
C. Economic Performance in 1981 and 1982
15.       In contrast to the sharp decline of the 1973-80 period, the
Jamaican economy grew in 1981 by 1.9%.  Construction and non-government
services were the leading growth sectors, but most productive sectors
responded positively to the improvement in the business climate and the
greater availability of foreign exchange. Unemployment and inflation both
decreased, the former modestly, but the latter dramatically, falling from 28%
in 1980 to only 4.7% in 1981. The fiscal situation also improved, in
particular as a result of improved tax collection, and the current and
overall deficits improved by about 4% of GDP with the financing of these
deficits coming largely from external official sources. However, the current
account deficit on the balance of payments increased sharply to 15.6% of GDP
in 1981, although this had been largely anticipated. Nevertheless, with high
levels of official capital inflow, an overall surplus of US$43 million was
achieved.
16.       In 1982, the Jamaican econoty was severely affected by the
international recession. In particular, output of bauxite/alumina declined
by 26%, equivalent to 2.7% of GDP; consequently, overall GDP growth was only
0.7Z. The severity of the decline in bauxite/alumina in 1982 reflects the
decision by the comparxies to maintain output in 1981, in the hope of a
recovery in 1982, which resulted in large stocks, and also the presence in
Jamaica of those aluminum companies most affected by the recession. If the
bauxite/alumina sector is excluded, real growth was 3.4%, with particularly



- 5 -
strong performance again in construction, non-government services, and
manufacturing. However, there was also a decline in agriculture, reflecting
stagnation in sugar production and slower than expected recovery of bananas,
and the depressive effect on output of other crops of the greater
availability of foreign exchange to finance food imports.
17.       The decline in bauxite/alumina also affected the public finances.
The loss of revenue from the bauxite production levy amounted to J$109
million (1.9Z of GDP) . In addition, expected Bank of Jamaica profits (0.7%
of GDP) failed to materialize. Despite a further 23% increase in tax
revenue, the Central Government current deficit worsened from 2% of GDP to
3.9% of GDP and consequently the overall deficit increased to 15.5% of GDP
from 14.2% the previous year, with two-thirds of the financing required
coming from external sources. This, in turn, permitted a rapid increase in
credit to the private sector.
18.       With the decline in bauxite/alumina, total merchandise exports are
estimated to have declined by 17% and merchandise imports by 8Z in 1982.
Non-bauxite exports rose by about 1OZ, and with tourism earnings rising by a
further 12%, and transfers by 28%, the current account on the balance of
payments improved to an estimated 13.4% of GDP. However, the expected level
of net capital inflows did not emerge, and this caused difficulties with the
net foreign assets target of the EFF. Consequently, an adjustment of the
target for the third year of the arrangement is currently being negotiated
between the Government and the IMF. The high level of capital inflow in 1981
and 1982 has considerably increased public debt, which had risen to 73% of
GDP by March 1983; debt service rose to 24Z of exports of goods and services
in 1982.
D. Economic Prospects
19.       The economic recovery program has begun to reverse the negative
trends of the economy, and this process is expected to continue. GDP growth
is projected to average 3-5X over the next five years, on the assumption
that there is a recovery in the economies of the OECD countries. This is a
critical assumption, particularly with respect to bauxite/alumina, tourism
and manufactured exports. Even with this rate of growth, GDP per capita in
1986 would still be 12% below the 1972 peak. Moreover, most of the recovery
would be concentrated on raising domestically financed investment levels
rather than consumption, which is projected to grow very modestly, with
national savings rising from 8.7% of GDP in 1982 to 14.2% in 1986.
20.       As a consequence of the export-oriented strategy adopted by the
Government, with the recovery in the OECD countries, exports of goods and
services are projected to grow by about 11% a year, largely reflecting
recovery from present depressed levels. Bauxite/alumina exports would
recover their 1981 level by 1986, and sugar and banana exports are projected
to increase as a result of rehabilitation programs to the point where they
can satisfy, from domestic production, the protected EEC or US markets. With
imports projected to grow less rapidly, the current account of the balance of
payments is expected to improve gradually from the present level of -13.3% of
GDP, to a level of about -5.8% of GDP in 1986.



6-
21.       Net external capital flows would therefore gradually fall over the
period, but would need to average about US$350 million a year. With high
levels of amortization payments this would mean that gross inflows would
have to average over US$500 million per annum; private flows are expected to
increase gradually, and to supply about one third of the required inflow over
the period. Debt service levels will remain high, and are projected to still
be at a level of 23Z of exports of goods and services in 1986. This is con-
sidered manageable; provided that Jamaica continues to pursue successfully
its present stabilization and economic recovery program, it should be
considered creditworthy for continued external borrowing on conventional
terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
22.       The Bank has made 30 loans2/ in Jamaica totalling US$463.0 million
after cancellations. Of this amount, US$147.9 million (32%) has been for
infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power, water supply
and sewerage; US$180.8 million (39%) for program-type lending, related tech-
nical assistance, and for a revolving fund for financing of inputs for export
industries; and the remainder has been for agriculture and agroindustry (9%),
education (9%), sites and services (3%), forestry (3%), population and nutri-
tion (2%), small-scale enterprises (2%), and petroleum exploration (2%). As
of March 31, 1982, Jamaica's debt to the Bank stood at US$302 million, or
16.5% of external debt outstanding and disbursed; debt service to the Bank
during the previous fiscal year amounted to US$36.2 million, or 13.5% of
total debt service. These shares are not expected to change substantially in
the next five years. The undisbursed amount of Bank loans as of March 31,
1983 amounted to US$87.5 milllion. There have been four IFC investments in
Jamaica, with the most recent being a loan in 1981 to a flour mill company.
23.       Bank lending in Jamaica has covered a wide range of sectors and
development problems. Initially, the Bank lending program emphasized infra-
structure investment. Althougl financing for this purpose continued, the
emphasis of the lending program in the early and middle 1970s moved to the
social sectors, with projects in education, population and nutrition, housing
and employment for the urban poor and rural development. In response to the
changing economic situation, a further shift in Bank lending took place in
the late '70s which gave priority to financing to help relieve the country's
pressing balance of payments problems and improve Jamaica's export perform-
ance. Thus, in FY78 the Bank lending program contained a $30 million program
loan and an $18 million loan for the rehabilitation of factories for
Jamaica's export oriented sugar industry. The Bank's second $31.5 million
program loan in FY79 was also directed at providing needed balance of pay-
ments support, with most of the proceeds allocated to the financing of the
import needs of export industries through the establishment of a revolving
Export Development Fund. A second $37 million loan to augment the resources
of the Export Development Fund was made in FY81. Bank lending to Jamaica has
recognized that resolution of the country's balance of payments difficulties
will require making adjustments to the economy over a period of time. As a
2/ Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone company and cancelled in the same year.



result, a $76.2 million Structural Adjustment loan was made in FY82. The
technical assistance requirements of the structural adjustment program were
met through a $6.1 million technical assistance loan made in the same year.
Additional support for the Government's export program was contained In a
$13.5 million loan in FY82 for the expansion of a free zone project in
Kingston.
24.       Although basic physical infrastructure in Jamaica is to a large
extent in place, much of that infrastructure is badly in need of maintenance
and rehabilitation. In response, the Bank provided a $16 million loan for
highway maintenance and rehabilitation in FY79 and a $30.5 million loan for a
*      similar purpose for the electric power system in FY82.
25.       Future Bank lending is likely to be directed at the following
areas: a) support for the structural adjustment program; b) projects in
support of export development; and c) projects aimed at conserving existing
investment. In later years of the program, when the country is better able
to deal with its short and medium term balance of payments situation, the
Bank lending strategy contemplates greater emphasis on more socially oriented
projects.
26.       Loans concurrently in preparation include a highway maintenance
loan, a second structural adjustment loan and an industrial credit loan.
Other projects under consideration for Bank financing include a loan to
strengthen the Agricultural Credit Bank and to provide longer-term credit and
technical assistance in the export agricultural sector and a project to
upgrade transportation in the Kingston area. If the Government's structural
adjustment program continues to be executed as projected with the expected
results, further structural adjustment loans may also be considered.
27.       Disbursements of Bank loans in Jamaica have been timely, on the
average, in recent years. This largely reflects the high proportion of
quickly disbursing program and structural adjustment lending. Many project
loans, however, encountered delays in execution in the middle and late
1970's, reflecting primarily the country's difficult economic circumstances,
resulting in fiscal and foreign exchange constraints, and institutional weak-
nesses, exacerbated by an exodus of skilled and managerial personnel.
Performance of ongoing projects in the last two years has improved, as the
economic environment became more favorable.  The single most serious obstacle
to timely project execution remains the lack of skilled personnel in the
public sector. Current Bank lending attempts to address this problem in part
through the provision of substantial levels of technical assistance and an
even greater focus on institution-building than in the past.



- 8 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRLAL AND FINANC'AL SECTORS3/
A. The Industrial Sector
Manufacturing - Recent Developments
28.       During the long recession of 1973 to 1980, industrial activity
declined by over 30% which is substantially above the decline of the overall
economy. Consequently, the share of manufacturing in GDP fell during this
period from about 18% to 15%. During the period 1974-1980 the industrializa-
tion of Jamaica suffered a serious reversal.  The economic policies which
were in part responsible for these adverse developments are currently being
revised and the industrial sector has recently returned to growth, although
still at low rates of 0.4% in 1981 and 3% in 1982.
29.       The past industrial decline has not changed the main character of
Jamaica's manufacturing sector which remains largely organized in medium size
factories. The number of registered factories has remained practically
unchanged since 1973 at about 1,250, but as factory employment declined from
a peak of about 55,000 in 1974 to 44,000 in 1980, average employment per
factory fell from 43 workers in 1974 to 36 in 1980. Only a few plants,
principally in food, beverages and tobacco processing have a work force of
over 500. These sub-sectors, together with footwear manufacturing, oil
refining, tire manufacturing and production of packaging materials also have
the highest degree of industrial concentration with a small number of enter-
prises controlling major shares of domestic market production.
30.       The share of manufacturing employment declined from 12.5% of the
employed labor force in 1973 to about 10.5% in 1980. Most of the reduction
of manufacturing employment occurred in the registered factory sector which
cut employment by 11,000 workers. As the economy recovered in 1981 and 1982,
unemployment declined slightly from 28% in 1980 to 27% in April 1982.
During 1981 and 1982 about 15,0OD manufacturing jobs were added, largely in
the registered factories, and industrial employment in 1982 was above the
level reached before the recession. Labor productivity continued to fall in
1981 and 1982, while real wages seem to have stabilized.
Industrial Policies
31.       Trade Policies are of crucial importance in Jamaica for achieving
sustained industrial growth. Effective protection of the domestic market is
high and prices of some consumers goods (e.g., shirts and footwear) are more
than 100% above world market levels. Jamaica is a member of the Caribbean
Economic Community (CARICOM) and applies CARICOM's common external tariff
system to imports originating in third countries. In general, tariff levels
3/   Part III is substantially the same as Part III of the President's
Report for the Jamaica Industrial Credit presented to the Executive
Directors earlier this year.



-9-
are moderate, varying on average between 15% for raw materials and 45% for
consumer goods, and duty exemptions are widespread. Kost duty exemptions are
for imports of raw materials and capital goods which has contributed to
creating a capital intensive and import dependent industrial sector.
32.       Quantitative import restrictions are the most important instrument
in Jamaica's protection system. Imports are subject to licensing and are
categorized into restricted and non-restricted items. The restricted list
includes about 300 important domestic products that may be imported only
under special licenses issued after detailed analysis by government institu-
tions. This list is being gradually reduced and is to be eliminated by
1985. Until January 1983, the process of granting import licenses was
extremely complex and without consistent criteria. Presently, a revised
import licensing system is in operation which provides Jamaican industry with
automatic licenses for all except a few restricted production inputs.
33.       Until early 1983, the scarcity of foreign exchange, and the related
cumbersome import licensing system, constituted important obstacles to indus-
trial investment and production. Industrial importers of raw materials and
capital goods competed for a declining share of licenses funded with foreign
exchange at the official exchange rate. Since the institutionalization of
the parallel market in early 1983, the uncertainty about the availability of
foreign exchange has practically been removed. Industrial inputs can be
imported with foreign exchange certificates purchased in the parallel
exchange market and automatic licenses are provided for all unrestricted
goods. While imported inputs are now considerably more costly in terms of
domestic currency, their availability should have a positive effect on plan-
ning of production and investments in manufacturing.
34.       Industrial Incentives in Jamaica consist mainly of import duty
exonerations on capital goods and corporate tax exemptions for up to ten
years. They are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and
Jamaica National Investment Promotion, Ltd. (JNIP) and decisions for granting
the incentives are made by an inter-ministerial Committee chaired by the
Prime Minister. The continued high rate of registration for incentives (20
in 1982) is an indication of their effectiveness in encouraging industrial
investments. However, the duty exemptions have an undesirable effect of
providing significant support to industries and enterprises with high capital
intensitv, which is particularly undesirable, given Jamaica's unemployment
problems. These duty exemptions are granted by all CARICOM countries, in the
framework of regional industrial incentives agreements and cannot be removed
unilaterally. The Government is aware of these problems and is discussing
them with Jamaica's CARICOM partners.
Exports
35.       The bulk of Jamaica's foreign exchange earnings from commodity
exports results from trad'tional products: bauxite, alumina, sugar and
bananas, whose share in total exports has remained stable at over 80% in
recent years. On the other hand exports of manufactured products (excluding
petroleum products) have more than doubled in current US dollars since 1972,
reaching US$115 million in 1982, or 16.4% of all exports. Processed foods,



- 10 -
beverages, tobacco products and machinery and equipment registered real
export growth during 1972-1981, while chemicals and textiles, garments and
footwear exports suffered real declines. Manufacturing exports in 1982 were
rather disappointing, when the upturn initiated in 1981 was not sustained and
exports declined by about 4% in constant prices.
36.       The direction of manufactured exports has changed substantially
since 1972. The share of manufactured exports which went to the protected
CARICOM market increased from one third in 1972 to over 70% in 1982. Since
1977, third market manufactured exports have stagnated in current prices at
somewhat above US$40 million per year. Currently, only tobacco products, rum
and small quantities of processed foods and garments are exported to count-
ries outside of the CARICOM area. The remarkable export growth to the small
CARICOM market was largely due to the purchasing power increases experienced
by oil-rich Trinidad and Tobago which bought over two-third of Jamaica's
manufactured exports to CARICOM in 1982. However, the future growth of
Jnmaica's exports require development of third countries' markets.
37.       In the policy package adopted by the Government in early 1983, the
export incentives and measures to reform import licensing are the most
important steps to both achieve substantial export growth and raise the effi-
ciency of domestic market oriented industry. Exporters of manufactured and
non-traditional agricultural products to third markets are now permitted to
retain 50% of their foreign exchange proceeds from sales in third countries
to pay for their own imports or sell the foreign exchange at a market deter-
mined rate to other manufacturers. The resulting improvement of export
profitability was about 25% of export value, at the end of February 1983.
Exporters to CARICOM conduct their trade at the rate of J$2.25 per US$1.00--
roughly halfway between the official and the parallel market rates. This
rate was agreed to by Jamaica and its CARICOM trading partners in May 1983.
Under the reformed import licensing system all enterprises exporting more
than 5% of their production are obtaining unrestricted and automatic access
to imported production inputs at the parallel exchange rate; while this does
not improve export profitability, planning for efficient investment and pro-
duction of export manufacturing is now again possible.
Prospects for Industrial Exports and Investment
38.       The medium-term outlook of Jamaican manufactured exports for 1984
and 1985 is largely determined by the prospects for a successful structural
adjustment of the economy. In particular, third market exports which face
few demand constraints, are expected to grow largely in line with the capa-
bility of Jamaican industry to produce exportable goods. Some supply limita-
tions remain for resource-based products (foods, tobacco products), but most
of other products, particularly garments, footwear, metal products and
machinery, would only be constrained by inadequate price and quality competi-
tiveness. Considering the supportive measures initiated and planned by the
Government to secure the price competitiveness of Jamaican exports, third
market exports should rise at high rates in the medium term. Growth rates of
20% to 30% p.a. in current US Dollars for third market exports seem to be
feasible. CARICOM exports, on the other hand, may suffer to an increasing
extent from limitations imposed by the small market, and growth rates ranging
from 5Z to 15% p.a. during 1984 and 1985 seem to be realistic.



- 11 -
39.       Since resumption of the industrial growth in 1981, investments in
manufacturing have increased at a high rate. The major part of investments
was and will p-obably continue to be for replacement of obsolete equipment,
since much of Jamaican industrial production capacity is run-down after many
years of inadequate investments.  Precise industrial investment estimates are
practically impossible because of insufficient statistical data, but imports
of non-automotive machinery and equipment for industry could form a reason-
able base for a projection. These imports were over US$100 million per year
in 1981 and 1982. Taking into account the real growth of this base and
international price increases as well as additional requirements for
permanent working capital of industry, industrial investments (public and
private) could average about US$150 million per year during the 1983-85
period.
B. The Financial Sector
Financial Institutions
40.       Jamaica's financial institutions include:  (a) a central bank, Bank
of Jamaica (BOJ); (b) 9 commercial banks with 150 branches; (c) merchant
banks; (d) trust companies; (e) building societies; (f) a mortgage bank; and
(g) development finance institutions.
41.       Bank of Jamaica (BOJ) is responsible for the issue of currency.  It
acts as the government's bank by keeping the government's accounts and
providing advice on financial policy formulation, and as the bankers' bank,
it regulates, keeps accounts of and provide clearing facilities to the
commercial banks. It also administers foreign exchange reserves and executes
monetary policy decisions which must be agreed with the Minister of Finance.
In addition to its central bank function, BOJ has a number of specialized
agencies through which it provides student loans, oversees the stock
exchange, insures and finances exporters, and extends term credit for private
enterprises using credit lines from international and foreign institutions.
All its credit operations are conducted through commercial banks.
42.       The Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation (JECIC), an agency
of BOJ provides various facilities to exporters. It offers export credit
insurance, an important means of protecting the exporter's foreign receiv-
ables against commercial and political risks of default and delayed payments
which are beyond the exporter's control. It enables a Jamaican exporter to
compete more effectively for overseas business and permits him to assign his
bills and foreign receivables to his commercial bank thereby facilitating
access to bank financing, sometimes on more advantageous terms. JECIC has
had since the mid-1970s 3 specialized programs of financial support to help
meet the needs of Jamaican exporters for short-term working capital during
both pre-and post-shipment periods. All these operations are through commer-
cial banks. The Pre-Shipment Financing Facility is intended to provide pre-
shipment short-term assistance for the exporter up to 60% of the FOB value of
an export order promissory note. Under the post-shipment financing JECIC
through its Export Credit Facility provides 90-day credits for up to 100% of
the CIF value of the exported goods. Furthermore, JECIC may issue, through



- 12 -
its Bankers' Export Guarantee Facility, an unconditional guarantee to the
commercial bank on the amount advanced to an exporter which remains unpaid
due to the buyer's failure to make payment on the due date. In this way it
eases constraint on the exporter's liquidity. JECIC also administers the
Export Development Fund (EDF), whose operations are described in Part IV.
43.       With the establishment of EDF, the use of the other discount
facilities has been limited to non-EDF clients and their operations have
drastically declined. On the other hand credit risks on the sub-loans made
by commercial banks under EDF as well as under the Rehabilitation Fund
program financed by IDB could be guaranteed up to 80% by JECIC under its
Banker's Import Guarantee program thus enabling the banks' marginal customers
to have access to financing offered by these funds.  JECIC also administers
for BOJ special credit lines provided by a number of governments, foreign
banks and export organizations to facilitate Jamaican imports and generally
tied to country of procurement and governed by special terms and conditions.
44.       A separate agency of BOJ, Premier Investment Corp. (PIC) has been
providing credit, through commercial banks for small businesses, primarily
under World Bank financing. Since 1982 its activities have been largely
limited to collection of outstanding loans and are being phased out (see
paragraph 47 below).
45.       Commercial banks are mainly locally owned but still retain  strong
ties with their present or past parent institutions in Canada, England and
USA. They generally follow the traditional banking principles of safety and
liquidity, making mostly well secured short-term loans which can be rolled
over subject to yearly revievs. About 10% of their portfolios are in mort-
gage loans to selected clients, secured either by residental properties
valued at least 25% above the loan amount, or by tangible business assets
valued 50% or more over the loan. In addition, commercial banks usually
establish a -ceiling- for each borrower above which they will not lend
irrespective of additional collateral or activity to be financed. In 1982,
the commercial banks' outstanding loans for manufacturing activities amounted
to over J$320 million, representing over 20% of their overall loan port-
folios.
46.       Some industrizl financing is provided by merchant banks but their
total lending operations represent about 3.5% of the commercial banks' loan
portfolio (1982). They accept time deposits but have no current accounts.
Although authorized to make equity investments, their assets are mainly in
short-and medium-term loans. Since their capitalization is very low (about
5% of total assets) and their activities are concentrated on a few selected
customers, they will be allowed to use financing under the proposed project
only up to double the amount of their equity. Trust companies, building
societies and mortgage bank - finance primarily residential and commercial
mortgages.
47.       Development Finance Institutions (DFI).  Until mid-1981 there were
3 public DFIs involved in industrial lending--the Jamaica Development Bank
(JDB), the Small Industries Finance Co. (SIFCO) and PIC. In 1981 the Govern-
ment decided to gradually phase out all these institutions, and to establish
the National Development Bank (NDB) as the only public sector bank to provide
industrial financing through commercial banks and other financial interme-
diaries. At the same time, the Government established the Agricultural



- 13 -
Credit Bank to consolidate public sector financing in the agricultural
sector. At present, the three DFIs named above do not make new loans and
only administer their existing loan portfolio and collect outstanding loans.
It is the government's stated intention to liquidate them as soon as legal
and administrative aspects can be worked out and the final audit establishes
their net portfolio and asset value. In the meantime, a common Board of
Directors has been appointed for NDB, JDB and SIFCO to oversee an orderly
liquidation of the last two institutions. Liquidation proceedings on PIC are
to be undertaken as soon as its 1982 audit is available.
Instruments of Monetary Policy
48.       The main instruments of monetary policy are as follows:
(i)  The Bank Rate is the interest rate charged by BOJ on its loans to
commercial banks for meeting their liquidity requirements.
Traditiond.lly, the prime lending rate of the commercial banks has
been two percentage points above the Bank Rate. Since January 1980
the Bank Rate has been 11% p.a.
(ii) Reserve Requirements are the amount of cash reserves and liquid
assets that banks are required to hold. Required cash reserves
have never been changed from their initial level of 5% of the
commercial bank deposits. However, the liquid assets ratio (cash
and short-term assets of up to 9 months maturity to total deposits)
has varied anid is presently at 29.5%. In January 1979 BOJ approved
a -voluntary- increase in the liquid assets ratio to 40Z, which
represents the present effective reserve requirement. The
voluntary- reserves are held in Treasury Bills now yielding about
10% p.a.
49.       In addition to the above regulatory instruments of monetary policy,
BOJ may use selective credit controls (used in 1980 to limit consumerts
credit), and moral suasion to affect the credit supply of the commercial
banks. Because the securities market is very narrow, open market operations
cannot be effectively applied. In general, the monetary policy instruments
have not been used effectively in Jamaica. The supply of domestic credit
largely depends on the volume of exports and the government's budgetary
situation. The banking system had high levels of liquidity during most of
1982, because of a rapid increase in deposits. Towards the end of the year
and in early 1983 liquidity declined as the rate of growth of deposits slowed
and demand for credit from the private sector increased rapidly.
Structure of Interest Rates
50.       Commercial banks do not pay interest on demand deposits.  On
savings accounts there is a fixed interest rate of 9% p.a. and time deposits
(6 months or more) pay between 7 1/2% to 13% p.a., depending on the amount of
deposit and its maturity. There is no official ceiling on lending rates.
The prime rate is 13% p.a. (2% above BOJ's discount rate) but the typical



- 14 -
effective rate is about 17% p.a. including banks' customary charges. Some
banks also charge an additional fee on undisbursed balances. On this basis
commercial banks earn an average interest spread of about 5.2% p.a.4/
51.       Considering that the inflation rate in 1981 was about 4% and for
1982 is estimated at 8Z, the existing lending interest rates were positive in
real terms. Following the establishment of the parallel market in January
1983, domestic prices are expected to rise somewhat faster, but after a short
adjustment period they should stabilize and then follow the level of
international prices. Thus, the onlending rates in the proposed project are
expected to be positive.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       The Project will be the Bank's third for the EDF and was prepared
by the EDF and the Bank. The project was appraised in November/December
1982. Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in Washington in April
1983. The Jamaican delegation was led by Mr. Horace Barber, Governor of the
Bank of Jamaica, and Mr. John Goodin, Managing Director of EDF. Annex III
contains a timetable of key events in processing the proposed project and a
description of the special conditions of the proposed loan.
Previous Loans
53.       There have been two previous Bank loans to Jamaica to support
export development and the EDF. The first loan (1715-JM) made in 1979, was
for US$31.5 and provided funds for EDF's short-term pre-shipment financing of
the import content of exports of manufactured goods, as weli as related
technical assistance. The second US$37 million loan (1978-JM) was made in
1981 and provided an additional US$22.0 million to EDF to meet the short-term
financing needs of exporters of manufactured goods, as well as US$10.0 mil-
lion for financing the permanent working capital and equipment needs of such
exporters for periods of up to four years, US$4 million to finance the
importation of current inputs required by the banana industry, and US$1
million for technical assistance.
54.       EDF's short-term financing operations were also supported by an
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) loan of US$7.5 million, which brought
at the end of 1982 the total resources available to EDF for export financing
to US$68.9 million, including retained profits. These financial resources
have permitted the EDF to support an increasing volume of manufactured
exports and, at the same time, build-up a strong liquidity position. In
1982, EDF disbursed US$45 million for imports to 110 export manufacturing
enterprises. The EDF-financing supported manufactured exports of over US$60
million in 1982, more than one half of Jamaica's total manufactured exports.
In addition, EDF financed US$14 million of imports for domestic linkage
industries in 1982. The medium-term operation contributed effectively to the
rehabilitation of 20 export manufacturing firms at a comparatively low cost
per job created of US$10,000. Except for a small amount of funds for
technical assistance in the second loan, all other loan funds in the two
previous loans have been committed and almost fully disbursed.
4/ Based on: (a) savings and time deposits being 75% of total deposits at
an average cost to commercial banks of 7.5% p.a.; and (b) average
earnings on the required reserves being 6.2% p.a., and 17% p.a. on
credit.



- 15 -
55.       The previous loans have provided foreign exchange financing to
exporters at a time when critical foreign exchange shortages were severely
restricting the operation of Jamaican manufacturers. The loans were well
received by Jamaican industry and made possible the economic survival of many
manufacturers for export. The relatively disappointing export performance of
manufacturers in 1982 (para. 35) was due to several factors. Among these
were the difficult market conditions caused by the world recession, and an
incentive structure that made production for the domestic market more
profitable than production for export. The problem of the incentive
structure was addressed in the policy package adopted by the Government in
January 1983 (para. 37) and a more favorable policy framework now exists for
expanding exports. This should increase demand for EDF resources
substantially, particularly if there is a strong world economic recovery.
Loan Amount and Terms
56.       The amount of the proposed loan will be US$30.1 aillion equivalent
including the capitalized front-end fee of 0.25%. The loan will be made to
the Government of Jamaica at the Bank's flexible interest rate and standard
commitment fee of 3/4 of 1% per annum. It will be repaid in 17 years, in-
cluding four years of grace. The Government would relend US$28 million to
the EDF under a subsidiary loan agreement on the same terms as those of the
Bank loan. The remaining $2 million would be used to finance technical
assistance.
Project Objectives and Description
57.       The principal objective of the project is to provide foreign ex-
change and export credit to nontraditional exporters-i.e, exporters of all
products except bauxite/alumina, sugar and bananas-and to qualified linkage
enterprises producing inputs for the export producers. The availability of
such financing would support the growth of exports and is a part of the
Government's strategy of providing incentives to expand exports. The project
would improve the utilization of installed industrial capacity and would help
rehabilitate the production facilities of manufacturers for export. It would
finance EDF programs aimed at meeting the short- and medium-term financing
needs of exporters and the technical assistance requirements of EDF and
e      exporters.
Short-Term Operations
58.       EDF has been assigned a major role in the Government's strategy for
increasing exports. As a result, in January 1983, EDF expanded its scope and
modified its operating procedures to be able to more efficiently provide a
broader range of exporters foreign exchange financing of their imported input
requirements for the length of the export cycle. The changes in EDF policies
and procedures were made to coincide with the actions taken by the Government
in early 1983 to decriminalize the parallel market and establish new incen-
tives to export (paras. 9 and 10). The EDF scope has been expanded with
respect to the eligibility of users, the products to be financed and the
level of financing to be made available.



16 -
59.       Eligibility for EDF financing has been extended to trading compa-
nies exporting products manufactured by other firms and to producers of non-
traditional agricultural products for export. The provision of import
financing to trading houses will provide particular assistance to small agri-
cultural producers and manufacturers who can sell their products to trading
houses and buy from them their import requirements. The financing of the
import requirements of producers of nontraditional agricultural products will
help producers of those products tap new and potentially significant export
markets for Jamaica.
60.       The EDF is now permitted to finance the import of inputs on the
restricted list of imports, provided that those inputs are only used in
export products. This action will permit exporters to use more suitable
packaging materials and other imported inputs which are needed for successful
export marketing.
61.       Exporters under the revised EDF procedures are provided financing
by EDF on the basis of their expected exports, rather than the import com-
ponent of current exports. Since January 1983 exporters to third markets
have been ent' tled to retain 30% of export proceeds, which may either be used
to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts and capital goods or be sold
at the parallel market rate to any other producer, who may then use it for
the same purpose. Because of this, it is necessary to reduce the maximum
percentage of export earnings that EDF may advance to such exporters from the
present level of 80% of exports earnings to 50%. In this way, the exporter
to third markets in effect retains his entire foreign exchange earnings in
the form of an EDF advance, plus the retention mechanism. This should con-
stitute an important incentive to export to third markets. Exporters to
CARICOM will have access to EDF for 65% of their expected export earnings
(the estimated foreign exchange content of most Jamaican exports to CARICOM),
unless the Bank and the EDF agree that the exporter has demonstrated that his
product has a higher actual import content (draft Project Agreement, Part A
of the Schedule).
62.       Exporters to both CARICOM and third markets, as well as suppliers
to export industries, receive foreign exchange financing from EDF. Under
EDF's old procedures the CARICOM exporter and the supplier to export indus-
tries repaid EDF in Jamaican dollars, which were required to be converted to
US dollars by the Bank of Jamaica. Under EDF's new procedures, the Bank of
Jamaica will deposit Jamaican dollars in the exporter's commercial bank
account at the 2.25 rate (see para. 37), which is the rate at which trade
balance are settlL.d in the CARICOM clearing facility. The commercial bank
would then be required to convert the Jamaican dollars to U.S. dollars
through purchases in the parallel market and pay the amount resulting from
the conversion to the EDF. The Bank of Jamaica will make up the difference
between the CARICOM exchange rate and the parallel market rate in order to
permit the commercial bank to repay EDF in U.S. dollars (draft Project
Agreement Section 4.03).
63.       The EDF has made major changes of its internal administrative pro-
cedures, in order to perform effectively within its expanded function and
handle the expected substantial increase in the export financing program. In
particular, past admiaistrative procedures required establishment of a



- 17 -
separate credit line by the EDF for each import activity supported by a pro-
missory note to be paid from export proceeds. About 2,000 promissory notes
were outstanding on average at any point in time during 1982 and EDF staff
faced the difficulty of effectively handling the amount of paper work
involved. These procedures also did not permit proper control of non-
performing EDF beneficiaries, and may have also contributed to reducing the
number of exporters using the EDF. Less than one-half of eligible exporters
were registered with the EDF during 1982.
64.       Under the revised operating procedures, the EDF has established an
account for registered enterprises which is being operated like a commercial
bank overdraft account. Each account is assigned an initial credit limit in
foreign exchange, which may be used for financing of imports during the first
export cycle. The imported amounts are debited to the exporter's account and
export receipts are credited to the account. Exporters may only obtain
foreign exchange advances from EDF in excess of the initial credit ceilings
after, and to the excent that, they have exported, and the export earnings
have been received by the EDF from the commercial banks.
65.       EDF has adopted other improved administrative procedures affecting
its short term financing operations. These include procedures to determine
initial credit limits and monitor and control delinquencies. The Bank of
Jamaica has also agreed to a schedule repaying US dollars owed by it on
account of Jamaican currency repayments for EDF made by CARICOM exporters and
domestic suppliers to export industries under EDF's old procedures. Some of
the U.S. dollar repayments may be made by permitting EDF to purchase U.S.
dollars in the parallel market with Jamaican dollars. The repayment of all
of the U.S. dollars arrears, as well as the signing of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and the EDF are special conditions of loan
effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement Section 6.01).
66.      Medium-term operations.  The US$5 million medium-term credit compo-
nent of the proposed loan would provide additional resources to EDF's lending
operation for equipment replacement and permanent working capital. The main
purpobe of the loan component is to continue providing medium-term financing
for the rehabilitation of export production capacity and to help finance the
expected increased permanent working capital requirements of exporters until
the National Development Bank (NDB) is fully operational and can assume this
function. Past administrative procedures for the medium-term operation have
been adequate and funds have been used for well-conceived and profitable pro-
jects. The cost of employment generation in projects financed from EDF's
medium-term program have been comparatively low at about US$10,000 per job.
67.       Similar to EDF short-term operation, the medium-term loans are made
from a revolving fund which is replenished from repayments of the benefi-
ciaries. Loans are made by EDF through the commercial banks. Repayments are
however independent from export receipts and are made in accordance with an
agreed schedule.  Under EDF's revised procedures, medium-term loans will be
US dollar denominated. Thus, EDF lending operations will be in foreign ex-
change for both short- and medium-term financing.
68.       Technical assistance.  The proposed loan would have a $2 million
component for financing technical assistance. US$0.5 million would be used
to provide assistance to EDF in managing and administering its anticipated



- 18 -
expanded volume of operations and in implementing its revised operating pro-
cedures. The remaining technical assistance funds would be used to provide
assistance to Jamaican exporters. The Government would furnish the Bank a
plan for furnishing technical assistance to exporters by December 31, 1983
(draft Loan Agreement Section 3.02). The plan would be related to the study
that has been undertaken under the structural adjustment program to rational-
ize the structure of Government agencies and parastatal organizations serving
exporters and industry in general. The structure that now exists contains an
excess of institutions, frequently acting without any coordination. The plan
furnished to the Bank by the Government would form a part of the action
program emerging from the institutional study.
Interest Rates and Commissions
69.       The existing EDF structure of interest rates and commissions would
be maintained under the proposed loan, but its adequacy would be reviewed
every three months and would be adjusted in consultation with the Bank,
taking conditions on national and international money markets into account
(Draft Project Agreement Section 2.04Cc)). The interest rate to be charged
to the exporters for the short-term will initially be at least 15% p.a.,
composed of an EDF interest rate of 11%, an administration fee of 1Z to 2%
and a 3% spread for the commercial banks. For the medium-term operations the
new interest rate to the beneficiary will initially be 16% p.a., since JECIC
will charge 2Z p.a. for its administration. The EDF medium-term subloans
would be for fixed periods of one to four years, including up to one year of
grace. The free limit of US$250,000 in the previous project would be
maintained. The commercial banks assume the credit risk on subloans, but are
able to obtain Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation (JECIC) guarantees
of up to 80% of these amounts.
70.       Estimated Costs and Financing Plan.  EDF has been and it is planned
that it will continue to be financed exclusively through externally financed
foreign exchange loans and retained profits. Financing thus far has been
from the two previous Bank loans and one IDB loan (paras. 53 and 54). The
proposed loan would bring EDF total resources for short-term financing to
US$93 million and US$15 million for medium-term financing. The foregoing
level of resources will be required if the growth projection of exports is
realized and EDF continues to be Government's key export financing institu-
tion.  Growth (in nominal terms) and EDF usage have been assumed to be as
follows: (i) manufactured exports to third markets would grow at 30% p.a.
and at 152 p.a. to CARICOM; (ii) non-traditional agricultural exports would
grow at 10% p.a,; (iii) 90% of all manufactured exports would be covered by
EDF financing; and (iv) 25% of all agricultural exports would be covered by
EDF.
71.       The Export Development Fund.  The EDF was established as a subsi-
diary of BOJ in May 1979 with the funds provided by Bank loan 1715-JM, and
began operations in September 1979. It has no staff of its own and is admin-
istered by the Jamaica Export Credit Insurance Corporation (JECIC). It has a
nine person Board of Directors, including representatives of the BOJ, the
Ministries of Finance, Industry and Commerce and of Foreign Affairs and
Trade, and of the private manufacturing and commercial banking sectors.
EDF's operations are governed by operating policies and procedures which
cannot be changed in substances without the Bank's concurrence (Draft Loan



- 19 -
Agreement Section 5.01(c)). JECIC has assigned a staff of twenty
professionals to administer EDF. EDF has received technical assistance under
the previous loans to help in its organization; the preparation of procedures
and operating manuals; training; the installation of data processing equip-
ment; and establishing an accounting system. The changes in operating
procedures and scope of EDF work requires additional technical assistance and
the loan provides up to $200,000 in retroactive financing for such assistance
since January 1983 (Draft Loan Agreement Schedule 1, para. 2(b)).
72.       Procurement, Disbursement and Auditing.  Procurement would follow
standard IDF procedures.  Formal bidding procedures would be impractical for
relatively small purchases that would be financed under the loan. Whenever
feasible, however, at least three quotations must be obtained. (Draft
Project Agreement Section 2.03(ii))
73.       Disbursements under short-term operations would be made in tranches
of US$4 million each, whenever total short-term resources of EDF, including
net amounts due from BOJ, fall below the amount corresponding to EDF's
disbursements in the two prior mDnths. The documentation evidencing
expenditure would be retained by JECIC and be available for inspection by the
Bank. Disbursement procedures for medium-term operations would follow
standard DFC operations. Technical assistance expenditures would require
prior Bank approval and as noted in para 71 above, the loan would provide up
to $200,000 for retroactive financing. It is anticipated that disbursements
will be completed by June 30, 1986.
74.       EDF accounts will be audited annually by external auditors
satisfactory to the Bank according to Bank furnished guidelines for DFC-type
institutions.
75.       Risks.  The restructuring of Jamaican industry towards increased
export production is under way and important economic policies supporting the
strengthened industrial export orientation were initiated in January 1983.
However, the speed of Jamaican economic recovery as well as the speed in the
recovery of demand in the currently depressed export markets for Jamaica's
non-traditional exports and the response of exporters to the improved export
incentives is still uncertain, and demand for EDF short-term export financing
could well be lower than projected for the proposed loan.  Lower-than-assumed
export growth would result in a slow-down in the speed of disbursements of
the proposed loan.
.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank, EDF, JECIC and BOJ, and the Report on the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 20 -
77.       I an satlsfied that the proposed loan would comply wlth the
Articles of Agreement of the Bark.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Dlrectors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
By
Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 24, 1983



- 21 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 1     of 6
JAMAT O8DCIAL INDICATOR  DAT  lR
JAMAICA                     *U3C I ouwn (HIcImD &1940U
mmASo.RCA.HOB (TOENN C.U-UTIVA  9                                                                E
MCULTURAL         4.3             1160 Lb    1970 lb INTMATE lb   IATIN aMICA A CAUNAN                O
cw  R CAPITA (US$)                 430.0      8N.0   1040.0                 1902.0                  2323.9
EKS! CONSUMPTION PUE CAPITA
(KILWAIS OF WAL EQUIVALENT)    424.2        1224.9   1326.1               1259.1                  2107.4
PoULTION AND VITAL STATISrICS
POULATIONH KID-WEAN (THOUSANDS) 1629.0      1877.0   2172.0
URBN  POPUIATION (REGCENT OF TorAL) 33.8      37.2     41.3                 65.7                    47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPUIATION IN YEAM 2000 (MILLIOIN)                    3.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (CILLIONE                       5.0
YEAR STATIONANY POPULATION I REACHED               2065
POPULATION MnSm
PEt sq. M.                     14B.2       170.8    195.5                 35.2                    83.3
PER SQ. MM. ARICULTURAL LAND   332.4       387.0    432.4                 92.5                   155.4
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURZ CPERCENTI
0-14 YRS.                       41.1        47.0     40.3                 39.7                    31.1
15-64 YRS.                       54.0        47.5     53.2                56.1                     61.2
65 IRS. AND ABOVE                 4.3         5.6      5.9                 4.2                      7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            1. 5/c      1.4/c    1.5/c                2.4                     1.6
URAN                             2.S         2.        .S                  3.3                     3.s
CRUDE NIRTH RATE (PEE IHOUSAND)    39.4       35.3     23.7                 31.4                    23.6
CRUDE DUTH RATE (PEN THOuSAND)     9.5         7.6      6.4                  3.4                     9.2
QUSS REPODUCTION RATE              2.6         2.6      1.9                 2.1                      1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..        19.3     2.7.0/d
USENS (PERCENT OF MARRED WaKEN)   ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODtUCTION
PER CAPITA C1969-71-100)        98.0        99.0     93.0                110.0                   116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
NEQU1RAENTS)                  94.0       111.3    118.1/e              103.4                   125.1
PROTrINS (CRAMS PER DAY)        53.1,       67.f     69.0fi               66.0                    92.7
OF WHICH ANDIAL AND PULSE     23.2        32.B     34.4fl               34.1                    35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MRTALITY RATE     3.1         1.2      0.3                  5.6                     9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   64.2      68.6      70.9                64.2                    67.6
INFANT nOFTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         51.5        32.2     16.2                 64.2                    65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
ToAL                            20.9/1      62.0     86.0/d               65.6
UIAN                            65.6/T     100.0    100.0/i               78.9
RURAL                            5./1i      48.0      79.0/i             43.9
ACCESS TO EXRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        94.0     94.0/d               59.3
URBAN                             *-       lOO.0    100.0/if              75.3
RURAL                             ..        92.0     91.0r/               30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        2589.8     2643.7   3523.0/h              1617.3                  1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    419.ILA    1725.2    547.0/li            1063.5                   634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          241.2       244.7    263.0/h              477.4                   286.B
URUN                              ..       220.3       ..                679.3                   192.0
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..               1903U.
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        17.0     19.0/h              27.3                     20.0
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOrAL                            3.9         4.3
URBAN                            2.7          ..
RURAL                            4.B         ..
AVERAGE NUINDER rOF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            1.9         1.6
URBAN                            1.5          ..
RURAL                            2.0         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF IWELLINCS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RAL                               ..          ..



I               ANNEX I
- 22 -                                   Page 2eof 6
JANAICrClroub L INDIcATOU   ATA s5tT
JAMICA                     UEURNRCE  OUN (MEIGUTED AVEU
- ItOST RECENT RIts"
MRS uenT                                  BDxS
1960  b    1970 ab ESTIMATE fb   IATXI AI ICA A C R81BUI          SUROPS
LDUCATION
7MMUDWb CNEOLLMENT RATIOS
PRINY1      TOTAL               92.0       119.0      99.0               104.3                    102.4
MULE                92.0       119.0     99.0                105.4                   107.1  t
FDAALE              93.0       119.0    100.0                103.3                    n.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL               43.0        46.0      38.0                41.3                     60.2
MALE                M4.0        46.0     55.0                 40.4                    66.4
FEIALE              46.0        45.0     61.0                 41.8                    54.0
vOtATIONAL ZMOL. (K OF SECONRY)  9.0           3.5       2.3S/              33.7                    31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                         55.7        46.7      49.5/.              29.9                    25.6
SECONDARY                       21.2        26.4      22.2/!              16.7                    22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)     62.0        93.4      90.0                79.1                    75.9
cONSUNPTION
P*NUSCNE  CARS PER THUAD
POPULATION                      20.3        39.0        ..                42.6                    51.0
RADIO RECCIVERS PER THOUAND
pOPUIATION                      90.2       26.4    334.1                 270.3                   137.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       7.0        37.3      77.7                107.7                   123.7
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CICUMATION PIE
THOUSAND POPULATION               62.0       114.0      39.6                63.7                   112.3
CINEM  AINUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  ..         ..       0.2/h                2.7                     4.0
LABOR FORCE
v-A;LEoa FOCE (THOUSANUS)        644.9       634.2    778.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                37.2        36.B      39.8                24.4                    36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)           39.0        29.5      21.4                31.3                    36.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)              24.9        25.6     25.2                 23.9                    23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             37.3        33.6      33.3                33.6                    44.3
MALE                              45.7        42.4      44.0                30.4                    36.3
FEMALE                            26.7        23.6      27.9                16.6                    32.6
ECONUIIC DEPENIENCY RATIO            1.2         1.6       1.3                 1.3                     0.9
INCOE DISTIBUTION
PERCENT Or PRIVAIK INCOI
RECEIVE) nY
HIGHEST 3 PERCENT OF  OUSUOLU    30.2         ..k
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HUSIOLUS 61.2 k 
LOWEST 20 PZRCCNT OF HOUSEHOLDS   2.27        ..
LOWEST 40 PERCCNT W HOUSCIMOLDS   8. 2E
POVRTY TARGET CROWPS
ESTIAED ASSOLrE PVERnTY INCE
LUEL (US; PER CTPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..    501.0/.
RURAL                             ..          ..    439.o0;              184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCUS
LEVEL (USS PER CLPITA)
URIN                              ..          ..    585.0/.              518.0                      ..
RURAL                             ..          ..    309.Dfl              371.1                   406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY IICOME LEVZL (PERCENt)
URBAN                             ..
RURAL                             ..          ..      80.0/*
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTE-S
a   The giroup averages for each indicator are population-usighted arith etic men.. Coverage of countries
among the indicatora depends an availability of date end is not uoiform.
/b   Unlee otherwise noted, data for i960 refer to any yer betwen 1959 and 1961; for 1970 betaen 1I9
and 1971; and for Most itecent Estimte, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic  Due to migration population growth rate ia lowr than rate of natural increaae;  /d 1975; ta 1977:
/f Percentage of housing units with piped water; /j 1963; lb 1974; A 1976: /k i957
Nay, 19P2



'-n-WF1P-D 0
s ~~~~ TD a_ _ ~~*03319031
wommad" .. 312003  9- 010'39- 113--                                                                ,-if"t 11030.9-2 3001   0-F9-            901       -ma
301lo M1M 10-T-3 9-                                                        .40L33 wpa- 312034 1  30W-- Al 3-3319 .1-1n-4    -033
"Mass  ." 3- 3~magmn 2-mina"             00 Combs 09- -3
-        m -    1 _1 1 1t4 300I_  -    i     230330 3 30  Tl_m .-
02r  -3    9-011-11w     3331 T_~3  9 _ 9 _-3T0__2
~~~~PAW T _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ma-                                                                 -Gd M    p s _ =   _g  ;t _-   _
1--  _-  --W...a __zi 4 'W_
09033013-110_4019_1 39-   00032030    00.1220r3-    '"- 13Ava
-P 1_009 02   or -13 a    (10  9- _          0 n _ _ 3   .1    1% 30   P
_A. 3..*A.A---0  3    30101 - (01000 -P  W"                                      ) 1001   109-Tl Pt1 0 1030
.0". -                       -_amw    _>-a                                     T~ 3  1  o  Lo 312P 33-T ft           4*1  p.9-     -   T*3-_
1 3  (P1030. 9- _"_  0334   3 J                   - --FT1d31 _- _                        -P*   -   3-03- 9 -- 1031 3X401 9-z 0.   09-00d
uT _a_   P                 -T- T-".  1 4-A aT"T   =                        .. (- tl-~ A'a    -                 .4-   _.-.  -; 2.   -1 qm-
3 *_ _>q-        11-1    31   0                                                                          2-P            0            1          - lu 031
3-    9- _03-  9.3109 0 323--  -332 0d 313 3.  A-I _03                               2T r          9     -. 3     30  101 4
0 - 30 0 1 3 T-"   . _                                          03            0     3T 9-   t1            3       1 1 932--          ; 21 _     3t- 3 3t
A1033 p                                    _a 1 0  3031   (         3 _   3 *0 
33 01- 110003 p_1 3100-d-                                13002                      - - q  30  90 _      *10 T *-_  'd_- *0    P- 016T 'OUT N1"0    W
-"_.   Am       - (310 3-   (00) M       100 Aa-    0 -   T        .10-a    _      o              S . 0 --0 J t0    op     - (003 _1 * ) gang   zz 0  1103
101303 .313091  130 91034300)3  93-30 9-LM                                                    0290013074306  333
13-0233-01 33`-ml1134                                                                    011030a 111-a  PT."-"  -
~~~~~~~~~o_ Da _--- a _-  2t-l Ws "n-  '_            F          n
3.%.  AR V_T_n  Sal V_ 5-019-0 TV ;                  .         0 -30    l 9 (1 _                                     T 1         Td-  93 -0 001-1
'-;~~~~~~~~~~G   - IN1  i-otT-T -T4 *-.- ~JS   t -DT d P- Vy.W    ~=U3 _ T
210333. 03 3003004 -10 *2102..04 _3 300300T  2003300 r13 203133                  -F-VS4.1-p - T.53-d 1-1 0. F1r_ 1 _031 - o                    - 11 I   0
_2303 331.1 2030203201                                         0109 T311 P- 0961   9l *1 J 16 03-1 9" PT119 Y
9- ''  9  * 1- 1_010      4    0 3-123 -  3 S     0 0  3-03-                   P.M   -P OF _L  P_90 -d 9t13-P Ml .0-  -  - .9.103Wdd1 310
TWq>T-*I-q~ - _X       --*1      -    -1 d)  "a  _]. -.  ECTS            *"                 .43-                               T ~ j--vC4-.    ,  T
v  1r-- -Ta 3-1         0333040 10003110        - 3-3 33.00103-00023                   "   -TM-d -3100       120  lo 10035  as 103-I 103 33-1- 03009d
-03-30012d41311300 0.0   -  W"Jl  -M  j    1 3   9-  0l '031                        9-t- S.0 t-A a   - (p 30F43.3d34   10               - 0 09 3      -
A   3-03  _TV jt   9-Z"   V00    - 903400- j30.                13                                            AR 0q_4    3    Lo9 3o4  .-.J0  TP.1
wm 39    '4P- nr31                                      -131 P              1 Air -   41  *     11_00 W_ 3-3
-1303030  12    p2              1      90 1                  910    *0q3   2 0 -d J. a-                 -               1        p3               -  t_1
w~~~~~~~~~~~~"   ON% P-B KG                                                                           -"P6 F-61 P01f ~*-_ SCS           v 
30300      *_3133_1TT  0I-  t_301     P3         - Annam-3IT      j              1 013310           d ot p tS1 _ 03030'2   '1-*33pd-d 123 -33203130  3.
0119031  9-0(1  011 1330  3303.-20  300003(3-11   .31q1                  11  310300Am 03001011130 m400003  0 33 90 3103310V-020
am0 30119- p 33300003  3013305 31 03303 30301 - - I   (310303) 303303303     331*23-0011333309313D A01                            P" 1 - T- 01200-3
P~~~~~~~-- sr% -A.  .-   -'1                                                                                  P-  ur-  B -T33
~~j  .Wt IMm j. -9L--.d   -M" -T-- tT_ _ m'-=                  *                       qw  -P  - -vid   mm  _wM  -Tqw P
*303 30.91 3010  30210100330. 0  0133 3010 __04                                     .-4   F_-3         _       2 _ _-0 4   303   .010d- n-2  9- -_p _
~~~~~~s                      -   _-  _-Td    _XZ -_m  WJr                    -*n rM _       - *_s - (Mii-uDw *ne J-        P1T  1. w 
10109 011 000 T14  *0A  10103   n1                            0n0  0331 *03-2  31.     003001140201130   do  .
23 0331031013  031031333 00 1-3                      A02100  30.0              o11     6% V0 - 3101001 011.213  0011440 9-1 3-9-d 3"---.003 *31-
I_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s                                                           T*1- Je- w4-d_
~31  1000330   0030103 311.3-  03903100009  3-- 910           03390103 - (01310a0   v-p           p 20330   001010  30 10-  03. P--J
31323 00333300200-- *-tW (09-001303433* 1T0                                  T       20 34T 9-  _(3  (944  10_30  0T3  3~3  0                    100120
-_S, -v%-  v-                               -PJ  AmF-s3 33- _ 00204    -.I0-% .3 0-v03 3    .I'    0
-T-1-1 01           -0 vma~~~p pt- .2.4m               v-  00330 P-0 P-   -330  3010 -        333   3  33    3   1  00
=30 30~   - 0090003 - 3001 3000319- 300 43-300            9--   ..            1 00 0 ' T _-   0- 00   - (o-- )             .           -     0U  _
_~~~00011  300 F00  20304  1  11 Jjiop  3131_                                                                                               _ _[_a)T  332110
312  ;23031         =-(010039000233  230.3 --P-9nn 1300001                       3  03M    93003.11 --F-0 9- (.10   9-ST13.32 001.o03pw  J-0
*23011   - ax3020   S. 3.0011033013 -3100  03104P- -PD- 0     '0 11  F      033-          'Dt 000110     -  (0   J-J P        03-3 -      1 -I-
0- *1 AL        _             . 10 P ...  M    _                  P--  T--a-d l_t-"A A n T39-2                               -P7 100  3-a-3-
M-Az J0  I-0031 J0 e     J_                                                                        T.1W _1  0302*230 0- 0   T0- P - ( 0  J,   .  - _  331104
J-3.321    913          a10   21                  OKI 9- .0(1     M 0-119 p                    0 m-        -mm 331FF_
01903 3 00 2f00 -3    01  31 9-  00 -0P 03-3 3 911 *M-              _      -       333s    -30-03        9 3_"30q  0030 - 0101 00113 0=     0
-10903  313000 30> 9-00  333 . _0                    01 F-_;903                                                    020  fiDtl 90001 *031103144
9- 0003003 0 9- -t 0093-A us    0  3331   M 1"001 30200W0 33-93     ITT.311 30.312311  301 31- - (9w-101  30) 01.3 333  00g
..9-Ta- -..92.Tdod S.  n-p0 133  3  023  12311  -133 -(1030.-0031033032100
-VP"~~~ ~~~~~0 "J  *-M- Jo --Ma I                "f                   "-V P  Vz-WO             "sP
*U0i!9    63-94   3334  303 102010  _Lt
*3-  _- 0I0 (t00  001300  330  101p t0. *2103   _0                          -1  _00  _ 010 3103  33-0 s- 3022 - (02-T0.333  03023
(_309  9F30  01..*) 02129 0303011 -T (11033303 0303 33030333 21030                                                   *0209 06139- ...... 0(31  9-l '"1 1010
9-Z 01o 0309-01 30 _3~  33 909SP19            090I20    - 1133               43 _          3-VM  1     *j.p-  p    01    - (-T5- 0
,1 J313    0-90M  101 -T.302"0   - .X-3              - 300e 2.1                                                           --  09  v3  -  3313    7-  .3100
.914001 00300 3330 333o4 3310a. ~om0,10-1 O.1Ws o-o12o                      a."VW"                           p 43d319--.ft  CO)   .0611130300
-P-IT.. -M  -             TP _-P " A  _~  F-l TUa                     -57 D-T-sm-l'om   vIW  4 .=     (
P.1      -.P3              _            'A.0 W   - .1Ta   .IP    T-                                                      -wt us    'Gm            !ATW
3-320111003 1010120103                      _                                   30(003-P          -3- I .__ ..... . m __a-  v-"4-
-V-dqM -2-t %IM  "MSM  -Ma 2~                                                                                6ti _P_  am   a          T"M
Uft _.       LT _; El A. A39v-                                                                          311'0-* 011030000
3000  03330  010o4033  1000 _             030  (3.33   30 wo.o                                                                    9-       0 1320101
;rdx-9  -r--q  -w-aa   .               l- - F--  g-    - Mp-a-FXtr                                                   _m--o -PX"   a     wT-
10041303100333-330-0*3003----012   n_100   XD09                                                                                              1-01 
- T 11.9- 00 9030*23 W -3TP3 9-IT 03   *T0103 - 300T30 '30900303                 -030403.30203   3          J210 -T P 0        0  9- 'M 3          P -1
_-_ 30   --33  9- 001. 3103 030X 01    100  033                                00100 311 p 021331031 9-033  31  30100                    - 00 90001
I!T-,. T-nTp  p                          _p  _                         <_         &W -P1 J-  _PPj..   *1 _d -WJo T    q  P -P-J@
13- d ON 3        A- -   a13-1103- 10- 11633103p013102                               0.0110110043-100311  o-dd-    AT-4320  31001   ...1402-3.
303 3101200T- 90--"  3M0-SU 30 031    303319 A" 9030(9  1  030                   13-      3- -_   010 -120.303- 10130             T-010   1-030   9-
9-0 0 P-t  -Wlf4p    31003 AT4-  I ..  20  100rJ P 102T- 311-31d           ;       . 03ttp *.T 9- 1030 9-    A 300  312 31  0              0131    031
033 -3 p0a-    303--a  0033 390- T-   . da z       0201-19-   3oz-031  310033.0 3  030 -1 r 102100  333-122 -PM01   -T MM %3W33q -P3
*-09                   -M  _t- _n_5 p- - T%4                                     M"   _Z-         Ta-   *n-          A-4*-  a0 _JMJ  -nh
_11  TD_0.-0103                                           -3-000  q010t3  30-_ 2903 01112303 
10302 _ - 00330  '0103 --(0003119- 30 11033303 3133333012 03 000011             00        0  3-0 0       1 3130.  103    33313 20u  A13          3 03313
M-axMVd ML 34 9 01_                                                                J-P_-0  0 =1       01a  3 41313-0 -0M  -3 -"- v- '1103
9-   0 0   3~ ~-0.30-  - 1-1     0133o04 = 139MI0000  00o3330M-9    MId3 13 J30  9- 32310O3A 312 9- -T   Rad-  LMU--1  t
9.3010  1003  -  0030   30   0 3-3 3-mld. vw 31mm         3  -3   0   900    030    A. 03130(0   oou3ldo 521 03303 -  3-I W  %3 [M
VW      a ..     10330  3030- semnm3-AT30306 309-- 1T03000                                                                        3-32301024 1012010003L
0   _033-b 301.33    9-319-3.1 -0      -                    91                                                     01103 _-  (30Y02 3 t-T_) t   0
-30.09-1030  3o13 - (1311031 30  3-t30  39t--0033-00033                                                              'lv   'm    MI-zm-
.&  3- A- - A- -Wn        V  -.Vm "m np               ~         ml -"  0(1  0001 13 33 33003 A - (oPO-o3m   IjOOIO Omm30
_ _-T   _  _ _   tP t- 9 9141                                  t           _             P   - 13-1
-010391 3. 39-31033  01133  103034   t32                                         44 - *334  0g34  _01*  3.0 3.100.1003330111(13
33301- 9-  0119   9- 33010031 13330  31  033140OKI3033 9-     .1DM 300033009      313-   -W01  9- C0                    30
030103          _       _3      _13   004   __    _ 19                             _    t  ~q@  41 zO -  I-n    _PM-3  -- 1  30d  *_ 
-022   304 ---P~ 311    10239-F P   0103       06  VW                                             t    -             d 913P 9- o3        US oA9
Aal-    3V-120-0       V 103   -03  (12 10101 200-T  210P30  10339-- --Rw 7-                                                               103090v-111 -    9-" *613
31-0901203   am- 0    g-03013   30-PW  9092130 -210030 033P09-03   33411-2031302111014200
A013- 3t1        ' 313.   0        A1  0      't303 3              'W tl !-" 019 4 01an"4003  0
903300 333-004O~33o130       010300    1323- 9213- MMt                   t 029 636  3301X0 0330130    p3  003333 9-3   11310d  00303oo4 040   30
~~~~~~~~~~~~~W q 197-a                                       11t- mma "  ats -fo P>  -u  T  Pat-at  so _-*_ t _
"03  A-3103                                                v-0-09   0 30.3    -330   03 0-M33ant 32002-0 - 30  go3302  9-3 -0013P- 0330  0 31333    13d0
*33201) 0033030404 - 30303 9-  00330  103-   931 p~~~ooj3.o  2'soma                            Aum(=3 -0 a-09s-1 I339
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000   2000  a-_ 33200  311 303>_BS -103  010 30                                                     0 _3=** PZ|-~
0309 t0 -3P3303-0- 9 173-00       t-  - 0302023301 - 3     - 33    .300003000  9- 0331  M0000  2311o WI 2309au 9-003  3m   0033103-am3 30  as303
M.    A300D    ,, -9       -P-11M w2- -39  9-  03j 119113   90330  p03000-a 003033- 9-  0109              Mp 3-3030.3 9- 03  -(032131330 30    0.1--
"~2   3 a"" 100- 31M9    W"- 03993     02T333031001           32931 1 oxT.   am31 400 "-.0 0300   A-sa 3-31*13. 3  2*200It-3 333-3  3"0(9-9- 
O".A3321029  101  1- --        30f    .     1313--0 3331 4003 A123-  (3C) V- 43300- 3203 - 31p p 40.3  333100   -  9   (33 03 0400A  M23-33  31U
-   03390 63 - L       9- " MP     1 3n 1 9-- Of-M   Oojpp 3 AR0  ftd          PM GW3-33113   po-193.31020 30 3201   30 000303 0j30~  1T00321
s3200    A0   - "P9-P 29-10   0030 V9-" 10  03.Vwn3 Po             -           -P023-  1  p-ft( A4330-d  M0    -03 -MP- 3-up -13 %ftmy  ..03
g Jo C agd                                                    -im mn M -41m
I xMkv                             _ _ _



- 24-                                      1111311
2P f  of 6
JANAICA:z SCOMhhC UIhlhIU T DPAI
PopsLatLon:     2.2 alUlom (oid-1950)
CUP Rer Capital U9SI,040 C19t)
Amount                                    Actual                               Prolinr
CutlUom US$ at    1975      1976      1977      1916     1979      1980     I9-t
current price.)
l9U
PRICES
cop DefLator (1974-100)                         121.2    134.0    10.4    189.4    219.6    256.0    274.7    295.7                J
Exchange R ats Us per US)                        0.91      0.91     1.25      1.46      1.77     1.76      1.78     1.78
Share of CDP at mrk.t prlce. CZ)         Average Annual Increase (2)
(at canutant 1974 price)               (at constant 1974 prices)
1976     1961      1986                      1976/81  1981/86
XATOBL ACCOUOS a*
Cro 5 Doumatit Pr duct          2925.3                   100.0    100.0    100.0                         -1.7       4.0
Agrltulture                   235.7                     8.2      6.7       8.8                         -1.0      5.0
Industry                     1068.1                    34.3     29.1      32.0                         -4.2      5.8
Service.                     1621.5                    57.5     62.2      59.2                         -0.2      3.0
conua-ption                     2647.6                    96.0     90.0      TS.6                        -3.5       1.4
Gross Domatic Inaegt nt          557.8                    18.6     20.9      20.0                        -6.7       3.5
Exports GQlS b/                 1447.2                    25.4     52.1      63.9                         8.9       6.8
Import s CPS t/                -1727.5                    40.5   -43.0    -59.5                            1.8      3.5
Crcg National S_vngs             229.2                     5.9      5.3      13.6                       -16.8      34.6
An Z of GDP                           Preliina
197J/78            I7 1919180        1911/82            19821
P UC FINANCE C/
Cu-reat Reveue                                            20.5               25.7               29.4               29.0
Currant Expenditure                                       26.2               29.7               31.4               32.9
Surplus C+) or Deficit C-)                                -5.7               -4.0               -2.0               -3.9
Capital Expenditure                                       10.5                6.1               12.2               11.6
Foreign Finance (net)                                      .6                 3.2                9.6               10.0
*J At mrket prLces.
bJ Based on balance of payJent data.
I  Fiscal year - April/Varch 31. Figure refer to Cntral Covernment operations.                                                       v
d/ E-timated.
AprIl 1983



- 25 -
Page 5 of 6
1976-81       1981-86
OTHER INDICATRS
GWP Growth Rate (Z)             -2.4           3.2
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (Z)  -3.5           1.8
ICOnl                          -6.7            5.3
Marginal Savins Rate            38.4          60.4
Import Elsticity                 1.4           0.9
Annusal Growth Rate (IZ
r                                       AiaC n a                                   Cat costant 1978 prces)
Indicator               C-lLion US$ at                  Acttocl                  Eoti_ted            Projected
current prices)
19N           1977   1978   1979   1980   1981          1982    1983  1984  1985  1986
ExrERNAL TRAIDE
Merchandlse Exports (f.o.b.)   985.2           6.2    1.0    0.5    0.0    3.0         -16.8    24.1  -1.5  21.0   9.4
Bauxite/Aluuin               758.6          14.1    2.9    0.0    6.7   -1.5        -23.2    26.1  -7.7  23.4  -8.9
Sugar/Bananas                 50.5          -5.8   -6.9   -4.8  -34.5  -16.3          -1.7    34.0  16.7  25.3   7.9
Orher                        176.1         -16.7   -2.6    4.1   -2.8    8.0          10.1    14.3  12.0  12.6  11.6
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)  1485.0         -24.8    2.6   -3.6   -7.7   22.8         -10.0     5.6   1.8   8.9   7.2
Food                         105.0         -44.1   20.8  -22.9    0.0   50.0           2.0    -2.0   3.0   2.S   2.5
Petroleum                   499.2            1.9  -14.9   18.6  -16.9   -1.8         -4.7    10.7  -7.0   3.4   5.8
MachLnery and Equipwnt       216.1         -47.6   12.2   11.7  -10.3   48.2         -21.4     6.2   4.8   4.5   4.6
Other                        664.7         -23.2    6.6  -13.6   -2.8   22.7         -11.2     3.4   6.6   8.5   10.0
PRICES
Export Price Index (1978-100)    -          92.0  100.0  102.5  121.4  119.4         116.1   118.1  127.4  137.8  147.8
Import Price Indelx (1978-100)    -         88.6  100.0  120.3  152.4  157.2         158.0   154.2  163.2  172.8  183.7
Tern of Trade Index (1978-100)  -          103.8  100.0   85.2   79.7   76.3          73.5    76.6  78.1  79.8  80.5
Composition of Nercbhndlse Trade (2)         Average Annual Increses t2)
(at current prices)                   Cat constant 1978 primea)
1960   1970   1975   1981  1986        1971-76         1976-41      1981-86
Exports                                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0          -3.0           -0.8          7.8
Bauxite/Aluuina                             49.3   63.9   62.4   77.0   61.7          -2.5            2.3          5.7
Sugar/Banana                                31.8   14.5   2Z.4    5.1    8.7 -4.3/-12.7    -12.2/-29.4        10.1/47.5
Other                                       18.9   21.6   15.2   17.9   29.6          -3.6           -1.8          11.3
Imports                                      100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0         -6.1            -2.4          3.2
Food                                        16.6   13.5   11.6    7.1    7.7         -7.2            -4.8           1.4
Petroleum                                    8.3    6.3   19.1   33.6   27.6        -11.9            -3.5          2.7
Machinery and Equipment                     18.7   29.5   22.0   14.6   15.9          -7.9           -0.7           1.9
Other                                       56.4   50.7   47.3   44.7   48.8          -1.7           -2.0          4.4
April 1983



-26 -                                     AMOREI
Pa3i 6 of 6
JAICL - BALANCE OF PAThENTS. 31283311A CaPIfAL AND OM
culrons at uS *t Oc rtnz prLhea
Actual                                           Ptojctedal
1976   1977    1978   1979   1980   1961              91U    1983   1984   1985    1986
DAANCE OF PAIEsT
!xports of GCRS                  903.6  952.5  1119.5  1207.7  1406.1  1413.3          1308   1566   1695   2060   2373
Of wbich.l  Merchandcis f.o.b.   630.0  724.0  792.1  814.7  962.7  974.0             737    915    952   1223    1430
lIports of GR5                  1131.2  920.0  1055.8  1227.7  1413.6  1673.7          1639   1736    1S55   2124   2416            1
Of which: Herchandlm c.L.f.   912.8  746.9  856.6  994.0  1159.5  1457.4             1370   1407    1520   1755   2006
Vet Factor Services             -112.3  -128.6  -178.6  -202.6  -251.7  -201.5         -235   -310   -323   -365    -403
Net Transfers                      5.9   20.0   25.7   80.0   90.8  124.3               135    139    140    145    147
Current Accoun: Balance           -334.0  -46.1  -59.2  -142.6  -166.2  -337.6            431    -315   -344   -28    -299
Private DLruct Iuvestmnt            -0.5   -7.0  -26.7  -26.4  -11.0   -2.8                 -       -       -       -      -
ML? Loan. (net)                    102.2   63.9   57.4   12.1  207.4  103.8               392    386    235    214    194
Othbr Capital bl                    18.4  -70.7  -60.0    14.9  -91.1   155.8            -107      54    149    1S0       165
Chauge In taserve                  213.9   59.9  138.5  142.0   60.9   80.8               146   -125    -40    -60    -60
(Increase - -)
International Rserves (net)       -116.3  -176.2  -314.7  -456.8  -517.5  -598.3         -619   -494   -454   -374   -314
EXTERAL CAPITAL AND DEMM
Groas Disbarue.entu              179.5   83.0  112.9  171.7  295.8  473.3               501    759    614    580    589
Project Loans                   31.2   26.6   42.6   32.0   47.8   38.1                34      41      49      60     70
Special Flrancing                -      10.4  198.8  125.5  139.5  139.4              298    406    334    290    240
Other Offlcial                  73.0   71.0  -71.0   20.3  135.L   87.3               128    249    169    172    205
Gowernmnt Guaranteed            47.0   38.5   23.3    11.5   50.6   38.4               41      63      64      68     74
Private Dlrect (net)            -0.5   -7.0  -26.7  -26.4  -11.0   -2.8                 -       -       -       -      -
Lines of Credlt (net)            -      11.3   33.6    11.5   -9.2    5.0               -       -       -       -      -
Other d/                        28.8  -67.8  -87.7   -2.7  -57.0   167.9             -107      26    149    ISO       165
Official Debt Outstanding        831.8  905.0  1022.7  1080.8  1298.8  1497.8          1797   2201   2700   2986    3230
Debt Service: Total Service
Paymentc/        102.8  159.1  144.6  165.5  177.6  239.4               314    378    440    497        543
InterestC/         54.2   66.0   62.2   97.9  126.4  138.1               217     253    293    313    351
Payesntuas z of
Exports           11.2   16.0   12.8   13.6   12.5   16.4                24      24.1   20.0   24.1   22.9
Average Interest Rate on New
Loan. (Z)                        -       -       -      -       -       -               8.0    7.4    7.5    7.4    7.9
Average Maturity of New Loans
(year)                           -      -       -       -       -       -              11.5    11.3   11.6   11.5   11.6
a/ Projection. on a fiscal yer  basis April 1 -  arch 31.                                April 1983
b/ Includes errors and omiselons.
c/ Includes payuenC  of lnterest to IMF but not principal.
d/ Includes private debt and unidentified capital flows.



- 27 -
ANREM II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans as of March 31, 1-03
-1US$ million
Amount
Loan   Fiscal                                          (less cancellation)
No.   Year   Borrower           Purpose                 Bank  Undisbursed
15 loans fully disbursed 1I                            220.3
1146   1975    The Water         Sewerage/Water          15.0     0.0
CoDmission
1284   1976    Jamaica           Population               6.8     1.3
1464   1977    Jamaica           Rural Development       15.0     3.5
1516   1978    Jamaica Public   Power                    20.0    1.1
Service Co. Ltd.
1517  1978      Sugar Industry   Agriculture             18.0     3.9
Authority
1609   1979    Jamaica           Small Scale Industry     7.0      .3
1715   1979    Jamaica           Second Program Loan     31.5      .'
1716   1979    JamAIca          Forestry                 12.0    3.7
1740   1979    Jamaica           Highways                16.0    3.8
1978   1981    Jamaica           Export Development      37.0    9.8
Fund
2017   1981    Petroleum Co.    Offshore Petroleum        7.5     5.1
Exploration
2070   1982    JAMAica           Third Education          6.8     6.5
2106   1982    Jamaica           Technical Assistance     6.1    5.3
2107   1982    Jamaica          Kingston Export Free      13.5   13.0
Zone
2188   1982    Jamaica           Power                    30.5  30.0
Total (net cancellations)                     463.0
Of which has been repaid                       50.1
Total now outstanding                         412.9
Amount sold                       1.6
Of which has been repaid          1.6           0.0
Total now held by Bank                        412.9
Total undisbursed                                      87.5
1/  Including a telecommunications loan made in 1967 to the Jamaican
Telephone Company antd cancelled in the same year.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1983
US$ million
Date      Borrower            Type of Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1961  Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.   Pre-mix concrete         0.2      -        0.2
1969 Pegasus Hotel of
Jamaica Ltd.           Tourism                 2.2     0.7       2.9
1980 West Indies Glass
Company Ltd.           Glass containers        2.3      -        2.3
1982 Jamaica Flour Mills    Food and food pro-
cessing                5.0      -        5.0
9.7     0.7     10.4
Less cancellations, terminations
participations. sales and repayments           2.3      -        2.3
Total commitments now held by IFC               7.4     0.7       8.1
Total Undisbursed                               1.6      -        1.6
C. Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1464-JM: Rural Development Project: US$15 million Loan of June 29,
1977; Effective date: October 14, 1977; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
Project implementation had initially been slow due to shortage of
funds, manpower problems and a difficult general economic situation.
Recent progress has however been encouraging; most project components are
now under implementation and are advancing satisfactorily. About half of
the target group of settlers have been placed and two-thirds of the farm
homes have been completed or are under construction. Road construction and
supply of water and electricity to the nine settlement areas is advancing
rapidly. Only two of the six completed markets are operating; the Ministry
of Agriculture is attempting to resolve the institutional and construction
problems which have delayed the opening of the others.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Ln. No. 1516-JM: Second Power Project: US$20 million Loan of March 6,
1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily after consi-
derable delays during the initial phase of project implementation, and most
of the loan proceeds have been committed. Project completion is now
estimated for September 1983, about 18 months later than the appraical
forecast. JPSC's operations have been seriously affected by the limited
availability of its most fuel efficient generating units due to poor
maintenance and operating procedures and a lack of spare parts, and the
loss of skilled and managerial staff. Its financial position has also
deteriorated. The company has completed rehabilitation of two of its
generating units, and will continue its rehabilitation program under the
Third Power Project (Ln. No. 2188-JM). Recent tariff actions should result
in an improved financial position in the future.
Lu. No. 1517-JM: Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million Loan of
March 6, 1978; Effective date: June 1, 1978; Closing
date: March 31, 1984.
Although some progress in the rehabilitation of factories has
been made, implementation slowed seriously during the past two-and-a-half
years due to the critical financial situation of the Borrower. As part of
its structural adjustment program, the Government dissolved the sugarcane
cooperatives in 1981 and is attempting to divest the sugar mills owned by
NSC. It is also undertaking a program aimed at strengthening NSC's
management, cutting costs, and speeding implementation of the field and
factory rehabilitation programs. These actions should result in an
improved financial position in 1983.
Lu. No. 1609-JM: Small Scale Enterprise Development Project: US$7 million
Loan of August 2, 1978; Effective date: December 27,
1978; Closing date: June 30, 1983.
Implementation of the program for modern small scale enterprises
executed by the Premier Investment Corporation (PIC) is ahead of schedule.
Remaining uncommitted funds from the very small scale enterprises
subprogram were reallocated to PIC early in the year and have been fully
committed. Portions of the portfolio under the latter subprogram are in
arrears; strenuous efforts to reduce the arrears level are under way.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Ln. No. 1716-JK: Forestry Project: US$12 million Loan of June 8, 1979;
Effective date: December 11, 1979; Closing date:
June 30, 1985.
Project implementation is behind schedule, due to delays in the
allocation of land for the project and labor problems, but is now
proceeding satisfactorily. A new nursery with a capacity of one million
plants per year is being established; the pine inventory has been completed
and the hardwood inventory is underway.  The new saw mill was installed and
began running-in operations in 1982. The financial position of the
Borrower has been deterioratiug; Bank-financed consultants are reviewing
the project in-depth.
Ln. No. 1740-JM: Fourth Highway P.Foject: US$16 million Loan of July 10,
1979; Effective date: September 20, 1979; Closing date:
December 31, 1983.
The project has encountered serious delays caused primarily by
extraordinary rains and floods in 1979, a hurricane in 1980, and shortages
of key staff and of budget resources.  In view of the Government's diffi-
cult budgetary position and the need for urgent rehabilitation, the project
was restructured to allow utilization of loan funds for essential main-
tenance work by reducing targets for more expensive types of periodic
maintenance. Since restructuring, execution of the project has proceeded
reasonably well.
Ln. No. 1978-JM: Second Export Development Project: US$37 million Loan of
May 15, 1981; Effective date: August 6, 1981; Closing
date: December 31, 1983.
The loan provides financing via the Export Development Fund (EDF)
for imports of raw materials and spare parts for nontraditional exporters,
medium-term financing for exporters and their suppliers for capital equip-
ment and working capital, imported inputs for the banana industry, and
technical assistance. New procedural rules were introduced in early 1983,
and these-combined with a change in export incentives--have sharply
increased the demand for EDF resources.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Ln. No. 2017-JM: Offshore Petroleum Esploration Project:  US$7.5 million
Loan of June 16, 1981; Effective date: February 4, 1982;
Closing date:  June 30, 1985.
The project is directed at promoting exploration of Jamaica's
(        hydrocarbon potential by strengthening the Petroleum Company of Jamaica
both as a partner of private international companies and as an independent
investor. The first well yielded no shows of hydrocarbons; further
drilling in the Pedro Bank area under the project will depend on contract
holders whose contract extension will expire in November 1983.
Reinterpretation of marine seismic data is expected to be completed in June
1983; seismic surveys of other offshore areas are under execution. Plans
to construct a pilot plant for waste oil recovery are underway; as a
consequence, the feasibility study on waste oil recovery has been dropped
from the project.
Ln. No. 2070-JM: Third Education Project: US$6.8 million Loan of January
14, 1982; Effective date: March 24, 1982; Closing date:
June 30, 1985.
The project is directed at strengthening the technical and voca-
tional education system by expansion of the training capacity in the
College of Arts, Science and Technology, the Vocational Training Develop-
ment Institute, and the Industrial Production Centers. It also provides
for the development of new teaching programs and the provision of learning
materials. The project is approximately one month behind the appraisal
schedule. All components have been initiated and are making reasonable
progress.
Ln. No. 2106-JI: Technical Assistance Project: US$6.1 million Loan of
March 23, 1982; Effective date:  April 30, 1982; Closing
date: September 30, 1985.
Initial delays in recruitment resulted from the Government's
decision to change the coordinating agency of the loan from the Project
Analysis and Monitoring Company to the National Planning Agency (NPA). Of
the 35 positions and/or studies currently identified to be financed under
the loan, over two-thirds have been filled and are operational or
completed. Candidates have been identified for the majority of the
remaining posts. UNDP's Office of Project Execution is assisting NPA in
identifying candidates, recruiting consultants, and servicing contracts.
There has been some reallocation of loan funds and identification of new
activity to support the Government's structural adjustment program.



- 32 -
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 6
Ln. No. 2107-JM: Kingston Free Zone Project: US$13.5 million Loan of
March 23, 1982; EffectLve date: August 16, 1982; Closing
date: December 31, 1987.
The project i8 directed at increasing foreign private investment
and developing manufactured exports through the construction of shell
factory buildings and supporting infrastructure in the Kingston Free Zone
area.  Physical execution of the project will be about one year behind
schedule, in part due to a fall-off in demand for factory space from
foreign investors affected by the world recession. Good progress is being
made in obtaining technical assistance funds for training and promotion.
Ln. No. 2188-3M: Third Power Project: US$30.5 million Loan of July 27,
1982; Effective eate: February 28, 1983; Closing date:
December 31, 1985.
The loan provides for rehabilitation of steam power plants,
expansion of transmission and distribution, technical assistance to
strengthen management and maintenance, and equipment. Execution of the
project has been delayed as a result of delays in meeting the conditions of
effectiveness, but the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
I



-33 -                 ANNEX III
SUPPLENENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
JAMAICA
THIRD EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND PROJECT
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Loan request made to Bank: The need for the loan was discussed in
(                the context of the preparation of the second SAL in
September/October 1982.
(b) Appraisal mission: November/December 1982.
(c) Completion of negotiations: April 1983.
(d) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1983.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Exporters to CARICOM will have access to EDF for 65% of their
export receipts, unless the Bank and the EDF agree to a higher
percentage (para. 61).
(b)  The Bank of Jamaica will absorb any exchange losses incurred by the
commercial banks in purchasing U.S. dollars to replenish the EDF
(para. 62).
(c) Payment of arrears by BOJ to the EDF and the signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and EDF are
special conditions of loan effectiveness (para. 65).
(d)  Interest rates and commissions for EDF financing would be reviewed
every three months and adjusted in consultation with the Bank
(para. 69).
(e) EDF's operating policies and procedures cannot be changed without
the Bankls concurrence (para. 71).
(f) Retroactive financing for technical assistance in the amount of
S200,000 may be authorized (para. 71).
(g) Procurement of equipment items whenever feasible would have to be
supported by evidence that the purchaser has sought price
quotations from competitive sources (para. 72).



I 
t S''t~~111
~!~~li,' 'j  /- -
t        0  ,|.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t~~~~~~     :11 b



