OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS      LOAN NUMBER,232-OJM
Project Agreement
(Third Export Development Fund Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANK OF JAMAICA
and
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND JAMAICA LIMITED
and
JAMAICA EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
Dated                          , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 6o20 JM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            L      /         , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RE GNSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BANK OF JAMAICA (hereinafter called
BOJ) and EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND JAMAICA LIMITED (hereinafter
called the Fund) and JAMAICA EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED (hereinafter called JECIC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Jamaica (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to thirty million one hundred
thousand dollars ($30,100,000) on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that BOJ, the
Fund and JECIC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Fund,
acting through JECIC, with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will, out of the proceeds of the
Loan, relend to the Fund an amount equivalent to twenty eight
million dollars ($28,000,000) or such other amount or amounts as
shall be allocated to Category (1) in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement;
(C) Part B (1) of the Project will be carried out by JECIC
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will, out of the proceeds of the Loan,. grant to
JECIC an amount equivalent to five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000), or such other amount or amounts as shall be allocated
to JECIC in Category (2) (a) in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement;
and
WHEREAS BOJ, the Fund and JECIC, in consideration of. the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have
each agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several te:ims defined in the


﻿-2-
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Fund (acting through JECIC) and JECIC
shall carry out Part A and Part B (1) of the Project, respec-
tively, and conduct their operations and affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial and banking standards and
practices, with qualified management and personnel and in
accordance with their respective Memorandum and Articles of
Association, the provisions of this Agreement and the Statement
of Policies and Procedures.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist JECIC in carrying out
its obligations under Part B (1) of the Project, JECIC shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank as executing
Agency" published in August 1981.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1 to
the Loan Agreement, JECIC shall, before making any expenditures
for technical assistance under Part B (1) of the Project, send
their respective proposals for such expenditures to the Bank for
its prior approval.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the following provisions:
(i) goods shall be procured from the member countries
and territories referred to in the current edition
of the Guidelines; for Procurement under World
Bank Loan and IDA Credits, dated March 1977; and
(ii) goods shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor,


﻿- 3 -
provided, however, that in whenever feasible, at
least three quotations must be obtained each from
a difference source of supply.
Section 2.04. (a) JECIC shall, subject to such policy
directions and guidance as it may receive from the Fund's board
of directors, continue to manage the business of the Fund in
accordance with the Statement of Policies and Procedures and the
financing terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement in respect of Sub-loans.
(b) JECIC shall monitor the performance of enterprises to
which Sub-loans have been made.
(c) JECIC shall promptly review every three months the
lending rate applicable to Sub-loans and shall adjust such
lending rate, in consultation with the Bank, if conditions in the
money and capital market should so warrant.
Section 2.05. (a) JECIC undertakes to cause Eligible    Enter-
prises to insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance
of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by such enterprises to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Fund and
JECIC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for Part A and Part B
(1) of the Project, respectively.
Section 2.06. (a) The Fund and JECIC: (1) shall each
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of Part A and Part B (1) of the Project,
respectively (including the cost and the benefits to be derived
therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in such Parts
of the Project; (ii) shall each enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities of the Fund, JECIC and
any enterprise whose imports have been financed from the Fund's
resources and to examine the goods and services financed out'of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall each furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all


﻿-4-
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
such Parts of the Project, the cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(b) JECIC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank reports at
such intervals as the Bank may reasonably request, and in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the export performance
of enterprises to which Sub-loans have been made.
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, JECIC shall each prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution of Part A and Part B (1) of
the Project, respectively, the cost and benefits derived and to
be derived therefrom, the performance by the Bank, the Fund and
JECIC of their respective obligations under this Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Fund and JECIC shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to examine any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. (a) BOJ, the Fund and JECIC shall each, at the
request of the Bank, exchange views with the Bank. with regard to
the progress of the Project, ,the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
(b) BOJ, the Fund and JECIC shall each promptly inform the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by BOJ, the Fund or
JECIC of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Fund shall promptly notify the Bank of any
proposed change to be made in the Statement of Policies and
Procedures.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Fund shall use the amounts resulting from repayments ur,der Sub-
loans financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for the same
purpose that such proceeds of the Loan were originally provided,
and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the
Fund and JECIC
Section 3.01. The Fund and JECIC shall carry on their
operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and investment practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by'
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Fund, and JECIC shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views with
regard to the administration, operations and financial conditions
of the Fund and JECIC as the case may be; and the Fund and JECIC
shall each furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning their respective administra-
tion, operations and financial conditions.
Section 3.03. If the Fund or JECIC establishes or acquires a
Subsidiary, the Fund or JECIC (as the case may be) shall cause
such Subsidiary to observe and perform its obligations hereunder
to the extent to which such obligations shall be, or can be madd,
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon
such Subsidiary.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Obligations of BOJ
Section 4.01. BOJ shall take all such actions within its
authority as shall be required to permit the Fund and JECIC to
comply with their respective obligations under this Agreement and
its Schedule and to accomplish the purpose of the Loan.
Section 4.02. BOJ shall take all such action to permit the
foreign exchange holdings of the Fund to be held and managed by
the Fund and JECIC in banks of their choice.
Section 4.03. BOJ shall make available to commercial banks,
at the date of receipt by commercial banks of export receipts
resulting from exports by an Eligible Enterprise to the CARICOM
Market pursuant to Part A of the Schedule to this Agreement, any
amount in Jamaican dollars required by the commercial banks to
offset the difference between (i) the Parallel Market Rate of


﻿-6-
Exchange used by the commercial banks to convert such export
receipts into dollars, and (ii) the CARICOM Rate of Exchange
actually applied to the export operation which shall have
generated such export receipts.
Section 4.04. BOJ shall provide to any commercial bank or to
JECIC, upon demand, any amount in Jamaican dollars required to
offset the difference between (i) the CARICOM Rate, of Exchange,
and (ii) the Parallel Market Rate of Exchange applicable to
purchases of dollars made by such commercial bank or JECIC for
the purpose of repayment of Sub-loans to the Fund under the
provisions of Part C of the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Fund and JECIC shall each maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) The Fund and JECIC shall each retain, -until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 5.02. The Fund and JECIC shall each:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably


﻿- 7 -
requested,  including, without    limitation  to   the  foregoing,
separate opinions by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement, as
to whether the proceeds of- the Loan made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan -Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided;
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts, financial statements,,records and expenditures, as
well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request; and
(d) enable the representatives of the Bank to inspect all
such accounts, financial statements and recordsland any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 6.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of BOJ, the Fund and JECIC thereunder shall terminate on the
date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify BOJ, the
Fund and JECIC of such termination.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancel-
lation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,


﻿-8-
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the pa-ty giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BOJ:
Bank of Jamaica
Nethersole Place
P.O. Box 621
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable Address:                       Telex:
RESERVE                             381-2165
Kingston                            Kingston
For the Fund:
Export Development Fund Jamaica Limited
c/o Jamaica Export Credit Insurance
Corporation Limited
P.O. Box 3
Nethersole Place
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:                       Telex:
RESERVE                             381-2165
Kingston                            381-2173


﻿-9-
For JECIC:
Jamaica Export Credit Insurance
Corporation Limited
P.O. Box 3
Nethersole Place
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:                       Telex:
RESERVE                              381-2165
Kingston                             381-2173
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of: (i) BOJ may be taken or executed by BOJ's
Secretary or such other person as BOJ shall designate in writing;
(ii) the Fund may be taken or executed by the Fund's Chairman or
such other person or persons as the Fund shall designate in writ-
ing; and (iii) JECIC may be taken or executed by JECIC's Chairman
or such other person or persons as JECIC shall designate in
writing; and BOJ, the Fund and JECIC shall each furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
spedimen signature of each such person or persons.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANK OF JAMAICA
By /
Authorized Representative
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND JAMAICA LIMITED
By/              '-4V Pw
Authorized Representative
JAMAICA EXPORT CREDIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
LIMITED
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Financing Terms and Conditions
A.   Short-term Sub-loans
Terms of financing of Short-term Sub-loans shall be for a
term of not more 365 days, provided, however, that, in the case
of Eligible Enterprises which are not direct exporters, terms of
financing shall not exceed the time of delivery of the financed
goods to the exporter. Eligible Enterprises shall be free to
select the items and amounts of goods to be imported with the
Fund's resources, subject to the Fund's limits set for each
Eligible Enterprise.
Annual lending rates to Eligible Enterprises shall be in
accordance with the Fund's lending rate, currently 11% plus an
administration fee of 1% to 2% for JECIC and a 3% spread for the
commercial banks. The Fund's lending rate shall be reviewed every
three months and adjusted in consultation with the Bank, if con-
ditions in the money market should so warrant. Eligible Enter-
prises which are direct exporters shall be required' to surrender
to the commercial banks (A) 50% of their export receipts result-
ing from exports to countries outside the CARICOM Market and (B)
unless the Bank and the Fund agree to a higher percentage in any
particular case, 65% of their export receipts resulting from
exports to countries in the CARICOM Market. The commercial banks
shall be required to convert into dollars (i) such export
receipts, whenever such export receipts are not expressed in
dollars, and (ii) the amounts in Jamaican dollars provided by BOJ
to commercial banks in respect of export receipts from the
CARICOM Market at the Parallel Market Rate of Exchange applicable
at the date such export receipts are received by such commercial
banks and pay the amount resulting from such conversion to the
Fund. The Fund shall apply the amount so paid by the commercial
banks in the amortization of the respective Short-term Sub-loans.
B.   Medium-term Sub-loan
Medium-term Sub-loans shall only be extended to Eligible
Enterprises for (i) the installation of equipment to attain their
presently rated production capacity in an existing production
process at an existing location of which a reasonable proportion
is for exports or for supply to an exporter, or (ii) for perma-
nent working capital comprising raw materials, intermediate goods


﻿- 12 -
and spare parts in amounts not exceeding 25% of the Eligible
Enterprise's incremental projected export sales, or incremental
projected sales to exporters, for the following year. Lending
rates shall initially be the same as those for the Fund's Short-
term Sub-loans but shall be reviewed every three months and be
adjusted in consultation with the Bank if conditions in the money
and capital market should so warrant. The proceeds of Medium-term
Sub-loan shall be made available to, and be repayable by, the
Eligible Enterprise in dollars.
C.   General Provision
Whenever an Eligible Enterprise fails to export, or defaults
on its Sub-loan, the Fund shall require either:
(A) that the commercial bank shall repay the full amount
due and outstanding under such Sub-loan in dollars; or
(B) that the commercial bank and JECIC, which shall have
entered into a guarantee agreement with the Fund, shall each
repay its respective agreed percentage of the amount due and out-
standing under such Sub-loan in dollars.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this        -day of TA.5et , 1983.
FOR SECRETARY


