Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19600-MOZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT FROM THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.2 MILLION
(US$5.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FORA
COASTAL AND MARINE BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
APRIL 28, 2000
Environment Group
Country Department 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 15, 2000)
Currency Unit = Metical
MT 1.00 = US$0.0000636
US$1.00 = MT 15717
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Philippe H. Le Houerou, Acting
Sector Director:     Hans Binswanger
Sector Manager:      Charlotte Bingham
Task Team Leader:   Indumathie Hewawasam



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASRDP                      Agricultural Services Rehabilitation and Development Project
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CBD                        Convention on Biological Diversity
CDF                        Community Development Fund
CMBMP                      Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
COP                        Conference of Parties
CPI                        Investment Promotion Centre
CZMP                       National Coastal Zone Management Program
DAF                        Department of Administration and Finance (MICOA)
DANIDA                     Danish International Development Assistance
DINAGECA                   National Directorate of Geography and Cadastre
DINATUR                    National Directorate of Tourism
DINGA                      National Directorate for Environmental Management
DNFFB                      National Directorate of Forestry and Wildlife
DPICTUR                    Provincial Tourism Directorate
EIA                        Environmental Impact Assessment
EU                         European Union
GEF                        Global Environmental Facility
IBRD                       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICZM                       Integrated Coastal Zone Management
IDA                        International Development Assistance
IDPPE                      Small-scale Fisheries Development Institute
lIP                        Fisheries Research Institute
INIA                       National Institute of Agricultural Research
IUCN                       International Union for Conservation of Nature
LCC                        Local Coordination Committee
MADER                      Ministry for Agriculture and Rural Development
MICOA                      Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Affairs
MOU                        Memorandum of Understanding
MSc                        Masters of Science
NEMP                       National Environment Management Plan
NGO                        Non-governmental organization
NIITC                      National Inter-institutional Technical Committee
NORAD                      Norwegian International Development Assistance
NSC                        National Steering Committee
PCD                        Project Concept Document
PDF                        Project Development Facility Block B Grant
PIP                        Project Implementation Plan
PMG                        Project Management Group
PNFFB                      National Program for Forestry and Wildlife
PODE                       Mozambique Enterprise Development Project
PROAGRI                    Agricultural Sector Public Expenditure Program
PSIA                       Program Support Implementation Agreement
ROCS III                   Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (III)
ROM                        Republic of Mozambique
SAFMAR                     Maritime Administration
SAP                        Strategic Action Plan
SDP                        Strategic Spatial Development Plan
SEACAM                     Secretariat for Eastern Africa Coastal Area Management
SIDA                       Swedish International Development Agency
SPPF                       Provincial Service for Physical Planning
SPPFB                      Provincial Forestry and Wildlife Service
TDA                        Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis



UEM                         University of Eduardo Mondlane
UJNDP                       United Nations Development Program
UJNEP                       United Nations Environment Program
WB                          World Bank



Mozambique
Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective ............................................................2
1. Background, project development objective and key performance indicators .........2
B:  Strategic Context ............................................................3
1 (a). Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project
(see Annex  1) ............................................................3
l(b). GEF  Operational Strategy/program  objective addressed by the Project ..............3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices ...........................6
C: Project Description  Summary .............................................................7
1. Project components ............................................................7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project .................................7
3. Benefits and target population ............................................................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ........................................................9
D: Project Rationale                                ..1......................................................... 1
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: ...................................... 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design ................................................ 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................. 14
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this Project: ....................................... 15
E:  Summary Project Analysis ............................................................                                         15
1. Economic ..........................................         .........5.......
2. Financial ...........................................................                                                   15
3. Technical ...........................................................                                                   16
4. Institutional ............................................................                                              16
5. Social: ...........................................................                                                    17
6. Environmental assessment ............................................................                                   17
7. Participatory  approach ...........................................................                                    18
F:  Sustainability  and Risks ...........................................................                                         19
1. Sustainability ...........................................................                                             19
2. Critical risks ...........................................................                                             21
3. Possible controversial aspects ............................................................                            22
G: Main Loan Conditions ...........................................................                                              22
1. Effectiveness conditions ...........................................................                                   22
3. Other ............................................................                                                     23
H. Readiness for Implementation .............................................................                                     23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .............................................................                                    23
Annex  1:  Project Design  Summary  .............................................................                             24
Annex 2:  Detailed  Project Description .............................................................                           28
Annex 3:  Estimated  Project Costs .............................................................                              34
Annex 4a:  Economic Analysis .............................................................                                    35



Annex 4b: Incremental Cost Analysis ...................................................                                   37
Annex 5: Financial Summary ...................................................                                            45
Investment and Recurrent Expenditures                               ........................................... 45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ........................................ 47
A. Financial Management - Introduction ...................................................                        47
B. Institutional Strengthening ...................................................                                50
D. Procurement ...................................................                                                52
E. Disbursement ...................................................                                                55
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .                                   ......................................... 56
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional) .                                  ..................................... 57
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review                                          ..  58
Table C: Allocation of Credit/Grant Proceeds                              .................................... 59
Table DI: GEF  Yearly Estimated Disbursements                                ................................. 60
Table D2: IDA  Yearly Estimated Disbursements ................................................... 61
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and  Schedule ................................................... 62
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File ...................................................                                63
Annex 9:  Statement of Loans and  Credits ...................................................                             64
Annex 10: Country at a Glance ...................................................                                         65
Annex Ila:  Technical Review  of Project Proposal ................................................... 67
Annex H1b:  Response to STAP  Reviewer's Comments ............................................. 71
Annex 12: Biodiversity Matrix ...................................................                                         74
Map IBRD 30445



Mozambique
Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 2
Date: April 28, 2000                             Task Team Leader: Indu Hewawasam
Country Director: Michael N. Sarris, Acting  Sector Manager: Charlotte Bingham
Project ID: P070305     Sector: Environment     Program Objective Category: Environmentally Sustainable
Development
GEF Supplement ID: MZ-GE-31959                  Focal Area:
Lending Instrument: SIL                          Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data     [] Loan      [X] Credit  [] Guarantee  [X] Grant    [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$5.6 IDA Credit US$m 4.1 GEF grant
Proposed terms:                       [ ]  Multicurrency     [X] Single currency, specify US$
Grace period (years): 10         [X] Standard Variable  []  Fixed           [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5% less any
waiver
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign           Total
Government                                                  0.8                 -               0.8
IDA                                                         3.8                1.8              5.6
GEF                                                         2.4                1.7              4.1
Total          7.0                3.5             10.6a
Borrower: Republic of Mozambique
Recipient: Republic of Mozambique
Responsible agency: Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Affairs
Estimated IDA disbursements (FYJUS$Ma):    2000      2001       2002       2003       2004
IDA Annual      0.97       2.06        1.62      0.84      0.18
Cumulative      0.97       3.03       4.65       5.49     5.67
ROM Annual       0.19       0.19       0.19       0.19      0.08
Cumulative      0.19       0.38       0.57       0.76     0.84
Estimated GEF disbursements (FY/US$Ma):    2000      2001       2002       2003       2004
Annual      1.74       0.49       0.86       0.74     0.28
Cumulative      1.74       2.24       3.10       3.85     4.10
For Guarantees:                               [ I   Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Project implementation period: August 18, 2000 - December 31, 2004
Expected Effectiveness date: August 18, 2000
Expected closing date: June 30, 2005
a Includes contingencies
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Background, project development objective and key performance indicators
(see Annex 1)
Mozambique's coastal zone is unique in the East African Marine Region in terms of the quality,
diversity and species richness of its habitats. Apart from Madagascar, Mozambique is the only
country in the East African Marine Region with major brackish coastal barrier lagoons. These
serve as critical habitat for many coastal and marine species in the Western Indian Ocean. It also
supports the most extensive mangrove forests and sea grass beds as well as the best coral
assemblages along the mainland of the East African Marine Region. Most of these areas are still in
good condition. In addition, Mozambique's coastal waters contain the largest remaining
populations of the threatened dugong in the Western Indian Ocean, and it is the only country in the
region where all five species of threatened and endangered sea turtles occur and breed. These
coastal habitats are critical for the survival of commercially valuable and environmentally unique
species.
Largely as a consequence of the past two decades of war and political instability which severely
restricted most economic activities in the coastal zone, the coastal ecosystems remain in relatively
pristine condition. However, establishment of what appears to be lasting peace and the
accompanying rapid transition to a dynamic economy has led to equally rapid development. While
the biodiversity and the natural beauty of the pristine coast combine for a high potential for
supporting sustainable coastal development, this potential is being undermined by inadequate
capacity to manage the coastal resources of the country. Although development pressure in
Mozambique is increasing rapidly, there is an opportunity to evolve institutional structures,
technical capability, and a philosophy of natural resource management that will eventually lead to
environmentally and socially sustainable development.
The proposed Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project (CMBMP) is a key element of
the Republic of Mozambique's (ROM) overarching National Coastal Zone Management Program
(CZMP), and in particular its strategy for coastal and marine biodiversity protection and for
sustainable use of natural resources. The Project will pilot an integrated approach to achieving
sustainable development focusing on two project areas of northern Mozambique. The first area
comprises the two northern most coastal districts in the province of Cabo Delgado: Mocimboa da
Praia and Palma, which borders Tanzania, and includes a portion of the Quirimbas archipelago.
This pilot area comprises approximately 9,500 sq. km, of which 7,000 sq. km, is terrestrial and
2,500 sq. km is marine. The second area comprises the contiguous districts of Nacala-Porto and
Mossuril, in the province of Nampula, and encompasses an area of approximately 4,700 sq. km of
which 3,700 sq. km is terrestrial and 1000 sq. km is marine. Both these pilot project areas include
sites recognized as having globally significant biodiversity, including corals, mangroves, sea grass
beds, all five species of threatened and endangered turtles and dugongs. They are also
characterized by strong local government commitment to integrating biodiversity protection into
local economic development.
The development objective of the CMBMP (as one in a series of steps towards developing an
integrated coastal zone management process for the entire country) is to test and refine an approach
to achieve sustainable economic development of coastal zone resources. This is to be
accomplished through a strategic development planning process that balances ecological, social
and physical values, with the varying development interests in the coastal zone. Progress toward
this objective would be measured by: (a) adoption of strategic spatial development plans by the



Page 3
national, provincial and district authorities in the pilot areas; (b) improved institutional capacity for
integrated coastal zone management at provincial and district level; (c) devolution of coastal zone
planning to provincial level; and (d) different coastal zone management models tested, including
community management and private sector concessions.
The global objective of the CMBMP is to ensure the effective protection of globally significant
coastal and marine habitats and species. Achievement of this objective is fully integrated into the
overall strategic development planning approach being piloted by this Project. Its success will be
measured by: (a) establishment of effective protection of key marine and terrestrial conservation
areas; and (b) co-management in buffer zones of marine and terrestrial conservation areas
consistent with conservation objectives.
B: Strategic Context
1(a). Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project
(see Annex 1)
Current CAS document number: 17180-MOZ Date of discussion: December 18, 1997
Draft CAS document number: 20327-MOZ    Date of discussion: June 1, 2000
Both the current and proposed CASs for Mozambique focus on poverty reduction through
sustainable economic growth. They recognize that the prospects for sustainable, poverty-reducing
economic growth are closely tied to rapid, broad-based growth, centered on rural development, and
coupled with sound management of the natural resource base. This pilot project will contribute to
the strategic pillars of these CASs through its focus on: (i) private sector-led growth; (ii) improving
governance and empowerment; (iii) increasing human capabilities; and (iv) strengthening
development partnerships. In particular, the approach being piloted aims to establish an enabling
franework: (i) for minimizing potential environmental and social risks for private enterprise
development; (ii) to promote environmentally and socially acceptable development of coastal and
marine resources, including the identification of alternative income-generating activities for the
rural population; and (iii) to promote stakeholder participation in the development planning
process. In addition, the project aims to develop human resource skills and appropriate
mechanisms to: (i) enable sound decision-making; (ii) facilitate effective devolution of power and
deconcentration of skilled staff from the national to the provincial and local levels; (iii) empower
and enable rural communities to negotiate their rights with private sector entrepreneurs; and (iv)
establish realistic and workable partnerships between different stakeholders for co-management of
coastal and marine resources.
l(b). GEF Operational Strategy/program objective addressed by the Project
Mozambique ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity in August 1995. The proposed
Project fits well with the GEF Biodiversity Operational Strategy and Operational Program 2 on
Coastal and Marine Ecosystems. It is in line with guidance from the Conference of the Parties to
the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP), which stresses in situ conservation activities of
coastal and marine ecosystems. It specifically responds to the Jakarta Mandate endorsed at COP2
by supporting conservation and sustainable use of vulnerable marine habitats and species. The
conservation and sustainable use of coastal and marine ecosystems have been identified as national
priorities under the national biodiversity strategy and action plan. The Project responds to
guidance from COP 3 and COP4 by:



Page 4
* taking an ecosystem approach to conservation through better integration of biodiversity needs
into spatial development planning;
* involving local communities, including building on local knowledge, strengthening community
management for sustainable use and promoting economic incentives such as alternative
livelihood opportunities; and
* strengthening local and institutional capacity to address environmental issues through
intersectoral and transboundary cooperation.
The Project seeks to mainstream biodiversity conservation and sustainable use into development
planning through the spatial development planning process and the preparation of best practice
tender documents for private sector development. It is expected that if this pilot model is shown to
be successful the model will be adopted as regular practice by local governments and replicated
elsewhere in the Mozambique coastal zone.
The key conservation sites which will receive GEF support under the program have been identified
as priority sites of global importance in the IUCN Review "A Global Representative System of
Marine Protected Areas." The Project will support national efforts which contribute to regional
programs in the Western Indian Ocean and promote regional collaboration and exchange of
experience. Through providing support for better protection and monitoring of migratory and
threatened marine species such as turtles and dugong it will contribute to the objectives of the Bonn
Convention.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Sector issues: Mozambique's economy is largely natural resource based. These resources are the
principal current source of present income and of expected future growth. After a long period of
economic stagnation and a dramatic decline of industrial capacity, the Republic of Mozambique is
under strong pressure to rapidly deliver income generating activities. The current rapid increase of
investor interest in most major sectors including agriculture, tourism, mining, energy and industry,
may lead to rapid degradation of the natural resource base unless this development is appropriately
managed. Ensuring sustainable utilization of natural resources is therefore a serious and urgent
challenge to the country.
Environmental Issues: Approximately half of the population of Mozambique is concentrated in
the urban centers and rural areas of the coastal districts, largely due to migration during the
country's civil war and to the economic opportunities. In urban areas, the resultant pressures on
infrastructure and services range from inadequate waste disposal, sanitation and sewage systems to
lack of access to safe water. While in rural areas, slash and burn agriculture, devastation of dune
forest and overexploitation of fisheries are the more serious issues. Dams constructed for
hydropower and irrigated agriculture create major saline intrusions in estuarine areas; they also
contribute to coast line regression and the destruction of wildlife habitat. Mozambique's
downstream position makes it vulnerable to the pollution-generating activities of its neighbors.
The rational utilization of river basins is therefore an issue which requires regional cooperation.
While Mozambique is relatively well endowed with forest resources, population concentrations
along the coast, around cities and along transport corridors have led to serious deforestation and the
resultant environmental impacts. Environmental problems are currently limited in the industry and
mining sectors, nevertheless the increasing interest in mining concessions calls for a cautionary
approach and a sound and transparent institutional and regulatory framework. The rich and diverse
coastal areas and resources present a significant opportunity for tourism development and the
generation of substantial revenues. These resources are now being threatened by poorly planned



Page 5
developments which do not sufficiently incorporate community and equity opportunities and
heighten the risk of local level conflict.
An Environmental Framework Law and a supporting regulatory framework have been established.
Government capacity to enforce regulations however, is weak or non-existent. Investments in
agriculture, tourism, mining, energy and industry are therefore subject to little management or
direction to ensure environmental or social sustainability. At the provincial levels the situation is
particularly acute. A clear and transparent regulatory framework with well defined processes for
negotiation and agreements is critical for attracting and maintaining private investment. At the
present time in Mozambique, poorly defined agreements over the use and management of natural
resources have led to delayed investments and ill feeling between investors and local communities.
Lack of clear investment procedures and weak enforcement capacity are serious constraints to
attracting private investment.
Issues specific to the Coastal Zone. Key issues in the coastal zone include: unmanaged coastal
development, in particular, illegal tourism operations; unclear user rights; overexploitation of
fisheries; loss of supporting coastal ecosystems such as mangroves; lack of community
involvement in decision-making and management; limited investment in alternative income
earning opportunities for local communities; breakdown of local resource management systems;
pressure caused by refugees and resettling populations; weak institutional and limited financial
capacity to manage coastal resources; unclear legal framework government certain coastal and
marine resources; and overlaps and gaps in institutional mandates and jurisdictions exacerbated by
a lack of coordination. The situation is exacerbated by the inadequacy of the current protected area
system which, considering the diversity of habitats and the economic importance of the littoral
zone, does little to protect and ensure sustainability of these valuable resources.
Government Strategy: The need for integrated coastal zone management was one of the top five
priority concerns identified in the National Environmental Management Program (1994). This has
now led to the development of a draft National Coastal Zone Management Policy and Program
(CZMP). The CZMP aims to address coastal zone issues cross-sectorally in an integrated and
coordinated manner. The policy focuses on ensuring the sustainable use and conservation of
biological and marine resources and in parallel allows for an equitable distribution of the benefits
from their use and management among local communities, governmental agencies and
development agents. The policy aims to optimize the benefits provided by the coastal zone to all
stakeholders and minimize the conflicts between alternative uses. Specifically, the program aims
to (i) strengthen coastal zone management capacity and coordination within and across sectors, at
national and local levels; and (ii) protect and maintain the productivity and biological diversity of
coastal and marine ecosystems. Its approach emphasizes the participation of local people in the
planning and management of coastal resources. This program has been designed around four major
themes: (i) coastal landuse and development planning; (ii) resource management; (iii) research,
training and environmental awareness; and (iv) institutional and legal aspects, including
intersectoral coordination.
Other programs with complementary objectives include:
* National Program for Forestry and Wildlife (PNFFB), which outlines the social, ecological,
and economic objectives for terrestrial and aquatic biodiversity conservation, including: (i)
improved protection, management and sustainable use of terrestrial and marine conservation
areas; (ii) increased community participation in terrestrial and marine resource management
and conservation; and (iii) protection and conservation of globally important terrestrial and
marine species. This program forms a core component of the multi-donor funded Agriculture
Sector Public Expenditure Program (PROAGRI). CZMP will implement part of the coastal and



Page 6
marine strategy, focusing on northern Mozambique. It is led by the National Directorate for
Forestry and Wildlife (DNFFB) which has principal responsibility for implementing
biodiversity conservation in Mozambique; and
National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, prepared and now being implemented by
relevant responsible institutions in collaboration with the Ministry for Coordination of
Environmental Affairs (MICOA). The strategic goal is "the conservation of biological
diversity and the maintenance of the ecological systems and processes taking into account the
need for sustainable development and a fair and equitable distribution of the benefits arising
from the use of biological diversity."
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices
The Project, in keeping with the CZMP goals, will test an approach that marries biodiversity
conservation with social and economic development in two pilot project areas in northern
Mozambique. Specifically, it will:
* test and refine mechanisms for integrating economic development aspirations of provincial
government and local communities with the requirements of biodiversity conservation at the
provincial and district level. This will be accomplished through development of a strategic
spatial development planning process;
- test institutional arrangements for devolving coastal and marine resource planning and
management to the provincial and local levels;
* pilot mechanisms to bring selected globally significant ecosystems and species under effective
protection, including developing and implementing participatory management plans, and
piloting mechanisms for their sustainable financing;
* develop participatory processes for development and implementation of local natural resource
management plans outside official conservation areas, including capacity building, the
identification of viable and acceptable alternatives to current detrimental practices, and testing
mechanisms for establishing partnerships (for example public-private sector) for management
and sustainable use of these resources;
* increase knowledge and capacity for management of globally significant ecosystems and
species, particularly through gathering of baseline data and establishment of a monitoring
system to assess the ecological and social sustainability of different natural resource
management and conservation strategies;
* heighten public awareness and understanding of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use
concerns, particularly among decision-makers and resource users, including understanding of
current threats, possible solutions and current and future social, economic and development
options; and
* assist clarification of the policy, institutional and legal framework for coastal and marine
biodiversity conservation and management, including furthering definition of respective roles
and responsibilities of government, NGOs, communities and private sector stakeholders and
definition of conservation classification system (for protected areas and species).
The Project will initially focus on four districts in northern Mozambique. The criteria for selection
of these sites emphasized: the presence of globally significant biodiversity and rich cultural
heritage values; high economic development potential, provincial and district government
commitment to the goals of environmentally and socially sustainable economic development; and a
local population interested in participating in the proposed development process.
The Project will improve the ability of the provincial and local governments to make strategic
choices concerning integrated coastal zone management. The experience gained through its



Page 7
implementation should provide a framework for other provinces and districts to follow. The
"demonstration effect" should encourage the use of social, ecological, and economic planning tools
within the spatial development-planning context to arrive at sustainable district development plans.
This would include choices such as the extent of private sector participation in conservation
management, the role of communities, and the most effective training mechanisms. It is
anticipated that the most important means of disseminating lessons learned during this pilot phase
will be through adoption of the process, in an improved and expanded form, under the long-term
CZMP.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components
The Project proposes a multi-pronged approach designed to support sustainable development. It
comprises five mutually reinforcing components designed to develop and pilot mechanisms for:
(a) strategic spatial planning that fully integrates conservation with regional development: (b)
establishment and strengthened protection of key terrestrial and marine conservation areas and
initiation of conservation-oriented community activities in and around these areas; (c) establishing
best practice for environmentally and biodiversity-friendly economic development; (d) capacity
building and public awareness raising of key government and non-government stakeholders
responsible for biodiversity protection; and (e) institutional arrangements for devolving coastal and
marine resource planning to the provincial and local levels. This pilot Project represents part of a
long-term national coastal zone program that is attracting multi-donor funding. If successful, the
activities piloted under this Project would subsequently be adopted and replicated more broadly
through the entire coastal zone.
Indicative  % of    IDA     % of IDA    GEF        % of
Cost    Total  Financing  Financing  Financing    GEF
Components               (US$M)            (US$M)               (US$M)  Financing
Spatial Development Plan                1.7     18       1.5        88        0.2        12
Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable  3.6   37      0.2        5         3.4        95
Community Development
Sustainable Private Sector Development  1.3     13       1.2        92        0.1        8
Training and Public Awareness          0.7       7       0.7       100
Project Management and M&E             2.4       25      2.0        83        0.4        17
Total Financing                        9.7a     100      5.6        57        4.1"       43
'Excludes US$0.84M ROM contribution in kind
b Includes US$0.35M PDF Grant
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project
The Project is designed to develop and test mechanisms to support implementation of the national
coastal zone policy and program. Specifically it will test processes and procedures for deconcentrating
and devolving strategic planning, decision-making and resource management to the provincial and
local levels. The experience gained through this pilot Project will be used to inform policy and
institutional reforms to be implemented more broadly, particularly. through the application of the
National Forestry and Wildlife policy and program, National Land Policy, law and regulations and the
National Tourism Policy and Strategy.



Page 8
3. Benefits and target population
The benefits of this pilot Project will accrue at global, regional, national and local levels.
Global and regional benefits
Mozambique's coastal and marine ecosystems are globally and regionally significant. The Project will
contribute to:
* the sustainable conservation of globally significant faunal and floral species and assemblages
within and outside formally protected areas;
* significant expansion of knowledge regarding distribution, life histories and conservation status of
important plants and animals and of local indigenous knowledge;
* the improved protection of marine turtles and dugongs and their supporting habitats,
complementing similar initiatives elsewhere in the region (e.g., IUCN/UJNDP's Conservation of
Western Indian Ocean Sea Turtles project);
* practical models for guiding participatory biodiversity management elsewhere in Mozambique and
the region;
* piloting of a sustainable development model that fully integrates social and conservation
considerations into the traditional economic development paradigm; and
* improved regional collaboration, particularly as relates to transboundary biodiversity conservation
issues.
National and local benefits
The conservation and sustainable use of coastal and marine biodiversity and related ecosystems, and
the equitable sharing of benefits from their use, are fundamental to socioeconomic development and
poverty alleviation both locally and nationally. The Project will help:
* reduce the loss and degradation of Mozambique' s coastal and marine ecosystems by building
national and particularly local capacity to, and engaging local resource users in the management of,
these resources and by increasing the area under protection;
a increase the direct and indirect economic and financial benefits derived from sustainable use of
coastal and marine resources, including fishing, tourism and protection against flooding and
erosion;
* provide alternative income generating opportunities, particularly for communities;
* develop practical models in which local communities can participate in the design and
implementation of management activities;
* clarify and prioritize measures to improve the policy and institutional framework for resource
management in general and coastal and marine biodiversity in particular, to be adopted and
implemented during the second phase program; and
* test mechanisms for establishing public-private and other partnerships for management and
sustainable use of coastal and marine resources, given foreign private sector interest in tourism
investments.
Target population: The anticipated target population includes: residents of the four pilot districts:
Mocimboa da Praia, Palma, Nacala-Porto, and Mossuril, particularly local communities in the vicinity
of protected areas or key habitats of targeted species and local resource users such as fishermen;
selected government resource managers and decision-makers at all levels; the private sector; and
NGOs.



Page 9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Implementation period: 4.5 years.
Implementation
Project Institutional Coordination and Implementation Arrangements: The overall coordination
and management of the CMBMP will be the responsibility of MICOA. The CZM project management
team will be headed by a project manager who will be supported by a full time consultant project
advisor, a finance and procurement administrator and an administrative secretary. At the
provincial/district level, coordination will be facilitated through local coordination units formed for
this purpose. These local coordination units will consist of representatives from technical line
ministries, district government, and other local leaders. Two field coordinators, one for each province,
will be appointed to work closely with and support the local coordination units and field-based teams
from relevant agencies providing technical support.
Coordination within and between the various technical teams working on the Project components will
also be strengthened through regular assistance provided by internationally and regionally contracted
advisors (including planning, social/participation, marine and terrestrial conservation, project
management experts).
A major aim of this Project is to devolve responsibility for planning and implementation of
environmentally and socially sustainable development to the provincial and district governments
through adoption of district-level spatial development plans. Successful spatial development planning
is, by its nature, a local process. Institutional weaknesses at the local level requires that technical
design of key components initially be supported through relevant central government agencies,
including fNIA, DINATUR and DNFFB. The provincial and local representatives of these
organizations will play a principal technical role in project execution. As the value of spatial
development planning is proven, the responsibilities of these local technical organizations will
increase, requiring deconcentration of staff from Maputo to the regions.
As there are multiple players involved in coastal zone management, the Project will specifically
support costs of coordination meetings and consultative workshops to foster information exchange and
collaboration between the different agencies involved. This is necessary for coordinated coastal zone
planning and development. The lessons learned from pilot projects will feed back to the National
Steering Committee (NSC) and to the Govemment's Sustainable Development Council once created,
for adoption at the national policy level.
Ministerial oversight of the CMBMP will be provided by the NSC, which includes the provincial
governors. Technical guidance will be provided by the National Inter-institutional Technical
Committee, which includes technical line ministries, the staff of agencies that are represented at the
provincial/local levels. At the local level, implementation of the program will be coordinated via
analogous provincial/district inter-institutional groups, with the additional representation of other local
authorities.
Funding Arrangements: External funding will be channeled to MICOA, as the responsible agency
for the Project. MICOA will channel funds based upon agreed work plans and budgets to other key
implementing agencies. MICOA will be responsible for gathering information from all participating
agencies, be responsible for preparation of project progress reports, operating the Special Accounts,
and undertake all procurement actions.



Page 10
Financial Management
Funding for project activities will be allocated to MICOA's budget from two sources: (i) IDA and (ii)
from the GEF. Funds will be channeled to the implementing agencies in Maputo to undertake the
prescribed activities, to MICOA's provincial offices for provincial-level activities in the two provinces
in which project activities will be undertaken, and to District Administration offices in each of the two
pilot districts.
The financial responsibility rests with the Finance and Administration Department of MICOA. Due to
the scale of activities envisaged under CMBMP resulting in a significantly larger work program and
budget, a CMBMP Finance and Procurement Section (CMBMP/FPS) will be established in.MICOA,
and will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting for CMBMP is carried
out in a manner acceptable to all parties. The CMBMP/FPS will report directly to the Finance and
Administration Department of MICOA. This section will be supported by an external financial
management systems consultancy and training.
At provincial level, two consultants will be engaged by the Project, one in each provincial MICOA
office, to assist MICOA's provincial representative manage and account for project funds for
provincial level activities. These two consultants will oversee the disbursement of funds to the two
district administration offices for the Project's activities in the pilot sites, and will supervise two
bookkeepers at these offices. The bookkeepers will be existing district administration staff who will
take on this additional responsibility.
Memoranda of understanding between MICOA and the other implementing agencies will include the
description of a process for preparing a program of work and budget, and for accounting and reporting
on the application of project funds. Annual workplans and budgets would be prepared and agreed
with the Project Management Group before being submitted to the National Steering Committee for
approval. Detailed workplans and budgets would be prepared quarterly, reviewed by the Provincial
Steering Committee and form the basis of advances to implementing agencies.
The financial management system for the CMBMP will be developed in two phases. In Phase I, a
short-term consultant will be retained to prepare and advise on the (i) Project's Financial Procurement
Procedures Manual; (ii) format and content of the Project's quarterly and annual financial statements,
including accounting policies and standards; (iii) format and content of the Project's Cash Flow
Forecast; and (iv) format and content of the monthly Status of Funds report. This consultant will also
put in place the Project's Financial Management System (FMS), including manual and computerized
accounting systems. Phase I will be completed by Effectiveness. Phase II will build on the system
and manual prepared during Phase I, refining the procedures to permit Project Management Reporting
(PMR) as described in the LACI Handbook, September '98. For the short to medium-term, existing
disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook will be followed.
These include Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment.
All Project accounts and financial management functions will be subject to the normal MICOA
internal audit procedures. In addition, a relevantly qualified, experienced and independent Auditor
will be appointed to audit the expenditures financed under the IDA Credit and GEF Grant (including
the PDF Grant) under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. These external auditors will be
appointed by Project Effectiveness. Audited accounts and statements will be submitted to the Bank
within six (6) months following the end of each Mozambican fiscal year.



Page I 1
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): Monitoring and evaluation of progress and impact will be
through a dedicated and detailed monitoring plan. The monitoring plan will specify the key
indicators/data needs and sources, who will collect the data and how frequently. MICOA will contract
independent consultants to refine and finalize the M&E plan. Consultants will also be responsible for
evaluating and consolidating monitoring data into semi-annual monitoring reports. These reports will
form the basis of the semi-annual Project review meetings. It is expected that the Bank supervision
missions will correspond with these semi-annual review meetings. In addition, the consultants will
conduct independent mid-term and end-term beneficiary assessments within the pilot areas. These
will serve as the basis for mid-term and completion reviews, respectively. The M&E program can
only be prepared once all significant areas requiring conservation actions and the relevant social issues
have been identified. This information is expected to be available one year after Project Effectiveness.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Scope of Intervention: The Project was originally planned to be principally focused on the
conservation of biodiversity in protected coastal zone areas, the establishment of buffer zones and the
preparation and implementation of management plans. However, this approach was subsequently
considered to be too narrow in scope as it did not address the more fundamental question of how to
best integrate and prioritize terrestrial and marine biodiversity and conservation values with the
economic development aspirations of the local communities and other interests within the coastal
zone. Consequently, the Project design was modified to this more holistic concept and will pilot the
use of this strategic development planning process.
Level of Intervention: The sheer length of Mozambique's coastline means that it would be
impractical to attempt to manage it from the capital. The project team therefore decided the priority
and focus of this pilot Project be on learning how to increase capacity for coastal zone management at
the provincial and district levels and create a working example of sustainable economic development
that could be used as the basis for national policy.
Location of Intervention: Altemative areas assessed for targeting interventions included coastal
areas in the southern part of the country. These sites were considered inappropriate for interventions
under this pilot project mainly due to a combination of the: (a) absence of globally as well as
nationally significant biodiversity; (b) presence and involvement of other donors; and (c) significantly
weak potential for demonstrating early successes that could be replicated along the rest of the
coastline.
Since the main Project objective is to create a successful economic development model that
institutionalizes the need to protect biodiversity, sustainably "use" (including non-use) natural
resources, and integrate local communities in economic development planning, the pilot areas selected
are in Cabo Delgado and Nampula Provinces. These areas are in the far north of the country, and are
areas in which the Project can be implemented without undue pressure from existing developments
and development proposals. These selected priority sites have also been identified based on criteria
that include globally and nationally important biodiversity values, including:
* Nacala-Mossuril (seagrass beds, turtle nesting beaches, fringing coral reefs, nesting seabirds); and
* Northern Quirimbas Archipelago (coral reefs, seagrass beds, sea turtles nesting beaches, tern
colony).



Page 12
Within the pilot areas, priority will be given to areas identified to be of global biodiversity significance
and communities in the vicinity of these areas.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
Sector issue                      Project                Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Biodiversity management      Transfrontier Conservation Areas            S                S
Project
Natural resource management    PROAGRI                                 N/A               N/A
Rural Rehabilitation (Credit 2479-MOZ)     S                 S
ASRDP (Credit 2337-MOZ)
National Water Resource Management I       S                 S
(Credit 39015-MOZ)                         S                 S
Rural Infrastructure         ROCS III (FY0 1.) .                       N/A               N/A
WB/SIDA                      SEACAM capacity building program          N/A               N/A
Other development agencies
Netherlands/NORAD/UNDP       National Environmental Management
Program Implementation Strategy
(NEMP-PSIA)
NORAD/IUCN                   Macrodiagnostic of coastal zone
DANIDA                       Coastal Zone Management Project
Frontier Mozambique/DANIDA   Quirimbas Archipelago Marine Research
Program
EU                           Bazaruto Multiple Use Resource
Management Project
UNEP/UNDP                    Environmental Law and Institutions
IJNDP                        Network Creation and Integrated
Planning on Natural Resource
Management (COMRES)
NORAD                        Mecufi Natural Resource Management
Project
IFAD/OPEC/ROM                Angoche/Moma-Nampula Artisanal
Fisheries Project
IUCN/UNDP                    Conservation of Western Indian Ocean
Sea Turtle Populations
UNEP/GEF                     Preparation of a TDA and SAP for the
Western Indian Ocean marine and
coastal environment (under prep.)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory), N/A (Not Applicable)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design
Drawing on the experience of the Bank's Mozambique portfolio, in particular the Transfrontier
Conservation Areas project, as well as the Bankwide biodiversity and coastal zone management
portfolio and regional and local natural resources management initiatives, the following key needs for



Page 13
successful project design and implementation have been identified and incorporated into project
preparation and the proposed project design:
*  Government commitment to the Project and ownership of its underlying principles and rationale
has been ensured through an open and supportive dialogue with government;
*  Inter-agency coordination will be promoted by linking Project implementation to existing
institutions: the Sustainable Development Council (being created), NIITC and provincial level
local coordination committees, and by forging agreements, and where necessary policies and
legislation, that establish clear definitions of roles and responsibilities of the involved institutions;
*  Early consultation with key stakeholders, including a clearly defined participatory process,
helped outline the roles and responsibilities of different players (government, local communities,
academia, private sector, NGOs);
* Human and institutional capacity constraints in government, local communities and NGOs were,
to some extent, addressed during Project preparation through collaborative partnerships with
research institutions, NGOs and other donors. A strong emphasis on both short- and long-term
capacity building at both the national and local levels is included in the Project itself. The purpose
is to create a critical mass of scientific and management expertise, which should allow future,
more ambitious, natural resource management activities to be implemented in the coastal zone of
Mozambique.
*  Legal andpolicyframework formalizing the government's commitment to devolve responsibility
for management of natural resources to local governments and resource users and the development
of incentives to complement command and control mechanisms will be supported by the Project.
-  linkages between biodiversity and coastal zone planning will be promoted within the context of
the environmentally and socially sustainable strategic development planning processes being
developed through the Project. These processes aim to integrate biological and ecological values
as well as social values and aspirations into traditional planning processes, thus linking economic
development directly to sustainable "use" (which in some cases might be limited or non-use) of
natural resources.
e  adaptability to changing dynamics of the country's development processes and threats to Project
objectives will be ensured through adoption of an action-learning approach. This includes piloting
management strategies, providing flexibility to adapt and adjust project activities to reflect
emerging lessons and changing local needs and priorities, and working towards a programmatic
approach to incrementally expanding pilot level strategic development planning;
*  economic alternatives will be developed for communities that directly use and exploit natural
resources;
* reliability of counter-part funding commitments will be enhanced by having a transparent
dialogue with government on incremental recurrent costs, and keeping these costs to a minimum.
* financial sustainability of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of natural resources is a
central focus of the Project. Different modalities for ensuring financial sustainability will be
developed and tested under the Project. Particular emphasis during implementation will be on
catalyzing private sector participation in conservation management in the context of participatory
and equitable management plans and the development of financing mechanisms to cover recurrent
costs.
*  The Project also has the objective of developing a model for the preparation of environmentally
and socially relevant commercial bidding documents. The bid documents to be prepared by
experts funded under the Project will incorporate biodiversity protection requirements and the
aspirations of the local communities within technical specifications to be met by those preparing
proposals.
*  Private sector investors are expected to take significant comfort from the tender process being
piloted, since the tender will be based on internationally recognized business and legal practices,



Page 14
and introduce transparency into the investment process in Mozambique. The objective being to
develop a "win-win" scenario where the private sector is given the opportunity to invest in a
commercially attractive venture within a framework where potential risk and return could be
calculated. Local environmental values and the well-being of the local communities should also
be protected under this process since the anticipated commercial return to the investor would not
be possible without this protection.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The Republic of Mozambique is strongly committed to tackling the challenges presented by its
extensive 2,700 km coastline. As one of the top five priority concerns in the National Environmental
Management Program, coastal zone management is being tackled through several mutually re-
enforcing initiatives, including:
* preparation of a National Program for Coastal Zone Management (CZMP) and policy;
* creation of a Coastal Zone Management Unit (CMU) within MICOA, charged with leading the
CZMP development process, including coordination of other relevant government and non-
government stakeholders in the process;
* establishment of an inter-institutional technical-level working group on coastal management,
chaired by MICOA. This group oversees the preparation of the CZMP, is informed of all on-
going government activities in the coastal zone, and serves as a forum for inter-ministerial
coordination and conflict resolution;
* the proposed creation of a high level National Commission for Sustainable Development, an
advisory group to be linked directly to the Council of Ministers (to which the current inter-
institutional technical working group will serve as the secretariat for coastal zone issues);
* completion of a macro-diagnostic exercise for the coastline; and
e preparation of the CMBMP to test mechanisms to address concerns regarding quality of coastal
and marine ecosystems and biodiversity.
Mozambique's commitment to coastal zone management concerns is further emphasized by holding
several national and regional workshops, and hosting the regional institution for coastal zone
management capacity building - SEACAM.
The ROM has actively sought and received support from its international partners for developing a
comprehensive ICZM program for the nation. DANIDA is supporting ICZM policy development
process, while NORAD supports macro-diagnostic exercises in order to advance the knowledge base
pertaining to coastal and marine issues. This Project, supported by IDA and GEF is addressing spatial
development planning and the conservation of coastal and marine ecosystems on a pilot basis as part
of a comprehensive program spearheaded by the Government. ROM is being proactive in
coordinating the different activities in an effort to maximize synergies and ensure that national as well
as local priorities are addressed. It is the ROM's intention that lessons learned from the IDA/GEF
pilot initiative will strengthen the policy and program development and also provide a replicable
model for implementation of a 15-20 year coastal zone management program.
Commitment to the proposed CMBMP is high. Responding to their joint concerns for quality of
coastal and marine ecosystems and biodiversity, a group of institutions formed an inter-agency team to
identify, prepare and subsequently implement this initiative. Project ownership is strong at both
central and provincial levels. Participatory logframe and planning workshops held in Maputo were
followed by workshops for provincial and district level stakeholders. Meetings have been held with
the Governors of Cabo Delgado and Nampula Provinces, community dialogues initiated through
public meetings in these two Provinces, and a Government-approved Project Concept Note was



Page 15
prepared and transmitted to the Bank. Building on these, the ROM, with support from the GEF, has
continued to actively pursue Project preparation.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this Project:
The Project has been designed to fit solidly within the GEF Operational Program on Coastal and
Marine Ecosystems, a priority area for the first, second and third Conference of the Parties to the
Convention on Biological Diversity. Thus, the Bank, as a GEF implementing agency, is able to bring
incremental grant resources from the GEF to assist Mozambique in tackling coastal and marine
biodiversity issues of global environmental concern. These would include both ecosystem and species
protection as well as increasing capacity for sustaining this protection over time. The Bank also adds
value through its extensive experience in policy and institutional reform as well as technical
experience gained directly and in partnership in the design and implementation of biodiversity, coastal
zone management, and sustainable development projects. It is also well placed to support on-going
Mozambican efforts to develop a long-term national coastal zone management program due to its
increasing experience in and ability to facilitate long-term, programmatic approaches to biodiversity
management, poverty alleviation and sustainable resource use. This provides a missing critical
element in the implementation of a coherent coastal zone management policy. In supporting this
Project, both the Bank and GEF are playing an important catalytic role by developing and piloting
approaches that will underpin the subsequent implementation of a long-term CZMP. This program is
expected to be multi-donor financed. Through the experience generated in preparation and
implementation of this pilot Project, particularly at the institutional level, the Bank and GEF will bring
added value to the efforts of other donors.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
L.a. Cost-Benefit Analysis:
As the Project is essentially a learning and pilot exercise to test and refine a framework for
development, it does not lend itself to traditional cost-benefit analysis and calculation of rates of
return. The Project itself and broader adoption of lessons learned will have medium- to long-term
implications for the Coastal Zone Management Program, the development of coastal resources and the
resulting economic impact. With the Project's activities centered on planning and facilitating
investment in the coastal zone from communities, and private and public sectors, the economic
benefits derived from these investments will be significant.
l.b. Incremental Costs
The incremental costs associated with global benefits are estimated at US$4.1 I million. See Annex 4
for details.
2. Financial
External financing of the Project will be through an IDA credit (US$5.6 million) and a GEF grant
(US$4.11 million).
Community Micro-Enterprise Viability: The nature of the micro-projects will be identified at the
end of the strategic development planning exercise, as part of the detailed management planning
activities and as an output of participatory community needs assessments. Thus, the exact nature of



Page 16
these enterprises is not known and can take many forms (conservation activities, improved artisanal
fishing, ecotourism services). One of the criteria for approval of support to specific projects would be
a case-by-case financial analysis that demonstrates the financial viability of the activity, and estimates
the changes in family/household incomes that may be expected.
3. Technical
It is recognized that the innovative approaches being piloted are ambitious, particularly in the context
of a limited pool of experienced people, lack of sound information and the inherent complexities of
participatory planning. For these reasons, the size of the pilot areas was kept small enough to ensure
that biodiversity/conservation and social studies could be undertaken in a thorough manner. Similarly,
while the responsibility for production and approval of the SDP remains firmly with the government,
this first pilot phase will involve a fairly high level of expert technical assistance. Specialized
technical advisors will be contracted under the Project to provide regular guidance and technical
quality assurance to the implementing institutions and teams, particularly in the areas of strategic
development planning, tender preparation and promotion, social assessment and participation, and
biodiversity conservation and management. A strong element of capacity building has been built into
the design, both through on-the-job training by technical advisors and specific consultancies, and
opportunities for specialized targeted training so as to start building capacity for implementation of
integrated coastal zone management in subsequent phases of the CZMP.
4. Institutional
a. Executing agency: MICOA has managed the PDF B preparation grant and therefore has
experience with Bank procurement and consultant contract guidelines. Nevertheless, as the staff of the
coastal zone unit is small, and there are a number of implementing agencies to be coordinated, the
Project will support a fulltime financial and procurement officer and administrative assistant. The
financial system of the Ministry was assessed and found to be operating at internationally acceptable
standards.
b. Project management: Implementation of the integrated approach promoted by this Project will
rely on coordinated and collaborative approaches from a large number of stakeholders. All
stakeholders have actively participated in the preparation of the Project and thus the institutional
mechanisms for ensuring this have evolved during the course of preparation of the CZMP and the
Project itself. These are functioning well at the central level. It is recognized that these coordination
bodies are weaker at the local level. The strengthening of local level institutional structures will be a
targeted output of the Project itself.
It is also recognized that experience and capacity among the implementing agencies at all levels is
weak. Building this capacity is a long-term process. As indicated above, the Project will support long-
term technical advisors to provide technical guidance and assistance to the key implementing agencies.
Skill transfer will be a key element of their terms of reference, thus commencing the process of
building capacity for implementation of subsequent phases of the CZMP; it will focus predominantly
at assisting local level implementation. In keeping with lessons learned from previous Mozambique
experience, periodic inputs from these advisors will be favored over full time, residential support.



Page 17
5. Social:
The major social issues faced by the Project:
local decision-making structures and authority at community and district Government level are
unclear;
*  poor coordination of sectoral activities involved in coastal zone management;
* low capacity of government for regulation or protection of endangered species such as dugongs
and sea turtles;
* attitudes concerning conservation dependent on levels of individual and family income;
*  increasing pressure from artisanal fishermen from Mozambique and Tanzania on marine fauna;
*  illegal hunting safaris operating in the region with endangered big game species targeted;
* increasing pressure on Provincial governments to grant concessions to tourist operators;
*  selective logging of hardwood trees from forests and woodlands;
*  indiscriminate exploitation of shells and corals for the curio trade; and
*  large-scale destruction of mangroves for salt production.
Each of these issues has been addressed as part of Project design, which includes a more detailed
social assessment at the larger macro scale, leading into a participation process to identify broad
community boundaries as one input into the strategic development plan. Further social analysis will
be undertaken in detailed management areas, including a needs analysis, an inventory of local resource
use and community preparation for the selection and implementation of community based micro-
projects.
Gender: Significant gender issues were identified in the preliminary rapid social assessment in
relation to household responsibility, privileged access to and control over resources and benefits,
access and control in matters of income, ownership of property, prestige and education. The
participatory approaches used to capture community input into the strategic development plan and
detailed conservation area planning will be structured to directly promote participation of this target
group. These issues will also be taken into account during design of micro-project eligibility criteria
and operational procedures.
6. Environmental assessment
Environmental Category      []A   [X] B  []C
The Project will have a number of direct and indirect positive impacts on the biophysical and
socioeconomic environment. These include:
*  the formulation and adoption of strategic development plans by provincial and district
governments. This will give decision-makers a means of allocating landuse in an environmentally
sustainable fashion;
  promotion of bonafide investments in ecotourism and micro-projects which will change the
economic structure of local communities and stimulate employment opportunities; and
*  promotion of micro-projects which will lead to a shift away from unsustainable use of natural
resources by local communities, and promote local-level improvements in infrastructure
Potential negative impacts include:
*  localized pollution during any project-related construction associated with ecotourism or micro-
projects;
*  increased tourist activities may impact on ecologically sensitive habitats and species;
*  the influx of better educated outsiders and marginalisation of local communities; and



Page 18
* loss of access to land and/or natural resources by coastal communities through controls not agreed
with local communities.
Mitigation measures include:
* coastal communities not being marginalised from the development process through the
development of a participatory mechanism which maximizes community ability to negotiate its
traditional user rights;
* use of the ROM requirements for a site specific EIA under the Environmental Framework Law for
projects which are likely to have an environmental impact;
* identification of appropriate development through spatial planning;
* improvements in the overall capacity of local sectoral agencies to regulate implementation of
detailed management areas; and
* establishment of a system to monitor project impacts, particularly ecological and social, and
adoption of an adaptive learning and innovation approach to implementation.
7. Participatory approach
Project preparation and design has involved participation of a wide range of stakeholders. A series of
workshops, meetings and key informant interviews have been held both to better understand the local
conditions and to discuss priority objectives and design approaches. These included project specific
national and provincial level workshops to solicit inputs from national, provincial and district
government representatives as well as local groups and NGOs. In addition, discussions on
community-based natural resource management experience in Mozambique were held with numerous
local communities and resource users. These were followed by preliminary social assessment work in
each of the proposed pilot sites with a view to adapting project design to the specific circumstances.
The continued participation of the key stakeholders is a key element of project design. These include
national, provincial and district level decision-makers; private sector and local resource users; and
communities in the Cabo Delgado and Nampula pilot areas. All stakeholders, both government and
non-government at the provincial/district levels will play an active role in SDP preparation and
implementation. Participation mechanisms will include involvement in field work, community
mobilization and assessment activities, public meetings and workshops. Particular emphasis is placed
on empowering communities to participate in the SDP preparation.and implementation. The Project is
a pilot and as such, it is expected to lead to recommendations about the most effective participatory
process for stakeholder involvement. Particular attention will be paid to explore how best to include
local communities in broader strategic planning initiatives and the development of site specific
management plans and public-private partnerships. The Project will also assist in the identification of
research and training needs at the local level, and test approaches to improving public awareness
concerning biodiversity management and coastal zone issues at the local community level.
Based on the reviews of previous experience, results of the provincial level preparation workshops and
subsequent rapid social assessments carried out by preparation consultants, the participation process
designed for Project implementation includes:
* appointment of a long-term social advisor at Project start-up who will work with both Provincial
government (with the Provincial community supervisor as counterpart from Environmental
Framework Law) and at the local level with affected communities in order to manage the overall
participation program;
* provincial level workshops to review the economic development vision, aspirations and objectives
of the Provincial and District governments and other key stakeholders;



Page 19
*  development (review) of a mechanism to ensure local community input into the interim
development approval procedures at the Provincial level which have been agreed as part of the
MOU with the Provincial level;
*  preparation and implementation of project monitoring and evaluation workshops at key milestones
during Project progress at the Provincial level;
*  use of local NGO's and/or individuals under the direction of the social advisor to carry out district
level strategic economic development workshops, develop local working groups based on key
resource users (e.g., fishermen, shell collectors, wood gatherers, hunters) and/or issues (gender,
family and age structure, decision-making) to provide criteria for selection of critical areas for
detailed management during strategic plan preparation;
*  use of local NGO's and/or individuals under the direction of the social advisor to carry out
baseline social assessments, community preparation and selection of management categories
during management plan preparation and implementation of micro-projects within the selected
communities either surrounding or within the detailed critical biodiversity management areas;
*  use of local NGO's and/or individuals under the direction of the social advisor to develop a
protocol for the larger private sector proponents to negotiate with affected communities
conceming equity participation, dispute resolution, trust fund mechanism and decision-making;
*  preparation of working papers at critical Project milestones summarizing progress and impact
indicators;
* preparation of a concise report addressing lessons learnt with recommendations concerning the
most effective ways for broader program implementation; and
*  study tours and workshops targeting provincial and national level decision makers and key
implementation partners, including academics and NGOs, to raise awareness of pilot approach.
Stakeholders                     Preparation       Implementation    Operation
National Government           COL               COL                  COL
Provincial Govemment          CON/COL           COL                  COL
Pilot District Authorities    CON               COL                  COL
Beneficiaries/community groups  IS/CON          COL                  COL
Private Sector representatives    IS/CON        IS/COL               IS/COL
Intermediary NGOs             IS/CON            IS/COL               IS
Academic institutions         COL               COL                  COL
Other donors                  IS/CON            IS/COL               IS/COL
NB: COL = Collaboration; CON = Consultation; IS = Information Sharing
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
The Project is part of an ongoing process already initiated in Mozambique pertaining to integrated
coastal zone management. It represents an early phase in the long-term national Coastal Zone
Management Program to enhance capacity of environment and related agencies to manage the
development of the coastal zone. As such, it is expected that the application of the development
processes evolving from this Project would in the medium-term be supported by a longer-term
investment program which would expand their geographical scope. This would be expected to take
the form of a multi-donor-supported program, possibly underwritten by an Adaptable Program Loan.
Given this longer time horizon and the learning nature of the program, issues of long-term



Page 20
sustainability are expected to be addressed more fully in a subsequent phase. This notwithstanding,
the Project has been designed to help promote and/or provide lessons for long-term sustainability.
The program has a strong institutional and human resource development focus through which it will
increase the capabilities of key agencies and stakeholders to jointly plan, manage and monitor the
sustainable use of coastal zone resources. It is recognized that capacity building is a long-term process
and thus, activities initiated in this first phase will be continued over the long-term program to be
supported by the donor community. The program will largely be implemented through existing
institutions, thus requiring minimal creation of new government administrative structures. In the pilot
areas themselves, it expected that the use of the strategic development plan would be adopted into the
work program of district and provincial level agencies with minimal incremental costs. The additional
costs of the new institutional coordinating structures being tested are low; however, if adopted as part
of the long-term program these will eventually be the responsibility of Government. These would be
small relative to the scale of the economic development opportunities that the coastal zone offers.
Experience suggests that long-term protection of biodiversity, in a context of poverty and short-term
exploitation, remains a challenge. The Project will be examining options for addressing sustainability
issues in relation to natural resource management, identifying responsibilities of various participants,
and the costs and benefits involved. Sustainability would be addressed by attempting to ensure
financial viability for all "uses" (including non-use) of natural resources. It is recognized that there
will remain an element of public responsibility in natural resource management, particularly
biodiversity conservation. However, by directly involving local communities and the private sector, it
becomes possible to augment the limited support services and budget that the Government can make
available at district levels to sustainably manage the natural resource base.
The mechanism for supporting community micro-projects, on a matching grant basis, would not be
replicable in the absence of another project that follows the same approach. However, the main
purpose of these grants is to test community-based natural resource management, and not to attempt to
address problems inherent in rural finance and savings systems. In the longer-term program,
replicability and sustainability of start-up financing would be addressed.



Page 21
2. Critical risks
(reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                     Risk Rating        Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Lessons learned during strategic development     M       Strong awareness building through coherent
planning process successfully completed but value        and well articulated documentation
for replicability not recognized and methodology to      providing demonstrable evidence of
develop integrated conservation management and           economic and social benefits of strategic
socioeconomic development approach not adopted           planning process followed by workshops
for coastal zone.                                        for decision makers, debates and forums
leading to consensus on methodology. All
interested government agencies, both
commercially and environmentally
oriented, are included in the Project
Steering Committee. Prepare the follow-on
project (perhaps an Adaptable Program
Loan) with 18 months still left in the
implementation of the CMBMP to ensure
continued effort and consistency.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Detailed management plans formulated but not     M       Memorandum of understanding between
followed due to political and/or private sector          MICOA and the provincial government
pressure.                                                formalizing an agreed Initial Planning
Framework. Clear evidence and
agreements on economic development
options on resource use; formalized and
legalized allocation of landuse; transparent
and participatory management and
allocation of resource use concessions.
Insufficient community empowerment to participate  M/N   Establish proprietorship/equity through land
and benefit in process through adequate                  demarcation and negotiated agreements
management control, equity sharing and short term        with local community; identify appropriate
benefits from economic activities.                      incentives for sustainable management;
rapid and effective identification and
implementation of economic activities;
capacity building for micro-enterprise
development and private sector negotiation.
Resistance to coordination between implementing  S       Key implementing institutions involved in
institutions leading to emphasis on sectoral             project design. Project represents consensus
objectives.                                              achieved amongst these. Furthermore,
institutional arrangements for project
implementation designed to promote
horizontal and vertical communication and
coordination. The multi-level coordination
structures and reporting requirements
specifically designed to provide checks and
balances.



Page 22
That existing, unregulated, private sector investanent  M   Reach agreement with Provincial
may overwhelm implementation of the pilot                   Government on temporary development
strategic development plans before the local and           restrictions on the type and size of
national governments see the result of the                  investments in Project pilot areas until
environmentally and socially sustainable tender to          completion of the strategic development
be let for a concession within the areas covered by         plans. Locate pilot sites in areas where
the strategic development plans.                            existing development pressures are not
great
That the concession tender may not attract sufficient  S    Considerable private sector interest in
investor interest because of its location, perception      investing in the pilot areas has already been
of national stability, investment climate or other          registered. Communicate the implications
hindrances to investment in this part of the coastal        of SDP for reducing investor risk as part of
zone.                                                      the promotional activities.
Overall Risk Rating     S       The potential risks are substantial as CZM
is inherently complex. Significant efforts
have been made to minimize the risks and
to detect problems early enough so that
changes in the Project could be made to
successfully address them. The nature of
the Project is unique. It holds risk but the
potential benefits are much higher.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible controversial aspects
Land tenure and resource rights in the coastal zone are potential controversial issues. They are,
however, far broader than the scope of this pilot Project and, as such, are being tackled through other
routes, for example, implementation of PROAGRI, and on-going Government-Bank dialogue in other
sectors (e.g., mining, private sector development, environmental policy, etc.). Nevertheless, at the
pilot sites, it is anticipated that provincial and district governments' commitment to the strategic
development planning process and the resultant plans will reduce the occurrence of conflicts. In
addition, the skills and capacity for integrated management acquired during the strategic development
planning process will assist the resolution of possible conflicts in a transparent and fair manner. The
delimitation of community boundaries and resource rights is also integral to the preparation of the
detailed management plans and will reduce potential resource user conflicts.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness include:
*  Assignment of appropriately qualified and experienced Government focal point staff responsible
for implementing specific Project components within INIA, DNFFB, MADER, DINATUR, and
CPI, full time financial/procurement staff within MICOA and principal technical and
administrative staff at provincial and district levels.
*  Adoption of an Initial Planning Framework, acceptable to the Bank, that formally lays out
measures to be taken by the ROM to ensure that development proposals submitted prior to
completion of the strategic spatial development plan are consistent with Project objectives.



Page 23
*  Signed MOUs between MICOA and each of the lead implementing agencies and each provincial
or district government participating in the Project, all in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank.
*  Establishment of a financial management and accounting system acceptable to the Bank.
*  Procurement plan, satisfactory to IDA, for the procurement of goods, works and services required
during the first year of implementation.
*  Appointment of Auditors acceptable to the Bank to audit CMBMP accounts each fiscal year.
3. Other
Assurances obtained at negotiations include:
*  UEM and MICOA will assume the recurrent costs of the two field stations following Project
completion.
*  Annual work program and budget, approved by the NSC, for the upcoming year's activities will be
provided to Bank by December 31 of each year.
*  Annual and mid-term reviews will be conducted and reports submitted to the Bank.
*  An independent monitoring and evaluation institution will be contracted by MICOA following
Effectiveness and before the end of the first year of implementation, to prepare and get in motion a
detailed M&E program for the Project. This institution's contract will include mid-term and end
of Project impact evaluation, beneficiary consultations and performance analyses.
*  The Ministry of Planning and Finance will ensure sufficient funds are made available promptly to
cover all duties and taxes under the Project.
*  Key positions in the implementing Agencies, both at national and provincial levels, will be filled
by appropriately qualified and effective staff for the duration of the Project.
*  A Micro-project Operational Manual, acceptable to the Bank, will be submitted to IDA by mid-
August 2000.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
Project implementation.
The Project Implementation Plan has been reviewed by the Bank during Negotiations for its feasibility
and quality
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Indumathie Hewawasam
Sector Manager: Charlotte Bingham
Country Director: Philippe H. Le Houerou, Acting



Page 24
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Mozambique: Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
Narrative Summary         Key Performance     Monitoring and Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Indicators
a. CAS Goal:                                      National poverty         (Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty alleviation through    Per capita income.  assessment, and         National Environmental
environmentally and socially                      socioeconomic survey     Management Program is
sustainable economic growth. Poverty indicators.  data.                    effectively implemented.
b. Sector-related CAS Goal:   Adherence to        International Convention    Government adopts and expands
Improve environmental     international conventions   on Biodiversity      this approach.
management and assessment.                        Implementation progress
Effectiveness of EA    reports (National
c. GEF Operational Program:  framework.           Biodiversity Assessments).
Mozambique's globally
important biodiversity    Integration of biodiversity  Reports of international
conserved.                protection into         environmental watchdog
development planning.    organizations (IUCN,
WWF, etc.).
Program Goal:
Sustainable and equitable use  Program strategy   National policy documents.  Proper management of
and conservation of       incorporated into national                       Mozambican biodiversity
Mozambique's coastal and    policy.               Subsequent program       contributes to sustainable
marine resources.                                 implementation and       economic development and
Provincial and district  completion evaluation  poverty reduction.
planning and           reports.
implementation fit the                          Other complementary projects
program's strategic                             and programs are successfully
themes.                                         undertaken.
Program funded.                                 Monitoring and evaluation
program enabling effective
monitoring of program and
project outcomes is adopted.
Project Development                                                        (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To test and refine an     Strategic development   Project monitoring and   Effective coastal zone
approach to achieve       Plans endorsed and under  evaluation records     management through integrated
sustainable economic      implementation by                                strategic development planning
development of coastal zone   provincial and national    Independent monitoring  processes contributes to the
resources through a strategic  government in up to 3  and evaluation reports.  achievement of sustainable
development planning      pilot districts.                                 social and economic
process that integrates their                     Supervision reports.     development at the national and
ecological, social, and   Coastal zone planning                            local level.
physical values and balances  responsibilities devolved   Implementation
the varying interests involved  to provincial level.  completion report.   Government recognizes, adopts
in their management.                                                       and successfully applies more
Roles and responsibilities  Strategic development  broadly the approaches piloted
Global Objective:         of stakeholders in the  plans.                   by the Project
Globally significant coastal   coastal zone clarified by
and marine habitats and   end-project.            International Convention    Key stakeholders are interested
species effectively protected.                    on Biodiversity          in participating in the Project
Institutional capacity  Implementation progress    and committed to implementing
evaluated as sufficiently   reports (National   the SDPs.



Page 25
improved to allow       Biodiversity Assessments).
broader implementation.                           Agencies and key stakeholders
in pilot areas are able to
Area and number of                                coordinate effectively.
globally significant
habitats and species under                        Lessons learned in pilot areas are
some level of restricted                          transferable.
use increased
Outputs:                                                                      (Outputs to Objective)
1. Environmentally and     Strategic Development    Quarterly implementation    Willingness, ability and capacity
socially sustainable strategic   Plans prepared, discussed,  progress reports. Final  of key stakeholders to participate
development plans prepared X and agreed with        component report.         strategic development planning
and under implementation in  stakeholders under                               process.
up to 4 districts.         implementation in up to 4   Integrated strategic
pilot districts by End-  development plan.        Pilot strategic development
PY2.                                              planning process will succeed in
Minutes of stakeholder   adequately integrating social and
All new concessions     meetings.                 environmental values into the
issued are in compliance                          economic development vision.
with strategic          Bi-annual review of CPI
development plan by end-  and district/provincial  Ownership of the strategic
Project.                investment and cadastral    development plan is assumed by
records.                 key stakeholders.
Baseline, mid-term and end
of Project
beneficiary/social
assessment and key
informant interviews.
2. Test mechanisms to      Management plans for at   Management plans.        Viable alternative activities to
identify and sustainably use   least two identified                           those currently threatening
and conserve important     conservation areas       Project implementation    ecosystems and species can be
components of coastal and  prepared, discussed and    progress reports.       identified and implemented.
marine biological diversity in  agreed with key
at least 3 pilot districts.  stakeholders by mid PY3.  Baseline, mid-term and end  Communities perceive and
of Project beneficiary   receive tangible benefits from
Area classified as under    assessment and key    behavioral changes and adoption
full or partial         informant interviews.     of sustainable approaches to
conservation status                               natural resource management.
increased by end PY2.   Minutes of stakeholder
meetings from             Willingness, ability and capacity
On-going biological     conservation area         of key stakeholders to participate
monitoring implemented.  management plan dialogue. in design and implementation of
management systems.
Number of community     Monitoring data and
micro-projects identified   reports on critical habitat
and implemented by end-  and species status.
Project.
Sustainable financing
modalities identified.
3. For one Project pilot area,  Specifications of bid  Quarterly implementation   Private sector investors will be
a concession tender        documents prepared and    progress reports.        interested in investing in the
document prepared          agreed by stakeholders by                          concession opportunity



Page 26
specifying: (i) minimum     PY4.                      Minutes of stakeholder     identified in the pilot areas.
environmental, social and                             meetings during which the
technical performance       Bid documents prepared,   tender specifications are  Mozambican team negotiates
requirements of the         investor identified, and  discussed.                 fair terms for the award of the
proponent; and (ii) the     negotiations ready to                                concession.
responsibilities of other   begin by the end of the   Letters of interest from
stakeholders.               Project.                  potential investors, and
selection results of
prequalified investors.
4. Capacity strengthened for   At least 5 MSc         Quarterly implementation    MSc students return to
management of coastal and    scholarships awarded by    progress reports.        Mozambique and continue to
marine biological diversity at  end PY 1 and completed                           focus on coastal and marine
national and local level of  by end PY3.              Annual training plan and    resource management issues
government.                                           completion records.        upon completion of course.
Annual training program
prepared and             Copies of semi-annual      Appropriate and motivated
implemented.             newsletter.                people are selected for training.
Improved awareness       "Lessons learned"          Sufficient incentives are in place
among decision-makers    workshop proceedings.      to use new skills.
and local resource users
of coastal and marine                               Media selected reaches target
biodiversity management                              groups.
issues and Project
objectives.                                         Increased awareness will lead to
positive behavior changes with
Increased involvement of                            respect to conservation and
NGOs and other partners                              sustainable use of resources in
in monitoring and                                    coastal zone.
implementation.
5. Sustainable use of coastal   Monthly NTC and PTC,    Minutes of all monthly,  Improved coordination among
and marine resources        quarterly NIITC and PSC   quarterly and bi-annual    implementing agencies will
facilitated in pilot districts  and bi-annual NSC     coordination meetings and   reduce and help resolve conflicts
through increased           coordination and          agreements reached.        over natural resource exploration
coordination among          management meetings.                                 in the coastal zone.
stakeholders and                                      Annual consolidated
establishment of a          Monitoring and            workplan and budget
monitoring system.          evaluation program        report and minutes of
prepared and             annual steering committee
implemented.             and agreements reached.
Baseline, mid-term and end
of Project beneficiary
assessment and key
informant interviews.
Monitoring and evaluation
reports.
6. Design of a programmatic  Stakeholder program      Records of stakeholder     Based on lessons learned during
second phase intervention   design workshops.         discussions.               the CMBMP pilot phase, ROM
identified and completed.                                                        adopts/expands the
Draft program document   Quarterly implementation   implementation of CMBMP
and PIP.                 progress reports.          approach into a long-term
program.
l_________________________________ l____   ___________________________ l_____ I__________________________l________ _________________________l_______________



Page 27
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each
components:               component including
contingencies)
1. Strategic development    $1.7 million         Quarterly and annual     Timely and adequate donor and
Plan Preparation                                 reports. Disbursement    ROM financing maintained.
reports.
2. Biodiversity           $3.6 million
Conservation and
Sustainable Community
Development
3. Sustainable Private    $1.3 million
Sector Investment
4. Training and Public    $0.7 million
Awareness
5. Project Management     $2.4 million
and Monitoring and
Evaluation
Total Project Cost        $9.T7 million
Excludes $USO.84 ROM contribution



Page 28
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Mozambique: Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
The proposed Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project (CMBMP) is a key element of the
Republic of Mozambique's (ROM) overarching National Coastal Zone Management Program (CZMP),
and in particular its strategy for coastal and marine biodiversity protection and for sustainable use of
natural resources. The Project will pilot an integrated approach to achieving sustainable development
focusing on two project areas of northern Mozambique. The first area comprises the two northern most
coastal districts in the province of Cabo Delgado: Mocimboa da Praia and Palma, which borders
Tanzania, and includes a portion of the Quirimbas archipelago. This pilot area comprises approximately
9,500 sq. km, of which 7,000 sq. km, is terrestrial and 2,500 sq. km is marine. The second area comprises
the contiguous districts of Nacala-Porto and Mossuril, in the province of Nampula, and encompasses an
area of approximately 4,700 sq. km of which 3,700 sq. km is terrestrial and 1000 sq. km is marine. Both
these pilot project areas include sites recognized as having globally significant biodiversity, including
corals, mangroves, sea grass beds, and all five species of threatened and endangered turtles and dugongs.
They are also characterized by strong local government commitment to integrating biodiversity protection
into local economic development.
The Project proposes a multi-pronged approach to supporting sustainable development. It comprises five
mutually reinforcing components designed to develop and pilot mechanisms for: (a) strategic spatial
planning that fully integrates conservation with regional development: (b) establishment and
strengthened protection of key terrestrial and marine conservation areas and initiation of conservation-
oriented community activities in and around these areas; (c) establishing best practice for environmentally
and biodiversity-friendly economic development; (d) capacity building and public awareness raising of
key government and non-government stak.eholders responsible for biodiversity protection; and (e)
institutional arrangements for devolving coastal and marine resource planning to the provincial and local
levels. This pilot project represents part of a long-term national coastal zone program. If successfiul, the
activities piloted under this Project would subsequently be adopted and replicated more broadly through
the entire coastal zone.
Project Component 1 - Strategic Development Plans (SDP)
(US$1.7 million)
This component will be implemented in the districts of Palma, Mocimboa da Praia (Cabo Delgado
Province), and Nacala-Porto and Mossuril (Nampula Province) in northern Mozambique. It aims to
provide these provincial and district governments with strategic planning tools that will facilitate
conservation and sustainable development of valuable coastal and marine resources. Currently, there is
no official model for development planning at the provincial and district levels. Ad hoc development
concessions are common and it is arguable as to whether these agreements include assessment, much less
protection, of local or globally important biodiversity values. Nor do the expectations of local
communities seem to be taken systematically into account.
The CMBMP aims to create a district-level development model that marries environmental and social
sustainability to appropriate private and public sector investment. Two strategic spatial development
plans (SDP) will be developed to cover these districts (one covering the Cabo Delgado pilot area and the
other covering the Nampula pilot area). These Plans will include both terrestrial and marine territory.
These SDPs, which will form part of the broader provincial development plan, will complement the
traditional planning tools of land-use/land capability analyses (such as soil, vegetation, topographical and



Page 29
landuse surveys) by incorporating in the planning process less traditional planning tools that capture
social and environmental opportunities and constraints to sustainable development.
Since the districts include areas of pristine wilderness and high biodiversity value, the GEF component
will finance biodiversity overlays for the two SDPs to ensure that proposed spatial development and
landuse is consistent with conservation and sustainable use of the area's biodiversity. In particular it will
ensure that proposed development is appropriate and consistent with protection and conservation of two
marine areas of recognized global biodiversity value and high ecotourism potential: 1) the northern
Quirimbas islands and adjacent mainland, and 2) the Nacala-Mossuril coastline.
Preparation of the SDP for each project area/district consists of five principal activities: (1)
landuse/capability assessment (including terrestrial and marine areas; (2) social assessment (including
participatory assessments of community use and dependence on natural resources, demographics and
social attitude surveys); (3) incorporation of biodiversity values including designation of key conservation
areas and appropriate use and management regimes for areas of remaining natural habitat and biological
corridors; (4) integration into a single strategic development plan for each pilot area; and (5) review and
adoption of the SDPs by local and provincial government and other stakeholders. This final step is
critical to ensuring provincial and district ownership of the final SDP. It will include, and be facilitated
by, a series of district and provincial level workshops and community meetings organized by the
provincial and local government with support of the social advisor to present and explain the draft SDP.
This will provide a feedback mechanism, to ensure stakeholder inputs to the SDP, particularly those of the
affected local communities, have been accurately and equitably reflected in the plan. The SDP will be
finalized based on the outputs of these meetings.
The SDP, to be completed within 24 months, will provide the strategic framework for district
development including areas designated for conservation areas, private sector development and
community based natural resource management or co-management with government agencies. An
Interim Planning Framework, to guide development decisions during the preparation of the SDP, will be
prepared and adopted by ROM by Project Effectiveness.
Project Component 2 - Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Community Development
(US$3.6 million)
This component will focus on establishing and strengthening protected area management in two globally
important conservation areas, biological monitoring and a community development fund.
Sub-Component 2.1 - Conservation Area Management
This sub-component will focus on implementation of biodiversity conservation and management in two
areas of recognized global importance. These are the proposed Quirimbas and Nacala-Mossuril
conservation areas. The Project will support establishment and gazettement of the conservation areas,
boundary rationalization and zoning for appropriate use. These activities are based on ecological and
social assessments undertaken with PDF funding as part of preparation. The Project will also finance
technical assistance; preparation and implementation of detailed management plans for the Marine
Conservation Areas and their buffer zones; community land demarcation; limited equipment and
infrastructure (such as guard posts and boundary markers); and appropriate training and capacity building
for park staff and communities to work together on co-management of natural resources and development
of revenue generating mechanisms. The management plans will be formulated in close partnership with
local communities and the private sector where appropriate, and will clearly define the roles of the
various actors in management of these areas.



Page 30
The Project will support development of best practice guidelines for protected area co-management and
development of regulations relating to (a) co-management arrangements with local communities and (b)
conservation concessions and co-management agreements with the private sector. It will also support
activities that address the legal, regulatory, and institutional issues identified during the PDF-financed
review (soon to be completed).
IDA financing will be provided to DNFFB to initiate ecological and social assessments and community
consultations to develop appropriate management options for other areas of biological interest that are
identified during the SDP process.
Sub Component 2.2 - Biological Monitoring
The component will support ecological surveys and monitoring of key indicator species (e.g., turtles,
dugongs) and habitats (e.g., coral reefs) to determine what impact the Project has on biodiversity
protection. Monitoring will be undertaken both within the key marine conservation areas and in adjacent
coastal and marine habitats. Under this component, training may be provided to local communities to
build local capacity for data collection relevant to establishing management guidelines for key marine
resources. Data on migratory species will contribute to MICOA's existing databank as well as be shared
with other regional agencies as part of regional monitoring programs. Data on coral reef condition and
recovery will be relayed to the Global Coral Reef monitoring network.
Also, in support of the coastal zone management decentralization strategy and monitoring and evaluation
system, the Project includes support for the establishment and operation of two field stations.
Sub-Component 2.3 - Community Participation and Development
The Project will support community-based micro-projects that directly or indirectly promote biodiversity
conservation. Grant financing for micro-projects will be complemented by 10% community or local level
contributions. The micro-projects will target communities within or neighboring the key conservation
areas of Quirimbas and Nacala-Mossuril as well as other biologically important areas identified in the
SDP. The micro-projects will be expected to meet clearly defined eligibility criteria including:
compatibility with the management objectives of the conservation areas, technical feasibility, cost
effectiveness, ecological, economic and social sustainability and demonstrated community commitment
and in-kind contribution. Typical micro-projects could include: community-run ecotourism activities
and/or micro-enterprises that reduce pressure on biological resources (e.g., support for less damaging
artisanal fishing techniques). Eligibility criteria and detailed operational guidelines will be finalized in an
Operational Manual during the Project inception phase. This Sub-component will be administered
through local government and with assistance from local NGOs and community facilitators which will be
employed and trained under the Project for this purpose. The component will also support capacity
building for micro-enterprise development and private sector negotiation for communities.
Project Component 3 - Private Sector Development
(US$1.3 million)
One of the SDP outputs will be the identification of a site in one of the two pilot areas that would be
suitable for a substantial private sector investment (e.g., sustainably managed ecotourism having a target
value of between US$10-30 million). The objective is to pilot a real example of how the principles used
to create the SDP can translate into, and leverage, a much larger investment in the area covered by the
Plan. The proposed tender will attract private sector investment into the Project area and serve as an
incentive for local, provincial and national government to adopt the integrated SDP approach. It is



Page 31
expected to illustrate that the cost of preparing spatial development plans, when averaged against the
improved investment climate that will result once a SDP has been adopted, is actually very small.
The GEF element of this component will support the environmental, social, commercial and legal
expertise needed to translate biodiversity management and social expectations of the local community
(particularly in regard to transferring environmentally unsustainable activities of local people into more
profitable alternative forms of livelihood associated directly or indirectly with the proposed private sector
development) into specific aspects of the bidding document technical specifications. Since the technical
specifications directly control the way the development will be designed, constructed and operated,
environmental (particularly in regard to globally important biodiversity values) and social sustainability is
anticipated.
The rights of a concessionaire, including the terms of renewal of the concession, will also need to be set
within the tender. It is expected that compliance with the terms and conditions of the tender, as covered
by a legally binding contract between the Government and the concessionaire, will be a prerequisite to
continued operation of the development. Failure to honor the terms of the legal agreement upon which
the concessionaire operates, i.e. failure to protect biodiversity and the rights (as stipulated in the technical
specifications) of the local population, would lead to automatic loss of the concession by the developer.
The component will consist of: (i) specialized procurement training; (ii) Preparation of Bid Documents
for the commercial documents and technical specifications. This will require a dedicated procurement
specialist (specialist for appropriate sector), civil engineer/procurement specialist, a mechanical
engineer/procurement specialist, a commercial lawyer, one or more communications/promotions
expert(s), and a financial analyst). It will also require an environmental specialist and a social scientist to
assist with integration of environmental and social values, as identified during spatial development
planning, into the bid documents; (iii) Promotion of the proposed tender, including promotional material
(brochures and advertisements for the tender) and two marketing/promotions trips to Europe and North
America; (iv) Preparation of a Prequalification Document and subsequent evaluation of submissions for
prequalification; (v) Assistance to the Government to conduct the bidding process in a transparent
manner; and (vi) Assistance to the Government to prepare a transparent and effective Bid Evaluation
process.
The environmental/social experts on the consultant team will need to be available during the full period to
ensure that bidders address the full environmental and social requirements. Specifically, the
environmental and social experts will be needed to assist with development of promotional material for
the concession's tender (the development will be environmentally based, and this will need to come out in
the promotional material), provide specialist input into the development of criteria for determination of
whether an investor has the skills and experience needed to "prequalify" for participation in the bidding
process, translate environmental and social management plans into the technical specifications component
of the bidding documents, be available to answer questions from bidders regarding biodiversity and its
impact on the proposed development (etc.) during the bidding period, and assistance with the
development of bid evaluation criteria as they relate to environmental and social aspects of the
developments proposed by bidders. It is estimated that the incremental input needed to make bid
documents the long-term "protector" of globally important biodiversity values of in the Project area is
US$300,000, which includes professional fees and reimbursables (and costs of travel for promotion, etc.).
Best practice guidelines will be extracted from this process for replication in other coastal zone areas of
Mozambique and the region.



Page 32
Project Component 4 - Training and Public Awareness (US$0.7 million).
Sub-Component 4.1 - Training
The training component will focus on the following stakeholders in order to build capacity for
decentralized coastal zone planning and management: (a) technical staff of implementing agencies,
particularly at the provincial level; (b) communities and local resource users; (c) local government staff
and other local administrators (traditional leaders, religious leaders, local NGOs, etc.); and (d) decision-
makers. A training needs-assessment is being completed under the GEF financed PDF.
Short-term training will include: (i) stakeholder participation/consultation process techniques; (ii)
conflict resolution; and (iii) project management.
Medium-term (in service) technical training will include: (i) biodiversity management; (ii) coastal zone
planning, management, and monitoring techniques; and (iii) protected area management in the country
and region.
Long-term training will support: 10 scholarships for higher level university degrees (MSc. at both
regional and international institutes) related to biodiversity and coastal zone management.
Sub-Component 4.2 - Public Awareness
This sub-component has been designed to target two of the four target groups identified in the CZMP,
namely decision makers and local resource users. This has been done because these two groups are
considered the most critical in raising awareness concerning the need for biodiversity management in the
pilot areas. The Project addresses each group in the following way.
Decision makers at national and provincial levels- Activities supported include: (i) information
feedback/lessons learned workshops; (ii) coastal zone newsletter by MICOA Coastal Zone management;
and (iii) site visits. NGOs and media representatives will also be targeted so as to facilitate broader
awareness raising activities.
Local Resource Users- Activities supported include: (i) local language radio broadcasts; (ii)
awards to local community leaders for implementation of conservation projects; (iii) posters and
slides on the Project objectives for community level dissemination; (iv) portable displays and
workbooks for community preparation phase of micro-projects; (v) theatre groups; and (iv) cross-
fertilization visits to other sites.
Project Component 5 - Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2.4 million)
Sub-Component 5.1 - Project Management
The Project will finance the direct equipment, and operational and incremental staff costs of Project
coordination and management at the central and local level. As there are many players involved in
management of coastal zone resources, the Project will support regular coordination meetings and
communication between components undertaking activities under the Project as part of the management
component. The Project will also support costs associated with coordination meetings for the Sustainable
Development Council (annually), Inter-institutional Technical Committee for the Coastal Zone
(quarterly), Project Technical Committees and Local Coordination Committee meetings (monthly).



Page 33
Sub-Component 5.2 - Monitoring and Evaluation
This sub-component supports the development and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation
mechanism that will meet both overall program as well as Project specific requirements. In coordination
with Sub-Component 2.2, it will support data collection and processing, and an independent monitoring
and evaluation team. This component is designed to (i) assess the overall effectiveness of the Project in
the context of the CZMP; (ii) evaluate the effectiveness in achieving Project specific outputs and
development objectives; (iii) incorporate and expand ecological indicators for the broader Project area,
including assessing impact at a landscape level (building on component 2.2); (iv) monitor the status of the
social conditions of the pilot areas measured against the baselines established in component 1; and (v)
advise on the most effective institutional structure for the future collection and evaluation of monitoring
data concerning the state of the coastal zone.
At the Project level, monitoring of each component will be based on both progress and impact indicators.
Typical progress indicators include planned versus actual performance, and delivery of key outputs.
Impact indicators will include measures of stakeholder capacity for biodiversity management; changes in
ecological aspects of biodiversity; changes in socioeconomic conditions; and improved community
participation.
A detailed monitoring plan is being developed which will specify the key indicators/data needs, how data
will be collected, who will collect the data and how frequently. Progress indicators will be monitored
through quarterly reports prepared by each component team and consolidated by MICOA. Lessons
learned from this monitoring component will provide guidance for the design of a long-term monitoring
system for coastal and marine resources.



Page 34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Mozambique Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
Project Component                                             Local    Foreign      Total
----------US$ million---------
Spatial Development Plan                                      1.1         0.7          1.7
Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Community Development   2.1     1.4         3.5
Sustainable Private Sector Development                        0.4         0.9          1.3
Training and Public Awareness                                 0.2         0.4         0.6
Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation              2.4         0.05        2.4
Total Project Costa                                           6.2         3.5         9.7
Project Cost by Category                                    Local    Foreign      Total
----------US$ million----------
Works                                                                   0.4        0.4
Goods                                                         0.1       0.4        0.5
Services                                                     2.6        2.0        4.6
Goods, Works and Services for Micro-projects                  0.8       0.3         1.1
Incremental Operating Costs                                   2.7       0.4        3.1
Total Project Costsa                                         6.2        3.5        9.7
Of which: financed by IDA                              3.8        1.8        5.6
Of which: financed by GEF                              2.4        1.7        4.1
a Excludes US$0.84 ROM local contribution.



Page 35
Annex 4a: Economic Analysis
Mozambique: Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
Cost Benefit Analysis
As the Project is essentially a learning and pilot exercise to establish a framework for development, a
formal cost-benefit analysis and calculation of rates of return are not appropriate. The Project will have
medium-term implications for the Coastal Zone Management Program and in turn for the long-term
implications for the management of development of coastal resources and the resulting economic impact.
With the Project's activities centered on planning and facilitating investment in the coastal zone from
communities, and private and public sectors, the economic benefits will derive from these investments.
The improving political and economic stability and a recognition of the development potential of
Mozambique's natural resources has brought an increasing pressure on the Government for development
sites by the private sector. In addition, coastal communities will exert increasing pressure on natural
resources for their livelihoods in the light of increased population and the effort to derive higher incomes.
The potential economic value of development of the whole coastline is high and could represent the basis
of a tourist industry at least equal to that of Kenya, estimated at US$500 million annually. The potential
exists for both consumptive (sport fishing) and non-consumptive economic benefits from tourism. In
addition, an estimated 43% of Mozambique's population (in excess of 7 million people) resides on the
coast, many of whom rely on the natural resources of the coast for their livelihoods, deriving income from
fishing, gathering of marine products, and harvest of products from coastal terrestrial ecosystems.
The coastal resource base is in relatively pristine condition and therefore a process of reversal or
rehabilitation is not the primary consideration. However, the present capacity of the Government is
considered insufficient to plan and manage the future development to ensure equitable, sustainable
economic use and, without this capacity, the following negative outcomes are possible:
*  delays in concession approval and investment start-up
*  conflicts between developers and local communities
*  discouragement of potential inward investment
*  inequitable sharing of benefits between interested parties
*  development which does not fully consider all options for a particular site (sub-optimal development)
*  unsustainable consumptive use of natural resources (overuse)
* degradation of internationally important biodiversity sites
*  loss of specific species
*  reduced flow-on economic development impact to communities
The economic implications of a "without program" scenario would be reflected in delayed and reduced
overall economic returns from the value of the resource base and associated development investment, a
reduced economic life of the resource base, and lost opportunities in employment, foreign exchange,
Government revenues and community income levels. By implementing a policy framework and
procedure for managing the development of coastal natural resources, the above outcomes would be
reversed and earlier, higher and longer-term economic benefits would result. These aspects are being
addressed by the Coastal Zone Management Program and their economic impact should therefore be
considered as longer-term program impacts. For the overall program, the following table sets out the
likely specific economic impacts:



Page 36
Investment in:          Without Program          With Program            Economic Value
Protection of habitats and   Continued consumption    Habitats and populations   -   Tourism value
populations of specific  and destruction of habitats  stabilized         -   Existence value
species
Protection of coral reef    Destruction of coral reef   Coral reef stabilized  -   Fish production
through explosion fishing                            value
-   Tourism value
Improved artisanal fishing  Increase in unsustainable  Increased fish catch  -   Fish production
techniques              fishing practices        approaching levels of        value
sustainable use
Private sector eco-tourism   Delayed investment  Prompt investment with    -   Time value of
development             without community        community participation;    returns on eco-
participation           opportunities for            tourism investment
employment and small    -   Community
business                    employment
-   Income from
tourism-related
businesses
-   Food production for
tourism



Page 37
Annex 4b: Incremental Cost Analysis
Mozambique Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
Context and Broad Development Goals
The Coastal Zone of Mozambique is unique in the East African Marine Region in terms of the qulality,
diversity and species richness of its habitats. Apart from Madagascar, Mozambique is the only country in
the East African Marine Region with major brackish coastal barrier lagoons. It also supports the most
extensive and best preserved mangrove forests, sea grass beds and coral assemblages along the whole of
the eastern Africa coastline. In addition, Mozambique's coastal waters contain the largest remaining
populations of the threatened dugong in the Western Indian Ocean, and it is the only country in the region
where all five species of threatened and endangered sea turtles occur and breed.
While new economic growth is both welcome and vital, management of that development in Mozambique
currently appears to be poorly planned and essentially ad hoc. Unless this situation changes, it is perhaps
inevitable that development in the coastal zone will lead to conflict between developers, local and
international conservation interests, and the local/regional population. Development in the coastal zone is
necessary and vital if the standard of living of the people is to improve, and the unique biodiversity,
ecological and social environment of this part of Mozambique is to be preserved and protected.
The CMBMIP would address the four strategic themes identified in the National Coastal Zone
Management Program as well as the coastal and marine priorities identified as part of the National
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan. It is also consistent with the National Program for Forestry and
Wildlife (PNFFB). It is in line with the Convention on Biological Diversity and GEF's Operational
Program on Marine, Coastal, and Freshwater Ecosystem. It fully reflects guidance of the three CoP
(Conference,of the Parties) and OP 2 objectives and scope.
Project Rationale
The main focus of the CMBMP is to provide long-term, self-supporting, protection of unique, globally
significant, biological, physical and social resources of the coastal zone by assisting the Government
evolve an environmentally and socially sustainable economic development process. The spatial
development plans to be prepared under the Project are designed to produce a "win-win" scenario under
which the unique biodiversity, ecological and social values of the coastal zone would be conserved and
even enhanced, while simultaneously promoting appropriate private sector investmnent interest that is
beneficial to the local population and the country as a whole.
The CMBMP has purposely been limited to a "pilot-level" operation. It is designed to modify and
expand traditional economic planning tools such as land capability assessment, master planning exercises,
investment promotion, etc. to include consideration of biodiversity, the area's ecology, valuable physical
attributes of the site, and the demography and aspirations of the local communities. Criteria used to select
these pilot areas were:
*  That the selected sites were of significant biodiversity value, as well as of historic and
cultural importance;
* That the local government was supportive and interested in the Project concept;
*  That the local people were consulted and had agreed to participate in the planning exercise;
and



Page 38
*  That the existing level of private sector investment in the pilot area was not so great as to
preclude an impartial assessment of the natural resource base and the development of a
sustainable "rational use of nature" spatial plan prepared as described above.
It is expected that this pilot process for area development could be scaled up in increments over a period
of 10-20 years, to eventually encompass the whole coastal zone.
Baseline Scenario
The "Without-Project" Scenario
The Republic of Mozambique is actively encouraging private sector investment in the country. As much
of the population, and the most attractive and easily exploitable resources are in the coastal zone, there
has been a strong influx of interested investors from around the world, but particularly from South Africa.
The coastal zone of the country has recognized and yet-to-be quantified ecological and physical
resources, some of which are globally important in nature. Yet, because the speed of private sector
investment appears to far outstrip the Government's ability to manage effectively, particularly in regard to
management of environmental and social impact, the long-term benefits of this investment to the country
have yet to be verified.
Without the CMBMP, we can expect the Government to place the highest priority on private sector
investment in the coastal zone and address the potential environmental and social impact of each
investment on a case by case basis. Unfortunately, Government regulations governing environmental and
social "acceptability" of investments is particularly weak. Nor does the Government have the staff with
the necessary skills or experience to address environmental and social impact of the large number of
private and public sector investments currently proposed or underway in the coastal zone. Although the
Government could decide to place more public sector interest on developing an environmental
management capability, it is unlikely that donor money, and donor support alone will be sufficient to
provide a level of assistance sufficiently large to make any real impact on this critical early influx of
development capital. Ecological and social values are likely to significantly degrade, and real social
benefit of the private sector investment may not be realized over the medium- to long-term. Without the
CMBMP, including the supportfrom the GEF, the true baseline would be continued separation of
economic development planning from biodiversity protection and conservation management, with
persistent degradation of natural resources, including biodiversity.
The "With-Project" Scenario
Global experience has shown that preservation of biodiversity, maintenance of sensitive ecological
characteristics, sustainable use of natural resources and recognition of social issues in development are
best handled as early in the development process as possible. It is often too late to ensure environmental
and social sustainability of a proposed activity once it has reached a detailed design stage. The CMBMP
is designed to pilot an economic development model for the Republic of Mozambique that establishes the
link between development and the physical, biological and social resources of an area up front. It then
differentiates between any investment and the optimal investment.



Page 39
For an investment to be "optimal" it must result in an equitable return to both the investor and the
"owners" of the resources upon which the investment is based. Since these resources include
biodiversity, ecological and physical values, and the social/cultural environment, the resulting economic
development plan to be produced would, to a very great extent, have taken environmental and social
impact of possible development into account before an investment was ever proposed. The result of a
"with Project" scenario would therefore be economic development first andforemost, but economic
development that is environmentally and socially sustainable because the development that is permitted in
a particular area has already been "pre-evaluated" and agreed upon before a developer ever enters the
picture. This process is extremely rare in developing countries and essentially incremental over what is
almost universal practice in the coastal zone in Africa.
Scope and Costs: Under the baseline scenario, ROM would start implementing a systematically planned
development process in the project areas targeted for World Bank and GEF financing. This would likely
include promotion of investments that take advantage of the unspoiled nature of the coastal zone, and its
unique natural resources. Although the Government would have the objective of sustainably using
natural resources and improving the livelihood of local populations, and encouraging private sector
development, it would not necessarily follow that private/public sector investment would achieve these
objectives without incremental effort and expense. The baseline case would include a review of the
spatial development plan through participatory process with local communities and a regional
environmental assessment of the potential impacts of the development plan. However, detailed ecological
evaluation and surveys of biodiversity, direct input by local communities into development planning, and
incorporation of conservation management and social participation plans are incremental and only
possible with GEF finance.
Benefits of implementing the Baseline Scenario: Under this scenario, traditional land
capability/landuse planning serves as the basis for the preparation of spatial development plans with
limited input from environmental and social assessment teams. The benefits would be to introduce the
concept that biological, physical and social resources of an area need to be assessed before entering into a
development process. Once this understanding has been achieved, the reality of what is present, what the
local population will and will not accept, and what resources are so limited and unique as to require
conservation (i.e. non-use), will determine the type and intensity of development, and what would be
sustainable in any given area. The baseline scenario is also expected to have a positive impact on
institutional capacity on national provincial and local level.
The Baseline scenario would include:
(a) Development of Spatial Development Plans in two provinces (Cabo Delgado and Nampula).
Activities would include Landuse and Land Capability Assessment to produce a spatial development
plan. These plans would be evaluated through a social and environmental assessment review,
including risk identification of persistent and episodic pollution of sensitive coastal and estuarine
environments. The baseline costsfor this component are estimated at US$1.39 million.
(b) Biodiversity Conservation, Biological Monitoring and Sustainable Community Development.
Activities would provide some recognition and safeguarding of ecologically significant sites, with
moderate expenditures for strengthening conservation management. Monitoring activities would be
maintained at the Project level (see component 5). The Community Development Fund would
encourage sustainable use of natural resources and improve living conditions for local people. The
baseline costsfor this component are estimated at US$1.38 million.
(c) Private Sector Development. Activities under this component include institutional strengthening
and training for the Ministry of Tourism, tender preparation (commercial documents and engineering



Page 40
design/bill of quantities technical specifications) and support for its processing and evaluation in
order to attract private sector investors. The baseline costs for this component are estimated at
US$0.96 million.
(d) Training and Public Awareness. Under the baseline, this component would support funding for
basic training in project management and elements of coastal zone management for local level
officials and communities in order to assist in the development of the planning exercise on the local
level. In addition, 10 MSc scholarships would be provided to for higher level training in the areas of
coastal zone management. Public awareness activities would raise the profile of the Project and
approach being piloted among stakeholders. The baseline costs for this component are estimated at
US$0.42 million.
(e) Project Management and Monitoring & Evaluation. Under the baseline scenario, without the
Project, Republic of Mozambique has staff in the project area. These will be re-assigned specifically
to the planning process in the provinces selected for project intervention. Under the overall
supervision of a Steering Committee, the day-to-day management of the Project will be in the hands
of the Coastal Zone Management Unit of the Ministry for Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs. A
monitoring and evaluation plan for the Project would be developed and implemented. The baseline
costs for this component are estimated at US$2.38 million.
Global Environmental Objectives
The Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project aims to conserve and promote sustainable use
of Mozambique's globally significant coastal and marine biodiversity. These coastal habitats are critical
for the survival of a number of unique species. While the biodiversity and the natural beauty of the
pristine coast combine for a high potential for supporting sustainable coastal development this potential is
being undermined by the inadequate coastal management capacity in the country. A nanfow window of
opportunity to address these threats exists, but immediate action is needed.
For the effective management and conservation of the outstanding biodiversity in the project area,
however, the Baseline Scenario would not be sufficient. In order to achieve effective biodiversity
conservation Landuse and Social Assessment would have to be expanded and additional detailed
information on the biodiversity areas would be required. Further institutional and technical support on the
national level but particularly on the local level would be necessary for effective conservation area
management. Additional resources for the Community Development Fund would be used to get
communities involved in the actual implementation of conservation activities.
GEF Alternative
Scope and Costs. Under the GEF Alternative, the baseline would be expanded to allow the inclusion of
conservation and biodiversity management plans into the spatial development planning process. The
resulting pilot economic development model would be incrementally expanded to include effective
conservation of globally important biodiversity.
Sustainability of conservation management and biodiversity protection would be ensured through
incremental expansion of the social input to the spatial development plan. This would be accomplished
by ensuring that local people directly and indirectly benefit in economic development, thereby moving
away from direct and unsustainable utilization of sensitive natural resource. More specifically the five
baseline components would be expanded in the following ways:



Page 41
(a) Spatial Development Plan. Under the GEF alternative, the Landuse/Land Capability Component of
the Spatial Development Plan would be incrementally expanded to include detailed evaluation of
biodiversity values and important ecological characteristics of the area, the impact on biodiversity by
activities of the local population, and an assessment of how the local population could benefit from
environmentally sustainable private and public sector investment. Extensive use would be made of
satellite images to allow for farther reaching interpretation of natural resources in terms of natural
disturbances and anthropogenic stress; environmental surveys leading to management
recommendations to be fed into the spatial development planning process; and specialist consultant
input related to conservation management and biodiversity protection. The social assessment would
be expanded to address more specifically the interdependence between local population and areas of
particular biodiversity conservation interest with a view to continue the participatory project
development process and to promote maintenance of indigenous knowledge and conservation
practices for biodiversity conservation. The incremental costs of the GEF alternative for this
component are estimated at US$0.37 million.
(b) Biodiversity Conservation. Under the GEF alternative, this component would comprise the core
activities to address site specific protection and management of two identified globally significant
areas. In order to introduce functioning biodiversity conservation management in the pilot
conservation areas, demarcation and gazetting of critical sites would be supported. A consultative
management plan for the proposed protected areas and their buffer zones would be developed, as
would the necessary institutional and financial mechanisms for their implementation. This
component would also provide support for limited infrastructure and equipment for management
purposes. Capacity building on the local level would seek to build a basis for active involvement of
the local population - particularly in the buffer areas around the pilot areas. While matching grants
would provide incentives and resources exclusively for activities which reduce pressure on biological
resources and those which promote conservation by the local population around the pilot areas. In
addition, resources would be provided to ensure continued monitoring of ecological status of
identified critical habitats and species allowing early warning in case of imminent threats and
enabling rapid remedial action. The incremental costs of the GEF alternative for this component are
estimated at US$2.20 million.
(c) Private Sector Development. Under the GEF alternative the proposed tender for a private sector
concession compatible with the spatial development plan would need to include an environmental
component in the tender technical specifications. This incremental addition'to the Bid Documents
would stipulate how the developer could "use" (including non-use) environmentally sensitive areas,
what rights the developer would have within the concession and surrounding areas, what would be
expected of the developer regarding preservation of nationally and globally significant biodiversity
values, and how the developer would include the local population in the proposed development. In
addition to specialist input into preparation of the technical specifications of the bid documents,
incremental assistance would also be needed to ensure that adequately.qualified investors were
attracted to tender, and that the bid evaluation process adequately dealt with environmental and social
aspects of the bids received. Since the capacity to manage sustainable private sector involvement is
not yet available in Mozambique and the development of ecologically enlightened tourism is a
national priority, this component would be justified as a demonstration pilot activity and would
provide assistance in the preparation of the bidding documents and tender promotion both in country
and internationally. The necessary highly specialized expertise is only available internationally but is
expected to make significant difference in removing one of the barriers against the establishment of
sustainable use in the tourism sector. In addition, the technical assistance will help strengthen
provincial level capacity to evaluate the environmental and social aspects of incoming private sector
concession requests more broadly. Best practice guidelines would be disseminated based on the



Page 42
experience and lessons learned of this pilot activity. The incremental costs of the GEF alternative for
this component are estimated at US$0.35 million.
(d) Training and Public Awareness. Under the GEF alternative, the capacity of the technical staff of
implementing agencies, local stakeholders and administrators would be strengthened specifically in
the areas of coastal zone and protected area management. The GEF alternative would also support
inclusion of biodiversity and conservation dimensions into overall Project management and
stakeholder consultations. A public awareness campaign launched at the community level would
increase knowledge of issues relating to biodiversity conservation and reinforce sustainable use of
natural resources in the project area. The incremental costs of the GEF alternative for this component
are estimated at US$0.27 million.
(e) Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation. Effective co-ordination of the involved
activities is a precondition for Project success. For the incremental activities under the GEF
alternative to be successful under a tight Project schedule, complementary resources for Project
management and co-ordination would be necessary. Under the GEF Alternative, the dimensions of
biodiversity and conservation would be incorporated into the monitoring and evaluation plan. The
incremental costs of managing, monitoring and evaluating the GEF alternative are estimated at
US$0.90 million.
Benefits
On top of the national level benefits that are expected from the Baseline Scenario, the global benefits with
the GEF Alternative would be:
* Effective conservation of globally important coastal and marine habitats and species;
- Improved capacity for management of conservation areas both nationally and locally;
* Capacity building for ecological monitoring and long-term supervision for sustainability of
intervention;
e Actual participation of local communities in conservation activities, and a gradual shifting from
subsistence, unsustainable, use of natural resources to more profitable activities associated with
implementation of the spatial development plan;
* Maintenance of knowledge in local communities' related to practices relevant to conservation;
* Replicable experience from pilot activities in attracting private investors for ecologically sound
tourism and sustainable use of natural resources, with the aim of establishing financial incentives for
sustainable use of resources in the tourist industry;
* Protection and management of two sites of globally significant biodiversity areas; and
* Provision of alternative livelihoods for the communities in buffer zones of the most sensitive areas in
order to remove threats for ecological sustainability.
Incremental Costs
The total costs of the baseline scenario (IDA and ROM contribution) are estimated at US$6.52 million.
The GEF Alternative would amount to US$10.60 million. The resulting incremental costs of the GEF
Alternative therefore are estimated at US$4. 11 million.



Page 43
Incremental Cost Matrix
Component    Cost Category             Cost    Domestic Benefit                     Global Benefit
Sector                               US$ 'ODD
Spatial          Baseline                 1,390  Rational basis for integration of
Development                                      differing/ competing development
Plan                                            interests increases benefits from
use/nonuse of existing coastal zone
development potential in pilot area
GEF Alternative         1,760  Strengthening of national and       Timely identification of areas with
provincial knowledge and capacity in    biodiversity of global significance
identification and prioritization of  for effective protection, thorough
conservation areas.                understanding of natural resources
in terms of natural disturbances
and anthropogenic stress.
Incorporation of biodiversity
dimension into the planning
process.
Incremental               370
Biodiversity     Baseline                 1,380  Limited consideration and management
Conservation                                     of areas of ecological importance, with
moderate expenditures. Increased
opportunities for income generation
based on sustainable use of natural
resources through a Community
Development Fund. Improved national
capability in conservation management.
GEF Alternative         3,580  Improved co-ordination between      Effective conservation at two sites
national and provincial level including   of globally significant priority
participatory planning process,    coastal and marine habitats;
strengthened capacity to manage    improved capacity for
biodiversity on national, provincial and   management of biodiversity; and
village level                      support for local communities
involvement in conservation
activities at buffer zones of two
pilot sites and other areas of
recognized ecological importance.
Incremental             2,200
Sustainable      Baseline                  960  Attracting private sector investment for
Private                                         tourism, with the local population
Sector                                           directly and indirectly benefiting.
Development                                      Establishment of a transparent process
to evaluate bids for concessions
GEF Altemative          1,310  Strengthened capacity and experience    Replicable experience from pilot
in international upmarket ecotourism  activities in attracting private
segment.                           investors for ecologically sound
tourism and sustainable use of
natural resources, with the aim of
establishing financial incentives
for sustainable use of resources in
the tourist industry. Best practice
guidelines for CZM private
tenders would be developed for
replication
Incremental               350
Training and    Baseline                   420  Strengthened capacity to for integrated
Public                                           coastal zone planning and management



Page 44
Awareness                                        of natural resources particularly on
provincial level; raising public
awareness, creating Project ownership
of local stakeholders
GEF Alternative           700  Strengthened capacity to assess and  Improved capacity for biodiversity
manage biodiversity and natural    conservation and management at
resources particularly on provincial  national and local levels for
level; raising public awareness of  decision makers, managers and
globally significant biodiversity.  stakeholders. Incorporation of the
global biodiversity elements and
promotion of co-management of
natural resources through public
awareness campaigns.
Incremental               270
Project          Baseline                 2,380  Effective coordination and
Management/                                     implementation among various
Monitoring &                                     involved institutions and stakeholder
Evaluation                                       participation
GEF Alternative         3,280  Monitoring and evaluation of Project    Successful implementation and
coordination of GEF activities;
incorporation of global
biodiversity indicators in project-
wide M & E
Incremental               900
Totals           Baseline                6,520'
GEF Alternative        10,630
Incremental             4,110
aIncludes US$0.84 M ROM contribution.



Page 45
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Mozambique Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
External financing of the Project will be through a GEF grant (US$4.1 million) and an IDA credit
(US$5.6 million).
Investment and Recurrent Expenditures
The summary of investment and recurrent costs during the implementation period of the Project is set out
below. The overall investment cost will be US$7.7 million, with recurrent costs amounting to US$2.9
million over the four-year period. The Project is designed to be a pilot operation, in advance of further
investment in biodiversity conservation within the overall context of coastal zone management and
development. For this reason, the additional follow-on investment and recurrent costs for an expansion
phase cannot be determined at this time. However, the Project will establish two field stations for
environmental management coordination and biological monitoring, and the recurrent costs of
maintaining and operating these stations will need to be met from the budgets of the institutions
responsible, MICOA and UEM. It is estimated that the recurrent costs of the two stations would be in the
region of US$50,000 p.a. for salaries and allowances for station-based maintenance and management
staff, supplies, consumables and repairs.
Community Micro-Enterprise Viability
The nature of the micro-projects will be identified at the end of the strategic development planning
exercise, and would be expected to fall into two broad categories: (i) those that involve alternative
sustainable use of the coastal and marine resources - examples would be improved artisanal fishing,
ornamental fish, sea cucumber harvesting, seaweed culture; (ii) those that would emerge on the back of
private sector ecotourism development - examples would be community tourism, arts and crafts, food
supply to hotels, transport. The exact nature of these enterprises is not known and can take many forms.
One of the criteria for approval of support to specific projects would be a case-by-case financial analysis
that demonstrates the financial viability of the activity, and estimates the changes in family/household
incomes that may be expected.
Fiscal Impact
The Government will finance approximately US$0.8 million of the Project costs by way of costs of
Government staff assigned to Project, and the notional costs of office facilities and utilities. Overall, the
budgetary impact of this is neutral. There are some incremental recurrent costs for the two field stations
and, whilst this does have budgetary implications for the Ministries involved, these amounts are relatively
small in size and are not significant with reference to overall budget levels. The private sector investment
that would be promoted by the Project would be expected to generate taxation revenue for the
Government, both during the investment stage on equipment, works, etc., and into the operational stage
through corporate taxes.



Page 46
Annex 5: Financial Summary
(in US$ million)
Implementation Period (Calendar Year)
Year 1    Year 2   Year 3    Year 4     YearS      Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs     1.98      1.87     1.81      1.16       0.32      7.14
Recurrent Costs     0.73       0.69     0.67      0.43       0.12      2.64
Total Project Costs        2.71      2.56      2.48      1.59       0.44      9.78a
aExcludes US$0.84 M ROM contribution



Page 47
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Mozambique: Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
A. Financial Management - Introduction
The Project's financial management systems must support management in the deployment of limited
resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs
required to achieve desired outcomes. The achievement of this objective will not be easy, given the
limited skilled manpower and experience in MICOA both in Maputo and in the provinces in which the
Project is to be implemented.
The financial management system for the CMBMP will be developed in two phases. In Phase I, a short-
term consultant will be retained to prepare and advise on the (i) Project's Financial Procurement
Procedures Manual; (ii) format and content of the Project's quarterly and annual financial statements,
including accounting policies and standards; (iii) format and content of the Project's Cash Flow Forecast;
and (iv) format and content of the monthly Status of Funds report. This consultant will also put in place
the Project's Financial Management System (FMS), including manual and computerized accounting
systems. Phase I will be completed by Effectiveness. Phase II will build on the system and manual
prepared during Phase I, refining the procedures to permit Project Management Reporting (PMR) as
described in the LACI Handbook, September '98. For the short to medium-term, existing disbursement
procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook will be followed. These include
Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment.
Financial and Procurement Procedures Manual
The Financial Management and Procurement Procedures Manual (FMP Procedures Manual), developed
during Phase I, will document the Project's internal control procedures. These procedures will be
rigorously enforced by the Project Manager under the overall review of the internal audit function of
MICOA, reporting to the Permanent Secretary, and subject to regular external audit. These controls will
comprise of policies and procedures adopted by management to assist it in achieving its objectives of
ensuring, as far as possible, the orderly and efficient conduct of its operations, including:
*  Adherence to management policies, laws and regulations
*  Safeguarding of assets
*  Prevention and detection of fraud and error
*  Promoting orderly, economic, efficient and effective operations consistent with Project objectives
*  Accuracy and completeness of the accounting records
*  Timely preparation of financial information.
Flow of Funds
Since the expertise and sectoral authority needed to implement the Project is largely in Maputo, the
technical responsibility for implementation of each Project component will rest with the appropriate line
ministries. However, actual work, including significant manpower and administrative contributions from
local government staff, will be undertaken several thousand kilometers from Maputo in the two northern-
most provinces of the country. To ensure that funds flow in an efficient manner, it is necessary to
separate flow of funds from the technical management of the different Project components.



Page 48
From a technical perspective, line ministries are expected to develop annual workplans, including
technical and financial details of what is to be done and by whom. These national agencies are to prepare
these reports in association with their analogous provincial/district counterparts. Annual workplans and
budgets will be agreed with the National and Provincial Technical Committees before being submitted to
the National Steering Committee for approval.
Annual workplans will then be supplemented by detailed quarterly workplans and budgets upon which
requests for funds to support the quarterly activities will be made to MICOA. These detailed workplans
and budgets will be reviewed by the Provincial Steering Committee and form the basis of advances to
implementing agencies. Funds will be issued to the provinces on a quarterly basis, but receipts and other
required evidence of expenditures by line ministries and local government agencies are to be sent to the
CMBMPIFPS on a monthly basis. Each provincial office will prepare a monthly statement of
expenditures to account for the use of funds during the month, to be submitted to the Finance and
Procurement Adviser in Maputo within 15 days following the end of the month. In addition, consolidated
quarterly statements of expenditures and reconciliations with advances to these accounts will be prepared,
and submitted to the Finance and Procurement Adviser in Maputo within 15 days following the end of the
quarter (see the following figure).
fun~ ~     Mfnd  .ddh
ProjectAccounlts
MICOA will be operating two Special Accounts. One will be for GEF funds, and the other for IDA
funds. The authorized allocation will be US$300,000 for the GEF Special Account and US$300,000 for
the IDA Project Account. These are approximately equal to 4-5 months expected forward disbursements,
as averaged over the life of the Project. These accounts will be opened in US dollars and operated by the
CMBMP Project manager (or other signatory approved by the Government and the Bank). The Project
will operate these for Project financing and administrative expenses. Local Government counterpart
funds are expected to total $840,000 and generally be "payment in-kind". These in-kind payments could
include salaries of Government staff working on the Project, office overheads, some local travel, local
duties and taxes, etc.



Page 49
MICOA has a provincial-level office in each of the Project sites. Funds identified in quarterly budgets
that are to be utilized by provincial/district staff will be transferred, as a block covering eligible
provincial/district expenses for the quarter, from Maputo to provincial operating accounts in Nampula and
Pemba (Meticais). These accounts are to be opened in banks acceptable to MICOA and the IDA, shall be
under the control of the provincial arm of MICOA and the provincial government (issuing authority will
require both signatures), and be for the exclusive use of the Project. Provincial Accounts will be
established by Project Effectiveness.
In the period between Effectiveness and initiation of LACI bank statements for all accounts (local and
central) will be reconciled to the Project's accounting records on a monthly basis. Reconciliations will be
prepared by the Finance and Procurement Adviser, and presented to the Project Manager and the central
Finance and Administration Department of MICOA on a timely basis. Identified differences will be
expeditiously investigated. Control procedures will be documented in the FMP Procedures Manual.
GovernmentAccounting - Cash Basis
As MICOA is a government entity, the Project must meet the Treasury's requirement for cash accounting
in accordance with Treasury Accounting procedures.
Accounting, Quarterly and Annual Reporting
While the ultimate responsibility for the presentation of Project reports rests with the Finance and
Administration Department of MICOA, the Finance and Procurement Adviser will prepare the draft
reports. This will comprise a financial statement, Project progress report and a procurement management
report. The formats for these reports will be in accordance with the Bank's Loan Administration Change
Initiative (LACI). These formats will apply from the date of Effectiveness, although disbursements will
not be made on the basis of these reports until successful implementation of the Financial Management
Action Plan. Annual Project accounts will be prepared at the end of each fiscal year (December 31) by
MICOA's Finance and Administration Department (with the assistance of the CMBMP/FPS) in line with
generally accepted accounting principles which would represent a consolidation of the quarterly Project
management reports
Financial Statements
The draft Financial Statements to be prepared by the CMBMP/FPS will be submitted to the Finance and
Administration Department of MICOA and the Project Manager, for review. These will include:
)0  A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by activity/component for all funds (GEF and IDA);
>  Notes in respect of: (i) significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by
management when preparing the accounts; and (ii) any supplementary information or explanations
that may be deemed appropriate by management in order to enhance the presentation of a "true and
fair view".
>   Special Account Statements/Reconciliations showing deposits and replenishments received,
payments substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the account and
the balance at the end of the fiscal year.
>   SOE withdrawals schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements by
the SOE method, as appropriate, by reference number, date and amount.
>  A cash forecast for the next 2 quarters.
>   Indicative formats for the financial statements are outlined in two World Bank publications, i.e.
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995) and The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998).



Page 50
Fixed Assets
A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked. Control procedures over assets,
consulting services and civil works will be documented in the FMP Procedures Manual.
Internal and External Audit
All Project accounts and financial management functions will be subject to the normal MICOA internal
audit procedures. This includes Project accounts held by implementing agencies. In addition, a
relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditor will be appointed by Effectiveness to audit the
expenditures financed under the GEF grant and IDA credit, on terns of reference acceptable to the Bank.
The external auditors will also be responsible for preparing the required audit of the PDF-B grant from
GEF. The cost of this audit is included in the Project budget. External auditors will be appointed by
Effectiveness. The external auditor will be expected to prepare a separate Management Letter giving
observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records,
systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants. Audited accounts and statements will be
submitted to the Bank within six months following the end of each Mozambican fiscal year. An outline
for the terms of reference has been prepared.
Financial Management Risk Assessment
The Project involves several geographically spread implementing agencies. Given this, and the caliber of
the agencies' staff, particularly in provincial locations, the management of the flow and accounting for
funds is rated as a medium risk factor. MICOA has, however, been reporting on the use of multi-donor
funds in the past, and the procedures for the Project, together with the training and the external audit
arrangements proposed, are designed to cover these aspects. A summary assessment of the financial
management risks is presented below:
Risk Assessment
Risk Area                            High   Medium    Low
1. Organizational Structure/Institutional Arrangements                   X
2. Project Structure and Costing                                                   X
3. Internal Control Structure                                            X
4. Accounting Standards, Financial and Management Reporting                        X
5. Special Accounts, Disbursements and Supporting Documentation                    X
6. Staffing and Training                                                 X
7. Audit Arrangements                                                              X
8. Budgeting and Monitoring                                              X
9. Country Risk (corruption, poor governance, etc.                                 X
Project Risk                                                      X
B. Institutional Strengthening
Project Manager/MICOA
Once the Project becomes Effective, the Government-appointed Project Manager will have, as one of his
responsibilities, the oversight of all matters relating to the management of Project funds (GEF and IDA)



Page 51
and accounting for their use. A CMBMP Finance and Procurement Section (FPS) will be established by
Effectiveness, and will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting for CMBMP
is carried out in a manner acceptable to all parties.
Staffing/Capacity Building
The FPS will comprise a Project Finance and Procurement Adviser, a Project Accountant and a
Bookkeeper. Job descriptions for these posts have been agreed and form part of the Project
Implementation Plan document. The confirmation by MICOA of appointments to these positions,
acceptable to the World Bank, is a condition of Effectiveness, and the Government has given an assurance
that these posts will be filled by appropriately qualified and effective staff for the duration of the Project.
Since several agencies will be responsible to MICOA for implementing different components, they will
also be responsible for the financial management of funds for activities for these components. These
responsibilities will be set out in the Memorandum of Understanding between MICOA and each agency.
At the provincial level, two financial consultants will be engaged by the Project. Use of consultants is
necessary because there are no suitable ROM staff available to fill these positions. These consultants will
be stationed in the provincial MICOA office (one consultant for each province). Their duties will be to
assist the MICOA provincial representative manage and account for Project funds at the
provincial/district level. These two consultants will oversee the disbursement of funds to the two district
administration offices for the Project's activities in the pilot sites, and will supervise two bookkeepers at
these offices. The bookkeepers will be existing district administration staff who will take on this
additional responsibility. Terms of reference for these two consultants and a description of duties of the
district-level staff have been prepared. Procurement of these consultants should have resulted in
identification of successful candidates by Effectiveness. It is expected that contracts with these successful
candidates will be signed as soon as practicable after Effectiveness.



Page 52
C. Actions, Timing and Responsibilities under the Financial Management Action Plan for
PMR-based Disbursements
Time                        Action                           Responsibilities
18 August 2000 (assumed date  *  Finance and Procurement     MICOA
for Project Effectiveness)     Specialist appointment confirmed
*  Start of financial systems    MICOA/DINGA to ensure
consultancy                   award of consultancy
contract
1 October 2000              *  Part I of Financial Systems   Consultancy firm
Review Complete - report to
CMBMP Project management
group
1 November 2000             *  Part II of Financial Systems  Consultancy firm
Review Complete
*  Report to CMBMP Project
management group
1 December 2000             *  Review and                    Project Manager, FPS staff,
modification/acceptance of Part   Financial and Procurement
II report and Procedures Manual  Adviser, World Bank, other
donors
18 January to 18 March 2001   *  Systems installation and start-up,  Consultancy firm
testing and training
19 March to 18 July 2001    *  Trial PMR-based reports       FPS, World Bank and other
produced in parallel with existing  donors to review/agree on
accounting and procurement    content and integrity of
procedures - for review by    systems and reports
World Bank
18 August 2001              *  First external audit of Project  External Auditor
accounts (for the period 18
August to 31 Dec 2000 - report
due by 30 March 2001(including
expenditures under the PDF B
grant)
19 August to November 2001   *  Final test of PMR reporting  FPS
systems, reconciliation at year
end between standard
disbursement and withdrawal
systems with PMR-based data
18 December 2001            *  PMR-based disbursement fully   FPS
introduced
D. Procurement
All procurement except National Shopping for very small items will be centrally located and managed by
MICOA through the CMBMP/FPS. The Government's Project Manager assumes responsibilities for the
quality of procurement, but will be assisted by a dedicated financial/procurement assistant (also a
Government staff). Bid/Proposal evaluation is the responsibility of the MICOA Ministerial Tender
Board.



Page 53
Assessment of Agency Procurement Expertise
A "Procurement Accredited Staff' undertook an assessment of the ability of MICOA to conduct
necessary procurement of goods, works and services. Generally, the level of procurement experience and
capability is very limited in MICOA (nor, generally is it great in Mozambique). However, the amount of
procurement in this Project is neither great nor particularly demanding. The current system at MICOA
meets the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements.
Legal Aspects. MICOA has a central procurement unit established to manage procurement under
Ministry budgetary support provided by the Government of the Netherlands. Under the Grant Agreement
between the Government of the Netherlands and the Government of Mozambique, disbursement of these
funds is managed by the UNDP office in Maputo. UNDP rules related to disbursement requires that
procurement be undertaken according to UNDP guidelines. Other IDA/GEF Projects currently under
successful implementation, including procurement of goods, works and services, include the National
Program for Forestry and Wildlife, National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, and the Transfrontier
Conservation Areas Management Projects. The CMBMP/FPS, as part of MICOA, will act as the central
procurement agency for all Government departments participating in the Project. This ensures clarity,
predictability and consistency in procurement under the Project. Evaluation of tenders/proposals will be
by the established Ministerial Tender Board of MICOA.
Procurement Cycle Management. Although the MICOA's CMBMP team activities will be supported
by the Ministry's central procurement unit, it's ability to procure under IDA/GEF processes is somewhat
questionable without additional resources. What is needed is to design and adopt measures to support the
MICOA Project team so that it can fulfil its role as lead procurement agency in the Project. These
measures include:
*  The bulk of goods, works and services (particularly those larger contracts to be procured through
international competition) will be procured, up to but not including contract signing, during Project
Preparation. The Bank Team includes a Procurement Accredited Staff, who has and will continue to
provide training and help to the MICOA Project manager and component leaders prepare draft
Request for Proposals and Bid Documents.
*  A Procurement consultant is included in the cost of the Project to provide periodic help to MICOA
during the life of the Project. Procurement of this advisor is currently underway, and should be
completed immediately upon Project Effectiveness;
* Intensive, formal training in procurement at an internationally recognized training institute will be
provided to at least two staff of the Department of Tourism (DINATUR). Consultants helping
DINATUR with the Private Sector Development Component of the Project will also be providing on-
the-job training of Government counterparts in procurement methods (including pre-qualification and
bid evaluation).
The CMBMP/FPS, after it has been strengthened according to the actions described above, will be
responsible for:
*  Receiving and reviewing technical specifications and terms of references from the various
implementing agencies requiring procurement of goods/works/services;
*  Advertising and conducting the bidding process;
*  Preparing bid documents and requests for proposals;
*  Recorder of claims and dispute resolutions;
*  Signatory of contract documents and addenda and amendments;



Page 54
* Acting as convener/recorder of bid openings and completion of key steps in the procurement process;
and
* Holder of comprehensive disbursement data.
The Ministerial Tender Board will assume responsibility over:
* Bid Evaluation Reports, and
* Formal appeals by bidders and outcomes.
Risk Assessment. Given that the majority of large, international procurement will be essentially
completed before the Project can be declared Effective, the procurement related risk is average. This risk
is expected to be further minimized by inclusion of consultant assistance (procurement and Project
management) within the CMBMP/FPS, and additional assistance to it from the central procurement unit
of MICOA.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The Finance and Procurement Adviser and members of the support staff will be conversant with
Government and World Bank procurement procedures, as internal control issues and the incurring of
liabilities on behalf of CMBMP will be matters of particular concern to the financial management
function. It is particularly important that Government procedures in relation to incurring contractual
commitments must be strictly observed.
Procurement procedures, which must comply with World Bank and Government requirements, will be
documented in the FMP Procedures Manual. Procurement of goods, works and services financed by the
GEF grant and IDA Credit will follow the World Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" dated January 1995, and revised January 1999 (for works and goods), and the
"Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997
(for services) and revised in January 1999. The World Bank's standard bidding documents will be used
whenever appropriate. The Bank's "Standard Requestfor Proposal-Selection of Consultants " (dated
July 1997, revised April 1998) will be used whenever relevant.
Procurement thresholds are as follows:
* International Competitive Bidding (ICB) if the estimated contract value per package is more than
US$100,000 for goods and US$500,000 for works;
* National Competitive Bidding (NCB) if the estimated contract value per package is less than
US$100,000 for goods and less than US$500,000 for works.
* International shopping (IS) in accordance with IDA guidelines, on the basis of at least 3 quotations
from reputable suppliers in two different countries, if the estimated cost per package is less than
US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$100,000. As an alternative to IS, Inter-
Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) procurement procedures may be followed;
* National Shopping Procedures (NS) in accordance with IDA Guidelines, on the basis of at least 3
quotations from local suppliers, if the estimated cost per package is less than US$20,000.
Special note regarding procurement:
Goods. Contracts for goods, including vehicles and equipment, would be grouped into packages of more
than US$ 100,000 where possible, so that they can be procured through ICB for maximum cost efficiency.



Page 55
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All procurement packages for civil works, goods, supplies, materials and maintenance contracts with an
estimated contract value of above US$100,000 will be subject to prior review. All consulting contracts
with firms with a contract value above US$100,000, or with individual consultants with a contract value
above US$50,000 will be subject to prior review. All terms of references for services to be procured
under the Project will also need prior review, and the first three contracts for consulting services
processed under the GEF grant or IDA Credit should be subject to the Bank's prior review irrespective of
their value.
E. Disbursement
Interim Arrangements
Existing World Bank disbursement and withdrawal procedures (i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and
Special Commitment), as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will be followed until
December 18, 2001, 18 months following Project Effectiveness. Starting December 18, 2001,
disbursements will switch to the PMR-based disbursement system. Procedures will follow LACI
guidelines and be detailed in the Procedures Manual to be prepared as part of the Financial Management
Action Plan.
For Goods Contracts (i.e. vehicles, equipment) costing more than US$100,000, the Bank will arrange
payment by letter of credit. For consultant contracts costing more than US$100,000 equivalent for firms,
and more than US$50,000 for individuals, and for works contracts with a value greater than US$100,000,
the Bank will make direct payments upon request by MICOA, when supported by valid "no objection"
letters and contracts on file in the Bank.
Disbursements based on Statement of Expenses (SOEs) will be used for: (i) goods below US$100,000;
(ii) works with a value less than US$100,000; (iii) consultant services when less than US$50,000 when
with an individual, and less than US$ 100,000 when with a company; (iv) awareness, public relations and
tender promotion activities when less than US$100,000; (v) conferences, workshops and seminars; (vi)
periodic payments to universities in support of higher education studies; (vii) grants for micro-projects;
and (viii) recurrent Project operating costs. All supporting documentation, including contracts,
procurement information and evidence of payment will be kept at the Project management offices in
MICOA (FPS) for review by the Bank and independent auditors.
Allocation of credit/grant proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of GEF Grant and IDA Credit proceeds is shown in Table C.



Page 56
Annex 6
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements*
(in US$ Million Equivalent)
Expenditure Category                      Procurement Method                      Total Cost
(including
ICB          NCB          Other       N.B.F.    Contingencies)
IDA / GEF    IDA I GEF    IDA / GEF       ROM         IDA / GEF
1. Works                        0.00 0.00     0.43 0.43     0.00 0.00      0.00       0.43 0.43
(0.00) (0.00)  (0.36) (0.08)  (0.00) (0.00)          (0.35) (0.08)
2. Goods                        0.43 0.43     0.07 0.07     0.00 0.00      0.00        0.50 0.50
(0.00) (0.43)  (0.00) (0.07)  (0.00) (0.00)          (0.00) (0.50)
3. Services                      0.00 0.00    0.00 0.00     4.61 4.61      0.00       4.61 4.61c
(0.00) (0.00)  (0.00) (0.00)  (2.59) (2.02)          (2.59) (2.02)a
4. Goods, Works& Servicesfor     0.00 0.00    0.00 0.00     1.10 1.10      0.00        1.10 1.10
Micro-projects
(0.00) (0.00)  (0.00) (0.00)  (0.00) (1.10)           (0.00) (1.10)
5. Miscellaneous & Proj. Mgt.
Proj. Mgt. And Evaluation    0.00 0.00  0.00 0.00    1.62 1.62      0.84       2.46 2.46
(0.00) (0.00)  (0.00) (0.00)  (1.21) (0.41)          (1.21) (0.41)
Recurrent Costs           0.00 0.00    0.00 0.00     1.35 1.35      0.00        1.35 1.35
(0.00) (0.00)  (0.00) (0.00)  (1.35) (0.00)          (1.35) (0.00)
6. Unallocated                   0.00 0.00    0.00 0.00     0.15 0.00      0.00        0.15 0.15
(0.00) (0.00)  (0.00) (0.00)  (0.15) (0.00)           (0.15) (0.00)
Total                            0.43 0.43    0.50 0.50     8.83 8.83      0.84      10.60b 10.60b
(0.00) (0.43)  (0.36) (0.15)  (5.35) (3.53)           (5.65) (4.11)
Note:
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the GEF grant and IDA credit.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes Government expenditures and elements procured under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
a  includes Local Shopping
b  includes Government contribution (US$0.84)
c  includes US$350,000 received under PDF-B grant
* For details on presentation of Procurement Methods, refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for Investment
Operations". Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format (additional to Table A,
where applicable).



Page 57
Annex 6
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                          Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                      (including
Expenditure Category                                                                     contingencies)
QCBS       QBS       SFB      LCS      CQ     Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms
Spatial Dev. Plan Preparation   0.25
NGO Community Develop.                                                     0.39*
Rapid Rural Appraisal                                              0.04
UEM Studies                                                                0.10
Pollution Spill Assessment  0.27
Community Assessment        0.12
Private Sector Tender Prep.    0.97
Special Conserv. Studies    0.30
Auditors                    0.11
Fin. Services to Proj. Admin.                                      0.06
Monitoring & Evaluation     0.25
Specialist Conservation                                                    0.37-
Advisors
B. Individuals
Spatial Dev. Plan Advisors                                         0.07
Translators                                                                0.01
Conservation Advisor                                               0.15
Spatial Dev. Plan/Conserv.                                         0.28
Social Advisors
Conservation Field Coord. (2)                                      0.15
Prov. Financial Advisors (2)                                       0.05
Project Management Advisor                                         0.18
Finance/Procurement Advisor                                        0.08
Total 2.27                                   1.06    0.87      0.0    4.20a
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection; QBS  Quality-based Selection; SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget; LCS
= Least-Cost Selection; CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; Other = Selection of individual consultants (per
Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc; N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed. Please be aware of "rounding"
errors.
a Does not include the $350,000 PDF-B grant, which was mainly "services", and already expensed. Total services
would therefore be approximately $4;6 million when including the PDF-G grant.
* Consultancy tailored to community involvement and appropriate only for Non-govermment Organizations that are
already active in the Project area. As the Project area is remote, there is only a single NGO with suitable skills and
experience that operates in the Project area. Accordingly, and in compliance with paragraphs 3.9 and 3.14 of the
"Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" single-sourcing of an NGO
is appropriate.
** Consultancy linked to impartial monitoring of Project "indicators of success". Requires unique mix of scientific
and local knowledge of Project area. To be single-sourced to the University of Eduardo Mondalane under
conditions specified under paragraph 3.9 (d) because the University staff is uniquely qualified to serve as an
impartial monitoring group, and paragraph 3.10 of the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers " as monitoring of indicators of success will be a long-term operation and need to extend
beyond the life of the CMBMP.
*** Consultancy to be single-sourced to Impacto Consulting as a natural continuance to the work they have done on
conservation and social participation studies during Project preparation. Impacto is also the only commercial
environmental consulting firm with sufficient experience in the northern part of Mozambique to adequately fulfill
the proposed assignment. Paragraph 3.9(a) and (d) of "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" is relevant in this case.



Page 58
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review2
Category        Prior        Procurement   Estimated   Procure-       Documents  Prior          Total
Review      Threshold-     Amount    ent Method   Required        Review      Amount
Threshold   Method/Amt                                            Amt.
1. Works
Cabo Delgado    >100,000    ICB/>500,000      180,000   NCB           Full Docs    180,000     430,000
and Nampula                                   180,000   NCB           Full Docs    180,000
field Sts. Plus
Misc. civil works  >100,000    NCB/<500,000    70,000   NCB           None
2. Goods
500,000
Boats, office ,etc  >100,000    ICB/>100,000  430,000   ICB           Full Docs    430,000
Field Equipment  >100,000    NCB<100,000       70,000   NCB/IS/NS   None                                l
IS>50,000
NS<20,000
3. Services
Consultant      >100,000    QCBS>100,000  2,270,000    QCBS           Full Docs    2,270,000   4,670,000
Company
Individual      >50,000      CQ<100,000 &   1,040,000   CQ            Full Docs or  910,000
Consultants                 for individual                            TOR's for
consultants                              smaller
contracts
Misc.                        Not Applicable  860,000     "Other"
Consultancies
(including micro-
prj. conslt)
Training                                    500,000     Not           Yearly       500,000
applicable   training Plan
________________                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~only
4.
Miscellaneous
4,200,000
Operating Exp.               NS <20,000 and  3,100,000   Not                                            l
(including misc.             Travel and per              Applicable
investment costs             diem of
for local                    government
shopping)                    staff not
requiring prior
review
Goods, works                 Subject to      1,100,000    Limited     Full         1,100,000
and services for             conditions in               NCB          proposal by
micro-projects               micro-project                            community
manual
Total                                                                              5,570,000   9,800,000a
a _ Frequency of post-review: 1 of every 4 contracts during Project Year 1; and I of every 8 contracts thereafter.
- Frequency of Procurement Missions: I every 6 months during Project Year 1 and I every 9 months thereafter.



Page 59
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation of Credit/Grant Proceeds
Category                      Amount in            Financing Percentage
US$ Million
IDA l GEF
1. Works                                       0.4  0.1      100% of foreign expenditures;
85% of local expenditures
2. Goods (motors boats, etc.)                  0.0  0.5      100%
3. Consultants' services and training          2.6  2.0      100%
4. Goods, works and services for               0.0  1.1      100%
Community Development micro projects
5. Operating costs                             2.5  0.4      100% of foreign expenditures
85% of local expenditures
6. Unallocated                                 0.1  0.0
Total                                          5.6  4.1



Page 60
Annex 6
Table Dl: GEF Yearly Estimated Disbursements
Totals Including Contingencies
2000      2001     2002      2003     2004       Total
A. Spatial Strategic Development Plan
Landuse/Land Capability                                          112,084         -                                 112,084
Social Assessment                                                  5,063         -        -         -        -       5,063
Identification of Biodiversity Conservation Areas                126,563         -        -         -        -    126,563
Subtotal Spatial Strategic Development Plan                        243,709        -         -         -        -    243,709
B. Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Community Development
Conservation Areas Management                                    258,962   289,799   331,930   221,145    83,826   1,185,662
Biological Monitoring                                            578,897         -        -         -        -    578,897
Community Participation and Development Fund                     181,582   209,617   536,113   521,548   172,660   1,621,519
Subtotal Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Community      1,019,441   499,416   868,042   742,693   256,486   3,386,078
Development
C. Private Sector Development
Investment Tender                                                 68,850        -         -         -        -      68,850
Subtotal Private Sector Development                                 68,850        -         -         -        -     68,850
D. Training and Public Awareness
E. Project Management.and Monitoring and Evaluation
Implementation Coordination                                      410,244        -         -         -        -    410,244
Subtotal Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation          410,244        -         -         -        -    410,244
1,742,243   499,416   868,042   742,693   256,486   4,108,881
Estimated GEF Disbursements
Annual                                                         1,742,243a  499,416   868,042   742,693   256,486
Cumulative                                                      1,742,243 2,241,659 3,109,702 3,852,395 4,108,881
a includes the $350,000 PDF-B grant expended during Project preparation
and which will be included in the first year's audit.



Page 61
Annex 6
Table D2: IDA Yearly Estimated Disbursements
Totals Including Contingencies
2000      2001     2002     2003      2004      Total
A. Spatial Strategic Development Plan
Landuse/Land Capability                                         274,104  259,131    10,840    2,879         -    546,954
Social Assessment                                                88,634   115,291    1,755        -         -    205,680
Identification of Biodiversity Conservation Areas                61,560  225,813   197,068     1,151        -    485,592
Review Process                                                        -   90,601   171,276    9,595         -
Subtotal Spatial Strategic Development Plan                       424,298  690,836   380,939    13,625        -   1,509,698
B. Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Community Development
Conservation Areas Management                                         -         -        -        -         -          -
Biological Monitoring                                                 -   50,189    51,443   52,729    30,935    185,296
Community Participation and Development Fund                _ _ _            _ _        _ _        _ _        _ _
Subtotal Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Community            -   50,189    51,443    52,729    30,935    185,296
Development
C. Private Sector Development                                     199,949  488,249   397,271   132,107   20,653   1,238,229
D. Training and Public Awareness                                   63,231   244,924   253,706   111,979   20,620    694,460
E. Project Monitoring and Evaluation                                    -  129,727   66,485    68,147         -    264,359
F. Project Management                                             280,710  458,900   465,586   461,361   111,722   1,778,279
968,188 2,062,825 1,615,430   839,948   183,930   5,670,321
Estimated IDA Disbursements                                       968,188 2,062,825 1,615,430   839,948   183,930   5,670,321
Estimated GEF Disbursements                                     1,742,243a  499,416   868,042   742,693   256,486   4,108,880
Annual                                                         2,710,431 2,562,241 2,483,472 1,582,641   440,416
Cumulative                                                     2,710,431 5,272,672 7,756,144 9,338,785 9,779,201  9,779,201b
a Includes the $350,000 PDF-B grant already disbursed and which will be
included in the first years audit. Actual first year disbursement is expected to
be $2,360,431
b does not include the $840,000 local contribution.



Page 62
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Mozambique: Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
Project Schedule                                 Planned               Actual
(At final PAD stage)
Time taken to prepare the Project (months)                               36
First Bank mission (identification)             05/15/1996           05/15/1996
Appraisal mission departure                     07/15/1998           03/29/1999
Negotiations                                    04/15/1999           04/03/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/30/1999           08/18/2000
Prepared by: ROM Interagency preparation team, coordinated by MICOA
Preparation assistance: GEF PDF B, PHRD, FAO/CP
Bank staff who worked on the Project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Indumathie Hewawasam                      Current Task Team Leader
Tanya Yudelman-Bloch                      Previous Task Team Leader/CZM Specialist
William Leeds Lane                        PSD and Procurement Specialist
Rod de Vletter                            Biodiversity and NRM Specialist
Agi Kiss                                  Principal Ecologist
Louise Scura                              Biodiversity and CZM Specialist
Kathryn McPhail                           Social Assessment Specialist
Maria Aycrigg                             Participation Specialist
Anthony Heggarty                          Financial Management Specialist
Francesco Sarno                           Procurement Specialist
Vishvanathan Narayanaswami                Procurement Specialist
Marcos Sugar                              Disbursement Specialist
Steve Gaginis                             Disbursement Specialist
Jose Janeiro                              Disbursement Specialist
Kishor Uprety                             Legal Counsel
Jose Paulo Kastrup                        Legal Counsel
K.G. Awunyo                               Legal Counsel
Sofia Bettencourt                         Peer reviewer
Kristin Elliott                           GEF Coordinator
Christophe Crepin                         GEF Coordinator
Kathy MacKinnon                           GEF Biodiversity Specialist
Elizabeth Monosowski                      Sr. Environmental Specialist
Jocelyn Herrington                        Task Assistant
Ella Hornsby                              Program Assistant
Non-Bank members of the Project team included:
Tim Lamrock (FAO/CP)                      Economist
Doug Martin (Consultant)                  Social and participation specialist
Peter Burbridge                           GEF STAP reviewer



Page 63
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Mozambique: Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
> CMBMP Master documents
> CMBMP detailed cost tables
> Ministerio para a Coordenacao da Accao Ambiental Unidade de Gestao Costeira " Actas do
Workshop sobre Gestao da Biodiversidade Costeira e Marinha" (1998)
> National Environment Commission, "Master Programme for the Integrated Coastal Zone
Management in Mozambique" (1994)
> Cordell, John, "Indigenous Peoples' Coastal Marine Domains: Some Matters of cultural
Documentation
> UNEP-OCA/PAC and CAN, "Coastal Erosion and Management Technical Background
Papers and Workshop Notes" (1993)
>  The Biological Diversity of Mozambique (1997)
' MICOA, IUCN, "Macrodiagnostico da Zona Costeira de Mocambique" (1998)
> Winrock International Environmental Alliance, "Environmental Issues Relevant to the
Preparation of USAID/Mozambique's Country Prograrn Strategic Plan" (1994)
> National Contingency Plan for Oil Spills Control in Mozambique
> World Bank, "Mozambique: Urban Local Government and the Environment Sector Review"
(1991)
> Sida and the World Bank, Lundin, C.G. and Linden 0. ed. "Integrated Coastal Zone
Management in Mozambique" (1996)
> Munslow, Barry, "Environmental Profile of Mozambique" (1992)
>  Environment Working Group (GTA), "Mozambique: The Present Environmental Situation"
(1990)
> Social Analysis and Participatory Approach



Page 64
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                  disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 20
Active Projects
MZ-PE-1767       1999   GOV                               EMRO                                   150.00         0.00        0.00               0.00        0.00         0.00
MZ-PE-1786       1999   GOVT. OF MOZAMBIQUE               GEN.EDUC.SEC.EXP.PRO                      0.00       71.00        0.00              68.38        1.38         0.00
MZ-PE-1799       1999                                     AGRIC SECTOR PEP                          0.00       30.00        0.00              29 .04       2.01         0.00
MZ-PE-52240      1999   REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE            NATIONAL WATER II                         0.00       75.00        0.00              74.14        0.00         0.00
MZ-PE-39015      1998   REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE            NATIONAL WATER I                          0.00       36.00        0.00              32.80        2.81         0.00
MZ-PE-1792       1996   GOVT                              HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                       0.00       98.70        0.00              72.06       55.30         0.00
MZ-PE-1780       1994   GOVT                              GAS ENGINEERING(ENGY                      0.00       30.00        0.00               9.73        9.33         0.00
MZ-PE-1804       1994   GOVERNMENT                        2ND ROAD AND COSTAL                       0.00      188.00        0.00              77,74       54.53         0.00
MZ-PE-1811       1994   ROM                               FINANCE SECTOR CAPAC                      0.00        9.00        0.00               3.79        3.54         0.00
MZ-PE-1796       1993   GOVERNMENT                        RURAL REHABILITATION                      0.00       20.00        0.00               4.23        4.09         0.00
MZ-PE-1797       1993   ROM                               CAPACITY BUILDING(HU                      0.00       48.60        0.00              17.31       19.02         0.00
MZ-PE-1810       1993   ROM                               LEG & PUB SEC. CAPAC                      0.00       15.50        2.93                .94        3.91         1.23
MZ-PE-1781       1992   GOVT.                            AGR.SER. REHAB.                            0.00       35.00       12.30               8.54       18.01         1.95
MZ-PE-1784       1990   GOVT                              INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRIS                      0.00       50.10        0.00               9.75        4.21         4.07
Total                                                                                            150.00      706.90        15.23            408,45       178.14        7.25
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  423.40            1,098.81            1,522.21
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                7.96                 7.96
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  841.67            1,066.36            1,908.03
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                0.00                 0.00
of which repaid               :0.00                                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                                408.45               23.53              431.98
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



Page 65
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Mozambique    Africa  Income         Development diamond'
1997
Population. mid-year (millions)                      18.5      614      2.048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas nmethod USS)                     90       500       350
GNP (Atlas reMtod. USS billions)                      1.7       309       722
Average annual growth. 1991-97
Population (%)                                        4.2       2.7       2.1
Labor force fX)                                       3.3       2.6       2.3     GNP                             Gross
2.6  2.3     per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (X ot population below natonal poverty line)
Urban population (% of total popultaon)                36        32        28
Life expectancy at birth [years)                       45        52        59
Infant morlality (per 1 000 lie births)               120        90        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             47                  61               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 32        44        71
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   60        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populatIon)  60        75        91                Mozarrbque
Male                                                 70        82       100            -     Low-income group
Female                                               50        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996     1997
Econoric ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                            ..      4.2       2.3       2.8
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                         7.0      30.1      29.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP                     3.5      20.8      18.2                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GOP                            -3.5      9.4      13.6
Gross national savings/GDP                            -3.9       8.0     13.0
Current account balance/GOP                          -14 6     -27.9    -22.3      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP 1/                              0.7       2.6       2.2 me        s                     Investment
Total debt/GDP 1/                                    78.1     408.9    270.2       Savings
Total debt service/exports 1/                        40.8      47.4      23.8
Present value of debVGOP I/                                    58.5    116.5
Present value of debtexports 1/                              1,345.8    708.5
Indebtedness
1976-6  1987-97    1996        1997   1998.02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                -5.8      4.1      7.1       12.4       9.6                  Mozambique
GNP per capita                     -8.9      0.9      6.1       10.2       6.8                  Low-Incore group
Exports of goods and services     -16.2     17.3     18.7       2.7      16.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth ates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                          41.1       31.5     31.0      30..
Industr                                               15.0    23.3      22.9      20-       _
Manufacturing                                                  8.0       8.5     70D
Services                                             43.9       45.2     46.1
Private consumption                                  88.0       81.6     76.0    1of                                  07
General govemment consumption                         15.5       8.9      10.4                 - O GGGDP
Imports of goods and services                        14.0       41.5     34.1
1976-6  1987-97       1996     1997      Growth ntes of exports and Import l%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                           0.6        8.1              40
Industry                                              0.1       12.8        --
Manufacturing.                                                                   20
Services                                              9.3        53         -.
Private consumption                          -6.4     0.8        8.2       6.0     0      02   9z 9ox
General govemment consumption               -4.9      -5.0       2.2      23.6
Gross domestic investment                   -1.6       7.9      -7.1      13.9   -20
Imports of goods and services               -7.3       1.1       2.2      -0.9                 .Evorts        Imports
Gross national product                       .6.5      4.1       9.8      13.3
Note: 1997 dala are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicatora in the country (in bold) compared with its income-roup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 66
Mozambique
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997      tnflation (%l
Domesdc pt1ces                                                                       0
(% change)
Consumer prices                                        40.5      44.6        6.4    dO t
Implicit GOP deflator                                  12.7      40.9       8 8       e     _0                     _ Q_
Govemment finance                                                                   20
(% of GDP, InchLJdes cuffent arants)                                                 o     .0
Current revenue                                        12.9       13.4      144             92    93    94    as   99   97
Current budqet balance                          *     -11.8        1.5       1.0            -      GOPdeflator  'OCPt
Overall surplus/deficit                        .. *17.2         -12.7      -14.2
TRADE
1976     1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millons)
(USS nvilins)
Total exports (fob)                                     79        226       234      1 030 T
Cashew                                       35        17        45         31
Prawn                                        12        38        80         77      r50
Manufactures                                   ..      ..          7         9 _
Total imports (cif)                                    500        783       775       s0*
Food                                          .         .. 2925 li                                          Ij
Fuel and energ                                                   78.37487857
Capital goods                                 ..        .        1 70      153
91  92  93  94  95   go 97
Export price index (1995=100)                   -       97         99       100
Import price index (1995=100)                   *       82        100        99                BExports      ISlmports
Termsof trade (1995-100)                        *-     118        100       101   I       --
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
(USS mitl/ons)
Exports of goods and services                   ..     148        479       499       0
Imports of goods and services           *       -      593        955       937
Resource balance                                      445        476        438    -10
Net income                                            -178       -166       -177    -20
Net current rasnec                              * 0                0         0      30
Current account balance                         *-    -622       -642       -615
Financing hems (net)                            *      646        801       751    __                                         I
Changes in net reserves                         *-      -24      -159       -136    -s.
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS mtWi/ons)          ..      66        384       560
Conversion rate (DEC, locaV'USS)             30.2      40.4   11,293.8  11,543 6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(US$ mi/lions)                                                                       Composition of total debt. 1997 (UsS millons)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed 1 /             3,319      9.406     7.439
IBRD                                                   0          0         0ta
IDA                                           ..      30       1.076     1,160                               8 1360
Total debt service 1/                           *       81        227        122        F: 1,924                     c 220
IBRD                                                   0          0         0
IDA                                                     1         7         9
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                     0: 924
Official grants                               ..     213        283       355
Official creditors 2          *        -             325        182        176
Private creditors                             *-      48         76        47
Foreign direct investment                     *-       2         73        64
Portfolio equity                                       0          0                                E. 3,093
World Bank program
Commitments                                            0          0        100     A - IBRo                      E- Bateral
Disbursements                                  -      23        221       148      A - IDA    D - Other murteral   F - Prim
Principal repayments                          *-        1          1         2     c - IU                        G - Shoet-tewm
Net flows                                     ..      22        220        148                        _
Interest payments                             *-       0           7         8
Net transfers                                 *-      22        214        138
World Bank
I/ After Naples terms rescheduling.
2/ Including IMF.



Page 67
Annex lla: Technical Review of Project Proposal
Mozambique: Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management (CMBM)
1. Scientific and Technical Soundness of the Project
The Project proposal is scientifically sound in respect to the choice of locations for the planned
biodiversity conservation measures. The selection criteria represent a sound cross section of
environmental, social and economic factors which have a direct bearing on the conservation of the local
ecosystems, their biological diversity and the human utilization of renewable natural resources.
The technical design of the Project had many admirable features and the basic development objective of
testing and refining an integrated approach to the planning and management of sustainable development
in two coastal areas of northern Mozambique is laudable. The basic Project design is sound and
incorporates innovative practices in seeking to integrate economic development planning, spatial planning
and conservation of coastal and marine ecosystems which form the main basis for expanding and
diversifying sustainable economic activities.
There are, however, some weaknesses in the technical design which need to be strengthened if stated
conservation and sustainable development objectives are to be realized. The main points which need to
be considered are:
1.1    The major emphasis upon the development of strategic spatial plans that fully integrate
conservation with regional development. This is a very sophisticated activity which requires established
procedures for integrating different sectoral development policies, investment strategies, development
plans and resources management arrangements.
Although there is mention of the need for the adoption of spatial development plans by national,
provincial and district authorities, the current Project documentation does not provide either a clear
identification of the current development planning arrangements or an assessment of the capacity of such
a system to support strategic spatial planning. It would be helpful to have a concise and robust
assessment that identifies elements of the current development planning and biological conservation
systems which would need to be strengthened. This would then provide a clearer sense of priorities for
investment by the IBRD and how GEF funds would be used to achieve the greatest benefit. This would
help put into perspective the needs for human resource capacity building to facilitate both the planning
process and the ability of stakeholders to take an active and effective part in that process.
1.2    The Project design emphasizes the production of two strategic spatial development plans within
the first 18 months. This appears very ambitious given the shortage of well trained human resources, lack
of sound information on key natural resources features of the two pilot areas, and the complexity of
developing effective participatory planning where stakeholders, including local communities, can play an
effective part in the formulation of development plans. It may be better to concentrate on the
development of a robust strategic spatial development process, including capacity building, resources
assessments, awareness building, etc., in the first 18 months and then to develop the SDPs.
There is also a need to develop a stronger procedural basis for integrating spatial plans and conservation
priorities and site management plans. If these points are not better addressed, there is a danger that the
plans will have to be developed by external experts, that LGU staff and others will spend their time
providing consultants with information and leaming little in the process, and that the plans will not be
"owned" by those whose support is critical to their successful implementation. The establishment of and



Page 68
integrated spatial planning process and capacity building are time consuming activities and it is not clear
that sufficient resources are being devoted to these foundation type activities. Underestimation of the
time and resources required suggests that the anticipated results during the 3.5 years of the Project may be
over-optimistic.
1.3    The role of local communities in the strategic spatial development process is mentioned in several
places, but it is not fully explained how they will be enabled to take a positive part in the process of
formulating and then implementing such plans.
1.4    The nature of the different stakeholders needs to be more clearly identified along with specific
measures that would encourage their support for the development of the strategic spatial development
process.
1.5    More information is needed on the legislative framework which could be used to support both the
spatial development planning process and in-situ biological conservation. There are specific issues
which need elaboration; for example, how would the Project help ensure that government departments
would respect and help to implement locally defined spatial development plans for the two target sites?
1.6    The staffing arrangements for the Project indicate a person will be hired to facilitate coordination
among the different sectoral bodies associated with the strategic spatial development process for the two
pilot areas. Is there an established official process for coordination? If not, then this one person will have
a virtually impossible task.
2. Identification of the Global Environmental Benefits and/or Drawbacks
The stated global objective of the CMBMP is to ensure the effective protection of globally significant
coastal and marine habitats and species. The stated aims are to (i) strengthen coastal zone management
capacity and coordination within and across sectors, at national and local levels; and (ii) protect and
maintain the productivity and biological diversity of coastal and marine ecosystems. The Project clearly
identifies the global environmental benefits and the drawbacks are outlined in the "without Project"
scenario. Stated global benefits include contributions toward: the sustainable conservation of globally
significant faunal and floral species and assemblages within and outside formally protected areas;
significant expansion of knowledge regarding distribution, life histories and conservation status of
important plants and animals and of local indigenous knowledge; improved protection of marine turtles
and dugongs and their supporting habitats, complementing similar initiatives elsewhere in the region (e.g.,
IUCN/UNDP's Conservation of Western Indian Ocean Sea Turtles project); practical models for guiding
participatory biodiversity management elsewhere in the region; piloting of a sustainable development
model that fully integrates social and conservation considerations into the traditional economic
development paradigm; and improved regional collaboration, particularly as relates to transboundary
biodiversity conservation issues.
3. Fit with GEF Goals and operational strategies
Mozambique has ratified the International Convention on Biodiversity.
The Project documentation states that the proposed activities are designed to fit within the GEF
Operational Program on Coastal and Marine Ecosystems, a priority area for the first, second and third
Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity. The Bank is identified as a GEF
implementing agency and will use incremental grant resources from the GEF to assist Mozambique in
tackling coastal and marine biodiversity issues of global environmental concern, including ecosystem and
species protection as well as increasing capacity for sustaining this protection over time.



Page 69
The proposed Project fits well with the GEF Biodiversity Operational Strategy and Operational Program
on Coastal and Marine Ecosystems. The Project design accords with guidance from the first, second and
third Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP), which stresses in situ
conservation activities as a whole, and coastal and marine ecosystems in particular.
Specific aspects of COP 3 guidance addressed in the Project design include:
involving local communities, including building on local knowledge, strengthening community
management for sustainable use and promoting economic incentives such as alternative livelihood
opportunities; strengthening local capacity to address global environmental issues and enhancing
institutional capacity for intersectoral and transboundary cooperation; supporting national contributions to
regional initiatives such as the Western Indian Ocean Initiative and promoting regional collaboration and
exchange of experience
In addition, the proposed sites are considered to fit with the priorities identified within "A Global
Representative System of Marine Protected Areas".
4. Regional Context
The regional context for interpreting the biological conservation values of the coastal and marine areas of
Mozambique is reasonably well established in the Project proposal. Due to the shortage of well
researched scientific information on coastal and near shore ecosystems, there is a good deal of
information that has yet to be recorded and assessed before the full value of the rich and biologically
diverse resources of Mozambique and the dangers associated with current threats can be fully
understood. The Project should make a substantive contribution to addressing these issues.
5. Replicability of the Project
There are good prospects for the replication of the strategic spatial planning process that fully integrates
sustainable biological conservation and natural resources development measures if the criticisms outlined
in Section 1 (above) are addressed in the final Project design.
Secondary Issues:
1.    Linkages to Other Focal Areas
The Project is directly related to the GEF Biodiversity Operational Strategy and Operational Program on
Coastal and Marine Ecosystems.
2.     Linkages to Other Programmes and Action Plans
Linkages to other programmes and action plans identified in the Project proposal include: (a) the
National Program for Forestry and Wildlife (PNFFB) which provides the overarching framework for
forestry and wildlife and forms a core component of the multi-donor funded Agriculture Sector Public
Expenditure Program (PROAGRI); (b) the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, prepared and
now being implemented under the coordination of the Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Affairs
(MICOA). The stated strategic goal is "... .the conservation of biological diversity and the maintenance of
the ecological systems and processes taking into account the need for sustainable development and a fair
and equitable distribution of the benefits arising from the use of biological diversity."



Page 70
3.     Other Benefits or Damaging Environmental Effects
The GEF funded component to stimulate improved private sector involvement in sustainable use of
coastal areas and resources will develop a process and guidelines for best practice for private sector
investment that incorporates the principles of environmental and social sustainability and more equitable
sharing of benefits with local communities.
There do not appear to any significant adverse environmental affects associated with proposed activities
of the Project.
4.    Degree of Involvement of Stakeholders in the Project
The Project proposal explicitly identifies active stakeholder participation in the formulation and
implementation of strategic spatial development plans and in the development of conservation plans and
management arrangements for specific sites as an essential element. The actual procedures by which this
will be fostered within the Project need to be clarified.
5.     Capacity-Building
Capacity building is stated as a major element of the Project design. A specific aim is to enhance the
ability of the provincial and local governments to make strategic choices concerning integrated coastal
zone management. Further capacity building objectives include: capacity building of key government and
non-government stakeholders responsible for biodiversity protection; improved institutional capacity for
integrated coastal zone; strengthening local capacity to address global environmental issues and
enhancing institutional capacity for intersectoral and transboundary cooperation; increase knowledge and
capacity for management of globally significant ecosystems and species, particularly through gathering of
baseline data and establishment of a monitoring system; and appropriate training and capacity building for
park staff and communities to work together on co-management of natural resources and development of
revenue generating mechanisms.
6.    Innovativeness of the Project
The proposal to integrate strategic spatial spanning and biological conservation as the basis for
sustainable economic use of coastal and marine resources is an innovative feature of the Project design.
Should the development of this innovative process succeed, then the main aim of enhancing the ability of
the provincial and local governments to make strategic choices concerning integrated coastal zone
management will be achieved. In turn, this should lead to increased confidence on the part of the
Mozambican authorities to expand the process and apply it to other coastal areas.
8 March 1999
(STAP Reviewer: Peter Burbridge)



Page 71
Annex llb: Response to STAP Reviewer's Comments
Mozambique: Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project:
1.    Comments in paragraph 1.1 (identification of the current development planning
arrangements or an assessment of the capacity of such a system to support strategic spatial
planning):
Currently, there is no satisfactory development planning process in Mozambique at either the central or
provincial levels. Sectoral ministries in a rather isolated fashion determine development priorities at the
provincial level. Provincial government requests are sent to the central level, where budget allocations
are made as part of a political decision-making process in which social and environmental factors are
rarely taken into account. Furthermore, ad hoc development concessions are common. In many cases it
is arguable as to whether these agreements include assessment, much less protection, of local or global
biodiversity values and the expectations of local communities.
Hence, the CMBMP will, in effect, develop and test new policies and procedures for strategic
development planning at the provincial and district level. This is in line with the central Government's
ongoing efforts to devolve increasing responsibility for economic development planning to the local level.
To date, what is being accomplished is mainly procedural. Little progress is being made to systematically
manage investment/development in an environmentally sustainable fashion. Since the main concern is
actually over the absence of Government development planning policies and procedures, care was taken
to identify Project areas in which significant existing private sector interest was limited and where
provincial and district govemments were actively seeking to strengthen their planning capacity.
Specifically, the socially and environmentally sustainable economic development-planning model being
developed under the Project is designed to:
a)    Support the institutional capacity building of local governments to manage development
(including policies, procedures, regulations and legislation that support this process). Experience
shows that it is not sufficient for the Project to be limited to just supporting institutional strengthening.
Just because something should be done doesn't mean that it will be done. If there is insufficient incentive
(and benefit) to undertake the cost and trauma of institutional change, then the commitment to change and
change itself becomes problematic. The CMBMP addresses this through the private sector component,
which will provide the "carrot" for local governments to adopt the proposed integrated strategic
development plan (SDP) approach. The CMBMP will directly catalyze economic development while
ensuring that protection of the environment and the desires of local people are heard. As such, the
development model that should evolve from the CMBMP will present the Government with a realistic,
more beneficial, alternative to the ad hoc process currently;
b)    Identify and test the roles of government and non-government organizations, and local people
in economic development planning. In this case, the district and provincial governments are
implementers of a development plan. The SDP financed under the CMBMP will be prepared at the
direction, and under the supervision, of the local government. The provincial arms of national agencies
would serve as technical advisors to the local governments. For example, SPFFB would be the technical
advisors to the local government on forestry and wildlife aspects of the SDP. SPFFB's national
counterpart, DNFFB, would initially contribute to the overall technical team preparing the SDP, given the
lack of current capacity at the local level. Once the SDP model of economic development is adopted and
is replicated along the coast, efficient operation of the development process would require that DNFFB
and the other line ministries deconcentrate more and more staff to the province and district, since



Page 72
preparation and supervision of spatial development plans are inherently local activities (after a relatively
short period, when a number of districts begin to develop and implement spatial development planning,
the current centralized system will not be able to cope with the technical demands). The role of the
central government would, under this scenario, eventually be limited to review, quality control and
maintenance of consistency of spatial development plans being prepared at the local level.
2.     Comments on Paragraph 1.2 (... This appears to be very ambitious given the shortage of
well-trained human resources, lack of sound information on key ....).
It is recognized that the approach to be tested is ambitious, particularly in the context of a shortage of
human resources, lack of sound information and the inherent complexities of participatory planning. For
these reasons, the size of the pilot areas involved in the CMBMP were kept small enough to ensure that
biodiversity/conservation and social studies could be undertaken in a thorough manner. Similarly, while
specialized technical advisory services have been built into Project design to support the limited pool of
experienced government people during this first pilot phase, the responsibility for the production and
approval of the SDP remains firmly with the government. This helps to ensure that the SDP approach
itself contributes to capacity building, resource assessment and awareness raising.
Implementation of the Project has been kept purposely tight at 3.5 years to keep this piloting phase as
short as possible (too long a delay between pilot activities and general adoption of the spatial
development plan model may result in a situation where ad hoc development becomes a very serious
threat to biodiversity in the coastal zone). A window of opportunity exists to present the Government
with an environmentally and socially sustainable alternative to current development practice, but that
window is closing quickly.). The general opinion being expressed by reviewers of the proposed Project,
however, is that 3.5 years is insufficient. The Project Preparation Team will therefore recommend to
Government that Project implementation be expanded to 4 years.
Paragraph 1.3 (The role of local communities in the strategic development process....)
Participation of local communities is a key element of SDP preparation and will be facilitated under the
guidance of the provincial community participation officer, with support from the social/participation
advisor. Local communities will participate in the assessment of dependence on natural resources, and
how these resources are used. They will also be consulted regarding how they expect to benefit directly
and indirectly from economic development in their areas. Local attitudes regarding the relationship
between biodiversity values and economic development will be determined and used to develop the SDP.
This is discussed in the Project document. However, the STAP review comments identified that the
document did not clearly define the final step in ensuring community participation in creation of spatial
development plans. Once the draft plans have been fully prepared, a series of community level meetings,
organized by provincial and local government with the support of the social/participation advisor, will be
held within the districts. The draft SDPs will be presented and explained. This will provide a feed back
mechanism, to ensure community inputs to the SDP have been accurately and equitably reflected in the
plan. The comments made during those meetings will be incorporated into the final version of the plan.
The description of Component 1 has been edited to reflect this process.
Paragraph 1.4 (The nature of the different stakeholders needs to be more clearly identified...)
There are a variety of stakeholders to be involved in the SDP process. These include national, provincial
and district level decision-makers; private sector and local resource users; and communities. All
stakeholders, both government and non-government, at the provincial/district levels will play an active
role in the SDP preparation and implementation be it through participating in field work; community
mobilization and assessment activities; public meetings and workshops. At the national level, the key



Page 73
stakeholders will be line ministries and national level decision-makers. Line ministry staff will actively
assist the technical preparation of SDP outputs. Decision-makers will be targeted by awareness raising
activities, so as to ensure their support for implementation of the plans and adoption of the SDP approach
for broader application. A summary table of the level of participation of different stakeholders in
included in the Section E, point 7, of the Project document. A more detailed matrix will be developed by
appraisal.
6.    Paragraph 1.5 (More information is needed on the legislative framework...)
a) The section on "key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project" has been slightly
modified to indicate to the reader that this work is currently underway. The last sentence in that
paragraph now reads: "Specific gaps in the legislative, regulatory and institutional framework,
particularly as it relates to the SDP process and in-situ biodiversity conservation, are being identified
under a soon to be completed PDF financed study."
b) The Project will only be successful if there is local buy-in to the SDP process. The only way that this
can be accomplished in the long-term is to prove to the local governments that the process will promote
economic development that is welcomed by the local people and is sustainable over the long-term.
Project sites were selected based upon demonstrated provincial and district government commitment to
goals of sustainable economic development and local citizens interested in participating. The Project
initially asks local governments to act on "faith alone" by requiring restrictions to development in Project
areas where SDPs are to be prepared (action is required from the provincial governments by Negotiation).
Project implementation has also been kept as short as possible to minimize conflicts that might develop
between creation of SDPs and investors wanting to start projects in the area immediately. It is essential
that Project implementation attempt to minimize pressure on the provincial governments to do
"something" to encourage development in their areas immediately, rather than commit to a best practice
model that requires time to develop. The private sector development component of the CMBMP is
designed to let a tender for a specific activity that would be located and scoped to be in compliance with
the SDP. It is expected that an investment in the range of $10-$30 million would likely result, thus
providing tangible reasons for government "buy in". If this component of the Project is successful in the
period expected (within 4 years of Project Effectiveness), it is very likely that there will be full acceptance
of the SDP process by the district and Provincial Governments involved.
7.    Paragraph 1.6 (Staffing arrangements for the Project indicate a person will be hired to
facilitate...)
The Project is designed to be implemented through the existing Government institutional structures at
national, provincial and district levels. Provincial/district level coordination committees are being created
specifically to facilitate integrated coastal zone management as part of the broader CZMP. The Project's
coordination activities at provincial/district level will build on these. Where a specific structure for
coastal zone management does not exist and staff numbers and/or staff capabilities are limited, consultant
support to the Governor's office will be procured under the Project (for example, to assist MICOA at the
overall Project management level, and the Provincial Governors Office at the Project implementation
Provincial level). However, it is expected that Government managers (the actual managers) will be
available to the Project, and their salaries and office expenses included in the local component of the
Project Finance Plan.
9 March 1999



Page 74
Annex 12: Biodiversity Matrix
Cabo Delgado                                            Cabo Delgado
Terrestrial Habitats                                                    Marine Habitats
Site Description     Deciduous Miombo woodland, Riparian forest, Littoral    Mangroves, seagrass meadows, estuarine & riverine habitats, intertidal zones, coral reefs,
vegetation on recent dunes, Mixed baobab woodland.      offshore coral archipelagos.
GEF Justification    Pristine examples of each habitat type, relatively undeveloped   Extensive areas of undisturbed coral reefs, all major reef types represented. Diverse tropical
with potential for establishing conservation areas, contains  invertebrate fauna associated with the intertidal zone. Populations of rare species e.g. marine
viable populations of many large mammals (including the big   turtles, dugongs, dolphins & whales. Seagrass meadows provide important habitat for
five), rich biotas of avifauna, herpetofauna, ichthypfauna and    endangered seahorses & possibly dugongs. Extensive areas of undisturbed mangrove important
invertebrates. A unique semi-arid baobab Guibouria habitat    for juvenile growth of commercial fish species and prawns, and preferred habitat of endangered
occurs south of the Rovuma River & warrants special     birds such as Mangrove Kingfisher and Crab Plover. Rich diversity of fish species associated
protection. Extensive tracts of hardwood forest. Forest and  with seagrass meadows and coral reefs. Rich diversity of marine invertebrates associated with
wetland habitats support at least seven rare bird species. At  coral reefs. Proposals exist for the creation of a Quirimbas Archipelago Marine Park. As yet
present, none of these habitats or faunal communities are  there are no protected areas in this region. There appears to be concensus, at Provincial level to
protected.                                              declare the entire coastal zone as a conservation area. However, this does not imply protection.
Biological Diversity                      Plants  1000 spp                                                      Plants i 150 spp
Invertebrates unknown                                                 Invertebrates unknown
Fish unknown                                                          Fish  200 spp
Amphibians > 16 spp                                                   Amphibians unknown
Reptiles unknown                                                      Reptiles unknown
Birds > 200 spp                                                       Birds > 200 spp
Mammals > 100 spp                                                      Mammals i 10 spp
Main Threats       Poaching, slash & burn agriculture. Development of       Commercial and artisanal fisheries are beginning to impact on fish populations. IJnsustainable
ecotourism in the absence of environmental guidelines. Illegal   exploitation of holothurians because of their high commercial value. Fish collectors, the curio
hunting safaris, e.g. recently, two elephants were shot in this   trade. The potential for the development of ecotourism & sport fishing in the absence of
region by hunters using helicopters. The continued selective  environmental guidelines. Influx of Tanzanian fishermen may be affecting the sustainable
commercial exploitation of hardwoods will cause         exploitation of biological resources. Illegal hunting of dugong and marine turtles and the
fragmentation of habitat types. Little is known about the  collecting of turtle eggs is threatening the long-term persistence of viable populations of these
impact of the use of traditional medicines on plant     rare species.
communities.



Page 75
Cultural Features     Home to ethnic groups such as the Makonde, Kimwani and    Historical use of the islands as seasonal home for artisanal fishermen. One island (Vamizi) is
Macua who still follow a traditional way of life. Makonde art   home to a small community under traditional authority.
recognized worldwide. These culture have a rich oral heritage
of myths and legends, these are often associated with sacred
sites.
*   Establish a spatial development strategy with a complementary environmental management plan in participation with all stakeholders.
Key Interventions     *   Ensure that development (tourism) follows appropriate environmental guidelines and includes a profit-sharing component for local communities
*   Establish formal links between relevant government ministries and institutes whose mandates fall within the scope of the Project.
to ensure an effective partnership and as a capacity building exercise for long-term management of biological resources in the Project areas, and in
Mozambique in general.
* Initiate pilot projects on sustainable exploitation of biological resources for the economic benefit of local communities.
* Identify areas of global biodiversity significance and develop the capacity for their effective protection (marine and terrestrial habitats).
* Quantify the vulnerability and viability of populations of rare and endangered species (large mammals, turtles & dugongs).
* Implement protected area management plans and integrate into overall development objectives. Special consideration will be given to trans frontier
conservation of the Rovuma River in Mozambique and the Selous Reserve in Tanzania.
* Establish the impact of current practices of biological resource exploitation (fishing and other marine resources & wildlife) and develop solutions to
unsustainable practices with positive economic benefit to local communities.
*   Develop monitoring protocols and identify appropriate key species for use as indicators of ecosystem viability (marine and terrestrial habitats).
Nampula                                                 Nampula
Terrestrial Habitats                                                       Marine Habitats
Site Description    Guibourtia thicket (with new tree species), mixed deciduous  Mangroves, seagrass meadows, estuarine habitats, intertidal zones (including rocky shores) coral
woodland, palm woodland, littoral vegetation on recent  reefs, several islands offMossuril.
dunes.
Restricted coastal forests with new tree species protected for  Well-developed coral reefs of world class importance, all major reef types represented. Diverse
GEF Justification   their hardwood species. One existing conservation area   tropical invertebrate fauna associated with the intertidal zone. Populations of rare species e.g. marine
(Matibane Forest Reserve with potential for establishing  turtles, dugongs, dolphins & whales. The 15 km of sandy beach at Relanzabo is used as a nesting site
other conservation areas. Rich biotas of angiosperms,   for 5 spp of marine turtles (site is of global significance). Seagrass meadows provide important
avifauna, herpetofauna and invertebrates. The recently  habitat for endangered seahorses & probably dugongs. Extensive areas of undisturbed mangrove
discovered new tree species was recorded along this coast.   important for juvenile growth of commercial fish species and prawns, and preferred habitat of
These forests are the home to four threatened bird species as  endangered birds such as Mangrove Kingfisher and Crab Plover. Rich diversity of fish species
well as leopard.                                        associated with seagrass meadows and coral reefs. Proposals exist for the creation of a Nacala-
Mossuril Marine National Park.



Page 76
Plants  1000 spp                                                       Plants  150 spp
Invertebrates unknown                                                   Invertebrates unknown
Biological Diversity                     Fish unknown                                                            Fish i 200 spp
Amphibians > 14 spp                                                      Reptiles unknown
Reptiles unknown                                                         Birds > 150 spp
Birds > 200 spp                                                       Mammals  10 spp
Mammals > 60 species
Slash & burn agriculture is encroaching on remnant forests.   Fisheries-related activities, fish collectors, over-exploitation of holothuria, accidental catches of
Indiscriminate illegal hunting is common practice.    turtles & dugongs. Dugongs are being killed at a rate of about ten per year. It is a major priority to
Main Threats      Ecotourism has been developing in the absence of       establish the impact of this predation on the viability of dugong populations. Artisanal fishing
environmental guidelines with hunting safaris concessions    activity and sand extraction at Relanzabo beach is a threat to marine turtle breeding. The collection
already granted. Anthropogenic pressures caused by    of shells and corals for the curio trade persists and is unsustainable. Ecotourism, particularly sport
migration of people to coastal regions                fishing is being allowed to develop in the absence of environmental guidelines.
Destruction of mangroves to create salt pans. This could impact on adjacent habitats because of the
importance of mangroves to ecosystem processes.
Pollution potential from accidental spills occurring in Nacala deep water harbor.
Cultural Features   Coastal communities (Macua) using a variety of natural  Littoral waters important for artisanal fishermen. Islands used as temporary home by fisherman.
resources; traditional management systems in place but are
being weakened by social changes.
*   Establish a spatial development strategy with a complimentary environmental management plan in participation with all stakeholders.
*   Ensure that future development (tourism) follows appropriate environmental guidelines and includes a profit-sharing component for local communities
*   Establish formal links between relevant government ministries and institutes whose mandates fall within the scope of the Project.
to ensure an effective partnership and as a capacity building exercise for long-term management of biological resources in the Project areas and in Mozambique
Key Interventions        in general.
*   Initiate pilot projects on sustainable exploitation of biological resources for the economic benefit of local communities.
*   Quantify the vulnerability and viability of populations of rare and endangered species (dugongs & turtles).
*   Implement protected area management plans and integrate into overall development objectives.
*   Establish the impact of current practices of biological resource exploitation (fishing and other marine resources & wildlife) and develop solutions to
unsustainable practices with positive economic benefit to local communities.
*   Develop monitoring protocols and identify appropriate key species for use as indicators of ecosystem viability (marine and terrestrial habitats).



IBRD 30445
390                        40.    Lm                   41                         420
TA:NZANIA                                                                  Mozambique
Channel
~ ANGADE
} >ANGADE M           An          G             MOZAMBIQUE
COASTAL AND MARINE
M ~~~,,D A               0bve                             BIODIVERSITY
< [s   -> Mueda>       A  XB  XMANAGEMENT PROJECT
/x  /   \'    oAPILOT PROJECT AREAS IN NAMPULA
> g  wo~ \  /f  MUIDUMBE  tAND CABO DELGADO
120-
r     / ,    II   S ~ - -- \  /-    R XJ /'-          i     -ZPILOT PROJECT AREAS
J  G ClCA B O 2_.L  1tx bto    _  MAIN ROADS
, A MELUCO                     A                      S>s s g SECONDARY ROADS
MONTEPUEZ                                     )Q~~~~~~     ~      ~~~~~~~~uirimba    ----DIRT ROADS
__,-,L.'~EL  Gi.-A ,.. O6                                       0    SELECTED CITIES
MONTEPROVINCE CAPITALS
DISTRICT BONDARIES
z/_+ \// / if <PEMB,0             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
43    4          ,,0/   ~/        <PS   __  SunaAe        Xf                  -'-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY      130
.           \              /, Monte
'    'Jz' .t Puez, -        f    ^v      aAMECUFI
BAL MA /7fo  f  
,r I                       /  /                                          KILOMETERS
This mop wasproduced by the Mop Desin Unit of The World Bank,
The koundaries, colors, denominations and onyother information shown
iMBA        o      s r \ , X, on this mop do not imply, on the part of The Worfd Bank Groap, any
\,(  N     MERBA    f"I'   udgmentn she legcsstatus oufany territory, r any endOrSementor
a            '~~~~~~NA'-'AAPA                         acceptance of sarIs boundaories.
140
r           ,/       WAER                    A      ~     ,4.                                      t
/'   ~~/x-4'420
MEC u fURI                                                    "G W      0               N   /
NACA~~~~~~I.'O N alaUOlUN0
,-S MUECATE-; A-VE 9                                                     A-1
NAMP ULA                                                               F MOMA-F\ \    SANGOA S;Wi )Mo. 5WI
,RiBAUE                                      a         /     4/                        r >BABwBj\ f            ?
~~ C e / ,,m-uI%                ,/                0                            Irl WANA/9-WVNtf
MURRUPULA
1~~     \MECONOTA \                                                 sotm - ,,     - 
/     S_  f/MOGIN Al80G  I AW\
390    \                /  40'
MARCH 2000



