Report No. PID9403
Project Name                     Mozambique-Coastal and Marine Biodiversity (+)
Management Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       MZPE70305
Borrower                         Government of Mozambique
Implementing Agencies            Ministerio para Coordinacao da Accao
Ambiental (MICOA)
Av. Acordos de Lusaka, 2115
Caixa Postal 2020
Maputo, Mozambique
Contact:        Sr. Anselmo Gaspar
Telephone:       465843/48/51
Fax:            465849
Date PID prepared                July 6, 1999; Updated:   August 8, 2000
Appraisal date                   FY99
Projected Board date             FY2000
Country and sector background:   Mozambique's coastal zone is unique in the
East Africa region in terms of the quality, diversity and species richness of
its habitats. Largely as a consequence of the past two decades of war and
political instability which deterred the evolution of most economic activities
in the coastal zone, coastal ecosystems remain in relatively pristine
condition. However, establishment of what appears to be lasting peace and the
accompanying rapid transition to a dynamic economy has led to rapid
development. While the biodiversity and the natural beauty of the pristine
coast combine for a high potential for supporting sustainable coastal
development this potential is being undermined by the inadequate coastal
management capacity in the country. A narrow window of opportunity to address
these threats exists, but immediate action is needed. This need is recognized
in both the National Environmental Management Program and the National
Forestry and Wildlife Program each of which prioritize management of coastal
and marine biodiversity.
Project objectives: The development objective of the CMBMP (as the first in a
series of steps towards developing an integrated coastal zone management
process for the entire country) is to test and refine an approach to achieve
sustainable economic development of coastal zone resources. This is to be
accomplished through a strategic development planning process that balances
ecological, social and physical values, with the varying development interests
in the coastal zone. Progress toward this objective would be measured by: (a)
adoption of strategic spatial development plans by the national, provincial
and district authorities in the pilot areas; (b) improved institutional
capacity for integrated coastal zone management at provincial and district
level; (c) devolution of coastal zone planning to provincial level; and (d)
different coastal zone management models tested, including community
management and private sector concessions.
The global objective of the CMBMP is to ensure the effective protection of



globally significant coastal and marine habitats and species. Achievement of
this objective is fully integrated into the overall strategic development
planning approach being piloted by this project. Its success will be measured
by: (a) establishment of effective protection of key marine conservation
areas; and (b) co-management in buffer zones of marine conservation areas are
consistent with conservation objectives.
Project description: The project will initially focus on four districts in
northern Mozambique. The criteria for selection of these sites emphasized:
the presence of globally significant biodiversity and rich cultural heritage
values; high economic development potential, provincial and district
government commitment to the goals of environmentally and socially sustainable
economic development; and a local population interested in participating in
the proposed development process.
An improved ability of the provincial and local governments to make strategic
choices concerning integrated coastal zone management will be a key output of
the project. The experience gained through Project implementation should
provide a framework for other provinces and districts to follow. The
"demonstration effect" should encourage the use of social, ecological, and
economic planning tools within the spatial development planning context to
arrive at sustainable district development plans. This would include choices
such as the extent of private sector participation in conservation
management, the role of communities, and the most effective training
mechanisms. It is anticipated that the most important means of disseminating
lessons learned during this pilot phase will be through adoption of the
process, in an improved and expanded form, under the long-term CZMP. A
detailed description of the Project components follows.
Project Component 1 - Strategic Development Plans (SDP) (US$1.7m)
This component will be implemented in the districts of Palma, Mocimboa da
Praia (Cabo Delgado Province), and Nacala-Porto and Mossuril (Nampula
Province) in northern Mozambique. It aims to provide these provincial and
district governments with strategic planning tools that will facilitate
conservation and sustainable development of valuable coastal and marine
resources. The project aims to create a district-level development model that
marries environmental and social sustainability to appropriate private and
public sector investment. Two strategic spatial development plans (SPD) will
be developed to cover these districts (one covering the Cabo Delgado pilot
area and the other covering the Nampula pilot area). These Plans will include
both terrestrial and marine territory.
Since the districts include areas of pristine wilderness and high biodiversity
value, the GEF will finance biodiversity overlays for the two SDPs to ensure
that proposed spatial development and land use is consistent with conservation
and sustainable use of the area's biodiversity. In particular it will ensure
that proposed development is appropriate and consistent with protection and
conservation of two marine areas of recognized global biodiversity value and
high ecotourism potential: 1) the northern Quirimbas islands and adjacent
mainland, and 2) the Nacala-Mossuril coastline
Preparation of the SDP for each project area/district consists of five
principal activities: (1) landuse/capability assessment (including
terrestrial and marine areas) (2); social assessment, (including participatory
-2 -



assessments of community use and dependence on natural resources, demographics
and social attitude surveys); (3) incorporation of biodiversity values
including designation of key conservation areas and appropriate use and
management regimes for areas of remaining natural habitat and biological
corridors; (4) integration into a single strategic development plan for each
pilot area; and (5) review and adoption of the SDPs by local and provincial
government and other stakeholders. This final step is critical to ensuring
provincial and district ownership of the final SDP. It will include, and be
facilitated by, a series of district and provincial level workshops and
community meetings organized by the provincial and local government with
support of the social advisor to present and explain the draft SDP. This will
provide a feedback mechanism, to ensure stakeholder inputs to the SDP,
particularly those of the affected local communities, have been accurately and
equitably reflected in the plan. The SDP will be finalized based on the
outputs of these meetings.
The SDP, to be completed within 24 months, will provide the strategic
framework for district development including areas designated for conservation
areas, private sector development and community based natural resource
management or co-management with government agencies.
Project Component 2 - Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Community
Development (US$ 3.6 million)
This component will focus on establishing and strengthening protected area
management in two globally important conservation areas, biological monitoring
and a community development fund.
Sub-Component 2.1 - Conservation Area Management will focus on implementation
of biodiversity conservation and management in two areas of recognized global
importance: the proposed Quirimbas national park and the proposed Nacala-
Mossuril park. The project will support establishment and gazettement of the
conservation areas, boundary rationalization and zoning for appropriate use.
The project will also finance technical assistance; preparation and
implementation of detailed management plans for the MCAs and their buffer
zones; community land demarcation; limited equipment and infrastructure (such
as guard posts and boundary markers); and appropriate training and capacity
building for park staff and communities to work together on co-management of
natural resources and development of revenue generating mechanisms. The
management plans will be formulated in close partnership with local
communities and the private sector where appropriate, and will clearly define
the roles of the various actors in management of these areas. The Project
will support development of best practice guidelines for protected area co-
management and development of regulations relating to co-management
arrangements with local communities and conservation concessions.
Sub component 2.2 Biological Monitoring will support ecological surveys and
monitoring of key indicator species (e.g., turtles, dugong) and habitats
(e.g., coral reefs) to determine what impact the project has on biodiversity
protection. Monitoring will be undertaken both within the key marine
conservation areas and in adjacent coastal and marine habitats. Under this
component, training may be provided to local communities to build local
capacity for data collection relevant to establishing management guidelines
for sustainable harvesting of key marine resources. Data on migratory species
will be shared with other regional agencies as part of regional monitoring
- 3-



programs. Data on coral reef condition and recovery will be relayed to the
Global Coral Reef monitoring network. The project includes support for the
establishment of two field stations.
Sub-Component 2.3 Community Participation and Development Fund (CDF) will
provide matching grant financing for community based microprojects that
directly or indirectly promote biodiversity conservation. The CDF will target
communities within or neighboring the key conservation areas of Quirimbas and
Nacala-Mossuril as well as other biologically important areas identified in
the SDP. CDF financed micro-projects will be expected to meet clearly defined
eligibility criteria including: compatibility with the management objectives
of the conservation areas, technical feasibility, cost effectiveness,
ecological, economic and social sustainability and demonstrated community
commitment and in-kind contribution. Typical micro-projects could include:
community-run ecotourism activities and/or micro-enterprises that reduce
pressure on biological resources (e.g., support for less damaging artisanal
fishing techniques). The component will also support capacity building for
micro-enterprise development and private sector negotiation for communities.
Project Component 3 - Private Sector Development (US$ 1.3 million)
One of the SDP outputs will be the identification of a site in one of the two
pilot areas that would be suitable for a substantial private sector investment
(e.g., sustainably managed eco-tourism having a target value of between US$10-
30 million). The objective is to pilot a real example of how the principles
used to create the SDP can translate into, and leverage, a much larger
investment in the area covered by the Plan. The proposed tender will attract
private sector investment into the Project area and serve as an incentive for
local, provincial and national government to adopt the integrated SDP
approach. It will also illustrate that the cost of preparing spatial
development plans, when averaged against the improved investment climate that
will result once a SDP has been adopted, is actually very small. Best
practice guidelines will be extracted from this process for replication in
other coastal zone areas of Mozambique and the region.
Project Component 4 - Training and Public Awareness (US$ 0.7 million)
Sub-Component 4.1: Training will focus on the following levels of stakeholders
in order to build capacity for decentralized coastal zone planning and
management: (a) technical staff of implementing agencies, particularly at the
provincial level; (b) communities and local resource users; (c) local
government staff and other local administrators (traditional leaders,
religious leaders, local NGOs, etc.); and (d) decision-makers. A training
needs assessment is being completed.
Sub-Component 4.2: Public Awareness has been designed to target two of the
four target groups identified in the CZMP, namely decision makers and local
resource users . This has been done because these two groups are considered
the most critical in raising awareness concerning the need for biodiversity
management in the pilot areas.
Project Component 5 - Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
(US$ 2.4 million)
Sub-Component 5.1: Project Management will finance the direct equipment, and
- 4 -



operational and incremental staff costs of project coordination and management
at the central and local level. As there are many players involved in
management of coastal zone resources, the project will support regular
coordination meetings and communication between components undertaking
activities under the Project as part of the management component.
Sub-Component 5.2: Monitoring and Evaluation supports the development and
implementation of a monitoring and evaluation mechanism that will meet both
overall program as well as project specific requirements. It will thus (i)
assess the overall effectiveness of the project in the context of the CZMP;
(ii) evaluate the effectiveness in achieving project specific outputs and
development objectives; (iii) incorporate and expand ecological indicators for
the broader project area, including assessing impact at a landscape level
(building on component 2.2); (iv) monitor the status of the social conditions
of the pilot areas measured against the baselines established in component 1;
and (v) advise on the most effective institutional structure for the future
collection and evaluation of monitoring data concerning the state of the
coastal zone. An independent monitoring and evaluation consultancy team will
be financed to refine and implement a detailed monitoring plan (being
developed). Lessons learned from this monitoring component will provide
guidance for the design of a long term monitoring system for coastal and
marine resources.
Project financing: Financing of the project will be through an IDA Credit
(US$ 5.6 million) and a GEF Grant (US$ 4.11 million).
Project implementation: The overall coordination and management of the CMBMP
will be the responsibility of MICOA. The CZM project management team will be
headed by a Project Manager who will be supported by a full time project
advisor, a finance and procurement administrator and an administrative
secretary. At the provincial/district level, coordination will be facilitated
through Provincial Steering Committees (PSC) formed for this purpose. These
will report to the provincial governor and will consist of representatives
from key technical line ministries, district government, and other local
leaders as appropriate. Two field coordinators, one for each province, will
be appointed to work closely with and support the local coordination units and
field-based teams from relevant agencies providing technical support.
Ministerial oversight of the CMBMP will be provided by the National Steering
Committee (NSC), which includes the provincial governors. Coordination within
and between technical teams working on the various Project components will
also be strengthened through assistance provided by internationally and
regionally contracted advisors (planning, social/participation, marine and
terrestrial conservation, project management).
Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation of progress and impact
will be through a dedicated and detailed monitoring plan (under preparation).
The monitoring plan will specify the key indicators/data needs and sources,
who will collect the data and how frequently. MICOA will contract independent
consultants to review and refine the monitoring evaluation plan. Consultants
will also be responsible for evaluating and consolidating monitoring data into
semi-annual monitoring reports. These reports will form the basis of the
semi-annual Project review meetings. It is expected that the Bank supervision
missions will correspond with these semi-annual review meetings. In addition,
the consultants will conduct independent mid-term and end-term beneficiary
assessments within the pilot areas. These will serve as the basis for mid-
- 5 -



term and completion reviews, respectively.
Project sustainability: The proposed project is being designed in response to
the urgent need for coastal and marine biodiversity protection arising from
Mozambique's post-conflict rapid and dynamic economic development process. It
will be the first phase in a long-term effort but nonetheless it will itself
have lasting impacts. First, it will contribute to the development of a
policy, institutional and legislative framework as well as introduce
participatory planning to guide coastal and marine biodiversity management
over the long-term. Second, it has a strong human resource development focus
that will increase the capabilities of key stakeholder to plan, monitor and
manage coastal and marine biodiversity. Third, it will put in place
mechanisms to ensure financial sustainability of the project initiated
activities in protected areas. Fourth, it will identify and pilot alternative
income-earning livelihood activities and thus reduce the pressure on
biodiversity.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector: Drawing on the
experience of the Bank's Mozambique portfolio, in particular the Transfrontier
Conservation Areas project, as well as the Bankwide biodiversity portfolio and
regional and local natural resources management initiatives, the following key
needs for successful project design and implementation have been identified:
- Government commitment to the project and ownership of its underlying
principles and rationale will be ensured through an open and supportive
dialogue with government as well as targeted awareness raising activities
for key decision-makers;
- sustained inter-agency coordination will be promoted by linking project
implementation to existing institutions and by forging agreements, and
where necessary policies and legislation, that establish clear definitions
of roles and responsibilities of the involved institutions;
- early consultation with and participation of key stakeholders, including a
clearly defined participatory process, which outlines the roles and
responsibilities of different players (government, local communities,
academia, private sector, NGOs), will be addressed through social
assessments during the preparation and implementation phases.
- Human and institutional capacity constraints in government, local
communities and NGOs will be addressed through building capacity during the
preparation process, engaging in strong collaborative partnerships and
through both short- and long-term capacity building at both the national
and local levels during implementation. The purpose is to create a
critical mass of scientific and management expertise, which should allow
future, more ambitious, natural resource management activities to be
implemented in the coastal zone of Mozambique.
- first steps towards a supportive legal and policy framework formalizing the
government's commitment to devolve responsibility for management of natural
resources to local governments and the resource users as well as providing
incentives to complement command and control mechanisms will be encouraged
during implementation.
- linkages between biodiversity and coastal zone planning will be promoted
within the context of the environmentally and socially sustainable
strategic development planning processes being developed through the
project.
- adaptability to changing dynamics of the country's development processes
and threats to project objectives will be ensured through adoption of a
flexible, action-learning approach and working towards a programmatic
- 6 -



approach to incrementally expanding pilot level strategic development
planning;
- economic alternatives will be explored for communities that "directly
use" and over-exploit natural resources. A strategic development planning
model will be used promote a more appropriate and sustainable use of
natural resources and establish linkages between sustainable private sector
investment and social development and biodiversity conservation;
- adequate knowledge of local socioeconomic, ecological and cultural factors
is a prerequisite to identifying viable development alternatives.
- financial sustainability of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use
of natural resources will be a central focus of the Project. Particular
emphasis during implementation will be on catalyzing private sector
participation in conservation management in the context of participatory
and equitable management plans and the development of financing mechanisms
to cover recurrent costs.
Poverty category: N/A
Environmental aspects: The project objective is to positively influence the
conservation and sustainable use of coastal and marine ecosystems and species
of special concern. Nevertheless, there might be possible environmental
and/or social issues associated with the redefinition of protected area
boundaries and adaptations in current livelihood patterns/resource use.
Monitoring and mitigation actions have been incorporated into project design.
The project is classified as Environmental Category B.
Program objective categories:     EN
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H St, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone:       202-458-5454
Fax:            202-522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 11, 2000.
- 7 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the
borrower prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report
is required, once it is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in
accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, it will be
filed as an annex to the Public Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an
EA annex; the findings and recommendations of the EA will be
reflected in the body of the PID.
-8-



