Page  1
COASTAL AND MARINE BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT 
PROJECT 
 
MOZAMBIQUE 
 
Resettlement Policy Framework  
 
May, 2005 
RP379 
Page  2
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
i
List of Abbreviations 
 
BP Bank 
Policy 
CBNRM Community 
based 
natural 
resource 
management 
CC Consultative 
Council 
CDS-ZC 
Centre for Sustainable Development-Coastal Zone 
COGEP Participatory 
Management 
Council 
DA District 
Administration 
DAS 
Water and Sanitation Department (DPOPH) 
DINAGECA 
National Directorate of Geography and Cadastre 
DINAPOT 
National Directorate for Territorial Planning 
DINATUR 
National Tourism Directorate 
DIPTUR 
Provincial Directorate of Tourism 
DNA 
National Directorate of Water 
DNAC 
National Directorate of Conservation Areas 
DNAIA 
National Directorate of Environmental Assessment 
DNFFB 
National Directorate of Forestry and Wildlife 
DNGA 
National Directorate for Environmental Management 
DPA 
Provincial Directorate of Agriculture  
DPCA 
Provincial Directorate for Coordination of Environmental Affairs 
DPOPH 
Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Housing 
DPP 
Provincial Directorate of Fisheries 
DPPF 
Provincial Directorate of Planning and Finance 
DTT District 
Technical 
Team 
EA Environmental 
Assessment 
EIA Environmental 
Impact 
Assessment 
GEF 
Global Environment Fund 
GOM 
Government of Mozambique 
ICM Integrated 
Coastal 
Management 
(plan) 
IDA International 
Development 
Association 
IDP 
Integrated Development Plan 
IDPPE 
Institute for Development of Small Scale Fishing 
IFC International 
Finance 
Corporation 
IIP 
Fishing Research Institute 
MADER 
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development 
MAE Ministry 
of 
State 
Administration 
MICOA 
Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Affairs 
MINAG Ministry 
of 
Agriculture 
MISAU Ministry 
of 
Health 
MITUR Ministry 
of 
Tourism 
MOPH 
Ministry of Public Works and Housing 
MPF 
Ministry of Planning and Finance 
MPD 
Ministry of Planning and Development (created February 2005) 
NGO Non 
governmental 
organisation 
NP National 
Park 
NRM Natural 
resources 
management 
OP Operational 
Policy 
P/DTC 
Provincial / District Technical Committee 
PA Protected 
Area 
PAP Project 
affected 
person 
Page  3
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
ii 
PIU Project 
Implementation 
Unit 
(MICOA) 
PRA 
Participatory rural appraisal 
PTT Provincial 
Technical 
Team 
RAP Resettlement 
Action 
Plan 
RUG Resource 
User 
Group 
SAFMAR 
National Maritime Administration and Inspection Services  
SEA Strategic 
Environmental 
Assessment 
SMME 
Small and Medium Enterprise 
SPAP 
Provincial Services for Fishing Administration 
SPER 
Provincial Rural Extension Services (DPADER) 
SPFFB 
Provincial Forestry and Wildlife Services (DPADER) 
SPGC 
Provincial Geography and Cadastre Services (DPADER) 
Page  4
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
iii 
Table of Contents
 
I.  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY................................................................................................................I
 
1.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND BACKGROUND ......................................................................1
 
2.  PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES GOVERNING RESETTLEMENT PREPARATION AND 
IMPLEMENTATION............................................................................................................................3
 
3
.
LEGAL FRAMEWORK...................................................................................................................6
 
4.  PLANNING PROCEDURES AND IDENTIFICATION OF IMPACTS ...................................10
 
5.  MITIGATION INSTRUMENTS....................................................................................................13
 
6.  INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS........................................16
 
7.  PUBLIC CONSULTATION AND GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS ...........................................18
 
8.  MONITORING ARRANGEMENTS.............................................................................................21
 
9.  COSTS ..............................................................................................................................................22
 
10. APPENDICES.................................................................................................................................24
 
10.1.  A F
ULL 
RAP O
UTLINE
.............................................................................................................24
 
Page  5
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
i
COASTAL AND MARINE BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT 
PROJECT 
MOZAMBIQUE 
 
Resettlement Policy Framework  
 
I.  Executive Summary   
 
The Government of Mozambique with financing from IDA and the GEF is proposing 
to extend the Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project for a period of 
two years. The project supports the conservation of biodiversity while improving the 
livelihood of the local communities through application of participatory planning and 
zoning initiatives and promoting economic development, in particular sustainable 
tourism in four districts. The spatial development and participatory planning 
processes will define new conservation areas which include core protected areas and 
multiple use (buffer and interstitial) areas. Local communities are to play an important 
role in a sustainable management of the natural resources and the development of 
economic activities in these areas.   
 
Main project activities will include legal designation of new protected areas, the 
preparation and implementation of a participatory Integrated Development Plan (IDP) 
in each district to provide an environmentally sustainable framework for land use 
planning, natural resource management and development investment that is the 
product of harmonizing collaborative Integrated Coastal Management (ICM) / Action 
Plans and the District Development Plan. The development of environmentally sound 
and socially progressive nature tourism and improving effective protected areas (PAs) 
through linkages along the richly biodiverse coastlines of four northern districts of 
Nampula and Cabo Delgado Provinces will be achieved by the improvement of 
management capacity and supporting the creation of new formal and informal PAs. 
 
Key issues relating to community well-being implied in the design, development and 
implementation of the CMBMP extension include clarifying the status and rights of 
people currently residing inside core PAs; the role of the IDP with regard to the 
position of communities living in and around protected areas and other key 
stakeholders; the poor socio-economic status of communities and importance of the 
Biodoversity Conservation and Community Development, and Private Sector 
Development components to stimulate local livelihoods development; and, ensuring 
successful community-based conservation and participation of local NGOs. 
 
The development of community-managed nature tourism may acquire land to build 
and develop access infrastructure, and buildings. The CMBMP may also cause 
displacement of people from their homes and habitual resource use areas as a result 
of the level of restrictions placed on resource use on and in the coral filled areas 
around some isolated islands, coastal and riverine (Rovuma river) habitats scheduled 
to be protected. The location, nature and scope of land acquisition and displacement 
are not yet known. When, the details of land acquisition and involuntary resettlement 
are not fully known, a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) that establishes the 
policy principles for the development of specific Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) 
Page  6
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
ii
is developed for public information and discussion. As, subsequent to the RPF, 
outlines of different initiatives are known in sufficient detail, a RAP will be 
developed for each one based on the framework agreed upon in this RPF. 
 
Resettlement covers physical displacement and economic displacement. Thus the 
need for resettlement and compensation refers to the impact of the development 
causing the loss of, or loss of access to, any assets growing on or permanently affixed 
to the land, such as shelters, buildings and crops and also to the impact causing loss 
of or access to an economic resource base or local communities’ means of livelihood. 
Losses may be total or partial. The absence of legal title to use and usufruct of the 
land does not limit rights to compensation. Preference should be given to land based 
resettlement strategies for displaced people whose livelihoods are land-based. If 
sufficient alternative land is not available, non-land-based options built around 
opportunities for employment or self-employment should be provided in addition to 
cash compensation for land and other assets lost. People affected by PAs should be 
assisted to improve or restore their livelihoods in a manner that maintains the 
sustainability of the protected areas.   
 
Mitigation actions 
When an activity entailing land acquisition or/and displacement is identified, 
alternative designs should be prepared that seek to minimize the impact wherever 
possible. If the nature and scope of the undertaking demand that an Environmental 
Impact Assessment (EIA) is undertaken, a scoping phase prior to the EIA will identify 
the scope and impact of land acquisition required by project. It will also identify 
likely socio-economic impacts on affected populations, probable impacts related to 
associated facilities such as work camps, pipelines, electric power lines, etc. that are 
necessary for its construction or operation, and probable induced impacts, including 
likelihood of in-migration to the project area. 
 
The EIA itself will include a social impact assessment (SIA) that will identify and 
quantify impacts and the numbers of people affected by the project (PAPs). A socio-
economic baseline survey should include a census of all PAPs and provide the basis 
for estimation of impacts on the population. EIAs require extensive and reported 
public consultation during preparation. Mitigating action plans are also required to be 
prepared as part of the EIA.  
 
EIA / SIA mitigation plans should outline the procedures used to minimize the 
negative impacts on the community as whole or on part of it or on single households. 
Where these require resettlement, these procedures will be defined in detail in a 
Resettlement Action Plan.  
 
If activities carried out by the project cause unavoidable impacts requiring land 
acquisition the CMBMP Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will ensure the realization 
of a concise Land Acquisition Assessment (LAA).  
 
Likewise, in the case of awarded concessions; once a concession has been 
demarcated, it should be subject to a Land Acquisition Assessment. The Land 
Acquisition Assessment is a simple profile of use of the land to be acquired or 
awarded as a concession.   
 
Page  7
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
iii
An abbreviated RAP describes the project activity and actions to minimise 
resettlement; it provides an officially certified survey of displaced persons, an asset 
inventory and valuation and, if appropriate, socio-economic survey. It describes in 
detail the compensation and other resettlement assistance including entitlement to 
participation in alternative livelihoods development activities to be provided. It also 
describes the results of consultations with displaced people about acceptable 
alternatives. It must identify institutional responsibility for implementation and 
procedures for grievance redress, as well as arrangements for implementation and 
monitoring. An implementation schedule and detailed budget are required. 
 
In cases were an activity or sub-project will cause involuntary resettlement or 
negative impacts on p
eople’s livelihoods of a significant scale, the agency responsible 
will prepare a full RAP for that particular sub-project or activity.  The scope and level 
of detail of the RAP will vary with the magnitude and complexity of the resettlement 
involved. The organisation and minimum of information required for a RAP should 
conform to requirements in the World Bank’s policies on Involuntary Resettlement 
OP/BP 4.12
1
and this Framework. 
 
Institutional organisation 
RAPs will be developed for sub-projects and activities identified for implementation 
in the IDPs. These cover PAs (MITUR and MINPESC responsibility), buffer zones 
and the interstitial areas where DNFFB (MINAG) and MINPESC is responsible for 
conservation and sustainable community management of natural resources. At 
provincial level DPA is responsible for land-use delimitation and demarcation 
(SPGC), and sustainable resource management in interstitial areas (SPFFB).  
 
Responsibility for producing the RAP lies with the Project Component lead agency 
and the PIU in MICOA – the Project Authority. A consultant may be contracted to 
carry out socio-economic studies and an SIA. When contracted the consultant would 
also be responsible for stakeholder consultation, facilitating and supervising 
compensation negotiations and agreements and producing the RAP document.  
 
Responsibility for resettlement implementation lies with the Project Authority, and it 
is this that will organise technical support from the district government for site 
demarcation and land acquisition for resettlement among other things. The Project 
Authority may contract additional assistance to facilitate resettlement such as 
contractors for house design and/or construction, consultants to oversee the process 
and NGOs to facilitate the process with the PAPs. 
 
It may be useful to contract a resettlement advisor who can be called upon to assist the 
Project Authority in monitoring and preventing negative outcomes during 
resettlement implementation.  
 
A
specific government officer from the Project Authority should be attributed no less 
than 75% of his/her time to organising and directly supervising resettlement 
implementation at any given project site, and provided with field facilitators. If this is 
not possible, an NGO active in the CMBMP district should be contracted to facilitate 
1
See Annex A. 
Page  8
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
iv
the social and organisational aspects of resettlement. The participation of this NGO in 
the consultation process required to prepare the RAP would be advantageous.  
 
At community level a RAP working group will be set up by each affected Resource 
Users Group (RUG) at zone level with community and local leader membership, 
while an interzonal RAP working group will be formed from members of the 
interzonal RUG, and will include local government representatives of the territorial 
areas covered. RUGs will be the key forum for linking community issues, including 
resettlement and grievances with local government and the provincial CMBMP 
Coordinator and Provincial / District Technical Committee (P/DTC). RUGs and RAP 
working groups should be trained and supported by NGOs where possible. At district 
level the district governments, led by the District Administrator will be responsible 
for leading a District Resettlement Committee which will report to a Provincial 
Resettlement Management Group 
–
a
working group of the P/DTC. The provincial 
CMBMP Coordinator as a member of the District Resettlement Committee will be the 
first level link with the Project Authority.  
 
Public consultation and grievances 
A
local communication strategy stressing awareness-raising activities about the sub-
project and resettlement procedures and entitlements should be planned to be 
continued throughout preparation and implementation of resettlement in order to 
reduce misunderstanding and grievances. Communities will be involved in awareness-
raising and training concerning their rights and obligations; how to obtain legal advice 
and representation, and how to seek redress against what they regard as unfair 
practices by investment partners. Training for technical teams, RUGs and local 
leaders in conflict management will also assist in minimizing the negative impact of 
conflicts.  
 
The RAP preparation process is participatory and through consultation during the 
socio-economic studies and impact assessments potential conflicts and 
communication channels for grievances should be identified. The consultation process 
must involve all potentially affected people. During and after implementation 
individual and group consultation should continue to verify progress in taking up new 
livelihoods activities and in restoring their lives to the levels they were prior to 
resettlement.  
 
Grievances concerning proposed or actual resettlement arrangements can initially be 
presented for local customary redress or placed before recognised community courts. 
Failing resolution, issues may be presented to the local RAP working group for 
transmission through to the District Resettlement Committee and the provincial 
CMBMP Coordinator on behalf of the Project Authority for redress. If this route is 
not appropriate or the issue is not resolved, it may be formally taken to the P/DTC 
working group – the Provincial Resettlement Management Group and/or the 
Provincial Governor.   
 
If a community is in conflict with a private-sector developer, the issue will be taken 
first to the local authorities – the State Administration and where relevant the 
Protected Area (PA) Administration. Failing resolution there, it will be taken to the 
Ministry or agency with titular responsibility for the investment. Provisions to appeal 
with sectoral grievances to higher levels of government such as National Directors 
Page  9
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
v
and Ministers exist in most legislation. Should any party be dissatisfied, the grieved 
party may take the complaint to court where it will be dealt with under Mozambican 
law. 
 
The full costs of resettlement including compensation and mitigating activities are 
approximately US $299,527. This figure will be revised during project 
implementation. 
 
The CMBMP adaptive management model uses monitoring and evaluation tools to 
ensure the continued relevance of project direction and activities. Community 
consultation and participation in the RAP planning process will identify progress and 
impact indicators. These will be used to formulate the RAP, for participatory 
monitoring and providing feedback to external monitors during the implementation of 
the RAP. Communities will also participate in external evaluation of outcomes of 
resettlement.  
 
The activities implied in any written agreements between the Project Authority and 
community representatives will be jointly monitored and where possible community 
organizations will be responsible for ensuring the compliance of community 
members.   
 
Page  10
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
1
1.  Project Description and Background 
 
 
The Government of Mozambique with financing from IDA and the GEF is funding a 
Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project (CMBMP) that is piloting an 
integrated approach to achieving sustainable and equitable use and conservation of 
Mozambique’s coastal and marine resources focusing on two project areas in northern 
Mozambique – Mocimboa da Praia and Palma Districts in Cabo Delgado Province, 
and Nacala-Porto and Mossuril Districts in Nampula province. 
 
Mozambique’s coastal zone is unique in terms of quality, diversity and species 
richness of its habitats. The two pilot project areas include sites recognized as having 
globally significant biodiversity including corals, mangroves, sea grass beds, all five 
species of endangered turtles and dugongs. They are also characterised by strong local 
government commitment to integrate biodiversity protection into local socio-
economic development. It is also a reality that a significant proportion of the 
country’s population is concentrated in coastal areas, placing significant pressure on 
the natural resources.  
 
The CMBMP is a key pilot initiative that will provide lessons and best practices in 
integrated planning approaches to be replicated more widely in the government’s 
longer term overarching National Coastal Zone Management Programme.  
 
With the goal of effectively protecting regionally and globally significant coastal and 
marine habitats and species the main development objective of CMBMP is to test and 
consolidate an approach to achieve sustainable economic development of coastal zone 
resources through a strategic development planning process that integrates ecological, 
social, economic, and physical values and balances the varying interests involved. A 
number of activities have been taking place within the two pilot areas through four 
main components which aim to:  
ƒ
Produce integrated development plans developed via strategic spatial 
planning, coastal conservation management plans and district development 
planning. 
ƒ
Protect areas of globally and regionally significant biodiversity while piloting 
community development initiatives 
ƒ
Create an enabling environment for private sector investment and ensure 
continuity of conservation area management and community development 
activities through sustainable financing mechanisms. 
ƒ
Facilitate and consolidate sustainable use of coastal and marine resources 
through training to increase awareness and capacity, participatory monitoring, 
institutional coordination and arrangements for devolving coastal and marine 
resource planning to the provincial and local levels. 
 
After a mid-term review in April/May 2003 the project shifted its focus slightly; the 
integrated development planning (IDP) process was clarified insofar the initial spatial 
or strategic development planning (SDP) component using a consultative approach 
was augmented by the inclusion of a participatory strategic environmental assessment 
(SEA) and macro-zoning to identify key issues, environmentally sensitive areas, 
community land-use areas and potential conservation areas. Micro-zoning will then be 
used as the tool for producing land-use plans and through a structured participatory 
Page  11
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
2
process produce Integrated Coastal zone Management (ICM) plans and Protected 
Area (PA) plans that identify concrete community development interventions that can 
be piloted and opportunities for engaging the private sector in partnerships that 
promote conservation management. The project placed a new emphasis on 
decentralization and devolution of responsibilities for coastal zone planning to 
provincial and district levels through institutional capacity development. By shifting 
integrated development planning to the lowest possible level it was hoped that 
environmental issues would be integrated into issues-based ICM plans, and the 
harmonization of ICM plans and DDPs would systematise integrated development 
management, policy and programming through District IDPs. 
 
At the end of 2004 the project implementation period was extended to June 2007 after 
the World Bank judged progress to be satisfactory and implementation much more 
effective. The case for extension is based on the opportunity to continue to influence 
coastal development in Mozambique to better support poverty alleviation, sustainable 
economic development, and decentralization of decision-making whilst safeguarding 
and protecting the biodiversity of the coastal environment. The Mozambican 
Government has demonstrated its increasing demand for and commitment to the 
Integrated Coastal zone Management (ICM) process in the participation of Tourism, 
Agricultural and State Administration sectors together with the project leader the 
Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Action (MICOA). 
 
Over the next two years the CMBMP expects to achieve four component objectives 
concerning a) the IDP process, b) biodiversity conservation and community 
development, c) private sector development, and d) training, public awareness, project 
monitoring and coordination and reach the following strategic targets: 
ƒ
Development of integrated planning guidelines that incorporate conservation 
requirements and will assist in the formulation of regulations to govern 
integrated territorial planning processes. 
ƒ
Harmonising the guidelines with the District Development Planning guidelines 
being formulated by the National Directorate of Planning in the Ministry of 
Planning and Rural Development. 
ƒ
Development of an Integrated Coastal Management policy and strategy. 
ƒ
Demarcation and gazetting of the first transfrontier coastal conservation area 
in the Africa region. 
ƒ
Community land demarcation and implementation of micro-projects identified 
through the integrated development planning process. 
ƒ
Promotion of private sector investments (i.e. tourism operations involving 
communities) stimulated through the strategic development planning process. 
ƒ
Contingency plan and a training programme in marine hazards and oil spills. 
ƒ
Sustainable operationalization of a field station in Pemba for biological 
monitoring, research and monitoring. 
ƒ
Implementation of a public awareness strategy to promote behaviour changes. 
ƒ
Further testing and implementation of the monitoring and evaluation 
programme. 
ƒ
Implementation of the training plan including Masters degree courses in the 
different disciplines of coastal zone management.   
 
Key issues relating to community well-being implied in the design, development and 
implementation of the extension phase of the CMBMP include: 
Page  12
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
3
ƒ
The controversial issue of the status and rights of people currently residing 
inside areas identified as actual and potential conservation areas and planned 
to be officially gazetted protected areas (PAs). 
ƒ
Role of ICM and PA management plans in relation to the position of people 
living in and around future protected areas. The importance of a structured, 
participatory, spatial planning process to develop an agreed-upon common 
framework for the many different actors and interests. 
ƒ
Socio-economic status of communities and importance of the Biodiversity 
Conservation and Community Development, and Private Sector Development 
components to stimulate local livelihoods development.   
ƒ
Community-based conservation opportunities and participation of local NGOs. 
 
2.  Principles and Objectives Governing Resettlement 
Preparation and Implementation 
 
The CMBMP endorses and will promote the development of further policies and 
their implementation to minimize to the extent possible land acquisition for public 
interest, and land-use changes that cause adverse socio-economic impacts. It is 
designed to mitigate as effectively as possible the adverse impacts of unavoidable 
land acquisition and involuntary resettlement. A key mitiga
ting tool is the project’s 
central focus on a participatory planning and implementation approach supported by 
an adaptive management model.  
 
The CMBMP is to be implemented in four coastal districts of the two most northern 
provinces in Mozambique. The CMBMP concept and project design promote the 
development of different sustainable resource use activities in buffer and interstitial 
zones created around PAs. Through the many project components, implemented via 
different government sector agencies, the project also explicitly links conservation 
and tourism development activities to community participation and access to direct 
and indirect benefits, as well as encourages community land delimitation to 
strengthen their rights bases. The development of community managed nature 
tourism may require land acquisition to build and develop infrastructure, and 
buildings. The project may also cause displacement of people from their homes and 
habitual resource use areas as a result of the level of restrictions placed on resource 
use on and in the coral filled areas around some isolated islands, coastal and riverine 
(Rovuma river) habitats scheduled to be protected. Presently the location, nature and 
scope of land acquisition and displacement are not yet known.  
 
Concessions awarded with land demarcated will be subject to a Land Acquisition 
Assessment to verify if communities are to be displaced or goods lost as a result of 
proposed development. This short document will identify the land, communities, land 
uses and attitudes of the communities towards the concession. Their signed 
agreement is necessary to assure World Bank agreement to their undertaking 
resettlement activities.   
 
When the details of land acquisition and involuntary resettlement are fully known, a 
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) can be defined to provide an implementation guide 
for the operation. When, however, the details of land acquisition and involuntary 
Page  13
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
4
resettlement are not fully known, a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) that 
establishes the policy principles for the development of specific RAPs is developed 
for public information and discussion. As, subsequent to the RPF, outlines of 
different initiatives are known in sufficient detail, a RAP will be developed for each 
one based on the framework agreed upon in this RPF.  
 
The principles outlined in the World Bank's Operational Policy OP/BP 4.12 are used 
in preparing the Policy Framework. These principles and the resettlement measures 
stemming from them will apply to all sub projects of the CMBMP, whether or not the 
scale and complexity of resettlement issues require preparation of a RAP.  
 
It is widely understood that involuntary resettlement may cause severe long-term 
hardship, impoverishment, and environmental damage unless appropriate measures 
are care
fully planned and carried out. The Bank’s overall policy objectives on 
involuntary resettlement are the following: 
 
ƒ
Involuntary resettlement and land acquisition should be minimized of avoided 
where possible. Where land acquisition is unavoidable, the project will be 
designed to minimize adverse impacts. 
ƒ
Resettlement activities should be conceived and executed as sustainable 
development programmes. Sufficient investment resources should be 
provided to enable the persons displaced by the project to share in project 
benefits. 
ƒ
Displaced people should be meaningfully consulted and should have 
opportunities to participate in planning and implementing resettlement 
programs. 
ƒ
Displaced persons should be assisted in their efforts to improve their 
livelihoods and standards of living or at least to restore them, in real terms, to 
pre-displacement levels or to levels prevailing prior to the beginning of 
project implementation, whichever is higher. 
 
The OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement ensures that the population displaced by a 
project receives benefits from it. This covers those with usufruct or customary rights 
to the land or other resources taken for the project. The OP is inclusive, ensuring that 
all those affected both directly and indirectly by project developments are 
compensated as part of the project.  
 
Resettlement covers physical displacement and economic displacement. Thus the 
need for resettlement and compensation refers to the impact of the development 
causing the loss of, or loss of access to, any assets growing on or permanently affixed 
to the land, such as shelters, buildings and crops and also to the impact causing loss 
of or access to an economic resource base or local communities’ means of livelihood. 
Losses may be total or partial. The absence of legal title to use and usufruct of the 
land does not limit rights to compensation. Preference should be given to land based 
resettlement strategies for displaced people whose livelihoods are land-based.  If 
sufficient alternative land is not available, non-land-based options built around 
opportunities for employment or self-employment should be provided in addition to 
cash compensation for land and other assets lost. The lack of adequate land must be 
demonstrated and documented. 
 
Page  14
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
5
The policy is specific about resettlement in the case of the involuntary restriction of 
access to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting in adverse impacts on 
the livelihoods of the displaced persons.  These restrictions include restrictions on the 
use of resources imposed on people living outside the park or protected area, or on 
those who continue living inside the park or protected area during and after project 
implementation. People affected by PAs should be assisted to improve or restore their 
livelihoods in a manner that maintains the sustainability of the parks and protected 
areas.   
 
It should be noted that OP 4.12 does not apply to restrictions of access to natural 
resources under community-based projects. Thus where the community using the 
resources decides to restrict access to these resources, provided the community 
decision-making process is deemed adequate by the Bank, and that it provides for 
identification of appropriate measures to mitigate any adverse impacts on the 
vulnerable members of the community these restrictions are not considered 
involuntary.  
 
The need to involve communities in the planning and implementation of 
interventions that result from these policies is stressed. Conflict resolution 
mechanisms should be identified as part of the above planning and implementation. 
Particular attention must be paid to the needs of vulnerable groups, especially those 
living below the poverty line, the landless, the elderly, women and children, 
indigenous peoples and ethnic minorities. 
 
Implementation of resettlement activities must be linked to the implementation of the 
investment component of the project to ensure that displacement or restriction of 
access does not occur before necessary measures for resettlement are in place. 
Measures required prior to displacement include provision of compensation and of 
other assistance required for relocation, and preparation and provision of resettlement 
sites with adequate facilities. The taking of land and related assets may take place 
only after compensation has been paid and, where applicable, resettlement sites and 
moving allowances have been provided to the displaced persons. 
 
Cash compensation for lost assets should be paid for livelihood sources that are not 
land-based. Compensation levels should be sufficient to replace the assets at full 
replacement cost in local markets.  
 
Displaced persons and their communities, and host communities receiving them, 
should be provided timely and relevant information, consulted on resettlement 
options, and offered opportunities to participate in planning, implementing, and 
monitoring resettlement. Appropriate and accessible grievance mechanisms must be 
established for these groups. 
 
Infrastructure and public services must be provided as necessary to improve, restore, 
or maintain accessibility and levels of service for the displaced persons and host 
communities. Alternative or similar resources should be provided to compensate for 
the loss of access to community resources such as fishing areas and fuel resource 
areas. 
 
Page  15
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
6
Patterns of community organization appropriate to the new circumstances should be 
based on choices made by the displaced persons. 
 
Resettlement programs will include adequate institutional arrangements to ensure 
effective and timely design, planning and implementation of resettlement and 
rehabilitation measures. Adequate arrangements for effective and timely internal and 
external monitoring will be made on implementation of all resettlement measures.  
The total cost of resettling approximately 57 families is US $ 299,527, the details of 
which may be seen in section 9 below. 
 
3.  Legal Framework 
 
The Mozambican Constitution (2004
)
-
One of the fundamental principles of the 
Constitution is that natural resources and means of production are public property of 
collective interest. Specifically, land belongs to the State, and use rights can only be 
awarded by the State. Art. 111 clarifies that with insofar as the State awards title to 
use rights of the land, it also recognises and protects acquired hereditary and 
occupation rights. However exception is when an area is a legal reserve (i.e. a 
Protected Zone) or where the land has been legally attributed to another person or 
entity.  
 
Land Law, nº 19/1997
 provides the basis for defining people’s land use rights, 
providing the details of rights based on customary claims and the procedures for 
acquisition of title for use and benefits by communities and individuals. The law 
recommends a consultation-based process that recognizes customary rights as the 
means for identifying the claims of communities and individual members of 
communities without title. Art 24 identifies that in rural areas local communities 
participate in: a) the management of natural resources, b) the resolution of conflicts, 
c) the process of obtaining title as established in nº. 3, of Art. 13 of this law, and d) in 
the identification and definition of the boundaries of the land they occupy.  In the first 
two activities (…) local communities use among others, customary practices. 
 
It defines that the right to use and usufruct of the land may be acquired through 
occupation by Mozambican individuals who have been using the land in good faith 
for at least ten years, and by local communities whose right to use and benefit of the  
land will comply with the principles of co-titularity.  
 
It specifies that no land use and benefit rights can be acquired in total and partial 
protection zones which are considered public domain, however special licences for 
specific activities may be issued. Zones of total protection are to be used for nature 
conservation and protection activities or be areas of State defence and security.  
 
Indeed, existing rights to use and usufruct of the land may be terminated through 
revocation of such right for reasons of public interest, after the payment of fair 
compensation, in which case the non-removable improvements will revert to the 
State.  
 
Compensation for losses incurred as a result of relocation is recommended in the 
Land Law Regulations 66/1998.  Basic compensation guidelines are provided in the 
Page  16
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
7
form of tables produced and updated by the Provincial Directorate of Agriculture and 
Rural Development covering the minimum values attributed at the current market 
value to various annual and tree crops.  The guideline for assessing values of houses 
produced by the Provincial Directorate of Public Works and Housing is based on the 
Ministerial Diploma 119/1994 of 14th September. 
 
Forestry and Wildlife Law nº 10/1997
 
–
identifies the principles of local community 
participation in sustainable natural resources management inside as well as outside of 
PAs.  The Forestry and Wildlife Law prohibits hunting, agriculture and livestock 
rearing in national parks which are protected areas, unless otherwise stipulated in a 
management plan. The law recognises the presence of people in PAs when it 
stipulates that management plans for PAs must be formulated with the collaboration 
of the local communities. It also emphasises that conservation and sustainable use 
resources should harmonise with actions of the local authorities within the framework 
of decentralization. 
 
The Regulations for 
Forestry and Wildlife
 
(Decree nº 12/2002)
,
determine 
communities as having have an inalienable right to draw benefit from conservation 
that uses land and resources over which they have tenure or hold rights of access and 
use. 
ƒ
It proposes 20% of forestry or wildlife concession fees should go to local 
communities resident in the concession area. 
ƒ
Communities associated with a conservation area have a right to participate in 
decision making that affects them, their livelihood and wellbeing. 
ƒ
Local Participatory Management Councils (COGEPs) constituted as 
associations with representation of all stakeholders with interests in the use of 
natural resources in a given area may be created as a mechanism for 
articulating and defend participants’ interests.  
 
The mechanisms for channelling and utilizing the 20% of taxes to benefit local 
communities and for the delegation of powers in the management of forest and 
wildlife resources have not yet been created. Until they are, local communities will 
have difficulties negotiating equitable and optimal agreements regarding alternatives 
to resource-use restrictions and resettlement considerations. 
 
With the view of improving the protection and management of Forest and Wildlife 
Conservation Areas outside of protected areas, the 
Forestry and Wildlife policy
 
encourages (i) the creation of autonomous development societies to administer and 
manage conservation areas with the involvement of private sector and local 
communities; (ii) revision of the boundaries of parks and reserves, and creation of 
Transfrontier Conservation Areas through demarcation and development of existing 
National Parks and Reserves with the involvement of private sector and communities. 
 
Tourism 
-
The Presidential Decree 1/2000, creates the Ministry of Tourism and 
Decree 9/2000 identifies the National Directorate for Conservation Areas (DNAC) as 
the institution responsible for the overall management of all conservation areas in 
Mozambique with the main purpose of developing tourism. Decree 17/2001 transfers 
four national parks and five reserves as well as any other PAs created in the future to 
the Ministry of Tourism. The sector is also responsible for eco-tourism development 
areas and projects, community conservation and eco-tourism projects as well as the 
Page  17
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
8
official hunting blocks. The attributes and competencies of the Ministry of 
Agriculture to ensure the sustainable and rational management, administration and 
control of natural resource use inside and outside of CAs are safeguarded in this 
decree.  
 
The 
Tourism Law
 
nº 4/2004
 underlines the principles that social and economic 
development must respect forests, wildlife, mineral archaeological and historic 
heritage and preserve values, marine and land biodiversity and ecosystems. It sees 
tourism contributing to economic growth, employment creation and alleviation of 
poverty. The specific improvement of the standard of living of local communities is 
expected as a result of their active participation in tourism activities. Private sector 
participation in promotion and development of tourism resources and the 
establishment of inter-institutional communication and participation mechanisms are 
key sector responsibilities. 
 
Environmental Law nº 20/1997
 
–
defines responsibilities for establishing 
Environmental Protection Areas to safeguard socio-economic, biodiversity and 
ecosystems interests. It stipulates that local communities and to a certain extent NGOs 
and the private sector shall participate in the management of such areas, and will be 
subject to monitoring and inspection by government. It also identifies prohibited 
activities as those that may threaten conservation, reproduction, quality and quantity 
of biological resources.  
 
The 
regulations on Environmental Impact Evaluation
 
(Decree nº 45/2004)
 
obligate a project proponent to carry out consultation and public participation 
particularly in the case of PAPs who’s use of natural resources is restricted by a 
project or physical displacement is implied through the project preparation process. 
The EIA regulations omit discussion of environmental management plan 
requirements. 
 
In 2000 the Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) produced 
extensive guidelines on the Criteria for Resettlement of Populations in Rural Areas 
that were aimed to facilitate the process of resettlement after the floods. 
 
The 
Maritime Fisheries Decree, nº 43/2003
 which updates the regulations for 
Maritime Fisheries (Decree 16/1996) defines the responsibility for creation of three 
types of marine protected areas for conservation reasons: marine parks (total 
protection), marine reserves (total or partial depending on the interests of protection) 
and marine protected areas (time delimited protection when fishing is prohibited for 
certain periods for certain species / sizes etc.) 
–
all of which may be located within the 
marine areas of National Parks. Marine parks and reserves are created by the Council 
of Ministers following recommendation of the Ministry of Fisheries. 
 
The 
Fisheries Law 3/1990
 notes that the fishing resources of the marine waters are of 
public domain and the State is responsible for regulating the conditions under which 
fishing and related activities are performed and benefited from. A Ministerial 
Despatch of 23 April 2002 declares a moratorium on coral and ornamental fish 
collection and trade. The Mozambique navy, SAFMAR and MICOA have compliance 
roles in fisheries management. 
 
Page  18
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
9
While there are no specific legal guidelines for the social aspects of resettlement 
Moza
mbique’s ratification of the International Conventions of the Rights of the Child 
and Human Rights, Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, 
Mozambique’s agenda on Human Settlement and the Labour law define specific 
rights based on equity and equal opportunity without discrimination to the benefits of 
private enterprise and investments.   
 
All Mozambican guidelines point out the importance of involving the Local 
Administration (District level and below) in the process of resettlement to ensure it is 
locally appropriate, and so that government personnel may learn and apply similar 
procedures to other instances of resettlement in their territory. 
 
World Bank policy on involuntary resettlement covers the direct economic and social 
impacts of the expropriation of land or the restriction of access to natural resources. 
OP 4.12 describes the coverage of the policy as direct economic and social impacts 
that result from Bank-assisted investment projects, and are caused by the involuntary 
restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas resulting in 
adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced persons.  
 
People may lose their ownership, occupancy, or use rights, because of land 
acquisition or restriction of access in the creation of legally designated parks and 
protected areas. Restriction of traditional access to resources in legally designated 
parks and protected areas is an OP 4.12 issue.  
 
OP 4.12 is also concerned with conservation schemes (for example, wildlife reserves, 
national parks, classified forests) that may not acquire land through eminent domain, 
insofar as their declaration limits access to resources in the protected area but may 
directly affect livelihoods and incomes. 
 
Sustainability requirements may mean that local residents stop or reduce their 
activities, OP 4.12 requires that these residents must be confident that they can find 
alternative sources of food or livelihoods. The Mozambican Tourism Policy and 
Strategy endorse the Environmental legal framework in supporting this approach to 
sustainable human development and environmental management.   
 
For sector investment operations or sub-projects that may involve involuntary 
resettlement and where the exact scale of impacts and affected people is not known, 
the project implementing agency must screen sub-projects through the submission of 
a
resettlement policy framework prior to appraisal that conforms to OP 4.12. The 
framework estimates, to the extent feasible, the total population to be displaced and 
the overall resettlement costs. If financial intermediary operations involve involuntary 
resettlement a RPF should also be submitted prior to appraisal. The RPF includes an 
assessment of the institutional capacity and procedures of each of the financial 
institutions that will be responsible for subproject financing.  
 
If resettlement is not foreseen prior to appraisal, but during design or implementation 
is found to be necessary, the legal agreements specify the obligation of the financial 
intermediaries to obtain from the potential project proponents a resettlement plan 
consistent with OP/BP 4.12.   
 
Page  19
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
10
Mozambican legislation concerning resettlement is minimal, however it does require 
payment of compensation and it also automatically triggers the realization of an EIA 
and thus the production of an environmental management plan. However it makes no 
distinct reference to a resettlement planning process. In the absence of such guidance, 
the principles and procedures stipulated in the Bank’s OP/BP 4.12 will prevail and 
supplement all the gaps.  
 
For all sub-projects involving resettlement, a draft RAP must be provided to the Bank 
for approval before the sub-project is accepted for Bank financing. 
 
Mozambican Law is unclear as to the status and rights of people living in PAs. People 
who have spent more than 10 years there do not in fact have rights to use and benefit 
of the land safeguarded by their period of residence as might be implied by the Land 
Law. To the contrary, it clearly prohibits any legal rights to use of this land other than 
those of the State, unless a special license is granted. However local communities can 
secure a platform for benefit from the Wildlife and Forestry legislation entitling them 
to benefits from concession fees for use of land in PAs where they are ‘local 
communities’, possibilities to participate in the creation of management plans, and the 
possibility to include certain uses of resources in PAs in the management plans that 
are prohibited by the Land Law.  The nature of the ‘special license’ identified in the 
Land Law that permits use of land in PAs is not clear. 
 
The Bank’s OP/BP 4.12 focus on access restrictions to resources and their use in PAs. 
They require that all negative impacts on the livelihoods of people affected by 
existence of a PA be addressed and treated as ‘resettlement’. As such, regardless of 
legal land tenure status, the Bank considers their losses sufficient entitlement for 
compensation and where necessary, resettlement as a development-oriented activity is 
an important mitigation action. While the Mozambican legal framework also requires 
compensation to be awarded to all people who lose assets to a development project, 
the loss of access to natural resources is not identified as an entitlement category for 
compensation in Mozambican legislation. Entitlement assessments should in all areas 
not mentioned by Mozambican law be guided by the World Bank’s OP/BP 4.12.    
 
4.  Planning Procedures and Identification of Impacts 
 
Minimizing impacts 
A
Process Framework has been prepared for the CMBMP since it involves 
involuntary restriction of access to natural resources in legally designated parks and 
protected areas. This describes the nature of restrictions, as well as the type of 
measures necessary to mitigate adverse impacts during implementation of the project.  
 
The project focuses in large part on the preparation and implementation of zoning 
plans which will restrict community use and access to resources in different marine 
and terrestrial areas. These will result on the one hand in progressive nature tourism 
initiatives and other related economic activities carried out by communities in 
partnership with private sector entities. On the other hand, potential conflicts over 
resource use as the marine and land areas where these may be carried out are 
restricted in and around PAs, and the possible loss of property and need for local 
Page  20
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
11
people to relocate as a result of new concessions for tourism development enterprises 
and potential influxes of people to provide formal and informal services for these.  
 
The CMBMP foresees the rehabilitation or provision of priority infrastructure such as 
roads and lodges in the buffer zones and interstitial areas surrounding PAs which will 
require the acquisition of land and possibly involuntary displacement. At this stage it 
is not possible to estimate the scope or even if the activities resulting from these 
partnerships or infrastructure construction will require relocation or loss of people’s 
assets. 
 
When an activity entailing land acquisition or/and displacement is identified, 
alternative designs should be prepared that seek to minimize the impact wherever 
possible. All activities implying people’s resettlement, large industry, large 
infrastructure including tourism infrastructure in rural areas without land use planning 
for 150 beds or more or covering an area of more than 10 ha.; camp sites in areas 
larger than five hectares;  marinas or docks with over 50 moorings; the creation of 
national parks, reserves, coastal marine and wildlife management areas and buffer 
zones, commercial use of wildlife, forests and plants and the introduction of exotic 
species of these; and particularly, activities planned in environmentally sensitive areas 
with coral reefs, mangroves, small islands, erosion zones, native forests, areas that 
contain endangered species, wetlands, or where there are conflicts of resource use, are 
required by Mozambican law to have an EIA performed.  
 
A
scoping phase prior to the EIA will identify the scope and impact of land 
acquisition required by project. It will also identify other likely impacts on affected 
populations, probable impacts related to associated facilities such as work camps, 
pipelines, transmission lines, etc. that are necessary for its construction or operation, 
and probable induced impacts, including likelihood of in-migration to the project area. 
 
The EIA itself will include a social impact component that will identify and quantify 
impacts and the numbers of people affected by the project (PAPs). A socio-economic 
baseline survey should include a census of all PAPs and provide the basis for 
estimation of impacts on the population. EIAs require extensive and reported public 
consultation during preparation. Mitigating action plans are also required to be 
prepared as part of the EIA.  
 
EIA mitigation plans should outline the procedures used to minimize the negative 
impacts on the community as whole or on part of it or on single households. Where 
these require resettlement, these procedures will be defined in detail in a Resettlement 
Action Plan.  
 
A
social impact assessment with a socio-economic baseline study, and detailed 
inventory of assets (with photographic records where possible) are also required for 
the subsequent preparation of a RAP. OP/BP 4.12 specifies that a full RAP is required 
if over 200 people must be relocated or if the affected people are not physically 
displaced but lose over 10% of their assets due to the project. If the impact is less than 
this an abbreviated resettlement plan should be prepared instead.   
 
Page  21
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
12
Land Acquisition Assessment 
If activities carried out by the project cause unavoidable impacts requiring land 
acquisition the CMBMP Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will ensure a concise 
Land Acquisition Assessment (LAA) is carried out.  
 
Likewise, in the case of awarded concessions, once a concession has been 
demarcated, it should be subject to a LAA. The LAA is a simple profile of the land to 
be acquired or awarded as a concession.   
 
In case of land acquisition, the LAA will identify: (i) the location of the land being 
acquired; (ii) its size; Its status (public, private, communal, legally protected etc..); 
(iii) its current use(s) (agriculture, grazing, residential etc…); (iv) the current 
beneficiary (ies); and (v) how this land is being or planned to be acquired (exchange, 
donated by the government, voluntarily donated by the communities or individual(s), 
purchased, etc..).  
 
In case of awarded concessions in PAs and buffer zones, in addition to the five points 
mentioned above, (If local communities are or were among the users of the land, then 
it is important to record the following:  
 
·
The attitude of communities vis-à-vis the concession and record whether they 
have been consulted and informed about it (information and Awareness 
campaigns); 
·
Whether the communities’ land has been delimited; 
·
Whether a certificate of land use was issued to the communities; and  
·
Whether they agree to the use of the land for the purposes of the concession 
and why they do so. If they agree to the use of the land by a concessionaire, 
their expectations, their perceptions of their roles in the development and the 
conditions which they see as pre-requisites to their continuing or improved 
livelihood status as a result of the concession. If the communities do not agree 
to the concession, then it will be necessary to return to the concessionaire to 
redefine its boundaries and/or objectives with relation to the land area.  It will 
be necessary that the Assessment document is signed by all parties involved in 
the concession implementation including representatives of the communities – 
whether they have agreed or not to the concession. 
 
An independent agent (NGO for instance), or experts from the CMBMP supervision 
sectors should carry out the Land Acquisition Assessment. The author’s own 
comments and observations about the situation will comprise part of a report 
submitted to the PMU and World Bank. It is necessary for the LAA to be signed by 
the author and the representative of the concerned stakeholders (local authorities, 
representatives of the communities, including NGOs, CMBMP PMU, etc..). The LAA 
should be approved by the World Bank before resettlement and concession 
development are initiated. 
 
On the basis of the Land Acquisition Assessment the Bank will also advise MICOA if 
a
full or abbreviated RAP should be prepared or not, and if other remedial actions 
need to be taken. The submission of the Assessment and approval by the Bank is a 
condition that must be met prior to approval of the activity / project and the initiation 
of any works.  
Page  22
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
13
5.  Mitigation Instruments 
 
 
Whenever a CMBMP component investment unavoidably entails land acquisition or 
change in land use that results in adverse effects on residents or users, the responsible 
agency will develop for public information, discussion and agreement, a full draft or 
an abbreviated draft RAP to guide implementation of the resettlement operation. Each 
RAP will accord with the principles and procedures of this Policy Framework. 
 
An abbreviated RAP will present: 
ƒ
A
description of the project activity and actions to minimise resettlement; 
ƒ
An officially certified survey of displaced persons (census), asset inventory 
and valuation and, if appropriate, socio-economic survey; 
ƒ
A
detailed description of compensation and other resettlement assistance 
including entitlement to participation in alternative livelihoods development 
activities to be provided; 
ƒ
Results of consultations with displaced people about acceptable alternatives; 
ƒ
A
description of institutional responsibility for implementation and 
procedures for grievance redress; 
ƒ
Arrangements for implementation and monitoring; and 
ƒ
a
timetable and budget detailing all costs, including relocation, compensation, 
administrative costs and monitoring fees. 
 
In cases were an activity or sub-project will cause involuntary resettlement or 
negative impacts on people’s livelihoods of a significant scale, the agency responsible 
will prepare a full RAP for that particular sub-project or activity.  The scope and level 
of detail of the RAP will vary with the magnitude and complexity of the resettlement 
involved. The organisation and minimum of information required for a RAP should 
conform to requirements in OP/BP 4.12 (refer to the policy for full details and 
requirements), the most important issues that must be covered are the following: 
 
(a) The findings of the socio-economic studies carried out as part of the EIA  / social 
impact assessment (SIA) and RAP preparation with the involvement of potentially 
displaced people. These must include the results of a census of current occupants of 
the affected area to establish a basis for the eligibility criteria and to exclude 
subsequent inflows of people from eligibility for compensation and resettlement 
assistance.  
 
Study results should present the socio-economic and cultural characteristics, 
livelihoods sources and quantified income from formal and informal activities and 
health of displaced households. Of particular interest in the CMBMP districts are 
people’s land tenure and transfer systems, an inventory of common property natural 
resources from which people derive their livelihoods and sustenance, non-title-based 
usufruct systems (including fishing, use of forest areas or grazing areas) governed by 
local recognized land allocation mechanisms, and any issues raised by different 
tenure systems in the project area. Patterns of social interaction in the affected 
communities, including social networks and social support systems, and how they 
will be affected by the project should be shown, and the formal and informal 
institutions that may be relevant to the consultation and resettlement strategies. 
Page  23
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
14
Details of the scale and extent of partial and total physical and economic losses 
expected for all affected people and vulnerable groups in particular. Since the 
preparatory process may take a fairly long period, provision must be made to update 
information on displaced people's livelihoods and standards of living so that the latest 
information is available at the time of their displacement. 
 
(b)  Also required is an analysis of the legal framework including relevant laws (land, 
environment, social welfare, public administration) and steps necessary to recognize 
legal claims to land-use rights; analysis of the power of eminent domain and the 
nature of compensation, applicable legal and administrative procedures available to 
displaced persons in the judicial process, any available alternative dispute resolution 
mechanisms that may be relevant to resettlement under the project. Gaps between 
local laws and the Bank's resettlement policy, and the mechanisms to bridge such 
gaps must be demonstrated.  
 
The RAP is a tool to guide implementation of resettlement and to protect the interests 
of project affected people. It should strive to be as clear and useful as possible. Its 
elaboration also requires descriptions and operationally oriented analyses of: 
 
i. The institutional framework for resettlement implementation: agencies 
responsible, the role and capacity of NGOs and agencies potentially involved, 
and steps to enhance capacity where necessary.  
 
ii. Eligibility criteria for compensation and other resettlement assistance and 
relevant cut-off dates. 
 
iii.  Valuation methodology for assessing losses and description of compensation 
for losses.  
 
iv.  Resettlement measures presented as the packages of compensation and other 
resettlement measures that will assist each category of eligible displaced 
persons to achieve the objectives of the policy. Resettlement packages should 
be compatible with the cultural preferences of the displaced persons, and 
prepared in consultation with them. 
 
v. Alternative relocation sites considered and justification for selection. A 
description of the institutional and technical arrangements for identifying and 
preparing relocation sites comparable to the old sites, with an estimate of the 
time needed to acquire and transfer land and ancillary resources. 
 
Discussion of measures necessary to prevent land speculation or influx of 
ineligible persons at the selected sites, should be accompanied by procedures 
for physical relocation under the project, including timetables for site 
preparation and transfer; and the legal arrangements for regularizing tenure and 
transferring titles to resettlers. 
 
vi. Plans to provide adequate housing, infrastructure, and social services to 
resettlers and host populations.  
 
Page  24
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
15
vii.  An assessment of the environmental impacts of the proposed resettlement and 
measures to mitigate and manage these impacts within and around specific site 
boundaries.  
 
viii. Involvement of resettlers and host communities in preparing the RAP, a 
summary of their views and choices made regarding resettlement sites and 
organization of settlement, compensation and assistance, access to cultural 
property,  and a description of the strategy for consultation with and 
participation of resettlers and hosts in the design and implementation of the 
resettlement activities.  
 
ix.  Measures to mitigate the impact of resettlement on host communities, including 
consultations with host communities and local governments; arrangements for 
prompt tendering of any payment due the hosts for land or other assets provided 
to resettlers; arrangements for addressing conflicts that may arise between 
resettlers and host communities; and measures necessary to augment services in 
host communities to make them at least comparable to services available to 
resettlers. 
 
x. The organizational framework for implementing resettlement, including 
identification of agencies responsible for delivery of resettlement measures and 
provision of services; coordination arrangements, measures needed to 
strengthen the implementing agencies' capacity to carry out resettlement 
activities; provisions for the transfer to local authorities or resettlers themselves 
of responsibility for managing facilities and services provided under the project 
and for transferring other such responsibilities from the resettlement 
implementing agencies, when appropriate. 
 
xi.  Affordable and accessible grievance procedures for third-party settlement of 
disputes arising from resettlement should be described taking into account the 
availability of judicial recourse and community and traditional dispute 
settlement mechanisms. Displaced people should also be able to communicate 
their concerns to project authorities throughout planning and implementation, 
and institutionalized measures to ensure this must be devised. It must be shown 
how vulnerable groups such as indigenous people, ethnic minorities, the 
landless, and women will be adequately represented. 
 
xii. An implementation schedule covering all resettlement activities from 
preparation through implementation and indicating how the resettlement 
activities are linked to the implementation of the overall project.  
 
xiii.  Costs and budget tables showing itemized cost estimates for all resettlement 
activities. 
 
xiv.  Arrangements for monitoring of resettlement activities by the implementing 
agency, supplemented by independent monitors as considered appropriate by 
the Bank. Performance monitoring indicators to measure inputs, outputs, and 
outcomes for resettlement activities; involvement of the displaced persons in 
the monitoring process; evaluation of the impact of resettlement for a 
Page  25
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
16
reasonable period after all resettlement and related development activities have 
been completed.       
 
6.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
Planning and Implementing agencies 
MIICOA is responsible for coordinating the component leaders in facilitating the 
process of project implementation. MITUR is responsible for tourism development in 
all PAs and through DNAC for taking the lead regarding conservation policy and 
regulation. The MINPESC leads conservation policy and regulation regarding marine 
natural resources. Local NGOs engaged, under the supervision of the P/DTC for 
activities such as community mobilization, awareness raising skills training may also 
be involved in resettlement facilitation.   
 
RAPs will be developed for projects and activities identified for implementation in 
ICM plans and eventually, district IDPs. The plans will cover PAs (MITUR and 
MINPESC responsibility), buffer zones and the interstitial areas where DNFFB 
(MINAG) will be responsible for conservation and sustainable community 
management of land and natural resources and MINPESC for marine protected areas 
and management of marine resources. At provincial level the DPA is responsible for 
land-use delimitation and demarcation (SPGC), and sustainable resource management 
in interstitial areas (SPFFB).  
 
Responsibility for producing the RAP lies with the Project Component lead agency 
and the PIU in MICOA 
–
the Project Authority. A consultant may be contracted to 
carry out socio-economic studies and an SIA. When contracted the consultant would 
also be responsible for stakeholder consultation, facilitating and supervising 
compensation negotiations and agreements and producing the RAP document.  
 
Responsibility for resettlement implementation lies with the Project Authority, and it 
is this that will organise technical support from the district government for site 
demarcation and land acquisition for resettlement among other things. The Project 
Authority may contract additional assistance to facilitate resettlement such as 
contractors for house design and/or construction, consultants to oversee the process 
and NGOs to facilitate the participatory development and livelihoods recuperation 
process with the PAPs. 
 
It may be useful to contract a resettlement advisor who can be called upon to assist the 
Project Authority in monitoring and preventing negative outcomes during 
resettlement implementation.  
 
A
specific government officer from the Project Authority should be assigned to spend 
no less than 75% of his/her time to organising and directly supervising resettlement 
implementation at a given project site, and provided with field facilitators. If this is 
not possible, an NGO active in the CMBMP district should be contracted to facilitate 
the social and organisational aspects of resettlement. The participation of this NGO in 
the consultation process required to prepare the RAP would be advantageous.  
 
Page  26
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
17
Implementation arrangements 
Participation in resettlement planning begins at local level. For projects located in or 
around each PA, zone RUGs constituted so that representatives from village councils 
or committees are included will be the main consultative forums. The consultation 
process in a given zone will be ratified by interzonal meetings. In this way PA RUGs 
will meet and arrive at consensus concerning affected people, resettlement sites and 
entitlements in a single forum together with buffer zone RUGs and interstitial zone 
RUGs.  
 
Working groups set up by this interzonal forum will include RAP working groups. 
RUGs at zone level will also create RAP working groups with community and local 
leader membership, while the interzonal RAP working groups will include local 
government representatives of the territorial areas covered. Membership of zone 
RUGs should aim to have a core of elected members who will be active over a 
specified period, and regular elections to ensure adequate representativity. Other 
members and participants should be invited to meetings on an as-needed basis. Invited 
participants may be specialist technicians, government members, or even 
representatives of other communities with experiences to share. RUGs will be the key 
forum for linking community issues, including resettlement and grievances with local 
government and through the P/DTC, the provincial CMBMP Coordinator. RUGs and 
RAP working groups should be trained and supported by NGOs where possible.  
 
At district level the district governments, led by the District Administrator will be 
responsible for leading a District Resettlement Committee, a sub-group of the district 
Stakeholder Group established for coordinating, monitoring, regulating and 
supervising ICM plan preparation. At best, rural extension and civil construction 
technicians from district level will be responsible for assisting in the inventory and 
evaluation of PAP assets. Where not available at district level, the provincial technical 
team involved in spatial and participatory planning and selected from provincial 
government and civil society members based in the relevant district, will provide 
technicians from SPER and from DPOPH to carry out PAP assets assessments. SPGC 
technicians will assist with implementation by demarcating resettlement sites and 
formalising local territorial plans in consultation with SPFFB and DPP technicians 
responsible for ensuring sustainable resource use.  
 
Training and capacity development of district technical teams to carry out activities to 
support RAP preparation will be integral to the process. Their involvement in 
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of resettlement together with the project 
authority will assist in maintaining objectivity. If not directly involved in 
implementation, the district team involved in RAP preparation may be responsible for 
ensuring compliance with the principles and procedures required for implementation. 
They will report to the provincial level, and will ensure a copy of all information 
collected locally is also deposited at a district centre where development planning and 
monitoring information is managed.  
 
RAP preparation and implementation will be made in coordination with the P/DTC 
the provincial CMBMP Coordinator, the DPCA and the Tourism Development 
Forum. The P/DTC may create a Provincial Resettlement Management Group to 
supervise and assist with strategic decisions concerning resettlement sites, and 
implementation resources and procedures. Resettlement technical expertise that is not 
Page  27
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
18
available from district level may need to be drawn from the provincial technical team 
for planning which includes DPCA, DIPTUR and DPA (SPFFB and SPGC).  Intra- 
and inter-provincial coordination will be led by the P/DTC and provincial CMBMP 
Coordinators. The Provincial Governor as leader of the provincial government may 
require direct accountability from the Provincial Resettlement Management Group 
and will be responsible for ensuring compliance concerning public consultation and 
disclosure. 
 
7.  Public Consultation and Grievance Mechanisms 
 
Conflicts or grievances arising from the resettlement planning and implementation 
process generally arise from poor communication, inadequate or lack of consultation, 
inadequate flow of accurate information, or restrictions that may be imposed on PAPs. 
 
A
local communication strategy stressing awareness-raising activities about the sub-
project(s) and resettlement procedures and entitlements should be planned to be 
continued throughout preparation and implementation of resettlement in order to 
reduce misunderstanding and grievances. To empower communities they will be 
involved in awareness-raising and training concerning their rights and obligations, 
how to obtain legal advice and representation, and how to seek redress against what 
they regard as unfair practices by investment partners. Training for technical teams, 
RUGs and local leaders in conflict management will also assist in minimizing the 
negative impact of conflicts.  
 
The RAP preparation process is participatory and through consultation during the 
socio-economic studies and impact assessments potential conflicts and 
communication channels for grievances should be identified. The consultation process 
must involve all potentially affected people. Consultations and negotiations will be 
carried out with all PAPs who will partially or wholly lose assets as a result of project 
activities to determine their eligibility and preferences for compensation and 
participation in alternative livelihood development opportunities. During and after 
implementation individual and group consultation should continue to verify progress 
in taking up new livelihoods activities and in restoring their lives to at least the levels 
they were prior to resettlement.  
 
Grievance mechanisms will involve the local community influence leaders in 
providing a first listening and informal resolution level. These leaders should be 
involved in the 
RUG’s RAP working groups and be involved in creating awareness 
that they may also be used for the transmission of grievances to these 
fora
 for 
informal resolution. Some land and resource-use related conflicts may be resolved by 
traditional leaders. If they are beyond their scope, they may be passed on to the local 
community court where it exists, for resolution if appropriate.  
 
If issues and grievances are concerned with relationships with secondary or external 
stakeholders, and / or are outside the capacity of the community or local authorities to 
resolve, they should be presented to the RUG RAP working group for transmission to 
the interzonal RUG RAP working group. If the issues are not resolvable at either of 
these levels, they should be transmitted via the local authorities to the District 
Resettlement Committee for redress or mediation, and if necessary, on through the 
Page  28
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
19
Provincial Resettlement Management Group and/or CMBMP Coordinator to the 
Project Authority. Communication with the Project Authority may also be carried out 
directly via NGO facilitators. 
 
Decisions on grievance redress and communication of these to the complainant should 
be timely at all levels. This will promote greater trust in the communication system 
and improve attitudes about the project within the community. Information should 
normally be returned to the community using the same channels as for its initial 
transmission. The results should be communicated to all other levels and relevant 
structures at the same time for coordination and awareness purposes. If the 
community member / group who lodged the complaint is not satisfied with the 
decision of one of the formally created resettlement management structures or of the 
Project Authority, then as an ultimate recourse he/she/they may submit it to the 
Provincial Governor. 
 
In cases where conflicts or complaints are directed against governmental agencies, 
project management or private investors, whenever possible, PAPs and communities 
will be encouraged to resolve conflicts harmoniously through informal mediation by 
external agencies, such as NGOs or government officers. When disputes cannot be 
resolved informally, more formal mechanisms will be required. Where one or more 
communities is in conflict with a private-sector developer, the issue will be taken first 
to the local authorities 
–
the State Administration and where relevant the PA 
Administration. Failing resolution there, it will be taken to the Ministry or agency 
with titular responsibility for the investment. If resolution is not found the issue 
should be taken to the law courts.  
 
Administrative and Legal Procedures 
 
Provisions to appeal with sectoral grievances to higher levels of government such as 
National Directors and Ministers exist in most legislation. Should any party be 
dissatisfied, the grieved party may take the complaint to court where it will be dealt 
with under Mozambican law. In principle, a community can take a concessionaire or 
licensee to court for not abiding by the terms of an EIA. Ultimately, though not 
usually practiced, all citizens have the right to address complaints to the Public 
Prosecutor, the institution responsible for ensuring the law is correctly applied, 
particularly in the elaboration of territorial management instruments and their 
implementation. 
 
Government ministries represented by respective national and provincial directorates 
or departments will be called on to participate in planning and implementing 
resettlement activities. These will include:  
 
ƒ
MICOA (PIU) will enter into legally binding agreements with communities to 
provide funding for development projects in exchange for commitments to 
observe stipulated and agreed to sustainable uses of natural resources. These 
will have clear indications of validity period and conditions, and identify 
mechanisms for their enforcement on all parties.  
ƒ
MITUR facilitates the creation of new terrestrial PAs, ensures management 
plans for PAs and is responsible for ensuring compliance.  
Page  29
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
20
ƒ
MINPESC regulates the management of marine natural resources inside and 
outside of protected areas. It is also responsible for the creation of marine 
protected areas and approves management plans for PAs and is responsible for 
ensuring compliance.  
ƒ
Provincial Governor declares historical-cultural use zones. 
ƒ
MICOA / DPCA and the P/DTC is responsible for supervising NGOs 
contracted for community capacity building and mobilisation. 
ƒ
MICOA / PIU shall be responsible for providing technical assistance to 
affected persons during the adjustment period. Such assistance will include 
administering material grants like food and building materials, where 
necessary, and providing guidance on identification and development of 
alternative livelihood strategies. This may be outsourced. 
ƒ
MAE. District Administrations through local authority chiefs and traditional 
leaders will provide land where compensation shall include land, or where 
land shall be acquired for infrastructural development or tourist investments. 
The DA will also take a lead role, usually with assistance from a consultant or 
NGO in planning and implementing the physical relocation of affected people. 
ƒ
MINAG. (DINAGECA and DPA/SPGC) has the authority to delimit 
community land and authority to gazette it. The SPGC shall process land 
acquisition and transfers for title deeds. DPA/SPER shall provide extension 
services and technical services for identification and evaluation of PAP’s 
assets, demarcation of plots, and other technical assistance. 
ƒ
MOPH. The DNA and DPOPH/DAS shall be responsible for the development 
of potable water sources for resettlers and host communities. 
ƒ
Ministry of Education and Culture and MISAU. Teachers and health workers, 
respectively, shall be provided by these Ministries for infrastructure 
constructed for resettling and host communities. 
 
The CMBMP PIU shall be responsible for coordinating inter-sectoral activities, in 
collaboration with the P/DTC, and District Stakeholder Groups.  
 
Legal procedures for acquiring land, for dispossessing people of their land and 
property for public interest, and for restricting access to natural resources shall be 
observed as provided for in the Constitution and laws of Mozambique, and  
supplemented by this Resettlement Policy Framework.  
 
Particular attention during planning and implementation must be paid to the following 
principles outlined in the Constitution, and environmental, tourism, forestry and 
wildlife, land and land use laws and regulations: 
ƒ
Consultations with local authorities and affected people must occur before and 
during project implementation. 
ƒ
Notification of intentions or plans to restrict access to natural resource must be 
made public as required by the laws and this Framework. 
ƒ
Assets and other losses must be valued. Determination of compensation will 
be guided by Mozambican law, MINAG and MOPH sector norms and World 
Bank's O.P. 4.12 on involuntary resettlement.  
Page  30
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
21
ƒ
Determination of alternative livelihood measures will be made by the affected 
people, with the assistance of the MICOA PIU, DPCA, P/DTC, DPTUR, 
DPA, DPP and NGOs with expertise in the initiative. 
ƒ
Full compensation must be paid to the affected people, and alternative 
livelihood measures initiated, before CMBMP activities begin in the affected 
area. 
 
The World Bank must approve and abbreviated or full draft RAP document prior to 
its implementation. The government is responsible for making a draft RAP available 
at a place accessible to displaced persons and local NGOs, in a form, manner, and 
language that are understandable to them for consultation. The RAP is also submitted 
to the Bank, which makes it available to the public through its InfoShop. Following 
disclosure and incorporation of feedback into the RAP, and after the Bank has 
approved the final RAP, it and the government are obliged to disclose it again in the 
same manner. Any RAP that does not provide a report of public consultation carried 
out or fully integrates local issues and recommendations will not be approved.  
 
8.  Monitoring Arrangements 
 
The CMBMP adaptive management model uses monitoring and evaluation as tools to 
ensure the continued relevance of project direction and activities. Participatory and 
other monitoring tools will be developed so that communities participate in verifying 
the impact of resettlement and alternative livelihoods activities on affected 
communities and individuals.     
 
Community consultation and participation in the RAP planning process will identify 
progress and impact indicators. These will be used to formulate the RAP, for 
participatory monitoring and providing feedback to external monitors during the 
implementation of the RAP. Communities will also participate in external evaluation 
of outcomes of resettlement.  
 
In principle the activities implied in any written agreements between the Project 
Authority and community representatives will be jointly monitored and where 
possible community organizations will be responsible for ensuring the compliance of 
community members.   
 
At community level, RUG resettlement working groups will be the main local 
structure involved in participatory monitoring, they will also assist in identifying 
indicators for the RAP that will permit the early identification of vulnerable groups or 
households so that redress or assistance can be provided. Interzonal RUG resettlement 
working groups and any other community management structures linked to local 
authorities, the District Resettlement Committee, through to the P/DTC and the 
provincial CMBMP Coordinator will be involved in managing monitoring 
information. Where relevant they will verify and directly respond to local issues 
revealed through the process or passing the information on to local authorities. 
G
The District Resettlement Committee will be responsible for coordinating its members 
for monitoring, regulating and supervising RAP implementation. Development 
planning and monitoring information centres will contain RAP monitoring 
Page  31
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
22
information managed by the district technical team. District and provincial technical 
teams will regularly monitor status of vulnerable groups and households through 
consultation, and where necessary follow-up work with communities and individuals 
will identify activities and sources of income that can improve their well-being. 
 
The CMBMP PIU will be responsible for development and oversight of all 
monitoring and evaluation activities. The provincial CMBMP Coordinators through 
the Provincial Resettlement Management Group and the District Resettlement 
Committee will be responsible for monitoring RAP implementation in each province 
in coordination with the P/DTC.  
 
Via the adaptive management model the quality of monitoring processes should be 
regularly reviewed and improved. Issues such as leadership, representation, equity, 
and treatment of individuals vulnerable to specific hardships must be adequately 
addressed through monitoring. Training of all participants in how to use monitoring 
and evaluation for adaptive management decisions and how to use it as a basis for 
good communication flow will be essential for good project management 
 
9.  Costs  
 
The cost estimate for the implementation of resettlement is based on an approximate 
cost per family of US $5,230 ($400 core management by the PIU, provinces and 
districts, $1,500 NGO facilitation contract, $3,130 compensation and mitigation, 
$200 monitoring).  
 
This calculation is based on consideration of management of the process by the 
MICOA PIU and management structures in the provinces and districts as well as the 
costs of NGO facilitators responsible for community liaison, information 
management and development activities. The figures provided for measures to reduce 
negative impact include estimated compensation for lost tree and standing crops, 
replacement of houses and alternative arrangements for lost access to use of natural 
resources. An estimated amount for external monitoring is also provided. 
 
Of the total estimated number of families that may find themselves residing within 
new PA boundaries (rough approximation of 115) it is calculated that a total of 
approximately 50% are likely to require resettlement. The number may be much 
lower than this at the end of the CMBMP extension, since the resettlement process is 
somewhat lengthy to formulate and implement, however any families identified 
within this time that will be affected by the project, should be resettled according to 
the guidance of this RPF. 
 
The budget table shown below shows the estimated cost per family and the total 
estimated for the resettlement of approximately 57
 
families following guidelines in 
this Resettlement Policy framework. 
 
This budget is estimated on the basis of known planned activities in the CMBMP 
project districts.  When active management of new protected areas is initiated, it is 
expected that the Process Framework will be applied as the basis of prescribed 
Page  32
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
23
participatory processed and the present Resettlement Policy Framework in case 
families elect to be displaced. 
 
DESCRIPTION
Nº families
Total US $
Core management organization, and supervision
1
 
 
400
$
NGO contracts for resettlement facilitation and 
community capacity development
1
 
 
1,500
$
Compensation and mitigation measures
1
 
 
3,000
$
Conflict resolution solutions (.025 of total)
1
 
 
130
$
Monitoring
1
 
 
200
$
SUB-TOTAL PER FAMILY
5,230
$
Estimated nº families that may require resettlement
57
299,527
The 57 families are distributed as follows: 
 
Conservation Area
Nº Families
Total US $
Donor
Existing CA
Matibane Forest Reserve
13
-
Planned CAs
Palma and Mocimboa da Praia Marine Conservation Areas
0
-
 
 
Palma Land and Coast Conservation Area
45
232,745
 
Matibane Coast and Marine Reserve
13
66,782
TOTAL
57
299,527
Estimated costs presented in this Resettlement Policy Framework will be updated and 
improved during project implementation. 
Page  33
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
24
10. Appendices 
 
10.1.  A Full RAP Outline  
 
Introduction 
ƒ
Brief description of the project with a list of project components including 
associated facilities. Description of project components requiring land 
acquisition and resettlement with overall estimates of land acquisition and 
resettlement necessary. 
Minimizing Resettlement 
ƒ
Efforts made to minimize displacement, the results expected by these and the 
mechanisms used to minimize displacement during implementation. 
Census and Socioeconomic Surveys 
ƒ
The results of the census, assets inventories, natural resource assessments, and 
socioeconomic surveys should be presented. All categories of impacts and 
people affected should be identified and a summary of consultations on the 
results of the various surveys with affected people. If there is a need for 
updates to the census, assets inventories, resource assessments, and 
socioeconomic surveys, this should be mentioned and planned for as part of 
RAP monitoring and evaluation. 
Legal Framework 
ƒ
All relevant Mozambican laws and customs that apply to resettlement and the 
gaps between the Mozambican laws and World Bank policies should be 
identified. Project specific legal mechanisms to address conflicts may be 
covered here. 
Entitlements 
ƒ
Describe entitlement policies for each category of impact and specify that 
resettlement implementation will be based on specific provisions of agreed 
RAP. 
ƒ
Describe method of valuation used for affected structures, land, trees, and 
other assets. Prepare entitlement matrix. 
Resettlement Measures and Income Restoration 
ƒ
Are the compensation entitlements sufficient to restore income streams for 
each category of impact? What additional economic rehabilitation measures 
are necessary? 
ƒ
Briefly spell out the compensation packages and restoration strategies for each 
category of impact and describe their institutional, financial, and technical 
aspects. 
ƒ
Describe the process of consultation with affected populations and their 
participation in finalizing strategies for income restoration. 
ƒ
How do these strategies vary with the area of impact? 
ƒ
Does income restoration require change in livelihoods, development of 
alternative farmlands or some other activities that require a substantial amount 
of training, time for preparation, and implementation. 
ƒ
How are the risks of impoverishment to be addressed? 
ƒ
What are the main institutional and other risks for the smooth implementation 
of the resettlement programs? 
Page  34
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
25
ƒ
Describe the process for monitoring the effectiveness of the income restoration 
measures. 
ƒ
Describe any social or community development programs currently operating 
in or around the project area. If programs exist, do they meet the development 
priorities of their target communities? Are there opportunities for the project 
proponent to support new programs or expand existing programs to meet the 
development priorities of communities in the project area? 
Resettlement Sites 
ƒ
Does the project require community relocation sites? Have affected people 
been involved in a participatory process to identify sites, assess advantages 
and disadvantages of each site, and select preferred sites? 
ƒ
Have the affected people been involved in developing an acceptable strategy 
for housing replacement? Will new housing be constructed/allocated? 
ƒ
Does the project involve allocation of agricultural land or pasture/rangeland? 
ƒ
Have the individual households that will be allocated lands been involved in 
identifying potential new sites, and have they explicitly accepted the selected 
sites? 
ƒ
Describe the specific process of involving affected populations in identifying 
potential housing sites, assessing advantages and disadvantages, and selecting 
sites. 
ƒ
Describe the feasibility studies conducted to determine the suitability of the 
proposed sites, including natural resource assessments (soils and land use 
capability, vegetation and livestock carrying capacity, water resource surveys) 
and environmental and social impact assessments of the sites. 
ƒ
Demonstrate that the land quality and area are adequate for allocation to all of 
the people eligible for allocation of agricultural land. Provide data on land 
quality and capability, productive potential, and quantity. 
ƒ
Give calculations relating to site requirements and availability. 
ƒ
Describe mechanisms for: 1) procuring, 2) developing and 3) allotting 
resettlement sites, including the awarding of title or use rights to allotted lands. 
ƒ
Provide detailed description of the arrangements for site development for 
agriculture, including funding of development costs. 
ƒ
Have the host communities been consulted about the RAP? Have they 
participated in the identification of likely impacts on their communities, 
appropriate mitigation measures, and preparation of the RAP? Do the host 
communities have a share of the resettlement benefits? 
Housing, Infrastructure and Social Services 
ƒ
Describe plans to provide or to finance resettlers' provision of housing, water 
supply and access roads infrastructure, and social services  such as schools and 
health services;   
ƒ
Describe plans to ensure comparable services to host populations;  
ƒ
Provide information about any necessary site development, engineering, and 
architectural designs for these facilities. 
Environmental protection and management
 
ƒ
Describe the boundaries of the relocation area;  
ƒ
Assess the environmental impacts of the proposed resettlement and measures 
to mitigate and manage these impacts (coordinated as appropriate with the 
environmental assessment of the main investment requiring the resettlement). 
Participation and Consultation 
ƒ
Describe the various stakeholders. 
Page  35
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
26
ƒ
Describe the process of promoting consultation/participation of affected 
populations and stakeholders in resettlement preparation and planning.  
ƒ
Describe the involvement of resettlers and host communities in preparing the 
RAP, a summary of their views and choices made regarding resettlement sites 
and organization of settlement, compensation and assistance, access to cultural 
property. 
ƒ
Describe the process of involving affected populations and other stakeholders 
in implementation and monitoring. 
ƒ
Describe the plan for disseminating RAP information to affected populations 
and stakeholders, including information about compensation for lost assets, 
eligibility for compensation, resettlement assistance, and grievance redress. 
Measures to mitigate the impact of resettlement on host communities 
ƒ
Describe and report on consultations with host communities and local 
governments;  
ƒ
Describe arrangements for prompt tendering of any payment due the hosts for 
land or other assets provided to resettlers; arrangements for addressing 
conflicts that may arise between resettlers and host communities; and 
measures necessary to augment services in host communities to make them at 
least comparable to services available to resettlers. 
Institutional Arrangements 
ƒ
Describe the institution(s) responsible for delivery of each item/activity in the 
entitlement policy; implementation of income restoration programs; and 
coordination of the activities associated with and described in the resettlement 
action plan. 
ƒ
State how coordination issues will be addressed in cases where resettlement is 
spread over a number of jurisdictions or where resettlement will be 
implemented in stages over a long period of time. 
ƒ
Identify the agency that will coordinate all implementing agencies. Does it 
have the necessary mandate and resources? 
ƒ
Describe the external (non-project) institutions involved in the process of 
income restoration (land development, land allocation, credit, training) and the 
mechanisms to ensure adequate performance of these institutions. 
ƒ
Discuss institutional capacity for and commitment to resettlement. 
ƒ
Describe mechanisms for ensuring independent monitoring, evaluation, and 
audit of the RAP and for ensuring that corrective measures are carried out in a 
timely fashion. 
Grievance Redress 
ƒ
Describe the step-by-step process for registering and addressing grievances 
and provide specific details regarding a cost-free process for registering 
complaints, response time, and communication modes. 
ƒ
Describe the mechanism for appeal. 
ƒ
Describe the provisions for approaching civil courts if other options fail. 
Implementation Schedule 
ƒ
List the chronological steps in implementation of the RAP, including 
identification of agencies responsible for each activity and with a brief 
explanation of each activity. 
ƒ
Prepare a month-by-month implementation schedule (using a Gantt chart, for 
example) of activities to be undertaken as part of resettlement implementation. 
ƒ
Describe the linkage between resettlement implementation and initiation of 
civil works for each of the project components. 
Page  36
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
27
Costs and Budgets 
ƒ
Provide a clear statement of financial responsibility and authority. 
ƒ
List the sources of funds for resettlement and describe the flow of funds. 
ƒ
Ensure that the budget for resettlement is sufficient and included in the overall 
project budget. 
ƒ
Identify resettlement costs to be funded by the government and the 
mechanisms that will be established to ensure coordination of disbursements 
with the RAP and the project schedule. 
ƒ
Prepare an estimated budget, by cost and by item, for all resettlement costs 
including planning and implementation, management and administration, 
monitoring and evaluation, and contingencies. 
ƒ
Describe the specific mechanisms to adjust cost estimates and compensation 
payments for inflation and currency fluctuations. 
ƒ
Describe the provisions to account for physical and price contingencies. 
ƒ
Describe the financial arrangements for external monitoring and evaluation 
including the process for awarding and maintenance of contracts for the entire 
duration of resettlement. 
Monitoring and Evaluation 
ƒ
Describe the internal/performance monitoring process. 
ƒ
Define key monitoring indicators derived from baseline survey. Provide a list 
of monitoring indicators that will be used for internal monitoring. 
ƒ
Describe institutional (including financial) arrangements. 
ƒ
Describe frequency of reporting and content for internal monitoring. 
ƒ
Describe process for integrating feedback from internal monitoring into 
implementation. 
ƒ
Define methodology for external monitoring. 
ƒ
Define key indicators for external monitoring. 
ƒ
Describe frequency of reporting and content for external monitoring. 
ƒ
Describe process for integrating feedback from external monitoring into 
implementation. 
ƒ
Describe arrangements for final external evaluation. 
Annexes 
ƒ
Copies of census and survey instruments, interview formats, and any other 
research tools. 
ƒ
Information on all public consultation including announcements and schedules 
of public meetings, meeting minutes, and lists of attendees. 
Page  37
CMBMP - Resettlement Policy Framework 170705 
 
28
 
