Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3366-MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 1, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3366-MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 1, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) 
by certain members of the Bank as participants to the GEF, to provide 
additional assistance towards the financing of part of the Project, and 
by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement) of even date herewith, the Bank is agreeing to 
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to 
SDR 3,100,000; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
Page  2
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CPI” means the Borrower’s Investment Promotion Center;
(b)
“DNFFB” means the Borrower’s National Directorate of 
Forestry and Wildlife;
(c)
“DINATUR” means the Borrower’s National Directorate of 
Tourism; 
(d)
“Implementing Agencies” means the Borrower’s agencies with 
technical responsibility for implementing the Project, namely DINATUR, 
DNFFB, CPI, MADER and INIA;
(e)
“MADER” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agricultural and 
Rural Development;
(f)
“INIA” means the Borrower’s Institute of  Agricultural 
Research;
(g)
“Initial Planning Framework Guidelines” means the guidelines 
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(h)
“Micro-Project” means a micro-project designed, prepared and 
carried out under Part B.3 (a) of the Project;
(i)
“Micro-Projects Operational Manual” means the manual 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement as amended 
from time to time, in consultation with the Association, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Micro-Projects Operational Manual;
(j)
“Matching Grant” means the matching grant to be provided for 
Micro-Projects under Part B.(3) (a) of the Project;
(k)
“Matching Grant Agreement” means the matching grant 
agreement referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(l)
“MICOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry for Coordination of 
Environmental Affairs;
(m)
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(n)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(o)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) (ii) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter 
alia, work plans, training plans, and procedures to be used for the 
purposes of the implementation of the Project, as it may be amended from 
Page  3
time to time, in consultation with the Association, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Plan;
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(r)
“Project Areas” means the following areas in northern 
Mozambique, namely: (i) an area of about 9,500 sq. km. in Mocimboa da 
Praia and Palma in the province of Cabo Delgado; and (ii) an area of 
about 4,700 sq. km. in the contiguous districts of Nacala-Porto and 
Mossuril in the province of Nampula;
(s)
“Project Year" means the 12 month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending 12 months thereafter and each successive 12 
month period following thereafter;
(t)
“Beneficiary” means a community or group which meets the 
criteria specified in the Micro-Projects Operational Manual to which or 
for whose benefit a Matching Grant is made or proposed to be made for a 
Micro-Project;
(u)
“NGOs” means non-governmental organizations; and
(v)
“Memorandum of Understanding” means each memorandum of 
understanding referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (i) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to four 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 4,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
Page  4
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 
2010 and ending April 1, 2040. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on April 1, 2020 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association's resources; and 
(ii) the Association shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment 
not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
Page  5
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MICOA with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, economic, technical and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation and sustainability of the Project, designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for 
each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association, consistently applied, by independent 
Page  6
auditors acceptable to 
the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and 
accounts and report of such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in 
order to enable the Borrower, not later than 18 months after the 
Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the 
Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
Page  7
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar 
semester a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has: (i) appointed and assigned to MICOA a 
full-time financial and procurement staff with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) appointed an 
adequate number of technical and administrative personnel, with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, to assist 
in the carrying out of Project activities in the Project Areas;
(b)
the Borrower has established a financial management and 
accounting system acceptable to the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has appointed auditors in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower has adopted and furnished to the Association 
the Initial Planning Framework Guidelines, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association;
(e)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association each 
Memorandum of Understanding in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association;
(f)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness 
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(g)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association a procurement 
plan satisfactory to the Association for the procurement of goods, works 
and services required for the first Project Year.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  8
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Governor of the Bank of Mozambique is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banko de Mozambique
Agenda 25 de September
P.O. Box 423
Maputo, Mozambique
Cable address: 
Telex:
MOBANCO
6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ Marcus Namashulua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Praful Patel
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
Page  9
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
   300,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services
 1,950,000
100%
(including audit 
services)
(3)
Operating Costs
 1,900,000
85% of local
expenditures
(4)
Unallocated
    50,000
Total
4,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower ; and
(c)
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental operating 
costs arising under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, 
fuel, equipment, office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel and 
accommodation, and Project staff salaries but excluding salaries of the 
Borrower’s civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) works under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) 
for consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding: (i) $100,000 
each for consulting firms, and (ii) $50,000 each for individual 
consultants; and (c) Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to carry out, on a pilot basis, an 
integrated approach to sustainable development in the Project Areas, 
including: (i) strategic integration of conservation measures with 
regional economic development; (ii) establishment and protection of 
conservation areas; (iii) initiation of conservation-oriented community 
Page  10
activities; (iv) building of the capacity of stakeholders responsible in 
the Project Areas for biodiversity protection; (v) raising public 
awareness of the importance of biodiversity conservation issues and 
measures; and (vi) establishing best practice for environmentally and 
biodiversity-friendly development.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strategic Development Plans
The acquisition for the provincial and district governments of the 
Project Areas of strategic planning tools for utilization in the 
conservation and sustainable development of coastal and marine resources 
in the Project Areas, including the development of two strategic spatial 
development plans to: (i) cover the Project Areas; and (ii) provide the 
strategic framework for (A) district development particularly in 
designated conservation areas, and (B) private sector development and 
community-based natural resource management or co-management with 
government agencies.
Part B:
Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Community 
Development
1.
Management of conservation activities and biological monitoring in 
the Project Areas, including:
(a)
biodiversity conservation and management in the key 
conservation areas identified in the strategic development planning 
process;
(b)
the establishment and gazetting of the conservation areas, 
boundary rationalization and zoning for environmentally sustainable uses;
(c)
(i)
the provision of technical advisory services for the 
preparation and carrying 
out of detailed management plans  
for the marine conservation areas and their 
buffer zones,
(ii)
community land demarcation,
(iii)
provision of equipment and construction of 
infrastructure including guard 
posts and boundary 
markers, and
(iv)
capacity building for park staff and local 
communities responsible for the 
co-management of 
natural resources and development of revenue generating 
mechanisms; and
(d)
(i)
development of best practice guidelines for protected 
area co-management;
(ii)
development of regulations for: (A) the co-management 
of natural resources by 
park staff and local communities, 
and (B) the terms and conditions to be 
provided for 
in conservation concessions and co-management agreements with 
private sector entities,
(iii)
analysis of legal, regulatory and institutional 
issues, and
(iv)
ecological and social assessments and community 
consultations to develop 
appropriate management 
Page  11
options for other areas of biological interest in the 
Borrower’s territory.
2.
(a)
The provision of technical advisory services for the 
carrying out  of ecological surveys and monitoring of turtles, dugongs 
and other indicator species in marine conservation areas and adjacent 
coastal and marine habitats.
(b)
The provision of training to local communities to build 
local capacity for data collection relevant to the establishment of 
management guidelines for sustainable harvesting of marine resources.
(c)
The establishment in the Project Areas of two field stations 
to assist in the carrying out of the Borrower’s coastal zone management 
decentralization strategy and the Borrower’s environmental and 
biodiversity monitoring and evaluation system.
3.
(a)
The provision of Matching Grants to assist Beneficiaries in 
the carrying out of community-based micro-projects (through local 
governments and with the assistance of NGOs and community facilitators) 
that promote biodiversity conservation, including community-run 
eco-tourism activities and/or micro-enterprises that reduce pressure on 
biological resources.
(b)
Training of community facilitators; capacity building for 
micro-enterprise development; and facilitating negotiations between the 
private sector participants and local communities in the Project Areas.
Part C:
Private Sector Development
1.
(a)
Identification in one of the Project Areas of a suitable 
site for substantial private sector investment in biodiversity 
conservation.
(b)
(i)
Provision of technical advisory services to advise on 
the best means of 
translating biodiversity 
management and social expectations of local 
communities in the Project Areas into environmentally sustainable and 
profitable alternative forms of livelihood.
(ii)
Provision of technical advisory services for the 
preparation of concession 
agreements between the 
Borrower and concessionaires for developments in the 
Project 
Areas which conform with criteria and guidelines established during 
the strategic development planning process, including 
(A) provision of 
specialized procurement training, 
(B) preparation of bid documents, (C) 
promotion of 
proposed tenders, and (D) the establishment of appropriate tender 
procedures and effective monitoring of the administration of 
said procedures 
to safeguard globally important 
biodiversity values in the Project Areas.
Part D:
Training and Public Awareness
1.
The provision of training to build capacity for decentralized 
coastal zone planning and management in the Project Areas, including:
(i)
training of (A) the technical staff of the 
Implementing Agencies, (B) 
communities and 
local resource users, and (C) traditional leaders, religious 
leaders, local NGOs and local government staff and other 
Page  12
local administrators; 
and
(ii)
provision of about 10 scholarships for higher level 
or university degrees at 
both regional and international 
institutions in biodiversity and coastal zone 
management 
studies.
2. 
The carrying out of a public awareness campaign targeting decision 
makers and local resource users to increase knowledge of issues related 
to marine and coastal biodiversity conservation and to reinforce 
sustainable use of natural resources in the Project Areas, including: (i) 
information workshops, (ii) the publication of a coastal zone newsletter 
by MICOA, (iii) site visits; (iv) the utilization of local language radio 
broadcasts to educate the public on biodiversity and environmental 
issues.
Part E:
Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation
1.
Coordination and management of the Project at the central and local 
levels, including (i) the holding of regular Project coordinating 
meetings, and (ii) provision of technical advisory services, equipment 
and logistical assistance in the carrying out of the Project.
2. 
Establishment and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation 
system for the Project, including:
(i)
the establishment of an effective system for data 
collection and processing on 
environmental and 
biodiversity matters; and
(ii)
the establishment of an independent monitoring and 
evaluation team to (A) 
assess the overall 
effectiveness of the Project, (B) evaluate the 
effectiveness of Project activities in achieving Project specific 
outputs and 
objectives, (C) establish and expand ecological 
indicators for the Project 
Areas, (D) monitor 
the status of the social conditions of the Project Areas, 
and (E) advise on the most effective institutional structure for 
the future 
collection and evaluation of monitoring data 
concerning the state of the 
coastal zone in the 
Project Areas.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in January 
and August 1996, and in September 1997 and January 1999, (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Page  13
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
(a)
Pre-qualification
Bidders for works shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for Part B.3 of the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract for works not governed by paragraph 2 
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  14
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association and with the provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  15
(b)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the  
second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply with respect to:
(i)
each contract for the employment of (A) consulting 
firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, and (B) individual consultants estimated to 
cost 
the equivalent of $50,000 or more;
(ii)
the terms of reference of all contracts for 
consulting services; and
(iii)
the first three contracts for consulting services.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Project Implementation Plan
(a)
(i)
MICOA shall conclude a memorandum of understanding 
with each of the 
Implementing Agencies and each 
provincial or district government participating 
in the 
Project, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
(ii)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Project 
Implementation Plan in a 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with: 
(i) procedures set out in the Project Implementation Plan; and (ii) each 
Memorandum of Understanding.
(c)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the Project 
Implementation Plan or any Memorandum of Understanding, if such amendment 
or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely 
affect the implementation of the Project.
2.
Micro-Projects Operational Manual
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out Part B.3 of the Project in 
accordance with procedures set out in a Micro-Projects Operational Manual 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Association and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision 
thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of Part 
Page  16
B.3 of the Project.
(b)
The Micro-Projects Operational Manual shall, inter alia: (i) 
set out eligibility criteria and terms and conditions, satisfactory to 
the Association, for the provision of Matching Grants; and (ii) 
procedures and guidelines, satisfactory to the Association, applicable to 
the carrying out of Part B.3 of the Project.
3.
Terms and conditions of Matching Grant Agreements
The Borrower shall enter into a matching grant agreement 
satisfactory to the Association with each Beneficiary. The terms and 
conditions of a Matching Grant Agreement shall inter alia provide that:
(a)
the Beneficiary (i) carries out the Micro-Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, environmental and managerial standards; and (ii) maintains 
adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures relating to the 
Micro-Project;
(b)
the goods, works and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Matching Grant shall (i) be procured in accordance with 
procedures ensuring efficiency and economy; and (ii) be used exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Micro-Project; and
(c)
the Borrower shall have the right to:
(i)
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, 
if the Association shall 
so request, the goods, works, 
sites, plants and construction included in the 
Micro-Project, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents;
(ii)
obtain such information as the Borrower or the 
Association shall reasonably 
request regarding the 
administration, operation and financial conditions of 
the Beneficiary; and
(iii)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to 
use the proceeds of the 
Matching Grant upon the failure 
by the Beneficiary to perform any of its 
obligations under the Matching Grant.
4.
Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Performance Indicators specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than 
November 30, 2002, a Midterm Review, of the Project, which shall cover, 
inter alia, (i) progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; (ii) 
overall Project performance as measured against Performance Indicators, 
and (iii) quality of the advisory services under the Project;
Page  17
(c)
at least three (3) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a report describing the status of the items 
listed in paragraph (a) above and of Project implementation generally; 
and
(d)
not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm Review, 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the 
Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action program.
5.
Initial Planning Framework Guidelines
The Borrower shall: (i) prepare Initial Planning Framework 
Guidelines in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and 
(ii) ensure that all investment proposals for the Project Areas are 
consistent with the guidelines set forth in the Initial Planning 
Framework Guidelines.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent 
to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the 
Association shall specify; and
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
Page  18
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit  allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after, and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that, all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or 
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
Page  19
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the 
following:
1.
Strategic Development Plans endorsed and under implementation in at 
least two districts in the Project Areas by the fourth Project Year.
2.
All new concessions issued in at least two districts of the Project 
Areas are in compliance with strategic development plans by the fourth 
Project Year.
3.
Management plans for at least two identified conservation areas are 
endorsed by the Borrower and under implementation by the end of the third 
Project Year.
4.
Biological Monitoring Plan prepared by Mid-term Review and fully 
operational by the end of the third Project Year.
5.
At least five community development projects identified by the end 
of the third Project Year.
6.
Bid documents prepared and the training under Part D of the Project 
completed by the end of the third Project Year and concessionary process 
underway with at least 2 potential investors by the end of the third 
Project Year.
7.
Training program for Part D of the Project developed and under 
implementation by the end of the third Project Year.
8.
Increased involvement of NGOs in monitoring and implementation of 
the Project by the end of the third Project Year.
9.
Improved coordination achieved by the third Project Year among 
stakeholders evidenced by the number of recorded agreements from regular 
management meetings of the Borrower’s National Steering Committee.
Page  20
