CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 163 GH
Project Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
GHANA INDUSTRIAL HOLDING CORPORATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 25, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 163 GH
Project Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
GHANA INDUSTRIAL HOLDING CORPORATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 25, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated September 25, 1969, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and GHANA INDUSTRiL HoLDiNG CORPORATION
(hereinafter called GIHOC).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Republic of Ghana (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Association, which agreement, the Schedules thereto
and the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association dated January 31,
1969, made applicable thereto are hereinafter called the
Development Credit Agreement, the Association has agreed
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million three hundred thousand dollars
($1,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
GIHOC agree to undertake certain obligations to the
Association as hereinafter provided; and
WITHEREAS GIHOC, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
Now, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
flned in the Development Credit Agreement shall have the
respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. (a) GIHOC shall carry out, through the
Division, Parts A and D of the Project, described in Sched-
ule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with sound financial,
commercial and technical standards and practices.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
GIHOC shall, in carrying out, through the Division, Parts
A and D of the Project employ a qualified and experienced
naval architect and a qualified and experienced production
manager for the Division, both acceptable to and on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c) GIHOC shall enter into the GIHOC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower.
(d) GIHOC shall, through the Division, furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications and work schedules for Parts A and D of the
Project and any material modifications subsequently made
therein, in such detail as the Association shall from time
to time request.
SECTION 2.02. (a) GIHOC shall, through the Division,
maintain records adequate to identify the goods and serv-
ices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose
the use thereof in Parts A and D of the Project, to record
the progress of Parts A and D of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations and financial condition
of GIHOC and of the Division; shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to inspect Part A of the Project, such
goods, all other plants, sites, works, property and equip-
ment of the Division and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning


﻿5
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit, such goods
and services, Parts A and D of the Project and the admin-
istration, operations and financial condition of GIHOC and
of the Division.
(b) GIHOC shall cause the Division: (i) to maintain
accounts separate from the accounts for other divisions or
operations of GIHOC; (ii) to establish and maintain sepa-
rate identifiable statements of accounts in respect of Parts
A and D of the Project; (iii) to have such accounts and
statements audited annually by an independent accountant
or accounting firm acceptable to the Association; and (iv)
promptly after such audited statements of accounts and
financial statements (balance sheet and related statement
of earnings and expenses) for the Division are available,
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not
later than six months after the close of the financial year
to which they apply, to transmit to the Association certified
copies of such statements and a signed copy of the account-
ant's or accounting firm's report relating to such state-
ments.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
GIHOC shall transmit to the Association, not later than
six months after the close of the financial year to which
they apply, certified copies of GIHOC 's financial statements
(balance sheet and related statement of earnings and ex-
penses) audited in accordance with the GIHOC Decree.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Association and GIHOC shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will
be accomplished. To that end, the Association and GIHOC
shall from time to time exchange views through their repre-
sentatives with regard to matters relating to the perform-
ance by GIHOC of its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment, the administration, operations and financial condition
of GIHOC and of the Division and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.


﻿6
(b) GIHOC shall promptly inform the Association and
the Borrower of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit or the performance by GIHOC of its
obligations under this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. (a) GIHOC shall operate its business and
the business of the Division and conduct its affairs and the
affairs of the Division in accordance with sound business,
commercial and financial practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management and shall operate,
maintain, renew and repair its plants, equipment and prop-
erty and those of the Division in accordance with sound
commercial and engineering practices.
(b) GIHOC shall, at a reasonable time prior to any pro-
posed appointment of a General Manager (or head) of the
Division, notify the Association of any proposal to make
such appointment and shall make such appointment only
after consideration of the views expressed by the Asso-
ciation.
(c) GIHOC shall take all action reasonably required to
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and fran-
chises necessary or useful in the conduct of the Division's
business.
SECTION 2.05. (a) GIHOC shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers or make other provision satis-
factory to the Association for insurance for the Division
against such risks and in such amount as shall be consistent
with sound practice.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
GIHOC undertakes to insure the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-


﻿7
tion, and any indemnity under such insurance shall be pay-
able in a currency freely usable by GIHOC to replace or
repair such goods.
SECTION 2.06. GIHOC undertakes that all goods and
services referred to in Section 3.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement which are procured by, or arrangements
for the procurement of which are made by, GIHOC, through
the Division, shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of such Section 3.02.
SECTION 2.07. The price at which each of the fishing
vessels shall be sold by GIHOC, through the Division, to
purchasers shall be based upon the Division's March 1969
prevailing price of 44,000 New Cedis in the currency of the
Borrower for a 45-foot boat fully equipped for purse seine
fishing, subject to such reasonable allowances as shall be
agreed between the Association, ADB and GIHOC to cover
(i) increases in the Division's production costs of the fishing
vessels and (ii) changes in taxes, duties and levies.
SECTION 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GIHOC shall take all action necessary or appropriate
to ensure that adequate earnings of the Division are re-
tained in the Division, (i) to maintain or expand its facili-
ties as required for the construction and servicing of the
fishing vessels and (ii) otherwise for the operation of the
business of the Division in accordance with sound financial
and commercial practices.
SECTION 2.09. Except as the Association and GIHOC
shall otherwise agree, GIHOC shall not:
(a) take any action to disestablish or effect any change
in the functions or administrative structure of the Division;
or
(b) sell, lease, transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of
the properties or assets of the Division which shall be


﻿8
required for the efficient carrying on of the business of the
Division.
SECTION 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, GIHOC shall, through the Division, maintain the
arrangements made with ADB under the GIHOC-ADB
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the Effective Date. If the Development Credit
Agreement terminates pursuant to Section 6.03 thereof,
this Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder
shall terminate.
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of
GIHOC and of the Association hereunder shall terminate
on the later of
(i) the date when the GIHOC Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms
or
(ii) the date six months after the close of GIHOC's
financial year within which delivery of the last of
the fishing vessels has been effected by GIHOC and
GIHOC has given notice thereof to the Borrower,
the Association and ADB.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice, demand or request required
or permitted to be given or made under this Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request


﻿9
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or
at such other address as such party shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
demand or request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Alternative address for cables:
Prudence
Accra
For GIHOC
The Managing Director
Ghana Industrial Holding Corporation
P. 0. Box 2784
Accra, Ghana


﻿10
Alternative address for cables:
Holdings
Accra
For ADB:
The Secretary
Agricultural Development Bank
P. 0. Box 4191
Accra, Ghana
Alternative address for cables:
Agricbank
Accra
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Agreement on behalf of GIHOC may be
taken or executed by the Managing Director of GIHOC or
such other person or persons as he shall designate in
writing.
SECTION 4.03. GIHOC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of GIHOC, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or exe-
cuted by GIHOC pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement and the authenticated specimen signature of
each such person.
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective


﻿11
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
GHANA INDUSTRIAL HOLDING CORPORATION
By /s/ E. M. DEBRAH
Authorized Representative


