CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 163 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 25, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 163 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fisheries Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 25, 1969


﻿BrorIopmut Tugbit Agru~mut
AGREEMENT, dated September 25, 1969, between RE-
PUBLIC OF GHANA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT    AssoCIATION  (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modification thereof (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter
called the General Conditions) :
The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement" in Sec-
tion 8.02.
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) " GIHOC " means the Ghana Industrial Holding Cor-
poration, established under the GIHOC Decree.
(b) "GIHOC Decree" means the Ghana Industrial Hold-
ing Corporation Decree, 1967 (N.L.C.D. 207), dated Sep-
tember 16, 1967, as amended by the Ghana Industrial Hold-
ing Corporation (Amendment) Decree, 1968 (N.L.C.D. 254).


﻿4
(c) The "Division" means the Boatyards Division of
GIHOC.
(d) "ADBI" means the Agricultural Development Bank
of Ghana, established by the Agricultural Development
Bank Act.
(e) "Agricultural Development Bank Act" means the
Agricultural Credit and Co-operative Bank Act, 1965 (Act
286), as amended by the Agricultural Credit and Co-
operative Bank Act, 1965 (Amendment) Decree, 1967
(N.C.L.D. 182), dated June 22, 1967.
(f) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between the Association and GIHOC, as the
same may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Association and GIHOC, with the approval of
the Borrower.
(g) "ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement referred to in Section 4.03(a) of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ADB, as the same may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and ADB,
with the approval of the Association.
(h) "GIHOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement referred to in Section 4.03(b) of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and GIHOC, as the same may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
GIHOC, with the approval of the A ssociation.
(i) "Fishing vessels" means the vessels referred to in
Part A of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Development Credit Agreement.
(j) "GIHOC-ADB Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between GIHOC and ADB whereunder the
Division shall, inter alia, (1) on behalf of ADB, appraise
the creditworthiness of prospective purchasers of the fishing
vessels and undertake collection of loans made by ADB


﻿5
to such purchasers, until such time as ADB shall, with the
agreement of the Association and GIHOC, undertake for its
own account the foregoing functions; and (2) carry out the
procurement of goods and services required for Part A of
the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to one million three hundred
thousand dollars ($1,300,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule I
to this Development Credit Agreement, as such allocation
shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provi-
sions of such Schedule or by further agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall be
required to meet payments to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods or services included in the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02
of this Development Credit Agreement and to be financed
under this Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made on account of expenditures in the currency


﻿6
of the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services sup-
plied from, the territories of the Borrower.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(%5. of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing December 15, 1979 and ending
June 15, 2019, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on June 15, 1989 to be one-half of one per
cent (1/ of 1%) of such principal amount, and each install-
ment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/2%) of
such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply, or cause to be
applied, the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the
provisions of this Development Credit Agreement to ex-
penditures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this
Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and


﻿0
7
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in February 1968, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Development
Credit Agreement.
SECTION 3.03. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in carrying
out the Project, except as the Association may otherwise
agree.
SECTION 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all fishing vessels to be
used, under the flag of the Borrower, primarily for the
purposes of in-shore fishing.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause
to be carried out, the Project with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with sound administrative, finan-
cial, commercial and technical practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) To assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed,
competent and experienced consultants acceptable to, and
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to, the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall take all action which
shall be necessary on its part to enable GIHOC to perform
all its obligations under the Project Agreement and shall
not take or permit any of its political subdivisions or
agencies to take any action which would prevent or inter-
fere with the performance of such obligations by GIHOC.
0


﻿8
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend to ADB,
in the currency of the Borrower, the amount of the Credit
withdrawn from time to time under Category I of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Development Credit Agreement, on
terms and conditions, and pursuant to a subsidiary loan
agreement, satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to GIHOC, in the cur-
rency of the Borrower, the amount of the Credit withdrawn
from time to time under Categories II and III of the allo-
cation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Development Credit Agreement, on terms and
conditions, and pursuant to a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the GIHOC Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association, and, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower                  0
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, assigning, abrogating or waiving any
provision of the ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the
GIHOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project and to record the prog-
ress of the Project (including the cost thereof); shall enable
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
such goods and services and any relevant records,and docu-
ments; and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project and such goods
and services.


﻿9
SECTION 4.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as shall be rea-
sonably requested with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower undertakes to insure or
cause to be insured the imported goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and
other hazards incident to acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower, ADB or GIHOC to replace
or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.07. The Borrower shall cause adequate facili-
ties to be established and maintained in suitable places for
the servicing and maintenance of the fishing vessels.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall make and maintain, or
cause to be made and maintained, such modifications in the


﻿10
organization and operation of the fishing harbor at Tema
as and when may be necessary to ensure the efficient accom-
modation of the fishing vessels. Such modifications shall
include, without limitation:
(i) the provision of moorings in the fishing harbor,
clear of the quay; and
(ii) the adoption of measures to ensure that the quay
is kept clear for vessels needing to land fish or take
on supplies.
SECTION 4.09. Promptly upon completion of the stud-
ies constituting Part C(2) of the Project, the Borrower
and the Association shall exchange views thereon and shall
agree upon which port to carry out the studies constituting
Part C(3) of the Project.
SECTION 4.10. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.11. This Development Credit Agreement, the
Project Agreement, the ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and the GIHOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free
from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in con-
nection with the execution. delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Development
Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the
period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal


﻿11
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable ime-
diately together with the service charges thereon and upon
any such declaration such principal, together with such
charges, shall become due and payable inunediately, any-
thing in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) A default shall occur in the performance of any obli-
gation of GIHOC under the Project Agreement, and such
default shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower and GIHOC.
(b) A default shall occur in the performance of any obli-
gation of the Borrower or of ADB under the ADB Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, and such default shall continue
for a period of sixty days.
(c) A default shall occur in the performance of any obli-
gation of the Borrower or of GIHOC under the GIHOC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and such default shall continue
for a period of sixty days.
(d) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the GIHOC Decree shall have
been amended, so as to affect materially and adversely the
carrying out of the Project or the operations or financial
condition of the Division and such event shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower.
(e) Before the ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall
have terminated in accordance with its terms, the Agricul-
tural Development Bank Act shall have been amended, so
as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of
the Project or the operations or financial condition of ADB,
and such event shall continue for a period of sixty days


﻿12
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower.
SECTION 5.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that GIHOC will be able to per-
form its obligations under the Project Agreement or the
GIHOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that ADB will be able to perform
its obligations under the ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of GIHOC have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) The Borrower and ADB have entered into the ADB
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, in form satisfactory to the
Association, and the ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
become fully effective and binding on the parties thereto
in accordance with its terms, subject only to the effective-
ness of this Development Credit Agreement;
(c) The Borrower and GIHOC have entered into the
GIHOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, in form satisfactory
to the Association, and the GIHOC Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment has become fully effective and binding on the parties
thereto in accordance with its terms, subject only to the
effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement;


﻿0
13
(d) GIHOC has made arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to employ a naval architect and a production
manager for the Division, as provided in Section 2.01 (b)
of the Project Agreement; and
(e) The execution and delivery of the GIHOC-ADB
Agreement on behalf of GIHOC and ADB has been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and gov-
ernmental action.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions
to be furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
GIHOC and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of
GIHOC in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and ADB and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Borrower and ADB in accord-
ance with its terms;
(c) that the GIHOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and deliv-
ered on behalf of, the Borrower and GIHOC and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and GIHOC
in accordance with its terms; and
(d) that the GIHOC-ADB Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, GIHOC and ADB, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of GIHOC and ADB in accordance with
its terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date of January 1, 1970 is hereby spec-
ified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿14
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 3.04, 4,04, 4.07 and 4.08 of this Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate on the date on which this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date
on which the ADB Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall termi-
nate in accordance with its terms, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1972, or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The Commissioner responsible for Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Alternative address for cables:
Prudence
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿15
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their iepresentatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ E. M. DEBRAH
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of the Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                             in Dollar Equivalent
I. Materials, components, nets and
gear for the fishing vessels            825,000
II. Spare parts and equipment for the
Division                                100,000
III. Staff for the Division                     75,000
IV. Consultants' Services for Harbor
Studies included in Part C
of the Project                          230,000
V. Unallocated                                70,000
Total        1,300,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall decrease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category V.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories I to IV shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Cate-
gory from Category V, subject, however, to the require-
ments for contingencies, as determined by the Associa-
tion, in respect of the cost of the items in the other
Categories.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
The Project consists of the following:
A. The design and construction of about 40 fishing ves-
sels, having an. overall length of approximately 48 feet and
a hold capacity of approximately 20 tons, fully equipped
for purse seine operation.
B. The provision of loans or other forms of credit to
fishermen or fishing enterprises for the purchase of the
fishing vessels.
C. Studies for the improvement, expansion and develop-
ment of fisheries in the territories of the Borrower, includ-
ig:
(1) Detailed engineering studies at the fishing port of
Tema.
(2) Comparative preliminary engineering studies at the
fishing ports of Elmina and Mumford.
(3) Detailed engineering studies at either the fishing port
of Elmina or the fishing port of Mumford.
D. The improvement of the operations and organization
of the Division.
The Project is expected to be completed by mid-1972.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Supplementary Procedures for Procurement of Goods
Referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Development Credit Agreement
1. With respect to contracts for procurement of goods
estimated to cost in excess of $10,000 equivalent:
(a) Invitations to bid, specifications, conditions of con-
tract, all other tender documents and the method and places
of advertising shall be submitted to the Association for
its review and approval prior to the issuance of invitations
to bid.
(b) After bids have been received and analyzed, the
analysis of the bids, and the proposals for awards, together
with the reasons for such proposals, shall be submitted to
the Association for its review and approval prior to the
Borrower's making any award of contract or issuing any
letter of intent.
(c) If the final contract is to differ substantially from
the terms and conditions contained in the respective docu-
ments approved by the Association under paragraphs (a)
and (b) above, the text of the proposed changes shall be
submitted to the Association for its review and approval
prior to the execution of such contract.
(d) As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a
contract has been executed, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Association.
2. With respect to contracts for procurement of goods
estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or less, copies of all
documents, including the invitation to bid, the tender docu-
ments and the bid analysis and evaluation, shall be sent
to the Association promptly after the execution of any
such contract and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of any such contract.


﻿19
3. The bidding process and the analysis, comparison and
evaluation of bids shall be conducted by GIHOC and, in
the case of goods to he financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Category I of the allocation of such
proceeds set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement, in accordance with the GIHOC-ADB Agree-
ment.


